23-11-2020||Noida||Noida set to develop services for visitors in parks, to invite bids||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday said it has started the process to select agencies that will set up food courts, restaurants and other commercial services for visitors at two major parks ready to open for public use. The authority wants to set up food courts and other commercial vends at Biodiversity Park in sector 91, Medicinal Park in sector 91, Express View Park in sector 93 and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park in sector 150. As people have started visiting these parks, the authority wants to develop facilities for them, officials of the Noida authority said. The authority started the process of inviting bids from interested agencies from November 20. The last date to submit the forms online at its website noidaauthorityonline.com is December 5.“Any interested agency can submit its documents to participate in an e-auction either manually by December 3 or online forms will be uploaded by December 5,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority.Once the forms are submitted or uploaded, the applicants can submit their bids on December 10 from 11am to 2pm on its website. Under this scheme, the authority will offer its kiosks, restaurant and food plaza space on rent.“Whosoever will submit the highest bid will get the space on rent to run the services required in these city parks. We want to offer all necessary services to visitors at these city parks, which will witness a huge rush in the time to come. These four parks will emerge as hot spots for family picnic activities after these facilities are in place,” said a Noida authority official, not authorised to speak to the media. There are four kiosks, each having an area of 62.175 square metres at the Biodiversity Park in sector 91. The food plaza has an area of 230 square metres. The Expressway View Park restaurant has an area of 93 square metres and the Bhagat Singh Park has the biggest food plaza space with 828.20 square metres, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-set-to-develop-services-for-visitors-in-parks-to-invite-bids/story-bNCkYWGnW30rkjBlQWXhYO.html
23-11-2020||Noida||UP issues directions for limiting gathering in open and closed spaces for events||The UP government on Monday issued a detailed order limiting the gathering of people at cultural, social, educational, sporting, entertainment, religious and political events. As per the latest directions issued by UP chief secretary, RK Tiwari, the maximum limit in closed spaces like halls/room will be 50% of the capacity of the hall but subject to maximum of 100 people. The gathering will be subject to mandatory availability of hand washing facility, sanitizer, thermal scanning along with use of face masks and maintaining social distancing. In previous October 1 order, the limit in such closed spaces was limited to 200 people. Further, the latest order has defined that the limit of gathering in open spaces be below 40% of the capacity of the space. Earlier, this had no limit. “The guidelines issued on Monday have become effective and will be applicable for functions like marriages etc. The directions have been issued to keep check on spread of Covid-19 infection and to prevent further rise in cases,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “As part of the enforcement, copy of the permission for events will be made available to the respective police station and the police will keep a check and enforce the measures. Besides, our administrative officers will also conduct surprise inspections at such places to ensure that guidelines are actively followed,” he added. Last week, both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar had issued directions to limit attendance to 100 in events like marriages. Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health), on Monday said that there should be efforts to protect old aged persons and they should ideally not be taken to events like marriages to prevent them from infection. “It is so because earlier the share of those above 60 years in total infection cases in UP was about 8% and now the share has increased to about 10.13%. On the other hand, the share of this age group in total fatalities is about 45%. Since the old aged people are vulnerable, they should not be taken to functions like marriages. Otherwise, if they contract infection, there will be complications. In such case such people can participate through video-calling and avoid attending functions physically,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-issues-directions-for-limiting-gathering-in-open-and-closed-spaces-for-events/story-Xp4PZ4Y6cLFQ8OJXtOg38L.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||MU’s rules on paper patterns, question banks still unclear for upcoming exams, say Mumbai colleges||Almost a week after the University of Mumbai (MU) issued a circular with guidelines to conduct the upcoming semester exams, city colleges are still unclear about several issues. While some course heads under the Bachelors in Mass Media (BMM) and Bachelors in Management Studies (BMS) faculties are confused about the paper pattern, absence of clarity on the system of question banks for the exams has left many teachers in a spot. As per guidelines issued by the university last week, exams for undergraduate and postgraduate traditional (arts, commerce, science) courses will constitute a 60-mark theory paper. This will include 50 marks of multiple-choice questions (MCQs), of which students could attempt 40. Each question will carry 1.5 marks. Similarly, for professional courses, exams will constitute of a combination of 40 marks of MCQs and 40 marks of descriptive-type questions, making up an 80-mark paper for each subject. “Confusion lies for interdisciplinary courses because as per the MU guidelines, exams for interdisciplinary courses will also be conducted in an MCQ and descriptive-type question format, each section holding 30 marks. While BMM falls under the arts faculty, TYBMM is an interdisciplinary course, so colleges are currently unsure what paper pattern to choose,” said a BMM faculty coordinator of a suburban college. Earlier this year, all state universities conducted final-year (summer 2020) exams online and the same were conducted as per guidelines issued by the respective universities. All clusters were asked to put together question banks of 250 questions in each subject. However, with no clarity on this in the recent circular, colleges are drawing their own conclusions. “Different colleges under different clusters are interpreting the university guidelines differently, and this is leading to more confusion. In some clusters, colleges are asking their faculty to put together a question bank of almost 400 questions in each subject, whereas in some cases, teachers are being asked to simply put together a question paper for their respective college and ignoring question banks,” said a senior faculty member of the mass media department of MU. At present, several colleges are busy conducting meetings and ensuring exams are conducted within the prescribed deadline. “We have to follow the rules and ensure that all traditional course exams are conducted by December 31, while professional courses need to be completed by January 15. As of now, our focus is on putting together the question papers and conducting exams as smoothly as possible,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of Usha Pravin Gandhi (UPG) College, Andheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mu-s-rules-on-paper-patterns-question-banks-still-unclear-for-upcoming-exams-say-mumbai-colleges/story-lbx50s6YtWCo1oKfoB4Q9I.html
23-11-2020||City||84% of sanctioned faculty posts vacant in Ludhiana’s govt colleges||With no recruitments for the past 16 years, 84% of the sanctioned posts for faculty at five government colleges in Ludhiana are currently lying vacant. A sixth college, Government College, Ludhiana (east), does not have even a single sanctioned post—not even for the principal. It is, therefore, taken care of by the principal of Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College.The recruitments had been stalled in 2003 due a pending litigation in the Punjab and Haryana high court. In the absence of regular staff, the colleges started hiring guest faculty members, who, as per sources, are not qualified for the posts.To be hired as a lecturer in a college, a candidate has to either clear the National Eligibility Test (NET) or hold a PhD degree. For the post of an assistant professor, both PhD and NET are compulsory. But authorities are said to have ignored these rules while recruiting the guest lecturers, thereby leaving an adverse impact on the quality of education at these colleges. This, sources say, has led to more and more students opting for higher studies abroad, or at least in other states. SCD Government College The SCD Government College, which is celebrating 100 years of inception, has 131 sanctioned posts, the highest among all colleges in the district. But only 25 of these posts have been filled up. Many of its teachers are also required to take classes for the Government College, Ludhiana (east), the building of which is still under construction. Baba Sheehan Singh Gill Govt College, Sidhsar The college has strength of 115 students and offers only the Bachelor of Arts course. Of the seven sanctioned posts in the college, only one has been filled up. Government College for Girls Established in 1943, the college is a premier institute for girls’ education. It offers 15 courses at the undergraduate and postgraduate level and has 89 sanctioned posts. But as of now, there are only 20 teachers on regular posts. The college has 51 guest faculty members and a few part-timers, who shoulder a major chunk of the day-to-day activities of the college. Government College, Karamsar Government College, Karamsar, which caters to the needs of students in rural areas, was established in 1969. The college offers three courses -- Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Science. It has 23 sanctioned posts, of which only two have been filled up. With a student strength of 750, the college largely depends on its 19 guest faculty members for course completion. Government College of Science, Education and Research, JagraonThe Government College of Science Education and Research, Jagraon, was started to provide science education up to postgraduate-level. The college was established in 1968 and provides science education to meritorious rural and semi-urban youth. The college has 39 posts of regular faculty but only three teachers on these posts. There are three part-timers too while the rest are guest faculty.Why recruitment was stopped During the tenure of former Punjab Public Service Commission chairman Ravi Inder Singh Sidhu, who was arrested by the vigilance bureau for corruption in recruitments in 2002, the personnel department had cancelled the selection of college lecturers through a notification on May 16, 2003. The move was challenged by 69 selected candidates who filed different writ petitions in the Punjab and Haryana high court (HC). In reply, the HC had imposed a stay on the recruitment of regular lecturers in 2003 and directed the state to first decide the fate of petitioners. The education department then started hiring guest faculty to conduct the classes. In June this year, the court gave its judgment, and found the 61college lecturers eligible. The stay on recruitments was also removed. Barjinder Singh Tohra, president of government college teachers’ association, Punjab, said, “We have been seeking the filling up of the posts for a long time now. But the higher education department hasn’t done anything. Regular appointments are important to uplift the level of higher education.” Secretary, higher education and languages, Rahul Bhandari said, “We have received the cabinet approval for fresh recruitment of regular staff and the case is being sent to Punjab Public Service Commission. The recruitment process by PPSC will start shortly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/84-of-sanctioned-faculty-posts-vacant-in-ludhiana-s-govt-colleges/story-qjb9zTw9bYpsgxrdarr9UI.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Jeweller robbed of gold chain: Police nab suspect after gunfight||Noida: A 26-year-old man was nabbed by the Noida police on Sunday in connection with a chain robbery from a jewellery shop owner in Greater Noida on November 20.Manoj Verma, a resident of Omicron 1, was robbed of a gold chain worth ₹2.5 lakh at gunpoint by two men on a motorcycle in Echher market, located under Beta 2 police jurisdiction, while Verma was at a mechanic’s shop. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras. The two suspects had worn helmets to hide their identity.Police said they had been on the lookout for the suspects.“Vehicle checking was going on near Sector 57 when two men on a motorcycle came by and were asked to stop. However, they tried to flee and were chased by a police team. Finding themselves being cornered, on the road stretch going from Sector 57 to 54, they fired at us. One of them was injured in retaliatory firing while his accomplice managed to flee,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.The suspect was identified as Vipin Valmiki, a Delhi resident, who was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.Police officers said that he and his accomplice were allegedly responsible for the robbery and efforts are on to trace the other suspect.“It also turns out that the motorcycle recovered from him had been stolen from Sector 58 on November 11. They had changed the license plate. We also found a stolen laptop, a handbag, a backpack and a countrymade pistol from him,” said the DCP.Police officers said they have found at least 10 cases against Valmiki of robbery, theft and Arms Act at various police stations in the district. A third person allegedly works with the two men for street crimes and he will also be nabbed soon, said the police.Officers said the jeweller’s gold chain is yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/jeweller-robbed-of-gold-chain-police-nab-suspect-after-gunfight/story-JSuqvyq2nxoQKuX0r6WwzN.html
23-11-2020||Noida||To come out of line loss, Discom now offers VIP status to rural consumers||From roping in religious leaders to appeal to the faithful, to encouraging defaulter and to disconnection of supply, the power discom Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has been on a drive to reduce its losses. And now it has come up with a new scheme -- offer VIP status to rural customers in whose area the feeder line loss is below 15%.As per the instructions given by state energy minister Srikant Sharma, these consumers will get round-the-clock power supply and complaints about will be redressed on priority. Line losses are of two kinds -- technical losses (because of materials) and non-technical losses (power theft, metering inaccuracies, dues default etc). At present, the Noida zone is reporting 19% line loss as a whole, which is even greater than 30% in some areas. The state government has given a target to reduce this to 15%.PVVNL (Noida zone) chief engineer Virendra Nath Singh said that despite several awareness drives, defaulters had so far given a cold response in clearing their outstanding electricity dues. “Since the rural consumers are enthusiastic in getting VIP status for them, it might prove effective in bringing down the line loss. Some of these areas are also prone to power theft, which is energy delivered to customers that is not measured by the energy meter for the customer. Customers also tamper the meter,” he said. The scheme could benefit 117,000 of the overall 323,000 consumers linked with PVVNL. The chief engineer also said that at present Noida has 25,378 defaulters, who are having outstanding individual electricity dues up to ₹50,000. “The total outstanding dues on them are approximately ₹33.74 crore. Our officials have also contacted the village heads and local leaders, to encourage them for clearing their power dues. In November last year, we had also appealed the clergies of temples and mosques of those areas to inspire the defaulters to clear their dues, so as to ensure uninterrupted power supply. However, despite assurances given by the religious and political leaders concerned, those publicity drives failed to yield any positive output,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/to-come-out-of-line-loss-discom-now-offers-vip-status-to-rural-consumers/story-f1aiVJq0SRkyFS4Uh0vBaM.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Dhanauri documentary to be screened at national science film festival||Noida: The 10th national science film festival, that will be showcased online from Tuesday, will also have a documentary on Dhanauri Wetland situated in Gautam Budh Nagar district. The 37-minute film by Noida-based birder Anand Arya titled Dhanauri Wetland as Ramsar site and Sarus Sanctuarywill be shown on the first day. The film highlights the importance of conserving the wetland and urges government to declare it a sanctuary for the sarus crane and part of the Ramsar convention that recognises wetlands for conservation. “I had been highlighting the matter to speed up the process of conserving Dhanauri for several years and the documentary is a step in that direction. I hope that the government and the concerned authorities will speed up the process of officially recognising the wetland and further declaring it as protected site,” said Arya. The festival is being organised by Vigyan Prasar, department of science and technology in collaboration with Tripura State Council for Science & Technology, Govternment of Tripura. The festival will screen 117 films online on Vigyan Bharti’s YouTube and Facebook channels between November 24 and 27. Situated in Greater Noida, the 101 hectare Dhanauri is home to over 50,000 birds of 222 species and is also one of the biggest habitat of the Sarus crane in the region. “Of the birds, 99 are migratory and 123 are resident. As many as 18 species are either vulnerable, endangered or near threatened, including Sarus crane, Egyptian vulture, panted stork, black necked stork and imperial eagle to count a few. The wetland is needs conservation and that would begin with forest department first recognising it as a protected site,” said Arya. In 2018, the district forest department first sent its proposal to declare the waterbody as a wetland under Wetland Rules 2017, the government has initiated the process of declaring it a Ramsar site and appointed a nodal officer to the task. In September 2020, the officials from Wetland International and state forest department on Monday begun ground inspection and terrain analysis to make a case for the wetland to be declared as a Ramsar site and a Sarus crane sanctuary. “The site is a wetland as per the definition and the groundwork to officially declare it as a protected site had already started. We are speeding up the process of it to be declared as Ramsar site as well,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, and nodal officer appointed by the state government to initiate legal processes. Ramsar sites are the wetlands of International importance. India is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention held in 1971 in Iran that seeks to recognise and protect the important wetlands of the world. India has a total of 41 Ramsar sites, including Narora in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/dhanauri-documentary-to-be-screened-at-national-science-film-festival/story-1YiiAMAy0dhPR7aknTHSNN.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Land identified for new police stations, police residences near Jewar airport||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) chief executive officer Arun Vir Singh and Gautam Buddha Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh on Monday identified locations for new six police stations, as well as residential facilities to be built for the police, along Yamuna Expressway.The officials conducted a comprehensive exercise to finalise the land. “It was a comprehensive exercise for the scheduled Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar, the Film City and the industrial sectors and newly developed residential areas along the Yamuna Expressway. We have finalised the land for the police offices and residences for future requirements of this area,” said the police commissioner.On October 30, 2020 the Yeida has sent a proposal to the Uttar Pradesh government for six new police stations and other facilities in view of the upcoming multiple projects in the area. The new police stations are to be built in sectors 18, 20, 22D, 25A, 29 and Dayanatpur, said Yeida and police officers, where police residences will be built as well.“We will prepare the estimate to approve budgets for these projects. Subsequently, we will present the budget in our upcoming board meeting for approvals. We will start work at the site in the next two months’ time and these stations will be ready by the end of 2021. We needed police stations for our new residential areas meant for farmers, allottees, the airport, Film City and industrial sectors,” said the CEO of the authority, which will fund and build these stations along the 165km Yamuna Expressway that connects Greater Noida with Agra.The Uttar Pradesh government has directed the Yeida and the police to build facilities and upgrade the policing apparatus before the airport at Jewar is developed by 2023-24, said officials. Swiss firm Zurich International AG, the concessionaire, is likely to start work at the site by mid-2021.Following demands from Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, one police station has been approved in Sector 25A, where residential plots have been allotted to farmers whose land was acquired for projects.“We need to focus on development in a manner so that services can be delivered to all sections, be it farmers, investors or allottees, who want to build houses along the Yamuna Expressway,” said Dhirendra Singh MLA, Jewar, who accompanied the officials during the inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/land-identified-for-new-police-stations-police-residences-near-jewar-airport/story-R4b8tQ4CA7kEMOkFpe2R9M.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality slips in very-poor category, may worsen further||The air quality of Noida and adjoining regions slipped into very-poor category on Monday as calm winds kept pollutants suspended in the air. Weather analysts believe that the pollution levels may spike over the next two days. The city had been reeling under ‘poor’ category air quality over last three days despite good wind speed. On Monday, the weather analysts said that the wind directions did not change from northwesterly to easterly as expected, however their speed dropped leading to a spike in pollution levels. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed will remain calm over next two days leading to increase in the pollution levels. “The wind speed on Monday was around 6 kmph during the morning which went down almost nil towards the evening. Due to the low wind speed, the ventilation was poor and the pollution levels increased. This situation of may prevail for the next two days and lead to even worse air quality,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that the maximum temperature may however rise slightly by 3°C. On Monday, the minimum temperature was recorded at 6.3°C, against 6.7 °C a day earlier, qualifying for a cold-wave as the temperatures were 5 °C lesser than the season’s minimum. The maximum temperature was recorded at 26.2 °C against 24.2 °C a day earlier. Tuesday may see a minimum temperature of 7 °C which may spike to 9 °C by Wednesday. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday was 301 or ‘very-poor’ against 273 or ‘poor’ a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 286 against 270 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 365 against 288 a day earlier. The AQI between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, and between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’. The pollution mass also increased slightly with PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida recorded at 156.02 microgrammes per cubic against 135.90 microgrammes per cubic metres (μg/m³) a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 147.5 μg/m³ against 132.49 μg/m³ a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 μg/m³. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to drop further. “The AQI is likely to deteriorate towards the high end of Very Poor by tomorrow and likely stay at the high end of Very Poor on 25th November and may reach Severe in few locations for short period. This scenario is valid if prevailing low fire counts remain but if counts increase then it may further deteriorate. Marginal improvement is expected by 26th November,” said the SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-slips-in-very-poor-category-may-worsen-further/story-zz4gF8ZjZPSXkGPQrtN2SK.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad most polluted city across country; local pollutants, traffic responsible, say experts||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad city on Monday, with an air quality index (AQI) of 365, under “very poor” category, topped the list of the most polluted cities in the country. The records of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) indicate that the city, in the last winter season during January, February and March earlier this year, had topped the list 15 times.Meanwhile, this season, the city has seen “severe” category pollution levels on at least eight occasions since September. According to the forecast by private agency System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the contribution of stubble-burning to the national Capital’s particulate matter (PM) 2.5 levels stood low at 6%. According to environmentalists, if a city tops the list of most polluted cities but levels of pollutants are in the lower ranges, it indicates that the local pollutants come into play.“When the AQI is “severe”, the burden is on stubble burning. However, if the city is the most polluted in the country despite the contribution of stubble burning being lower, then local pollutants are responsible. There are hardly any effective measures to control road dust, while traffic snarls are rampant everywhere. It is the local pollutants which are affecting the AQI at present and there is hardly any enforcement,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. According to the CPCB’s records, the city topped the most polluted list at least six times in January – on January 4, 5, 6, 10, 21 and 27 – and eight days in February – on February 2, 3, 4, 10, 25, 26 and 27.In March, the city topped the list two times – on March 2 and 8.On all the 15 occasions in the three months mentioned above, the city topped the list even though AQI was under “poor” or “very poor” categories. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.” “This is the first time this season that Ghaziabad has topped the list. Since November 21 evening, the AQI levels have been high due to increase in traffic since then, and this contributed to the PM2.5 levels. As a result of traffic, issues of road dust also came into play, which increased PM10 levels,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the Uttar Pradesh pollution control board. The CPCB’s bulletin said that the primary contributor to Ghaziabad’s AQI is PM2.5. PM2.5 and PM10 levels need computation for past 24 hours as they have to be averaged for all the four monitoring stations of Ghaziabad.“Our Indirapuram and Vasundhara stations are also not relaying data to CPCB since Monday afternoon. Due to this, the exact data could not be computed. Further, there is construction work going on in Loni which has also affected the overall AQI. The two stations of Loni and Sanjay Nagar are in higher levels of “very poor” category. So, overall air quality is affected,” he added. The situation had also prevailed in winter season of 2019, when the city had topped the list of the most polluted city on several occasions, including October 16 and 24, and from October 27 to 31, barring October 28, and again on November 2, 14, 15, 19, 20 and 21 as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-most-polluted-city-across-country-local-pollutants-traffic-responsible-say-experts/story-xgz6vLMPyG19OAlqoMVOKL.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Crackdown against bulk waste generators begins in Noida||In its efforts to improve its waste handling system, the Noida authority on Monday began a crackdown against bulk waste generators.On the first day, the authority penalised those found flouting waste management rules in sector 18, which is the city’s biggest commercial hub.The authority’s health department teams imposed ₹1.35 lakh penalty against three violators -- ₹5,000 each on a security agency and a private bank, and ₹1.25 lakh on a restaurant.Noida produces around 900 metric tonne of waste daily. As per the waste management rules-2016, “bulk waste generators” are housing complexes and other buildings built on at least 5,000 square metres or that produces 100 kg waste daily, and need to treat it at their premises. “We have started crackdown against the bulk waste generators under our campaign to make sure all adheres to rules when it comes to waste treatment. The action will continue against those, who found violating the rules. Our teams will conduct inspections in each sector, both commercial as well as industrial,” said Indu Prakash Singh officer on special duty of the Noida authority.This is the first action against the bulk waste generators under the authority’s drive started ahead of 2020-21 Swachhta survey. The authority wants to improve on all fronts of sanitation so that it can perform better in the cleanliness index, said officials.“We informed shopkeepers about the need of following the waste management rules and warned them of penalty during the next inspection. We will carry out random inspections,” said Singh.Singh, assistant project engineer Gaurav Bansal and supervisor Satya Prakash were part of the team that carried out inspection and imposed penalty. “As of now we are taking action against only the bulk waste generators because their compliance is crucial in improving the waste management system. We have not fixed any date but soon we will start imposing penalty against individuals who are found flouting rules too. Our objective is that Noida should adhere to rules and handles all kinds of waste as per rules,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/crackdown-against-bulk-waste-generators-begins-in-noida/story-nNNnsbXvF8yVlRcq9mJtSJ.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Man driving truck laden with 120 kgs marijuana arrested in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A man, believed to be in his late thirties, was nabbed by the Greater Noida police on Monday for allegedly transporting 120 kilogrammes marijuana from Delhi.The suspect was identified as Sanjay, a Delhi resident, According to police officers they had a tip-off from an informant about the narcotics being moved through the district, following which check points were set up.Officers said Sanjay’s truck was stopped at one such point by the Bisrakh police and upon inspection, 120 kg of marijuana was found in the truck bed, which was allegedly being carried in small packets, they said. Police are unclear about the market value of the narcotic that was found but they suspect it to be around ₹20 lakh.“He was nabbed following an informant’s input. The vehicle and the drugs were seized,” said deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Harish Chander.He said that the consignment was allegedly being taken from Delhi to Rajasthan. Police officials said that the narcotics had allegedly been brought from the Odisha-Jharkhand belt to the national capital a few days back and a portion of them was being smuggled further for circulation in Rajasthan.“We are working on tracing the suppliers of the drugs and also the suspects to whom this was being taken, along with whoever else was involved in the operation. The driver was alone when he was captured but there are several other people involved in this and we are working on identifying them,” said the DCP.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-driving-truck-laden-with-120-kgs-marijuana-arrested-in-greater-noida/story-HJKEezpAd3QabUl8hN3ykN.html
23-11-2020||Noida||NHAI starts process of deciding toll charges at Delhi-Meerut Expressway||Ghaziabad: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started the process of ascertaining toll charges on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME), which is planned to be completed by the end of December. NHAI officials said they have sent a proposal to their headquarters according to which the per kilometre cost for plying on expressway lanes will be about Rs 2. They have also proposed to bar the entry of bikes and autos on the expressway lanes. Work on the two under-construction stretches of the DME project -- 19.8km phase 2 from UP Gate to Dasna and 32km phase 4 from Dasna to Meerut -- is scheduled to be completed by end of December. Phase 1 from Akshardham in Delhi to UP Gate is already operational. “We have sent a proposal to our headquarters and proposed the rate at about Rs 2 per kilometre. It includes Rs 1.65 as basic rate. Other costs are based on price index and cost of structures. So, it will be about Rs 2 per kilometre. The rates will be determined on per kilometre of distance travelled and will be paid at the exit points,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. Apart from phase 2 and 4, DME also comprises 8.7km of phase 1, which spans from Akshardham in Delhi to UP Gate. The entry/exit points are located at Akshardham, Indirapuram, near Dasna, eastern peripheral expressway, near Bhojpur and near Partapur in Meerut. Once approved, the rates will come into effect after the project starts operation. The officials had earlier sent a proposal for the installation of automatic registration-plate readers (ANPR) at entry/exit points and the plan has already been approved. The ANPRs will read the registration plate of vehicles at entry and exit points and will calculate the distance travelled. The fare will be automatically detected at the exit point from the online wallet of the commuter. The project comprises three inner lanes each side as dedicated expressway lanes and four lanes each on both sides as highway lanes. “We had earlier sent a proposal for limiting the speed on expressway to 120kmph but there were certain issues with regard to high speed, which could result in accidents. So, during the trial period, the vehicles will maintain a speed limit of 70kmph in Delhi, 100kmph under phase 2 in Ghaziabad and 120kmph under phase 4 between Dasna and Meerut. No autos or bikes will be allowed on expressway lanes,” Garg, said. The officials said vehicles such as cars, jeeps and commercial vehicles will be allowed on expressway lanes while autos have been advised to ply only on services lanes and not on highway lanes to avoid traffic congestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/nhai-starts-process-of-deciding-toll-charges-at-delhi-meerut-expressway/story-7HKthCofhtdUzrxW4YdqGL.html
23-11-2020||Noida||Change in covid strategy needed for rising cases in five Ghaziabad hotspots, say experts||Ghaziabad: The residential segments of Indirapuram, Carte, Sahibabad-II, Raj Nagar and Vaishali have emerged as the top five major contributors to the number of coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in Ghaziabad district, as per mapping done on directions of the Uttar Pradesh government for focussed surveillance. Experts said that a different strategy needs to be chalked out for such areas as their contribution to case tally is on the rise. According to the mapping done over from November 11 to November 20, the health department has found that residential segments of Indirapuram, Carte (comprising localities like Kavi Nagar, Avantika, Nehru Nagar, Shastri Nagar and Chiranjeev Vihar, among others), Sahibabad-II (Raj Bagh, Shalimar Garden, Rajendra Nagar and Lajpat Nagar among others), Raj Nagar and Vaishali occupy the top five spots in the list of areas having highest number of cases during the given period. The five segments contribute about 56.82% share of the 1,260 Covid-19 cases which came up during the 10 days’ surveillance period.Of the five, Indirapuram and Sahibabad-II have remained among the top five since June, while Indirapuram, Carte and Raj Nagar were in the top five in July, August, September and October. Experts said that to tackle the recurrence of cases in such areas a shift in strategy is needed, as it seems that present efforts have not yielded effective results. “If such areas are emerging as the top contributors then we must take strict containment. This would mean that areas of clusters or specific areas where cases have emerged need to be contained or shut down for effective surveillance and testing. If some areas are yielding the highest number of cases, then there seems to be gaps in strategy and needs review,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. “Such areas generally have a common source of infection, which could also include service-providers or vendors in markets. So, there has to be effective surveillance and testing. Surveillance will also bring to notice if anyone is hiding his/her health conditions,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). The government directions said that if within 24 hours three houses within a radius of 50 metres of each other, have one or more positive case each, then the entire area that falls under the radius will be identified as a cluster and a minimum of 100 houses in each such cluster will be subjected to focussed surveillance.If there is only a single house within 50 metres that has a confirmed case, then the focussed surveillance will be extended to 50 houses around it. The government has not specified conditions for two houses with a Covid-19 positive patient. Apart from houses, officials have also been directed to take up surveillance in nearby markets, shops, ration shops and milk booths, among others. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said he is working on a strategy to conduct surveillance and testing together. “We feel that surveillance and testing together will prove effective rather than telling suspected persons to walk to the nearest testing centre to get tested. Further, rapid response teams which go to houses of home-isolated patients will now be accompanying lab technicians who will get contacts tested there and then,” Pandey said. “Further, we are also planning to get some corporate social responsibility funds for getting more rapid antigen kits so that testing can be double the present capacity. The areas (with highest cases) are majorly having working class populations which also get affected by cross-border infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/change-in-covid-strategy-needed-for-rising-cases-in-five-ghaziabad-hotspots-say-experts/story-HVoEENr4C0CvUYtUvbQmzI.html
23-11-2020||City||AAP alleges “loot” in property tax, BJP rejects charge as baseless||New Delhi: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that the North Delhi Municipal Corporation doesn’t maintain any account related to property tax. Party chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said the civic body was supposed to collect Rs 2,838 crore in property tax but it has got only Rs 1,703 crore. The BJP dismissed the allegations as baseless.“The biggest betrayal by the BJP-ruled North MCD is that they do not maintain any proper documentation regarding the collection of property tax. The local MCD officials decide about the property tax collection from an individual establishment. The BJP-ruled MCD officials can change the use of the property, which means if a property is rented then they can show that it is not rented. If the property is vacant then they can show that it is being used for commercial purposes. In 2002, the BJP-ruled MCD decided that a survey will take place of all these properties (to check if the property is empty or being used) but nothing happened,” he said at a press conference.Bharadwaj added that in the absence of a survey, the loss of revenue on account of property tax cannot be assessed. “They have never maintained any kind of assessment books…The AAP demands that BJP leaders of Delhi should come clean about such incidents and tell the people of Delhi the reality behind such massive corruption,” he said.Responding to AAP’s allegations, Delhi BJP general secretary Harsh Malhotra said that since 2004, the self assessment scheme is being followed for property tax evaluation by civic bodies. “People file their own assessments and pay tax as per applicable category and rates. MCDs do random check on some 10% returns. It is possible that a small section of tax payers might be misusing the method but by and large the self assessment scheme has given people freedom from the Inspector Raj. The AAP has been constantly raising baseless allegations of misappropriation of property tax, demanding service of notices to assessees. Does AAP want revival of Inspector Raj in MCDs property tax departments?” Malhotra asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-alleges-loot-in-property-tax-bjp-rejects-charge-as-baseless/story-Nsv3VlkNiwn5hsZFmCo5XP.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||LSR teachers raise ₹2.5 lakh to help dead student’s family||The teachers of Lady Shri Ram College (LSR) have pooled in money to send around ₹2.5 lakh to the family of their students who had died earlier this month, parents said.The 19-year-old undergraduate student had died by suicide at her home town in Telangana allegedly due to financial an academic stress. Her parents said her stress had worsened after the college asked around 150 students to vacate the hostel.The notice to vacate -- it was later withdrawn as a one-time measure in view of Covid-19 pandemic -- was based on a policy introduced last year which limited hostel facilities to first-year undergraduate students from 2019 onwards to implement the reservations for students from other backward classes (OBC) and economically weaker section (EWS).Due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the family was in great financial distress as the student’s father, a motorcycle repairman, was out of work and so was her mother, a tailor. The deceased student was struggling to adapt to online education as she did not have any laptop and had to follow her classes on her phone, parents said.Her mother told HT, “The college principal had called us, asking how much money we would needed to tide over our financial crisis. We don’t know much details but we have received around ₹2.5 lakh from the college so far. We will use this money to pay off our debts.”Despite repeated requests, LSR principal Suman Sharma did not comment on the matter. However, officials from the college, requesting anonymity, told HT that till November 13, over ₹3 lakh was contributed towards the deceased student’s family fund and the amount was raised by over 80 faculty members.The parents said they had mortgaged their house and pawned gold ornaments in order to support their elder daughter’s education at LSR, along with discontinuing the education of their 16-year-old younger daughter.“As soon as the pandemic subsides and the schools reopen, we will try to get our younger daughter enrolled into a school. Right now, she is too traumatised by the death of her sister. Despite our hand-to-mouth existence, we tried to provide our eldest daughter with an education and yet could not save her,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/lsr-teachers-raise-2-5-lakh-to-help-dead-student-s-family/story-1g16FxLCfvMbOJ36O7GijL.html
23-11-2020||City||SC confirms bail to Delhi riots accused||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by the Delhi Police, challenging the grant of bail to one of the accused in the conspiracy behind the north east Delhi riots that led to 53 deaths in February this year.The accused, Faizan Khan was released on bail by the Delhi High Court on October 23 after the court found no ground to directly link him with the commission of offence. Khan was charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in March this year and was accused of arranging SIM card for a co-accused Asif Iqbal Tanha. According to the police, this number was used to communicate messages by students of the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), who too were charged for instigating the February riots in protest to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed by Parliament in December last year.Khan had been named in a supplementary charge sheet, along with former Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam, filed by the special cell of the Delhi Police on Sunday. Dealing with the Delhi Police’s appeal, a three-judge bench of justices Ashok Bhushan, RS Reddy and MR Shah said, “The special leave petition is dismissed.”Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju told the bench that observations made by the high court should not influence the trial in the case. The bench went on to state, “We make it clear that observations made by the high court in the impugned judgment are only for the purpose of granting the bail and shall not be treated any expression of opinion during trial.”The HC had observed, “For invoking the UAPA against the present petitioner, it is the duty of the investigating agency to demonstrate that the petitioner had ‘actual knowledge’ that the said SIM card would be used for organizing the protests.” It was imperative for the investigation agency to demonstrate that the petitioner had “active knowledge” about the utilization of the said SIM card. It is not alleged that the petitioner was party to any such conspiracy to organize protests. Since the SIM card was provided in December 2019 while the violence erupted in February 2020, the HC noted, “There is no proximate nexus between the aforesaid alleged incidents nor is it alleged that the said SIM card was provided, on the pretext or with the intention/objective, to be utilized for organizing protests.” Khan was released on bail on payment of Rs 25000 bail bond and one surety of the like amount. He was directed not to tamper with evidence or influence any witnesses in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sc-confirms-bail-to-delhi-riots-accused/story-bzdur8V6NCDx6QE3XBfYLO.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||GMCH admissions: HC dismisses plea seeking change in criterion for NRI category||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a plea seeking changes in the criterion for admissions to MBBS course under the NRI category at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. The plea was filed by one candidate, Aanchal Setia, who had demanded that the first-degree relatives of NRIs be made eligible for the NRI-category seats offered by the institute. Detailed order is awaited. The petitioner had brought before the court the contradiction in the eligibility criteria laid down in prospectus by the college stating that for admission to MBBS/BDS courses for students under the NRI category, Harvansh Singh Judge Dental College, Panjab University, has expanded the scope of the definition to include first-degree NRI relatives, like uncles and aunts of the candidate, but GMCH excludes them. GMCH limits the criterion for candidates who resided in a foreign country for a certain period or have their parents or grandparents residing in other nations, it was stated. As both the institutes are affiliated to PU, there can’t be two different sets of rules for admissions to the same course, she had argued. The plea was filed last week. The college has 150 MBBS seats, of which 115 are under the UT quota. Off the remaining, 23 are under the all-India quota, three under the central pool, and nine under the NRI quota.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/gmch-admissions-hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-change-in-criterion-for-nri-category/story-FqojJ1jx0slWzbS90tkiSK.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC plans to run gyms at community centres on PPP mode||Having failed to run gyms in community centres for years, the Chandigarh municipal corporation is now all set rope in private firms to operate and maintain these facilities across the city. Under this public private partnership (PPP) plan, “the gyms will be run more professionally, while at the same time, the civic body can generate additional revenue,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav, adding that the firm will operate and maintain the facility and share revenue with the MC on pre-decided termsThe agenda will be tabled before the MC General House for approval on November 27. “After the approval, expression of interest will be called and other modalities will also be set for revenue sharing and fees to be charged from residents,” said Yadav. Of 42 community centres under the MC, 28 have gyms, which were constructed at a cost ranging from ₹7 lakh to ₹25 lakh depending on the equipment installed. Making facilities relevant for residentsAt present, there is no uniform policy for running of the gyms. In some community centres, the executive committees of area residents have been formed for the purpose, while other ones are without such committees.The older community centres, such as the one in Sector 8, have gyms with rudimentary equipment, and are seldom used by the locals because of poor quality. The recently constructed ones have modern gyms with high-tech equipment, but are still underutilised. Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation, said, “We have been repeatedly requesting the MC and councillors to make the gyms functional, but no positive action has been forthcoming. Some of these gyms have the latest equipment, but are still lying defunct.” One of the reasons is that there are no trainers appointed in these gyms. Under the proposed PPP model, the firm will also provide the trainers. MC to cap fee charged from usersEven as gyms fail to generate any revenue or become self-sustaining, the MC is bearing the cost for the maintenance. It was the revenue augmentation committee of the MC that had recommended the PPP model, while also suggesting ways to ensure that the fee charged by private firms doesn’t pinch the residents’ pocket. Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, who is a member of the committee, said: “The hired firm will be allowed to charge the same fee as being collected by executive committees currently. For people from outside the sector, the firm can be allowed to charge higher fee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-run-gyms-at-community-centres-on-ppp-mode/story-ZYQQmT3JCcvouny9KnhrZN.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC chief suspends building inspector for laxity||Tightening the noose around building inspector Harjit Singh for his failure to take action against illegal constructions, the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal suspended Singh on Monday. Sabharwal said,”Singh is deputed at MC Zone B office and we have received complaints that he has failed to take action against illegal constructions at large.” “He has been suspended with immediate effect and a proceeding has been forwarded to the local bodies department for getting final approval,” the MC chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-chief-suspends-building-inspector-for-laxity/story-n7LYCa3lGCyEGgsJXpKp1N.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||Special police teams formed to crack down on illegal mining in Tauru belt||The special enforcement team of Haryana Police has deployed 20 more personnel on stretches connecting Tauru to crack down on illegal mining activities in the Aravallis, said the police on Monday. According to the police, the move was taken after an attack on police teams on Saturday night after they had tried to intercept a loaded dumper carrying illegally mined stones near Bilaspur. The hawkers and tea stall owners, who are stationed on the roadside on the stretches connecting to Tauru and nearby villages, have also been asked to alert police in case they find any dumper movement on the road. The police said as many as 300 people would be keeping an eye on the movement of illegal dumpers as they had only 25 personnel for South Haryana. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that since December 2019, they have deployed teams in the Aravalli belt to control illegal mining but the number of cases are rapidly increasing. “On an average, three to four dumpers laden with crushed stones are spotted every day. Despite regular checking, they manage to flee with the help of locals. We have roped in hawkers and people working on roadside eateries to alert us in case they find any dumper moving on any stretch,” he said. Sangwan said that some locals in nearby villages of Nuh and Tauru are involved in illegal mining. The illegal miners have also hired drivers and trained them in dodging police teams. “The drivers often pelt stones and damage police vehicles so that they cannot chase them. The drivers are familiar with all the stretches of the area and have several hideouts in the outskirts of the villages. Many of the drivers arrested have criminal records and are involved in illegal activities for the last few years,” he said. The police said there are five villages in the Tauru belt which are under the scanner. The teams deployed in the area said there are a few families that have trained even women and children on how to surround police teams during raids.Sangwan said locals, including women, block the road and lie down with children to stop police from entering the village. They have 25 teams deployed in 14 districts that are monitoring these illegal mining activities in South Haryana. The state has collected a total fine of ₹57.50 crore since December 2019. A total of 2,744 vehicles, including tippers, trucks, tractor-trolleys, and earthmovers, have been seized by the police between December 2019 and November 23, 2020. This number also includes 425 vehicles seized in November— the highest so far. The police added that during the course of the anti-mining operations, several police officers have been attacked by truck drivers carrying illegal material and more than 50 police vehicles have been damaged. Over four dozen cases of attempted murder have been registered against such drivers over the last six months, said the police. The police said illegal mining operations have been taking place in the Aravallis for over two decades. In November 2019, IPS officer Amitabh Singh Dhillon, who is also the director-general of mines and geology department of Haryana, had put together a special enforcement team to crack down on illegal mining operations in the Aravallis. The state was divided into two parts and two police officials were given charge of each. While assistant commissioner of police(ACP) Rajesh Phogat has been given the charge of the Sonepat region, ACP Sangwan is in charge of curbing illegal mining in Gurugram and Nuh. The National Green Tribunal(NGT) in 2019 had ordered that all confiscated vehicles will be released only after recovery of at least 50% of the showroom value of such vehicles. “Besides, the confiscated vehicle owner will also have to pay a royalty fee, the value of the mineral loaded on the vehicles, along with ₹10,000 fine before the vehicle can be released,” said Sangwan, adding that the state has been suffering severe revenue losses because of the illegal mining activity in the Aravallis for the last several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/special-police-teams-formed-to-crack-down-on-illegal-mining-in-tauru-belt/story-f9hAWfoGWAzsarVJHQUrnI.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||Portion of Dadri-Rewari freight corridor collapses near Sohna||A portion of an under-construction freight rail corridor from Dadri to Rewari collapsed on Monday morning at Atta-Rampur village near Sohna. The impact of the crash was such that the launcher used to install concrete spans between pillars was badly damaged. A driver of a Bolero jeep, who worked at the construction site, had a narrow escape as he managed to jump to the passenger seat as pieces of equipment crashed on his vehicle parked near the spot. The incident happened around 11.30am, when the section between piers 60 and 63 of the freight corridor collapsed. Sunil Kumar, the driver, who barely managed to escape, said he was badly shaken even several hours after the collapse. “There were only few workers at the site and the crash happened so suddenly that no one got time to react. I saw the launcher coming down and even started the jeep. However, instead of driving, I was able to jump only to the passenger side on the left and saved myself,” said Kumar, a resident of Faridabad, who suffered minor scratches. Project officials said that the accident was serious and they would thoroughly probe the incident to prevent a repeat. On August 22 this year, a similar incident took place on Sohna Road when a portion of the concrete span of the Sohna elevated road collapsed near Vipul Greens condominium, following which the NHAI had stopped construction work on the elevated road project. At Monday’s accident site, the launcher, which is used to install concrete spans between piers, had fallen from a height of around 50 to 60 feet and it affected around 150 metres stretch between the four pillars. Apart from the equipment damage, top portions of the two concrete pillars were also damaged.The Rewari-Dadri stretch of elevated freight corridor is part of the double line broad gauge freight corridor being developed by Indian Railways, through its subsidiary Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd (DFCCIL). The 1483-km-long corridor starts from Dadri near Uttar Pradesh and concludes at Navi Mumbai in Maharashtra. The 141-km Rewari-Dadri stretch is part of the corridor and is being constructed by a consortium led by infrastructure major Larson & Toubro (L& T). A team from L&T took stock of the situation and rescue work to remove the damaged equipment from the spot was carried out. A senior official of L&T said that the incident happened around 11.30 am, but there were not many workers at the crash site. “We have launched spans all along the corridor and near the Atta-Rampur road we took special precaution and work was carried out safely. A committee will be formed to probe the matter. Right now it is not possible to say whether the reason was mechanical fault, a design failure or a human error,” he said on the condition of anonymity. The workers on the site said that a team from Nuh Police also visited the spot to take stock of the situation. The DFCCIL, which is developing the freight corridor, said that they will seek a report from contractor in this matter. “The matter will be probed and reasons behind the accident will be investigated,” said Ved Prakash, general manager, safety and operations, DFCCIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/portion-of-dadri-rewari-freight-corridor-collapses-near-sohna/story-BYuWleS0477OvGWGkU6KTJ.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||West and east Gurugram fare worst in mask discipline, shows data||As Covid-19 cases continue to surge in the city, data compiled by the Gurugram Police shows that west and east police zones in the city are witnessing the maximum number of violations in mask discipline based on the enforcement challans issued between June and November this year. The findings also show that south and Manesar police zones reported the least number of violations as the areas in these zones continue to see a surge in cases. According to the data compiled till November 20, at least 47,055 people were fined for not wearing the masks in the police’s west zone, which includes mostly old Gurugram areas such as old bus stand near Sadar Bazar, old DLF Colony, Rajiv Nagar, Sector 12, 12 A, 14,15 and Rajiv Chowk. Close on heels, comes the east zone, which reported 12,426 challans. It includes areas such as Sushant Lok Phase 1 (Block A and B), sectors 27, 28, areas near Galleria market, Cross Point Mall, MG Road, Saraswati Vihar, Maruti Vihar and Chakkarpur and Chanderlok. Usha Kundu, assistant commissioner of police (headquarters), who recently visited parts of old Gurugram to check mask enforcement, said, “We have our teams patrolling in congested areas. People are taking mask- wearing very callously. People are seen removing their masks while coughing even if they are sitting in a group. Elderly say that they feel suffocated while wearing masks. Enforcement becomes challenging in such situations,” said Kundu.Experts say that wearing masks is crucial in containing the infection as symptoms only appear after four to five days of getting infected. It is likely that during this period, patients might not develop usual symptoms of cough, fever or difficulty in breathing, but can still spread the infection to others. A paper published in the New England Journal of Medicine in June found that Covid-19 can also be spread by those who have a very mild disease and do not show any symptoms. Studies show that mask can reduce the growth rate of coronavirus infection by 40%. Going by the health department data, some of these areas have noted a high prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Police department’s east zone areas, which fall under Chanderlok Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHCs), has shown a consistent upward trend in cases from July onwards. Even areas like Rajiv Nagar (west zone) are among the worst-affected areas for a few months now. Nonetheless, residents in these areas are having lackadaisical approach in wearing face masks, said the police.South police zone, which has Badhshahpur, Fajilpur and Hasanpur, among other areas, have also been reporting a surge. However, only 3,365 people were issued challans in these areas — the least in the district. Even in Manesar, only 9,681 cases of challans have been registered. Overall, at least 89,582 challans in violation of Covid-19 guidelines have been issued by the police department between June 9 and November 20. Cumulatively, the department has collected nearly ₹4.47 crore till now. The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), which has also been assigned the task of imposing fines for mask violations, has collected a fine of over ₹13 lakh till October, as per the data available with the state government. “Nearly 1,300 challans are issued every day for violating mask discipline. Gurugram Police have penalised nearly 22,817 violators in November for not wearing face masks,” said KK Rao, commissioner of police. “Strict directives have been issued to station house officers to identify congested areas in their jurisdiction. Recorded messages on mask discipline will be announced through loudspeakers in these areas,” said Rao. Although Delhi has increased the challan amount from ₹500 to ₹2,000, Rao said that the department has not received any directive till now for Gurugram.The department has also formed 40 teams, comprising 1,600 police personnel, who have been directed to visit parks, banquet halls, restaurants and hotels, where small-scale gatherings are being organised. Rao said, “Weddings season will also begin now. Area-wise SHOs have directed to keep an eye on functions and social gatherings. Guests found without masks will be penalised on the spot,” said Rao. Police teams are also deployed at all the 11 borders connecting Gurugram to the national Capital. Out of the total violations, at least 16,755 were penalised for not wearing face masks while sitting in their cars. The police said that people who are driving alone were exempted.“Be it someone in a car, a two-wheeler or a bicycle, people are being challaned,” said Rao. When HT visited a police post near Signature Tower, it found that people in four- and two-wheelers were stopped to pay the fine. In some areas, labourers without masks were not challaned as they did not have enough money to pay ₹500. “For poor people, who cannot afford mask and the challan money, the department is providing cotton masks,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/west-and-east-gurugram-fare-worst-in-mask-discipline-shows-data/story-PxBvnEOY9UvpQ3Pt6iht1M.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||Mobile app for Covid-related information launched||The district administration on Monday launched a mobile application and a web portal for information related to Covid-19. The application, known as Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3), will provide real-time information related to Covid-19 testing collection centres in the city, testing charges and availability of hospital beds, among other information. Rajeev Ranjan, divisional commissioner, who launched the application from his office at Civil Lines, said, “Real-time data on all Covid-related issues will be available on the portal and the mobile application. Information regarding testing and new cases will be directly uploaded from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, based on which different departments like health, police, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and Ayush can work simultaneously.”The portal shares almost similar details available on the existing oneMap Gurugram application developed by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) during the initial months of the pandemic. In a statement issued by the district administration, Ranjan said, “The data of the positive patients will be uploaded every hour. The application can also work in areas having lower internet bandwidth and connectivity.” Ranjan advised people to maintain mask discipline and respiratory hygiene to keep Covid-19 infection at bay. He said that citizens should not move out of their homes unless it is important as it would help in tackling the transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/mobile-app-for-covid-related-information-launched/story-7PjUWeySTmbByNDRLgw3KM.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||Cops contact US Embassy over traveller who forged Covid-19 test result||The police has contacted the US Embassy to share the report and the name of a person who got his Covid-19 test results forged to travel to the US along with his wife on November 18. The instance of forged results came under the police scanner after it busted a fake pathology lab at Sainikhera village in Sector 30 three days ago and arrested two persons.The police said the man had travelled to the US on a work visa and they are still trying to trace the couple’s address.Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said, “They had to travel to the US on November 18. The man had tested positive but as his flight tickets were booked, he paid Rs3,000 for a forged report, which showed his result as negative.” The police had busted the lab after being tipped off by informers, who told them that at least 10 such reports were being forged every day.Inderjeet Yadav, deputy superintendent of police, Crime Investigation Department, said there is a nexus of people in the city who are fabricating Covid-19 test reports by charging extra money. “We arrested two suspects and recovered a mobile phone which had around 10 forged reports, including that of the couple who travelled to the US,” he said. Yadav said the report did not mention the address of the couple and that the Sector 40 police team is in touch with the US Embassy. The police have identified the accused who were running the lab as one Anirban Roy, of Kolkata, and Parimal Roy, of Murshidabad. The duo was residing in a rented accommodation in the village and was involved in this illegal practice for the last two months, said police. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the suspects, during questioning, revealed that people also paid Rs 1,400 for forged positive reports to avail of leaves from work. “He has delivered more than 20 such reports and more are expected to surface during the investigation. We have seized the mobile phone of the suspect arrested and scanning all the reports. So far, 12 reports and four names of the lab providing false reports have surfaced. A Delhi lab is also under the scanner,” he said. The police teams are conducting technical surveillance to ascertain details about the flight boarded by the couple. The suspects were operating under the banner of ‘Medikartz Pathology Lab and Medical Tourism.’ The lab has claimed a tie-up with a diagnostics facility in Delhi, but could not furnish record of the same, said police. “We are also questioning staff of Delhi lab to get more details in the case and to know their role in partnering with this lab,” Rao said. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 52 of the Disaster Management Act was registered at the Sector 40 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/cops-contact-us-embassy-over-traveller-who-forged-covid-19-test-result/story-duaObsuoSM2xhnkFAWcVRM.html
23-11-2020||Gurugram||Covid-19 case count past 45,000 in Gurugram||The district on Monday reported 866 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 45,072, according to the health department. Due to a faster-than-estimated spread of the virus, the district has already crossed the November-end projection of 43,000 cases with a week left. Since the beginning of November, over 15,000 new cases have been reported, of which 6,000 new infections were recorded in the last six days alone. As per the data, one in six persons who underwent the test has tested positive this month, which is double the October figures, as one in 12 persons tested positive. According to the World Health Organisation, the infection is considered to be under control only if one in more than 20 persons test positive.Of the total number of cases, 5,942 are active cases while 38,864 have recovered from the illness. The death toll stands at 266, with nearly 79% of deaths happening due to co-morbid conditions. At least 488 seriously-ill patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus are admitted to hospitals. Active cases and hospitalisation have been showing a consistent upward trajectory due to the 16% weekly test positivity rate. “The active transmission of Covid-19 can be controlled through increased testing, and thereby, identification of new cases and timely isolation. People should get themselves tested timely, instead of taking the disease lightly, as common flu,” said Amit Khatri, deputy commissioner. In controlling the ongoing surge, where daily infections are fluctuating between 500-970, the health department on November 19 had ramped up the infrastructure to conduct 6,000 tests per day. On Monday, a total of 6,502 tests were administered, with 4,447 of them the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). On November 21, a record of 10,200 tests were administered in a day. In the last two weeks, at least 68, 542 tests have been administered, almost 30% higher than the cumulative numbers (47,902 tests) of the previous two weeks from October 27 to November 9. With this, the average daily positive cases have crossed 670, up from the 457 between October 24 and November 6). The overall test count has increased due to an increased share of the rapid antigen test, which increased to 17% last week from 14% in the first week of November. In September and October, the antigen testing rate was 28%. Due to a high chance of false-negative, experts suggest a minimum use of rapid antigen tests as it masks the true positivity rate of the area or city.As a part of the targeted testing, the health department is continuing with its camps. On Monday, a camp was held at Mini Secretariat, where employees and workers directly involved in public dealings were tested and 76 rapid antigen tests were conducted. Two had tested positive. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Testing will continue in different areas having increased footfall of the general public. The current focus is on timely identification of cases and their home isolation to prevent mortality from increasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/covid-19-case-count-past-45-000-in-gurugram/story-LZGZeJ5xMuxJFLKfpe2Q6J.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray gives nod for Rs1,600-crore desalination project for Mumbai||To tide over the shortage of drinking water faced by Mumbai, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday gave a go-ahead to a desalination project with a capacity of 200 MLD (million litres per day). The ₹1,600-crore project to be set up on around 30 acres at Manori, Malad, is expected to be completed in four years if everything goes as per the plan.After tapping about six possible locations, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) finalised Manori. The plant will have the capacity to expand to 400 MLD in the future, which can make up for the shortfall of 10% (of the total water consumption of the city of 3,800 MLD) when there is poor rainfall.Also read: BMC revives plan to set up desalination plant for potable water“The detailed project report will be prepared in about nine months and will need another three months to complete the tendering process. The actual completion of the project will need about three more years. The site was finalised by our technical team as it has no mangrove around it, has good quality of water and is connected by roads, among other reasons. We also had tapped five other locations, including Versova, Gorai, Malad, among others,” said P Velrasu, additional civic commissioner, BMC.Thackeray said that the project will help in make up the shortfall of potable water in summer due to late arrival of monsoon or shortfall in expected water stock. “Many other countries have already set up such projects or are in the process of it. If operated on solar, the operational cost of the project will reduce significantly. We have government land available at the site and no habitat around it, making it suitable,” he said.The operational cost of the desalination plant is, however, higher than the dam-based water-supply projects and has been one of the reasons behind the delay to the project, which has been planned for years. The BMC expects it to be 50% more than its existing system of dam based water supply.Also read: Mumbai civic body’s desalination plant project: Why not focus on water conservation, ask experts “We expect it to be Rs30 per kilolitre against the existing cost for dam-based projects of Rs20 per kilolitre after using solar power for generation. Over a period of time, the cost will come down. The project will be operated on a need-base mechanism, like other countries such as Australia, during the period of the shortfall to keep the overall operation cost low. Another advantage of the project is that it is climate neutral,” Velrasu said.He said that the capital cost of the project was same as the dam-based projects. “The cost of 400 MLD Gargai dam project is Rs4,000 crore, whereas the 200MLD desalination project is costing us Rs1,600 crore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-gives-nod-for-rs1-600-crore-desalination-project-for-mumbai/story-5K3TSNYlRYbZPUkMvLSV4O.html
23-11-2020||City||Four women held for burglary at Ludhiana garment shop||The Division Number 4 police claim to have cracked a November-17 burglary at a garment shop in Gandhi Nagar with the arrest of four women.As many as 25 stolen jackets were recovered from the possession of the women, identified as Pinki, 30, Rajni, 40, Kapila, 30, all residents of Fountain Chowk, Barnala, and Payal, 26, of Rajpura, Patiala.According to police, on the intervening night of November 17 and 18, they targeted a shop, “Ajay Garments”, in Gandhi Nagar and decamped with 25 jackets. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of the shop owner. On Sunday, the women visited a market to sell the jackets, when they were nabbed by the police.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Deepak Pareek said the women were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the area around the shop. As part of their modus operandi, some women held up bedsheets, while others broke open the shutter locks. Then a thin member of the gang slid into the shop by lifting the shutter minimally.The police official said the women had no criminal background, but they were being questioned for any other thefts executed by them. On July 30, the Salem Tabri police had arrested a gang of seven women, who were also involved in burglaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/four-women-held-for-burglary-at-ludhiana-garment-shop/story-Lbpi6H6hFMtahfGZJaOApO.html
23-11-2020||City||Two men held for assaulting cop in Mohali’s Jagatpura locality||Two men have been arrested for assaulting a constable at Guru Nanak Colony in Jagatpura. They have been identified as Mani Kandan and Shingara.The incident took place when police control room (PCR) personnel rushed to the colony on receiving the complaint of a scuffle at a function on Sunday night.Mani, Shingara and their friends, who were involved in the scuffle, allegedly attacked constable Ramandeep Singh with a brick when he was trying to intervene. His turban was also tossed in the melee.“Two men have been arrested. They will be produced in court on Tuesday. Their accomplices will also be arrested soon,” said inspector Jagdeep Singh, station house officer, Phase 11.:Meanwhile, the constable was discharged from hospital on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-men-held-for-assaulting-cop-in-mohali-s-jagatpura-locality/story-tovUtT8Nj3sz2v7sid3vgI.html
23-11-2020||City||Owner attacked with knife at salon in Panchkula||A salon owner was injured after being attacked with a knife at his shop in Panchkula on Monday evening.He has been identified as Jameel Ahmad, aka Chand, 42, who lives in Baltana and owns Chand Hair Salon in Sector 15. According to police, a woman employee wanted to leave early to attend a wedding, but Jameel stopped her. Later, she even had an argument with another employee, and she called her brother Rahul. The brother reached there with his friends and allegedly attacked Jameel with a knife around 4:15pm. Jameel is undergoing treatment at the civil hospital. A case has been registered.Two booked for stabbing painterIn another case of stabbing registered in Chandigarh, two men have been booked on the complaint of a painter from Sector 45. The accused have been identified as Shyam Sunder, an auto driver, and his friend.Victim Pintu, 30, told police that he was having drinks with the two at a vacant plot in Sector 33 on Saturday. Later, the two asked him to pay for the liquor, which led to an argument. While Shyam allegedly assaulted Pintu, his friend stabbed him. A case has been registered at the Sector-34 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/owner-attacked-with-knife-at-salon-in-panchkula/story-Xtvwn6kxUVcm5DICVGUvRK.html
23-11-2020||City||Passengers suffer as Punjab Roadways staff go on strike in Ludhiana||Passengers at the Ludhiana inter-state bus terminal (ISBT) were a harried lot on Monday, as the joint action committee of Punjab Roadways and PRTC contractual workers observed a strike for two hours to protest against private operators plying inter-state buses illegally. As the bus drivers and conductors protested from 10.30am to 12.30pm, hitting the movement of over 120 inter-state and inter-district buses, passengers were left at the mercy of private operators. PRTC and Punbus services came to a halt completely for two hours, as the protesters closed the gates of the bus stand, forcing private bus operators to provide their services from outside the premises. “My mother and I had to travel to Delhi and were forced to buy more expensive tickets through a private operator after waiting for over 90 minutes for the roadways bus to depart,” said Nitish, one of the affected passengers. Similarly, Gurpreet Singh, who was on his way to Moga, said when he reached the bus stand around 11am, he got to know about the strike and could not get a certain answer on when the buses will resume their services.The protesting contractual staff complained that the authorities, including the roadways and district transport departments, had failed to take action against the private transport mafia, even when unauthorised private buses remained parked right outside the bus stand. The protest was lifted after two hours following an assurance by the roadways and transport department officials of taking action against bus operators plying inter-state buses illegally.“The private bus operators have installed their counters right outside the bus stand and lure passengers even before they enter the ISBT. But the authorities have turned a blind eye to the issue, even when it is resulting in losses to the transport sector. We will organise a protest march from the ISBT to Bharat Nagar Chowk on December 2 if the authorities don’t act by then,” said Shamsher Singh, district president of Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union.Station supervisor Jasvir Singh said movement of over 120 buses was hit due to the protest. “The demands of the union are justified and we will recommend action to the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) office, as roadways cannot do anything about the buses parked outside the ISBT,” he added. Private bus headed to Delhi stoppedHigh drama was witnessed outside the bus stand after the protesters stopped a private bus headed to Delhi. While the union members slammed the authorities for taking no action against the bus operator, station supervisor Jasvir Singh said they had clicked pictures and will send their recommendations to the RTA office. Services to be hit again on November 26The joint action committee of the Punjab Roadways and PRTC contractual workers has also extended its support to the November 26 “Delhi Chalo” protest by farmers against the farm bills. Therefore, there will be no movement of buses on Thursday, said Jasvir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-suffer-as-punjab-roadways-staff-go-on-strike-in-ludhiana/story-FYDzGiUPjVzk98HxZWQwWP.html
23-11-2020||City||Notices, challans to south Delhi RWAs, residents for not separating waste at source||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has issued more than 1,400 notices to resident welfare associations (RWAs) and fined 122 residents for not segregating dry, wet and hazardous household waste at source. The RWAs put on notice include Defence Colony, Panchsheel Park, Lajpat Nagar, Andrews Ganj, Gangotri Enclave, Hari Nagar, Janakpuri, Punjabi Bagh, Green Park Extension, South Extension-II and Hauz Khas. Fines were imposed on as many as 122 residents in localities such as Defence Colony, Kotla Mubarakpur, South Extension-II among others.The civic agency threatened to impose a fine of Rs 10,000 for handing over non-segregated waste to waste collectors. Municipal officials said as per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, waste segregation should be done at the source both in commercial and residential areas. According to municipal officials, wet waste or kitchen waste should be deposited in green bins, dry waste such as plastic bottles, milk pouches, etc., in blue bins and hazardous waste such as needles, sanitary napkins among others in red bins.“Some residents were fined around 20-25 days back for not segregating waste. We have appealed to residents to provide segregated waste to collectors. We are doing waste segregation at source and there is no laxity on our part,” Ranjeet Singh, president the Defence Colony RWA, said.An SDMC official said waste segregation in residential areas began a year ago. But from June this year, the process was made mandatory for all residents in SDMC’s jurisdiction. “As many as 1,430 notices have been issued to RWAs and 122 violators have been fined Rs 200 per day for not providing segregated waste. Those who have been challaned are repeat offenders. Our intent is maximum compliance of the Solid Waste Management rules so that no waste goes to landfill sites,” a senior official from the department of environment management services of SDMC said.Out of the total notices to RWAs, 125 were issued in south zone, 535 in central , 300 in west and 470 in Najafgarh zone. The civic body had performed poorly in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, ranking 31 out of 47 cities. Neha Puri, a representative of Green Park Extension RWA, said waste segregation in her neighbourhood began in March but the process slowed down due to the pandemic. Later, SDMC issued a notice for waste segregation. “We were told waste segregation at source is mandatory, which we had already been doing since March this year. We are still working to ensure 100% segregation. Nearly 50% residents are segregating their waste. We update our residents about solid waste management norms and encourage them for waste segregation,” Puri said.She said there were instances of segregated waste getting mixed again at collection points by municipal workers.Amarjeet Singh, president of the Lajpat Nagar-3 RWA, said waste segregation was happening in all 13 blocks of the neighbourhood.SDMC collects nearly 3,600 metric tonnes of garbage every day. Some of this garbage is sent to the Okhla landfill site and the rest to the waste-to-energy and construction & demolition waste recycling plants.South mayor Anamika Mithilesh said: “Waste segregation will help in reducing load on landfills and ease the process of waste disposal. It will improve sanitation conditions in the area. We are making efforts to spread awareness about waste segregation and holding meetings and camps in different localities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/notices-challans-to-south-delhi-rwas-residents-for-not-separating-waste-at-source/story-DleXpFXTTCkRs4yxriulUJ.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||HC seeks Centre, Delhi govt response on plea to stop felling of 315 trees in south Delhi||The Delhi high court on Monday sought a response from the Centre and the Delhi government on a plea challenging the permission given by the forest department to fell or transplant around 315 trees for the redevelopment of a south Delhi colony.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Prateek Jalan sought to know the stand of the environment ministry, the Delhi government, deputy conservator of forests (south) and the NBCC-India seeking their stand on the plea filed by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) councillor Abhishek Dutt, which has contended that felling of the trees would cause irreparable damage to the environment.Dutt, through his counsel Varun K Chopra, has sought to set aside the September 14 decision of the deputy conservator of forests (south), allowing the felling/transplantation of 315 trees for the redevelopment of Ayur Vigyan Nagar on August Kranti Marg.Dutt has contended that the September 14 decision has been taken “without any application of mind” and no reason was given for approving the project. During the proceedings, Chopra said the “rights of citizens” to breathe clean air is being abrogated by the removal of 315 trees from the heart of Delhi.He urged the bench to stay the felling/transplantation of trees till the next date of hearing, on December 11, but the court did not allow that.The petition has claimed that the process of transplanting trees is not effective or successful, especially in India and planting of saplings would not be sufficient to compensate for the loss of green cover.“Planting 10 saplings for each tree which is felled is not enough considering the large size, ecological impact of larger trees and poor survival rate of saplings,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hc-seeks-centre-delhi-govt-response-on-plea-to-stop-felling-of-315-trees-in-south-delhi/story-j71h1L9928yVVNnElHbYWP.html
23-11-2020||City||PAU holds online training on precision farming||The Skill Development Centre of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organised a two-day online training course on “precision technologies for fruits and vegetables” for in-service candidates under the guidance of Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education.As many as 19 agriculture, horticulture and soil conservation officers; scientists from PAU and its Krishi Vigyan Kendras attended the course.Tejinder Singh Riar, associate director (skill development), informed that the course was designed to provide the best in-depth information to increase environmental performance while improving yields and reducing inputs and costs.Kiran Grover, principal extension scientist (food and nutrition) and course coordinator, highlighted the course details and said implementing agricultural innovations is a key for coping strategies in the context of climate change and food security. Precision farming includes innovative agricultural management practices that serve these purposes, she added.Mahesh Kumar Narang, principal extension scientist (farm machinery and power engineering) and technical coordinator, demonstrated the types and uses of machinery for horticultural crops.While presenting an overview of precision agriculture, Manjeet Singh, head of the department of farm machinery and power engineering, stressed upon right input and right genetics for better input management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pau-holds-online-training-on-precision-farming/story-7FgJuHL9C69KXMui4yrvyI.html
23-11-2020||City||CICU signs pact with Ludhiana college to promote skill development||With an aim to bridge the gap between the industry and educational institutes to promote skill development, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Guru Nanak Dev Polytechnic College (GNDPC).Under this initiative, workshops will be organised to promote innovation, optimisation, resource penetration and other allied issues. Also, the educational institutes will be able to know about the needs of the industry and skills will be developed in that direction only. CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja said, “The MoU has been signed to bridge the gap between industry and academia. It will help the institutes to understand the needs of the industry and to solve specific technical industrial problems. CICU experts will mentor and guide the institute to improve the quality of education/training and also set up a collaborative working group, which will provide policy direction.Principal of Guru Nanak Dev Polytechnic College, Ludhiana, Surinder Singh Ubhi said that CICU and GNDPC will work together on preparing young entrepreneurs from the community, so as to address problems relevant to changing technological needs including design, development, skill enhancement, implementation and review of curriculum and resource materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cicu-signs-pact-with-ludhiana-college-to-promote-skill-development/story-TrpFlRnQasKlQP2qj4BI9O.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh colleges reopen to poor attendance||Not many students showed up on Monday as some city colleges reopened for final year classes for the first time after the Covid-19 lockdown.Some institutes were expected to open after sanitisation processes were complete in accordance with safety protocols .The higher education department last week took a call on reopening the colleges from November 23 for final-year students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses for academic and placement purposes. However, online classes of all the batches will continue.Professor Kamlesh Bajaj, principal, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, said, “Classes which did not have many students on the rolls and had practical subjects are resuming. However, there was not much of a response from the students and we are using both offline and online modes of teaching.”Another principal of a city college who did not want to be named said the attendance on the first day was poor.The decision to reopen the colleges came after the University Grants Commission (UGC) earlier this month issued guidelines for colleges and universities across the nation to restart classes after consultations with state governments.Last week the higher education department had directed the colleges to develop their own standard operating procedures (SOPs) and adopt UGC guidelines issued on November 5 according to their needs and conditions.In an official communique issued on Monday, the UT higher education department said that colleges which had reopened on the first day were being sanitised and protocols were being worked out according to the guidelines of the UGC and the Chandigarh administration for the safety of students.“In some colleges the online house examinations are also being conducted during this week. The regular physical classes of final year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be functional by the end of this week,” the communique read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-colleges-reopen-to-poor-attendance/story-zlBu4SuXTuLfXKxHGPswPM.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s old, vacated structures await demolition, risk lives of those in vicinity||Standing amid the scores of residents who refuse to leave the extremely dilapidated structures in the city are at least 270 rickety buildings that have been vacated years ago, but haven’t been pulled down, even though they could collapse any moment, killing those in the neighbourhood. From a consensus among all stakeholders in the structure, to more inclusive redevelopment policies, just like the problem, experts say, the solution isn’t easy. Lessons not learnt On August 17, when Bruce D’Penha was at a repair shop near Rizvi College at Bandra to collect his laptop and charger, the adjacent ground-plus-four-storey Bharati building came crashing down, killing the 41-year-old. The 40-year-old structure which collapsed was vacated 20 years ago, but was razed by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation only after the incident. What makes matters worse is the two government agencies – the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Maharashtra Housing and Areas Development Authority (Mhada) – that handle dilapidated buildings in the city do not have a list of structures that have been vacated. Mayor Kishori Pednekar said, “All such vacated structures need to be identified at the administrative ward level and the vicinity should be secured immediately. In many cases, such structures are under litigation which is why no repair or reconstruction is carried out. Recently, I directed the G-south ward (Worli, Lower Parel) to issue tenders to demolish structures on municipal land that are vacant for several years.” Also read: The challenge of rebuilding this crumbling cityThere are nearly 17,000 old buildings in the city that either need repair or reconstruction, while some require immediate demolition. Landowners cannot reconstruct old building without a nod from tenants who are protected under the Rent Control Act. According to a senior Mhada official, Mumbai has witnessed 300 deaths in building collapses in the past eight years with more than 3,500 incidents recorded during the time. Examples galore Areas in south Mumbai, Marine Drive, Bora Bazaar, Kalbadevi, Chira Bazar, Dongri, Tadwadi and so on, house a majority of these buildings, some of which are more than 60 years old. One such structure is 92-year-old Umravati Bokaria building, located on one of the busiest Bora Bazaar streets. It is a ground-plus-five storey structure in Fort, with no compound wall. It stands less than a meter away from its adjacent structures. The building was fully vacated 10 years ago, and since then, during the monsoon, parts of the structure give way. Residents from the vicinity are worried every time they pass by. Hiren Shah, a paper merchant from the neighbouring building, said a slab from the structure collapsed two years ago, damaging his parked car. “I had fought with the landowners and residents back then as it could have been a fatal accident. However, nothing has changed,” he said. A second-generation vegetable vendor outside this building said, “Every time it rains heavily or there are strong winds, everybody in the neighbourhood is panicking. Schoolchildren, office-goers and locals cross this path daily.” Manjunath Niwas at Fort is another such structure. The ground-plus-four structure is more than 80 years old and is vacant for six years. Rajendra Bhokse, once a resident of the building, said that this structure cannot withstand the next monsoon. “The structure is very weak,” Bhokse said. Within a stone’s throw away from Churchgate railway station stands the 13-storey international hostel for students vacated two years ago. The structure at Road C near Wankhade Stadium is surrounded by six- or seven-storey residential structures. Since February, residents from the vicinity have reported multiple incidents of falling of debris from the building. Vinod Patil, director of controller of board of examination at the Mumbai University, said, “The structural audit of the student’s hostel has been conducted and repairs have been suggested. The work is still in process and the repairs will be carried out soon.” The trap A disagreement between the tenants and landowners over repairs has stalled the work on Manjunath Niwas and Bokaria building for several years. Anil Diggikar, chief executive officer of Mhada, said last Thursday, “There could be such cessed buildings that are vacant for a long time. But a major issue is a disagreement between stakeholders or litigation for other reasons. We will identify such buildings and expedite the required action. This can be done soon.” Bharat Gurjar, a former municipal councillor from Kalbadevi, said, “The authorities turn a blind eye to structures that have been vacated long ago. Landowners and tenants fail to reach a consensus for years. Moreover, policies that restrict construction on old plots stall the redevelopment.” Also read: After Mumbai building collapse, BMC to help vacate dangerous Mhada housesMahendra Jain, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, who grew up in Fort area, said, “We are surrounded by ticking time bombs that could go off any minute. I grew up in Bora Bazaar in Fort and have been hearing of slab collapses. The problem is much bigger than just disputes between tenants and landowners.” Vinod Ghosalkar, chairman of Mhada’s Mumbai’s repair and reconstruction board, said, “There are at least 272 vacated structures that are either acquired by Mhada or vacated dangerous structures that have not been demolished. I will soon give directions to conduct a comprehensive study of all such structures under Mhada and how the work on it can be expedited.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-old-vacated-structures-await-demolition-risk-lives-of-those-in-vicinity/story-1JqOPf7hj0l9OkJ4on89pI.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Lockdown in Maharashtra unlikely, but Covid-related curbs may be back, says health minister Rajesh Tope||A day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of possible curbs to contain the spread of coronavirus, state health minister Rajesh Tope and his cabinet colleagues said that strict measures could be put in place. The health minister said that there would not be a lockdown in the state but restrictions may be reimposed to reduce crowding in public places and ensure masks will be worn by people.Tope said people have become “casual” in their attitude towards wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, which is dangerous, given there could be another wave by December-end.Meanwhile, after five straight days of over 5,000 fresh cases daily, Maharashtra once again reported below the 5,000-mark on Monday with 4,153 fresh infections in the state. The state also recorded its lowest single-day death toll since May 3 (204 days) at 30 fatalities. The total cases count in the state rose to 1,784,361, while the death toll climbed to 46,653. The active caseload in the state saw a marginal increase from Sunday’s count of 81,512 to 81,902 on Monday.Also read: Mumbai’s next Covid-19 peak will impact both slums and high-rises, says BMC“We will have to take some strict measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. The relaxations that we had given will have to again be tightened with some curbs to maintain social distancing in public places. Currently, we do not see people wearing masks and no social distancing maintained. There is a casual attitude among people and therefore we will have to take some strict measures. Only then can we save ourselves from coronavirus,” Tope said.The minister added that the CM and key ministers will meet in a couple of days to decide on restrictions. “We have to learn from what is happening around the world and in the country. We will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit dada [Pawar] in a day or two and implement measures to keep the spread contained. There is no need to panic. We are prepared to tackle the surge in cases,” he said, adding that people will have to remain careful for the next two months.The state could introduce measures such as night curfews to curb the movement of people, senior bureaucrats said. “Night curfews are an option, which other states have adopted. Other measures such as making interdistrict travel tighter are also there, but that would depend on how the surge is. So far, it is not being discussed,” the bureaucrat said, requesting anonymity.Tope said the testing had reduced during Diwali, but it has now picked up and therefore, there are more cases. He further said that there is no need to panic, but people should remain alert.Another state minister Anil Parab said that Thackeray keeps a close eye on the Covid-19 situation in the state. He added that the administration will study the trajectory of cases in the next week and then the government will make a decision. “The state government still does not want to impose lockdown, but if the situation goes out of hand, some tough decisions will have to be taken… If there is another wave, he has directed all officials to maintain the Covid care infrastructure and temporary hospitals… The government will study the situation for the next eight days and then arrive at a decision.Also read: Maharashtra won’t allow passengers from 4 states without Covid-negative reportEarlier in the day, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that strict measures are required to save lives ultimately, “If needed, in the next eight days, after careful study, we will decide whether there is a need for a complete lockdown or imposition of curbs or addition of new conditions. Such measures will have to be taken because ultimately, lives are important.”Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 800 fresh cases, pushing the city’s tally to 276,514. Mumbai reported 14 fatalities, taking the death toll in the city to 10,689. The active cases in Mumbai reached 12,707--an increase by 259 from Sunday’s tally. Mumbai contributed nearly 20% of the cases recorded by the state.Pune city reported 214 new cases, while rural Pune reported 164 new cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 150 fresh infections. Pune district continued to remain on the top with highest the highest number of active cases at 17,545. Nashik district reported 323, while Nagpur district reported 314 fresh cases.The state has so far tested 1,02,81,543 samples and has an overall positivity rate of 17.35%. In the last 24 hours, 68517 samples were tested. Currently, 517,711 people are in home quarantine and 6,524 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/lockdown-in-maharashtra-unlikely-but-covid-related-curbs-may-be-back-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope/story-10bG4RgzPXQRUkIMfgqksI.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: 376 govt primary school heads, staff lauded for using e-content to teach students||Heads and staff of 376 government primary schools (GPS) in the district were in for a pleasant surprise on Monday when they received appreciation letters via WhatsApp from state education secretary Krishan Kumar for using e-content developed by the state education department so that students could continue with online classes. The letters sent on WhatsApp groups, stated that the work done by the school heads and staff is an inspiration for other schools. “The department acknowledges and appreciates the extraordinary efforts put in for teaching through LEDs and projectors installed in government schools. As a result of their efforts, children of primary schools have been able to study online as the schools were shut down due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” Due to the lockdown imposed in March, schools had been shut down due to which teachers were directed to use e-content for teaching that was sent daily on WhatsApp. According to the school heads, the acknowledgment of the work put in by them will motivate them to do better. School heads have also stated that every teacher has tried to reach out to their students and encourage them to study online. Lakhwinder Singh Grewal, head of GPS, Macchiwara 2 who is a recipient of the letter, said, “We have a total of 12 teachers in our school who are sending slides to students on a daily basis so that they can study at home. The state education department has come up with an app and all the study material is available through which teachers are continuing to teach students. This appreciation will motivate more teachers to work hard.” Rajinder Kaur, district education officer, elementary, said, “We have dedicated teachers and all of them are using online material to teach students. Slides containing qualitative material is sent to students according to the syllabus every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-376-govt-primary-school-heads-staff-lauded-for-using-e-content-to-teach-students/story-hIsJlz4nZAj4bRZbPv5HZI.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC, PPCB to inspect dumping of fly ash by industrial units||With residents of the East constituency raising a hue and cry over flying ash coming out of the chimneys of nearby industrial units, that is causing respiratory problems, the municipal corporation (MC) and Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) teams will conduct inspections from Tuesday onward to check the erring units and dumping of ash in vacant plots.After several complaints from residents, MLA Sanjay Talwar conducted a meeting with the officials of the civic body and PPCB over the issue at MC Zone B office on Monday. Representatives of the dyeing industry were also present in the meeting.Talwar stated that apart from the officials, he and the Congress councillors of the East constituency will also conduct surprise inspections at factories and the areas where ash is illegally dumped by owners.Talwar said, “The dyeing and washing units are situated at Tajpur road, Bahadurke road, Focal point, Gehlewal, Chandigarh road among other areas. Residents of these areas are unable to sit out or do any outdoor activity due to flying ash coming out of the chimneys of nearby industrial units. The authorities at the central jail have also been complaining about the same.”“Apart from fly ash, some unit owners were found dumping the ash in vacant plots with the help of truckers or tractor trolley drivers. This is also troubling residents as the ash gets into their houses. The PPCB and MC officials have been told to conduct inspections at the units and certify that no dyeing or washing unit in their area is using illegal fuel, releasing fly ash in the air, or dumping ash in vacant plots, which results in air pollution and may prove fatal for Covid-19 patients,” said Talwar while adding that next meeting in this regarding will be held on December 15.Last week, residents of Gaunspur village had also complained regarding fly ash coming out of the paper mills situated near their village. Members of Faridkot-based NGO Naroa Punjab Manch had also forwarded a complaint against the same to the monitoring committee of the National GreenTribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-ppcb-to-inspect-dumping-of-fly-ash-by-industrial-units/story-DxQVRb1FAFjfI7DiPEgv9H.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||ITBP to add 1,000 beds at Covid care centre in Delhi||The Covid-19 situation has turned grim in Delhi and the national capital is recording high number of cases. The Delhi government has put in place measures to check the spread of the disease. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) too has pitched in by announcing that they are increasing the number of beds at Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre and Hospital at Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Delhi’s Chhatarpur.ITBP Director General SS Deswal said they are increasing the number of beds by 1,000.“We will expand the operational capacity of beds from 2,000 to 3,000 for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi-NCR,” Deswal told news agency ANI.He also said that the new beds at the Covid-19 care facility will be equipped with a proper supply of medical oxygen. “The added beds will also have medical oxygen supply available on them. We have no shortage of medical oxygen,” Deswal said. The ITBP chief also denied rumours about the shortage of medical oxygen at the facility.“There are nearly 550 patients admitted and patients admitted here are those who can’t afford private and high-end hospitals. There is enough supply of oxygen and there are sufficient doctors, nurses & pharmacists to cater to 3,000 patients at the Centre,” he said.Deswal further stated that as per Union home minister Amit Shah’s order, the number of doctors and medical staff has also been expanded in the Covid-19 care centre. He added that now there is enough healthcare stuff to attend as many as 3,000 coronavirus patients.With alarming rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital, Shah, earlier today, launched a mobile lab that will conduct free RT-PCR tests for coronavirus with the results being available in six to eight hours. The cost of the test will be Rs 499 and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will bear this cost, ANI reported citing officials from the ministry of home affairs. However, the test will be absolutely free for people of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/itbp-to-add-1-000-beds-at-covid-care-centre-in-delhi/story-XuePpxpCJQZwDz6VE301yN.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Man kills wife as their three children sleep in same room in Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh||A daily wage labourer throttled his 28-year-old wife to death while their three children slept in the same room in north-west Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh on Saturday morning, the police said. During the initial interrogation, the suspect Ramakant said he was angry with his wife for being overly involved with her side of the family and “neglecting their three children”, said Vijayanta Arya, deputy commissioner of police (north-west).The victim also worked as a daily wage labourer and there were frequent arguments between the couple over who ran the family, the DCP said. The woman, Soni, lived with Ramakant and their three children -- aged between three and seven -- at a rented room in Singhalpur village in Shalimar Bagh. The murder happened in the early hours of Saturday while the three children were sleeping in the room, the DCP said. Ramakant allegedly escaped from the house even as the children continued sleeping. “Around 6am on Saturday, we received a call from Soni’s sister who lives in the same neighbourhood and had knocked on the door to check on the family. When she noticed her sister unresponsive and the husband missing, she had raised a hue and cry,” said the DCP. Since Ramakant was missing, he became the prime suspect. “We were following his trail and suspected that he would go to his native home in UP’s Jalaun district. We raided his house on Sunday and arrested him. He has confessed to the crime,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/man-kills-wife-as-children-sleep-in-same-room-in-delhi-s-shalimar-bagh/story-PPolg2K6u6VOoAzbpmVV6I.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid test rates slashed by 25% in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh health department on Monday slashed the rates of Covid-19 testing at private laboratories by 25%. For the test by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, the labs will charge ₹900 instead of ₹1,200. For rapid antigen tests, the rates have been fixed at ₹500, down from ₹650. The Haryana government had recently fixed the same rates.The orders stated that the step has been taken after advice of experts, taking into account the cost of kits and consumables, and also the consent of leading private laboratories. The cost includes PPE kit, collection, packing and transportation of sample, documentation and reporting. The order is effective immediately, and any violation can lead to action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-test-rates-slashed-by-25-in-chandigarh/story-RmzX7FyOhI4YDQ8VAEiP0K.html
23-11-2020||City||Pedestrian killed in hit-and-run mishap, car driver booked||A 60-year-old pedestrian died after a car hit him and drove off in Sherewal village, Sidhwan Bet, on Sunday.The victim, Sajwar Singh, 60, lived in the same village.The car driver, who was identified as Chamkaur Singh, also of Sherewal village, has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code.The case was registered on the complaint of the victim’s son, Kala Singh.He told the police that he and his father were taking a walk in the village, when a car hit his father, causing him to fall on the road.Instead of stopping, the car driver sped away after running over his father, leading to his death.Kala alleged that had the car driver stopped, his father would have been alive.Assistant sub-inspector Hardeep Singh of Sidhwan Bet police said they had booked the car driver and will arrest him soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pedestrian-killed-in-hit-and-run-mishap-car-driver-booked/story-Ziz19nGgfjudCPYpf8cJtJ.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana records coldest November day in 14 years||The city on Monday recorded a maximum temperature of 22.6°C, the lowest for a November day since 2006.The weather department has forecast cloudy skies through the week, which will cause the day and night temperatures to reduce further.“It was on November 23 in 2006 last that the city had recorded a day temperature of 21.5°C. Since then, it was only on Monday that the mercury dropped to 22.6°C, which is three degrees below normal,” said Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU).Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh, said snowfall in the higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh and northerly winds were leading to a dip in temperatures, which will drop further in the coming days. In the next three days, the maximum temperature is expected to remain between 22°C and 24°C, while the minimum temperature will hover around 12°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-coldest-november-day-in-14-years/story-lmYMta8ENBNypjGQRMiwyN.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana records 96 fresh Covid cases, two senior citizens dead||A day after the district’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 22,000 mark with 98 cases, 96 more residents tested positive for the virus on Monday. The virus also claimed two lives, taking the death toll to 883.Of the 22,140 cases in Ludhiana now, 844 patients are still infected, while 20,410 have recovered.Those who died include a 62-year-old man from Haibowal Kalan and a 71-year-old woman from Ludhiana city.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said a total of 116 patients (96 new patients from Ludhiana and 20 from other states/districts) tested positive in the last 24 hours.He said till date, a total of 4,34,509 samples had been collected, of which 4,08,180 samples were found negative and reports of 1,064 samples were pending. Apart from 883 Covid fatalities in Ludhiana, 368 patients from other districts and states had also died here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-records-96-fresh-covid-cases-two-senior-citizens-dead/story-rpYgZr5QBiHCAj3Pd6QZcL.html
23-11-2020||City||Burglars decamp with ₹30,000, gadgets from web designer’s office in Ludhiana||Burglars targeted the office of a web designer in the C-Block of Rajguru Nagar in the wee hours of Monday and decamped with cash and valuables worth lakhs. The CCTV camera of the office captured three men breaking in around 2.15am and leaving after 20 minutes.Hemant Kumar, 32, of Haibowal, complained to the police that he ran his office from a house at Rajguru Nagar. On Sunday night, he left work around 9pm after locking the premises. When he returned on Monday morning, he was shocked to find the locks broken and his office ransacked.He claimed that a camera worth Rs 2.5 lakh, an Apple iPad worth Rs 1.75 lakh, Rs 35,000 in cash and a mobile phone were missing. Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO, Sarabha Nagar, police station, said they had registered a case on Kumar’s complaint, and identified one of the accused through the CCTV footage. A manhunt had been launched for his arrest, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/burglars-decamp-with-30-000-cash-gadgets-from-web-designer-s-office-in-ludhiana/story-zX7DVanVJvTFhr2jGFGpAP.html
23-11-2020||City||Murdered woman’s body exhumed in J&K, husband, two in-laws booked||The body of a 20-year-old woman was exhumed from a graveyard in Kathua, Jammu and Kashmir, after her family in Ludhiana approached the authorities complaining that she was murdered by her husband and his brothers.The three brothers have been booked for murder after the autopsy report of the victim, Shanu, confirmed that she was beaten to death.The Ludhiana Police have despatched teams to Kathua for the arrest of Shanu’s husband Mohammad Safeeq and his two elder brothers, Mohammad Farooq and Mohammad Jaqar.The matter came to fore on the complaint of Qadir Hussain of Jagraon, the brother-in-law (sister’s husband) of the victim. Hussain told police Shanu had married Safeeq two years ago. Around two months ago, the couple came to Ludhiana to visit Safeeq’s brother Farooq, who lives in Paddi village here. On November 1, Shanu gave birth to a boy in Ludhiana. Days after this, Shanu called her sister, alleging that her husband and in-laws were forcing her to handle all house chores, despite her weak health. On November 10, Farooq called Hussain, informing him that she was unwell and in the evening, he called again and said that Shanu had died.“Farooq took Shanu’s body to Kathua and buried it there. However, there were injury marks on her body, which relatives noticed before the burial. Therefore, I approached the Kathua district magistrate, who ordered that the body be exhumed and an autopsy be conducted,” Hussain said.After the autopsy report confirmed that Shanu was beaten to death, the Kathua police referred the matter to their counterparts in Ludhiana for further action.ASI Ranjeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said after the autopsy, the woman was buried again in Kathua. Her husband and two brothers-in-law have been booked under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dehlon police station in Ludhiana. Efforts are on to arrest them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/murdered-woman-s-body-exhumed-in-j-k-husband-two-in-laws-booked/story-nRBMsk3GzNwxZw9lKmlGGM.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s next Covid-19 peak will impact both slums and high-rises, says BMC||The next peak in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai, anticipated in December due to the ongoing festival season, is likely to affect both slums and high-rises equally, unlike the peak in May that was concentrated in slums, and the September peak that affected more high-rises in the suburbs, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body has attributed this to unlocking of the city, and opening of malls and eateries, along with domestic helps and drivers returning to work, ferrying their employers around the city, or carrying out chores in high-rises, while at the same time returning to their own homes at the end of the day. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “During the first two-three months after the Covid outbreak in Mumbai, our focus was on slums. We set up fever clinics, went door-to-door and carried out contact-tracing in high volumes to move high-risk contacts to institutional quarantine facilities.” Also read: In case of peak, Mumbai’s health infrastructure can handle upto 17,000 symptomatic Covid-19 cases: Civic bodyAs the virus gradually shifted to non-slum establishments, BMC started Mission Zero to focus in top six wards in the western suburbs, and conduct door-to-door campaigns in high-rises. Kakani said, “We are now refocusing on slums, but we have to focus equally on high-rises. During our My Family, My Responsibility campaign, many houses in slum and chawls that we found locked will now have opened as labour is returning to Mumbai. At the same time, these people are returning to work in shops and establishments, markets, as domestic helps. The city has unlocked considerably, and everyone is stepping out too.” Currently, the average growth rate of Covid cases in Mumbai is 0.27%. The top five wards with the highest growth rate are M-West ward in Chembur and K-West ward in Andheri at 0.37%, R-South ward and P-South ward at 0.36%, and T ward in Mulund at 0.34%. B ward of Mumbadevi, Pydhoni and Dongri has the lowest growth rate of 0.10%, followed by E ward in Mumbai Central (0.14%), G-South ward of Worli and Prabhadevi (0.15%), and G-North ward of Dharavi and Dadar (0.16%). According to data from BMC, at the end of May, the highest number of cases were from G-North ward (2,900), E ward (2,528), F-North ward covering Wadala and Sewri (2517), L ward covering Kurla and parts of Ghatkopar (2,495), H-East ward covering Bandra East (2,221), M-East ward covering Govandi and Mankhurd (1,814), where as non-slum suburban areas of Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Mulund, and upmarket areas of the island city such as A ward had cases below 1,000. Also read: Maharashtra won’t allow passengers from 4 states without Covid-negative reportAs the city began to gradually open up from June 5, when shops and markets were allowed to remain open, the infection shifted from slums to high-rises. During the second peak, the highest number of active cases were reported in wards corresponding to Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Goregaon, Mulund, and high-rises of Malabar Hills and Pedder road in south Mumbai. Meanwhile, after recording over 1000 cases for the past three days in a row, Mumbai on Wednesday recorded 800 new cases and 14 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 2,76,514, and total deaths to 10,689. There are now 12,707 active cases in the city. On Sunday, Mumbai had recorded 1135 new cases, on Saturday it recorded 1093 new cases, and on Friday it recorded 1031 new cases. Friday’s cases had crossed 1000 for the first time in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/next-covid-19-peak-in-mumbai-will-impact-both-slums-and-high-rises-says-bmc/story-hoXyOUkajwqFobYl0nqEML.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Infant battles for life with 50% burns after LPG fire in Chandigarh||A six-month-old girl was left with critical burn injuries while three men suffered minor burns in a fire caused by domestic gas leak at Govindpura in Manimajra on Monday.The child, Ramani, suffered 50% burns on her face and eyes and is undergoing treatment at the PGIMER. Those who sustained minor burns have been identified as Harun (37), Anish (40), and Salman (22), all of whom live in a house where multiple families stay on rent in adjoining rooms. The fire department received a call around 9:14am, following which three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The injured were rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, from where Ramani was referred to the PGIMER. Police said the leak occurred when Anish, a vegetable seller, was trying to fix the regulator of an LPG cylinder. As the safety valve was damaged, he kept the cylinder in the verandah. Fire erupted as tea was being prepared on a stove nearby.“We were in the house when all of a sudden the fire broke out. We rushed out and I sustained injuries while trying to rescue my family,” said Salman, who works in Manimajra. Ramani was lying on a cot when she suffered injuries.Some people also sustained minor injuries due to the heat as well as stampede-like situation. Police have lodged a daily diary register (DDR) entry about the incident, and plans to take further action on the statement of the child’s father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/infant-battles-for-life-with-50-burns-after-lpg-fire-in-chandigarh/story-37ktCNXilkxbLDi15WEYlJ.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid: 5 more succumb in Chandigarh tricity, 293 test +ve||Five people succumbed to Covid-19 while 293 tested positive for the virus in the tricity on Monday.At 158, Mohali recorded the maximum cases, followed by 98 in Chandigarh and 37 in Panchkula. Chandigarh witnessed three deaths, while a patient each died in the two neighbouring districts.Chandigarh’s virus toll has reached 263, after a 71- year-old woman from Sector 38 West and two men, aged 40 and 36, from Sectors 41 and 52, respectively, died. Of 16,769 positive cases so far, 1,117 remain active. With 119 more patients being discharged, the number of those cured has reached 15,389 (91.8%). In Mohali, the infection tally has climbed to 14,554, of which 1,395 cases are active.Of 158 fresh cases, 105 surfaced in Mohali city, 22 in Gharuan and 12 in Dera Bassi.As many as 12,892 (88.6%) patients have recovered, including seven discharged on Monday, and 267 have died so far. With the death of a 71-year-old woman from Sector 16, Panchkula’s toll has risen to 122. As many as 8,382 people have tested positive so far, of whom 7,794 (93%) have recovered and 466 are still hospitalised.Two days after the Panchkula civil surgeon and contact tracing in-charge tested positive, samples of 69 health workers were collected from various departments of the civil hospital, Sector 6. Sampling has also started in government offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-5-more-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-293-test-ve/story-d2KaKO6KcyiG5KWXc7FamJ.html
23-11-2020||Lucknow||283 people arrested, 18,000 litres of illicit liquor seized in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh excise department has arrested 283 people and seized over 18,000 litres of illicit liquor following recent deaths due to consumption of spurious alcohol, an official said on Monday.A total of 888 cases were registered in this regard, he said.On November 12, three people died and two others got ill after consuming spurious liquor in Banthara area of Lucknow. Five people died and several others were hospitalised in Amliya village of Allahabad on November 20.According to officials, 18,286 litres of illicit liquor have been seized and 1,52,575 kg of ‘lahan’ (raw material used in preparing illicit liquor)) destroyed as part of the special drive by the government against the ‘manufacture, sale and smuggling’ of illicit liquor.“In the drive conducted from November 18 to November 22, 283 people were arrested, 888 cases were registered and 18,286.40 litres of illegal liquor was seized. A total of 1,52,575 kg of ‘lahan’ has been destroyed,” Additional Chief Secretary, Excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said.Giving more details of the action, the officer said during the inspection of a country liquor shop Sikrari in Etah district, 25 litres of illicit spirit, 83 fake pouches and one roll of fake QR codes and caramel were recovered; while in Agra district, 15 illicit liquor pouches were recovered from Kalal Khedia country liquor shop.FIRs have been registered against the licensees in both the cases, he said.In Pratapgarh, 88 litres of illegal country liquor and 1,310 litres of illegal foreign liquor of Haryana were recovered and two people were arrested, he said.Bhoosreddy said instructions have been given to all district excise officers to inspect and collect samples from liquor shops during the ongoing special drive and get them tested in the regional laboratories.In compliance of the above order, 14,892 samples have been collected from 12,957 shops till now, he said.All the field level officers have been instructed to conduct a thorough inspection of the excise shops and to keep special vigil of the shops of licensees with suspicious conduct, he said.It has also been instructed that strict action should be taken against those involved in illegal activities under relevant sections of IPC, Goonda Act, Gangster Act and the Excise Act, in all such cases, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/283-people-arrested-18-000-litres-of-illicit-liquor-seized-in-uttar-pradesh/story-J9prpctV5ZVCriFKeeeZbL.html
23-11-2020||City||BSES donates life-support ambulances to Delhi govt||New DelhiBSES Yamuna Power Limited donated three advanced life support ambulances and 50 hand sanitiser machines to the Delhi government by as part of Covid relief material. The ambulances were provided to GB Pant, Lal Bahadur Shastri and Guru Teg Bahadur hospitals, of which the former two do not treat patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Two of the “high-quality” hand sanitiser machines were inaugurated by Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain at the Delhi Secretariat from where the ambulances were flagged off. “I am thankful to BSES for gifting three ambulances to GTB, GB Pant and LBS hospitals. Along with this, they have donated 50 high-quality hand sanitiser and temperature monitors to Mohalla Clinics. The ambulances are fully equipped and the citizens of Delhi will surely benefit from them,” Jain said. Currently, there are just nine advanced life support ambulances in the Centralised Accident and Trauma Services (CATS) fleet. The ALS ambulances – which have ventilators, oxygen, automated defibrillators, multipara monitors, femoral doppler, emergency medicines and accompanying para medical staff – will be used for patients suffering from heart attacks, respiratory problems, head injuries, fire injuries, as well as newborns in severe cases of childbirth. With the help of this ambulance service, victims of road accidents among others, too, will be taken to the hospitals in an emergency, the Delhi government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bses-donates-life-support-ambulances-to-delhi-govt/story-Ju7e6PMKXmQylcmMke3RVI.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||PIL against felling 315 trees for redevelopment of south Delhi colony:HC seeks Centre, AAP reply||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on a PIL challenging an order by the forest department permitting felling and transplantation of around 315 trees for redevelopment of a south Delhi colony.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued notice to the Environment Ministry, Delhi government, Deputy Conservator of Forests (south) and the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) seeking their stand on the plea which has contended that felling of the trees would cause irreparable damage to the environment.The petitioner, Abhishek Dutt -- a municipal councillor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) -- has sought setting aside of the September 14 decision of the Deputy Conservator of Forests (south) allowing felling and transplantation of 315 trees for redevelopment of Ayur Vigyan Nagar at August Kranti Marg here.In his plea, filed through advocate Varun K Chopra, it has been contended that the September 14 decision has been taken “ without any application of mind” and no reasons were given for approving the project.During the hearing, Chopra told the court that the rights of citizens to breathe clean air is being abrogated by removal of 315 green lungs in the heart of Delhi.He urged the bench to stay the felling and transplantation of trees till the next date of hearing, on December 11, but the court declined to do so.The petition has claimed that the process of transplanting trees is not effective or successful, especially in India and planting of saplings would not be sufficient to compensate the loss of green cover.“Planting 10 saplings for each tree which is felled is not enough considering the large size, ecological impact of larger trees and poor survival rate of saplings,” it has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/pil-against-felling-315-trees-for-redevelopment-of-south-delhi-colony-hc-seeks-centre-aap-reply/story-zjlf2OuLBIk4FQZrpnbb8L.html
23-11-2020||City||Truck driver, friend held for faking ₹14-lakh robbery in Panchkula||Two days after a truck driver alleged being robbed of ₹14 lakh at gunpoint in Raipur Rani, the Panchkula police crime branch arrested him and his friend for faking the crime. The accused have been identified as driver Dharambir, alias Chote, of Aligarh, Uttar Pradesh, who stays in Madawala, Pinjore, and Balwinder Singh, alias Binder, of Chandimandir. Both are in their 30s.Police had registered a case of robbery on Saturday on the complaint of Nirbhai Singh, who trades in scrap metal and has a shop in Madawala. Singh told police that Dharambir was sent to a factory in Jagadhari with a consignment of scrap aluminium on Thursday. On Friday evening, Singh got a call from the driver that while returning with ₹14 lakh collected from the factory owner, he was waylaid by four men in a car at Garhi Kotaha village in Raipur Rani, about 30 kilometre from the Panchkula district headquarters, and robbed of the money at gunpoint.However, investigations revealed that no such robbery took place. It was the driver who created the whole crime scene and had in fact given the money to his friend Balwinder, said police.The two were arrested on Sunday and produced in court on Monday, which sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/truck-driver-friend-held-for-faking-14-lakh-robbery-in-panchkula/story-5M81ap4gjrgAxhvveskpCJ.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh wakes up to misty morning||Residents woke up to a misty Monday morning in Chandigarh. According to India Meteorological Department officials, it is likely to continue in the coming days.“Due to cloud cover and relatively high humidity in the morning, mist was seen in many parts of the city, especially around open areas and in the city’s periphery. However, there was no drop in visibility at the Sector-39 observatory.” said an IMD scientist.The weatherman said that western disturbances will be active in the region and cloudy weather is likely to continue, due to which more mist may be seen in the coming days.Fog and mist differ by how far you can see through them. Fog is when you can see less than 1,000 metre away, and if you can see further, it is called mist. Mist typically is quicker to dissipate and can rapidly disappear with even slight winds or sunlight. Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from 22.5°C on Sunday to 22.8°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went up from 8.1°C to 9.6°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature is likely to stay around 23-24°C while minimum is likely to stay around 13°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-wakes-up-to-misty-morning/story-XTSKujvmhAF1pyyrp9y1sL.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cabinet meeting: Himachal schools, colleges shut till December 31, night curfew in 4 districts||In the wake of the recent spurt in coronavirus cases in Himachal, the Cabinet on Monday decided to keep all colleges and schools closed till December 31 and imposed night curfew in the four worst-affected districts of the state.Night curfew will be in place in Mandi, Kangra, Shimla and Kullu from 8pm to 6am till December 15. There has been a steep increase in infections in the four districts. State capital, Shimla, has reported a two-fold increase in cases in November with the district tally reaching 5,521 — an increase of 3,023 cases since October 31. Similarly, Mandi recorded 2,491 new cases in November, taking the district tally to 5,516 and Kullu logged a spike of 1,515 cases, taking the district’s tally to 3,065.Online classes to take place from November 26While all government educational institutions will remain closed till December 31, online classes are scheduled to commence from November 26. Teachers, too, will continue to work from home until further orders. Offices of high schools, senior secondary schools and colleges will remain open from November 26. Principals will have the discretion to call in faculty members as per requirement.The government also decided to close winter-closing educational institutions from January 1 to February 12, 2021. However, online classes will continue during the period. Sessions will be extended in case of winter closing of institutions in the hill-state and students of Classes 1 to 4, 6 and 7 will be promoted as per provisions of the Right to Education Act, 2009. Major decisionsGovernment offices will run with half manpower on rotation basis till December 31.Night curfew in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu and Kangra from 8pm to 6am.All political rallies postponed till December 15.Fine of ₹1,000 be imposed for not wearing a face mask in public places.Schools to remain closed till December 31.Final examinations for Classes 5,8,9 and 11 will be conducted simultaneously for winter and summer closing schools in March 2021. Board exams for Classes 10 and 12 will be conducted in March 2021 with 30 % relaxation in syllabus.Attendance of Class 3, 4 employees restricted to 50%The cabinet has decided to restrict attendance of Class 3 and 4 government employees to 50%. Half the strength will attend office for three days and the remaining half for the next three days, on rotational basis, till December 31.All social, political, cultural and sports gatherings in open areas will be restricted to 200 persons with social distancing in place. A fine of ₹1,000 be imposed for not wearing a face mask in public places. All buses in the state will ply with 50% occupancy till December 15, the Cabinet decided.Polls to the newly constituted municipal corporations of Mandi, Solan and Palampur will be held in March or April, 2021, with elections of the Dharamshala municipal corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cabinet-meeting-himachal-schools-colleges-shut-till-december-31-night-curfew-in-4-districts/story-zbPa61bGNVP9f3spFvEsoO.html
23-11-2020||Lucknow||UP caps wedding guests to 100 due to Covid resurge. Ruined, say marriage hall owners||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday reduced the number of persons allowed at social and other gatherings, including marriages functions, to a maximum of 100 across the state in view of a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases. State chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari issued an order to all commissioners, district magistrates, senior superintendents of police and others, asking them to strictly enforce the home department’s guidelines in regard to gatherings.As per the new guidelines, not more than 100 people can gather at a social/religious/ cultural/educational/recreational/political function or for any other collective activity outside containment zones.Also, the limit of 100 people will further be restricted to 50% of the capacity of the hall or a similar closed space at a time. Besides this, maintaining physical distance and wearing masks will be mandatory and arrangements for thermal scanning and sanitiser/ hand-wash will have to be put in place. The permissible limit of 100 people for open spaces will be restricted to 40% of the capacity of any such place on the condition of all other safety measures being in place. The government, according to Tiwari, has amended the guidelines issued in October after the Central government allowed some relaxations with regard to social and other gatherings. As per those guidelines, a maximum number of 200 people could gather with certain restrictions in halls/closed spaces but not more than 50% of the capacity of the space at a time. Also, there were no other restrictions for a social or any other gathering up to 100 persons outside containment zones. There was no such limit fixed for gatherings in open spaces depending on the area, though norms related to social distancing, wearing mask, sanitisation etc were to be followed. Also Read: Universities and colleges across UP reopen after 8 months, attendance thinSoon after, the UP government’s fresh anti-Covid guidelines were released on Monday, the Lucknow district administration restricted the total numbers of guests at a marriage function to 100. “No gathering of more than 100 people will be allowed,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. Meanwhile, the sudden change in anti-Covid guidelines ahead of the marriage season, which is scheduled to start from November 25, has added to the woes of marriage hall owners and others who are engaged in the wedding business. “We are in a no man’s land. We actually don’t know where to go and how to react. Since the marriage season will start in a couple of days, all preparations have been made and in such a situation, adjusting to the new norms is next to impossible. The order will certainly leave a massive financial dent on us,” owner of a marriage hall said. He said holding marriage functions may seem a one-day affair but actually it’s not so.“Preparations have to be made well in advance, be it decoration, booking of band, making payments at the marriage hall, inviting guests and so on. But the last minute change in the total limit of guests will certainly cause major financial loss,” another marriage hall owner said. The city has more than 200 venues that hold such function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-caps-wedding-guests-to-100-due-to-covid-resurge-ruined-say-marriage-hall-owners/story-bZ6NeTBp4TluedNIj2FClJ.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Traffic movement restricted at old Pashan-Sus flyover in Pune||In order to speed up the construction work of the new Pashan-Sus Road flyover, the traffic movement from the old flyover has completely being put on halt and it has been diverted to an alternative route. Now, to commute from Pashan to Susgaon commuters must use the alternative route from the Hyundai showroom, Sus road via Supreme HQ building to Nanawre subway, appealed Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner police, traffic division, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate. Commuters were still using the old flyover which has been partially demolished and further work is going on. Although, the overall traffic is less due to the work from home initiative by IT companies in the area. The new flyover will be constructed at the same place as the old one. “Most of the people are using the old flyover even after we had placed signs to use alternative routes so now, we have decided to completely stop the movement,” said Sunil Dahiphale, police inspector, Hinjawadi, traffic unit. The old flyover consists of a single lane from both the sides while the new flyover which will come in place will have two lanes on both ends. “Due to a single lane, there was more congestion of traffic but after the new flyover will be in place, traffic movement will be managed in a much better way. The completion work of the new flyover will take at least six months,” said Dahiphale. In order to connect the new flyover with the Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway, a 350-metre road will be constructed from the west side.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/traffic-movement-restricted-at-old-pashan-sus-flyover/story-0aSEDPiUHGwVmIP7g5VRLI.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Pune varsity to hold re-exams in the month of December||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has now decided to conduct the re-examination of final year students who have missed the regular exams earlier. These re-exams will be held between December 3 to 16 and SPPU examination department has already begun its preparations. Currently, the work of preparing question paper sets of 2,200 subjects by the various departments is underway and the exams will only be held online. According to the information given by the SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation, the re-exams of final year students across the departments will be held in the month of December. The work of preparing the question paper sets is currently underway it will be completed by the month-end. Also, training is being given to the examination department members to conduct exams smoothly and avoid any technical and other issues. After completing all the arrangements, corrections , and solving the issues the exams will be conducted. Earlier from October 12, the SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. Right from the first day, both online and offline students were facing a lot of issues while appearing for the exam.These exams are of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a duration of one hour. For all those students who could not attend the exams in the first regular schedule due to any reasons, they were allowed to reappear for the online exam from November 5 to 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/sppu-to-hold-re-exams-in-the-month-of-december/story-qdkBkQe4OgHjOfZ8Ru5oBL.html
23-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt orders probe into bridge collapse that killed one, injured 13||The Uttarakhand government on Monday ordered a probe into the collapse of a bridge leading to the death of a labourer. Thirteen others were injured while working on the bridge on the Badrinath highway (NH- 58) on Sunday. A team from the Public Works Department inspected the accident site on Monday. Hariom Sharma, the chief engineer of Public Works Department in the state, said, “A team inspected the accident site on Monday and will be submitting a report within a day. From the preliminary investigation, it looks like the bridge collapsed due to imbalance in the shuttering process (which provides a framework) and the bridge could not take the weight.” Also Read: Snowfall likely in Uttarakhand districts over next few days: IMD bulletinLate Sunday evening, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat instructed the chief secretary to investigate the cause of the bridge collapse, while describing the incident as tragic and unfortunate. He wished for the early recovery of the injured. Local police officials said that the bridge is about 80m-long; half of it has been constructed while the remaining is under construction. On Sunday evening, 15 labourers were working on the bridge when the under-construction part collapsed suddenly. Except one of them, all were trapped under it. RK Saklani, police inspector, Muni Ki Reti police station in Rishikesh, who was among the first to rush to the spot on Sunday said that during the initial probe, it seemed that the labourers were working in the dark with no proper lighting arrangement. All those injured are being treated at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-orders-probe-into-bridge-collapse-that-killed-one-injured-13/story-7KD1kRbaqqYbDKeZkE8DaK.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Rohit Pawar plugs into power ‘surge’||Nationalist Congress Party MLA from Karjat Jamkhed and party supremo Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar has showered praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi over Centre’s energy and ethanol policy. Rohit Pawar in a series of tweet said India has made progress in areas of energy and ethanol. “Progress made by the nation in areas of solar energy and ethanol under the leadership of PM ji in the last few years is remarkable. The central government must be appreciated for it. I also believe that similar efforts will be made to put a check on rising pollution in the nation,” Rohit Pawar said in a tweet. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) on Thursday revised ethanol procurement prices for state-run oil marketing companies, a move that will boost farmers’ income. In another tweet, the Pawar scion praised Modi over his address during the G-20 summit. Rohit Pawar at the same time also took a dig at the state BJP unit for politicising the Covid-19 situation. “It was pleasing to see the way Modi Ji urged world leaders in the #G20Summit to take decisive action against corona, the biggest challenge faced by the world since World War II. #BJP in the state should also be informed so that they will stop politicizing this issue,” Rohit Pawar said in a tweet. Modi on Saturday called for greater transparency in governance systems and decisive action by the G20 to counter the impact of the Covid-19 crisis that should focus on both economic recovery and preserving the planet. Modi participated in the two-day virtual summit chaired by Saudi Arabia along with the heads of state and government of the 19 member countries and representatives of the European Union and international organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/rohit-pawar-plugs-into-power-surge/story-m5TzBasyn6mFjsNtopDOmM.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three Haryana Congress leaders want high command to show Azad the door||A day after Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad demanded sweeping changes in the party following its poor performance in the Bihar assembly elections and byelections, three Haryana unit leaders accused him of weakening the party and urged the high command to show him the door. Former Haryana ministers Subhash Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda besides Kuldeep Bishnoi, the Adampur Congress MLA and former chief minister Bhajan Lal’s younger son, said Azad, who was nominated five times by the Congress to the Upper House of Parliament, is now raising his voice for elections in the party. Azad is the leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha. Addressing a press conference in Rohtak, Batra and Krishan Murti Hooda blamed Azad for the poor performance of the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in Haryana besides the failure to form a government in the state after last year’s assembly elections. “Azad claims there is five-star culture in the party which is wrong. He himself lives in five stars and never interacts with workers. We have always met him in five stars. He did not conduct a single district level meeting when he was Haryana in-charge ahead of last year’s elections. The party should throw him out along with Kapil Sibal and former minister Anand Sharma. The trio is making efforts to divide the party at the behest of the BJP,” Batra said and Krishan Murti Hooda agreed. AZAD HAS NO MASS SUPPORT: BISHNOI In a video message, Bishnoi said Azad had won only three elections in his life but remained in the Rajya Sabha for five terms with the support of the top brass. “I have won six elections so far and I know Azad has no mass support in Jammu and Kashmir. No one bothers about him in J&K and he is advocating elections from the booth to national levels. He is asking for reforms in the organisation, which is a good step, but I want to ask him why didn’t he ask for the same when he was nominated youth president of J&K and later of the nation, too. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is working hard with his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra under the leadership of party chief Sonia Gandhi,” Bishnoi said. The Adampur MLA accused former J&K chief minister Azad of weakening the Congress and held him responsible for not forming the government in Haryana in 2019. “He was solely responsible for the Congress’s narrow defeat in last year’s assembly elections. If he was not the party affairs in-charge of Haryana, we would have been in power in the state,” Bishnoi said. GUNNING FOR EX-CM HOODA, TOO All three leaders belong to the anti-Bhupinder Singh Hooda camp and had left the party when Hooda became chief minister in 2005. Bishnoi’s father Bhajan Lal formed the Haryana Janhit Congress. The former ministers said they will protest against Bhupinder Singh Hooda too if he indulges in anti-party activities. Hooda was among the 23 party leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi, demanding changes in the party organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-haryana-congress-leaders-want-high-command-to-show-azad-the-door/story-j7DIzmXHDJz8DzKURmMHjP.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Pune suburbs overflow with garbage post-Diwali||The major suburbs of Pune are grappling with overflowing garbage dumped at public places post-Diwali. The garbage lifting work has been hit due to the non-availability of manpower and health workers not visiting the suburbs since the festival. The areas particularly affected are Parvati, Wadgaonsheri, Kharadi, Aundh, Mohammadwadi, NIBM, Wagholi, Vimannagar and Vishrantwadi. According to residents in the area, unhygienic conditions are already prevailing in the city and the open containers are proving to be a breeding place for germs and other toxic substances. “The garbage issue has become a topic of concern for area residents as foul-smelling garbage is getting entangled in the two-wheelers passing through the area. Flies and other organisms are breeding at the garbage spots which is threatening public health in our area,” said Sachin Kshirsagar, a resident of Sahakarnagar. Kasturba Vasahat and Indira Vasahat in Aundh has witnessed overflowing garbage during the past four days while garbage bins in Vadgaonsheri gaothan, Thite Vasti and Nagpul roadsides in Kharadi have been overflowing with no action in sight. Pradeep Chopde, a resident of Bharati Vidyapeeth said, “The entire expenditure on garbage management is wasteful exercise unless and until the garbage generated is disposed in the same area where it is generated. The current elected representatives lack the necessary acumen in dealing with issues of garbage generation and its disposal. PMC must immediately remove the garbage from those spots and clean up the area with disinfectants. Such lackadaisical behavior during the Covid-19 crisis is uncalled for.” PMC solid waste management chief Sanjay Gawade said, “We are taking necessary steps for quick disposal of garbage. There were some issues related to ground clearance and have been sorted out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-suburbs-overflow-with-garbage-post-diwali/story-8wHQ84rdDQrvxRet9zWGQI.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB officials attacked at Goregaon, 3 arrested||A team of Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials, comprising zonal director Sameer Wankhede, NCB superintendent VV Singh, investigating officer Vishwanath Tiwari and three NCB sepoys, was attacked in Goregaon area on Sunday evening when they arrested one Kerry Kelvin Mendes with 20 blots of the drug LSD. Two NCB officers suffered minor injuries. NCB officials then contacted Goregaon police, which arrested three suspects identified as Vipul Krishna Agre, 25, Yusuf Amin Shaikh, 24, and Amin Abdul Latif Shaikh, 55. According to NCB officials, the men started abusing and pushing NCB officials and fought with them. They also damaged the official vehicle and a pair of handcuffs. NCB officials said that they tried to gather a mob around the NCB team to thwart Mendes’ arrest. Vishal Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police zone-11, said, “Following a complaint from NCB officials, we registered a case and arrested all of them. We have asked the investigating officers to check their criminal background and investigate the case thoroughly.” Also Read: Shekhar Suman, Johnny Lever react to Bharti Singh drug case: ‘Consumption of drugs by creative people is crossing limits’VV Singh, NCB superintendent, in his complaint said that Agre and Shaikh tried to argue with him, and then started hitting him. NCB constable Shiva Reddy, who came to his rescue, was also attacked. Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of Mumbai NCB, said, “The Mumbai Police helped our team. Five members of our team had gone to conduct the raid and the suspects gathered a crowd of around 60 to 70 people so that they could save the peddler. But we managed to arrest him and recovered a commercial amount of LSD from him.” “During this incident, two or three of our staff received injuries, following which we filed a case against them at Goregaon police station,” Wankhede added. A FIR has been registered against the suspects under sections 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt),504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 34 (Common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-ncb-officials-attacked-at-goregaon-3-arrested/story-v6EYasZIXlJbqs7w2M89dJ.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Four arrested for murder of 19-year-old in Hadapsar, Pune||Four men were arrested on Saturday night for the murder of a 19-year-old in Hadapsar, whose body was discovered in the early hours of Saturday, according to the police.The four have been identified as Shubham Sanjay Modak (20), a resident of More Vasti in Manjri; Bunty Tanaji Tupe (23), a resident of Adarsh Vasahat in Malwadi; Pratik Ashok Tambekar (21), a resident of Dangmali area; and Prakash Balu Kamble (23), a resident of Malwadi brick kiln in Hadapsar, according to the police.The four are among five people booked for the murder of Aniket Shivaji Ghaytadak (19), a resident of Malwadi in Hadapsar.“We received information through an informant about the killers of Aniket Ghaytadak being present near Kawdipat toll plaza in Pune,” read a statement issued by senior police inspector Balkrushna Kadam of Hadapsar police station.The reason for the murder is not yet clear. However, the deceased and one of the accused were involved in a feud recently, according to the police.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and rioting of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 4(25) of the Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3)with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-arrested-for-murder-of-19-year-old-in-hadapsar/story-P6zz5E497kmcJUG94PLkLP.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Vitthal temple at Pandhapur, Dehu Sansthan closed for Kartik Ekadashi||Religious places in the state reopened for the public on November 16 and all prominent temples, including Shree Vitthal temple in Pandharpur threw open their doors for devotees. However, the Pandharpur district administration issued curfew orders for November 25 and 26, so as to avoid public celebration of Kartiki Ekadashi (November 26), one of the most prominent days in the warkari tradition celebrated at Pandharpur every year. Similarly, darshan of Lord Pandurang for the public will also be stopped for three days between November 25 and 27. At Dehu, where the Samadhi temple of Sant Tukaram Maharaj is situated, the temple will be closed for three days starting November 25. The decision has been taken by the Jagadguru Shree Sant Tukaram Maharaj Sansthan, Dehu, considering the increasing number of Covid-19 positive patients in Pune district. The temple administration has appealed to residents to not come to Dehu as the temple will be closed for three days for devotees. The daily puja, kirtan and other rituals will be carried out by the Sansthan. However, the Sant Dnyaneshwar Maharaj Samadhi temple in Alandi will continue to remain open for devotees for these three days. The Alandi Devsthan trust has not taken any decision regarding closure of the temple and will follow all Covid-19 guidelines laid down by the state government. Meanwhile, it has been decided that deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will attend the Maha puja along with his wife on November 26 in the morning. Speaking about the arrangements, Vitthal Joshi, executive officer of the Pandharpur Vitthal Rukmini, temple trust, said, “On November 26 morning, the maha puja will be held and before that the daily rituals will be conducted by the temple trust. Both Lord Vitthal and Rukmini Devi’s puja is done by the temple trust priests. The first puja will start at 1am and then at 2.20am deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar along with his wife will do the government Maha puja till 3.30am.” “The temple will be open on November 23 and 24, but between November 25 and 27, it will be closed for public. Then, we will reopen the temple on November 28 and we will try to increase the daily visiting hours,” added Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vitthal-temple-at-pandhapur-dehu-sansthan-closed-for-kartik-ekadashi/story-l9PvRlhvgEX6seV3yvE2UL.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snow, rain bring down mercury in Himachal Pradesh||The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh received light snowfall on Monday even as the maximum temperatures across the state dipped to five degrees below normal. State capital Shimla and other towns in the mid-hills received light showers, while the upper reaches of Lahaul-Spiti, Kullu and Chamba districts got snow. Keylong, the district headquarters of Lahaul and Spiti district, received 5cm of snowfall. State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said that snowfall in isolated places of the higher hills and rainfall in the middle and lower hills and plains of the state are likely to continue till November 26 after which the weather will remain clear till November 29. A yellow warning has been issued for seven districts of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Shimla, Mandi, Chamba, Kangra and Kullu for November 25. Heavy snowfall and rainfall in isolated places of these districts is forecast. Shimla recorded a low of 7.1°Celsius, while nearby Kufri recorded a minimum of 3.6°C. Both Manali and Dharamshala recorded a low of 6.2°C, while Dalhousie registered 3.8°C. The minimum temperature in Solan was 5°C, Bilaspur 7°C, Hamirpur 7.2°C, Una 9°C and Nahan 11.3°C. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 1.4°C, while Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 6.4°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snow-rain-bring-down-mercury-in-himachal-pradesh/story-1aq2FH29dcLUdZa3r4NDEN.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Four booked for impersonating FDA officials in Bhosari||Four people were remanded to the custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Sunday for impersonating officials of Food and Drug Association (FDA) and demanding money from a bakery worker in Bhosari on Saturday. The four were identified as Ranjeet Dhonibarao Bhosale (54), a resident of Charholi Phata area of Alandi road; Sanjay Shrishail Mallad (34), a resident of Moshi Pradhikaran; Ram Narayan Surve (50), a resident of Shivtejnagar area of Chikhali; Pradeep Devram Maalkar (36), a resident of Rupinagar in Talwade, according to the police. At 8:30pm on Saturday, the four men went to a bakery in Talwade road in Pune and approached Faisel Hanif Ansari (25) a worker at the bakery. They pointed out things like missing dates on bread packets and missing packaging on some bakery products and cited them as FDA violations. The men tried to coax money out of the bakery worker in the form of bribe for not initiating action against the bakery, according to the complaint in the matter. “They called the son of the bakery owner who was out of the bakery to talk about paying settlement money. They had some ID cards with misleading agency names. The son called his father who grew suspicious and called the police. When we reached there and checked their ID cards, they started pleading for forgiveness. That is how we could confirm that they were fraud,” said assistant police inspector AM Nyamane of Chikhali police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Santosh Shivaji Jadhav (38), a staff member at Chikhali police station. A case under Sections 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 385 (putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chikhali police station against the four men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-booked-for-impersonating-fda-officials-in-bhosari/story-KT1uRJCIjMiOXOJPL6EO9K.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||2G case: Delhi HC dismisses plea challenging Centre’s decision making process relating to CBI appeal||The Delhi High Court Monday dismissed various pleas challenging the decision making process behind the Centre’s approval to the CBI to file appeal against the acquittal of 2G scam accused, including former telecom minister A Raja.Justice Brijesh Sethi said the appeal was duly filed by the CBI.The judge, who will demit the office on November 30, released the appeals from his court and said that subject to the orders of the Chief Justice, they will be listed before another bench on December 1.The high court also rejected the prayer by some of the acquitted individuals seeking to direct the government to place on record the documents containing the process to be followed before taking a decision to file an appeal.It held that the government is not under any obligation to place on record the approval letters for filing an appeal.The high court had in October commenced day-to-day hearing on CBI’s ‘leave to appeal’ against the acquittal of all the individuals and firms.After finishing submissions in the CBI case, the high court would have taken up the Enforcement Directorate’s money laundering case in which all the accused were acquitted by the special court.However, the acquitted individuals and firms kept filing various applications and petitions in between.Leave to appeal is a formal permission granted by a court to a party to challenge a decision in a higher court.A special court had on December 21, 2017 acquitted Raja, DMK MP Kanimozhi and others in the CBI and the ED cases related to the 2G spectrum allocation scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/2g-case-delhi-hc-dismisses-plea-challenging-centre-s-decision-making-process-relating-to-cbi-appeal/story-HeQa72dYgct2wBul9YdHUN.html
23-11-2020||Pune||1,175 litres of illicit alcohol seized in PCMC, two arrested||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested two men during a raid on an illegal brewery of alcohol and seized 1,175-litres illicit alcohol along with 9,000-litres raw material required for brewing the alcohol. The raid was conducted around 11pm on Saturday night in Maan village of Mulshi, Pune. The two arrested men were identified as Babu Kubya Rathod (40), a resident of Chandegaon in Mulshi, Pune and Ram Tatyarao Khirsagar (33), a resident of Shinde vasti in Marunji, Mulshi, Pune, according to the police. The raid was conducted by officials led by senior police inspector Vitthal Kubade of Hinjewadi police station. The value of the seized raw material is estimated to be around Rs 5 lakh while the value of the seized alcohol is estimated to be around Rs 70,500. Along with the liquids, the police also seized 3,000kg firewood worth Rs 9,000, and a Hyundai car worth Rs 10 lakh among other things. A case under Sections 65(c), 65(d), 65(e)(f), and 83 of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Hinjewadi police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/1-175-litres-of-illicit-alcohol-seized-in-pcmc-two-arrested/story-2P6pwyRkl8tpEkkPfjnCCL.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Three in judicial custody for manhandling CMO at Sassoon Hospital||Three men have been remanded to judicial custody on Sunday for manhandling a doctor at the Sassoon General Hospital on Saturday evening.The three have been identified as Sohan Pawar (23), Yogesh Waghmare (22), and Suraj Waghmare (20), all residents of Tadiwala road area.The complainant doctor has been identified as Shankarlal Chaudhury (25), a resident of Centre Street in Camp. Dr Chaudhury was serving as the Chief Medical Officer (CMO) in the casualty ward at the time of the incident which happened at 1:20pm on Saturday.“Waghmare’s sister had been taken to the casualty ward. The others are relatives of the same family. When the guard warned them against wearing footwear inside and not crowding the space, one of them started shouting at the guard. They asked the guard why he was allowed to wear footwear, that’s when the other security guard took them to the CMO. In his office, these people started abusing the doctor and damaged the computer in the CMO office in the process,” said police sub-inspector TM Fadd of the Bund garden police station who is investigating the case.The office of the CMO has the emergency ward one side and the beds on the other, with a guarded door in the front. Footwear is not allowed inside the rooms where the beds are.A case under Sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2010, has been registered at the Bund garden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-in-judicial-custody-for-manhandling-cmo-at-sassoon-hospital/story-RdIpTUJQXoyCHBHpXRPpyK.html
23-11-2020||City||No increase in drug consumption: Goa Police on increased seizure of narcotics||Goa has witnessed an increase in drug seizures with the police stating they have seized drugs worth Rs1.2 crore more than last year, despite the pandemic dealing a huge blow to tourism, which they said provides the primary market for drugs in the state. According to records, the police have seized narcotics drugs worth Rs6.7 crore in total this year as compared to last year when the total seizure amounted to Rs5.5 crore. “As compared to last year, the value of drugs seized is more this year. Our focus is on the source,” Goa’s Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena said. However, Meena suggested that the increased quantity was likely on account of the Goa Police being more proactive this year instead of an increase in consumption. Also Read: Goa to adopt curbs like Maharashtra on arrivals from Delhi, says health minister Vishwajit Rane“Drug activity might have decreased because we have taken action. I wouldn’t say that consumption has increased. But we are very alert, all agencies are taking action,” Meena said. According to police records, two significant raids—a raid on a cannabis plantation at Keri in Pernem in North Goa in mid-October, in which drugs worth around Rs1.10 crore were seized, while another in Morjim in March this year prior to the lockdown in which drugs worth Rs1.65 crore were seized—have helped the police seize more drugs this year. The police also busted an underground rave party that was held after the lockdown had started being lifted, but parties were still not allowed, and seized drugs including cocaine, MDMA and marijuana worth Rs9 lakh . The state’s top cop also said it was everyone’s collective responsibility including that of parents, to ensure that drug consumption does not rise in the state. With the tourism industry having recovered and tourists once again having returned to the state, the Goa Police have said that they are preparing for a surge. “It will be a challenging task,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/no-increase-in-drug-consumption-goa-police-on-increased-seizure-of-narcotics/story-ffzSaAYd98HKTeavBRWqzL.html
23-11-2020||Pune||81-year-old defeats stage four cancer successfully, say Pune doctors||Doctors at a private hospital in Pune have reported the success story of a miraculous recovery of an 81-year-old man suffering from stage four colon cancer. Nandan Kalbag, an 81-year-old from Pune has now even started pursuing his hobbies of making bamboo handicrafts and has started a new life post-recovery. Doctors mentioned that complete recovery at the age of 81 from stage four cancer is remarkable. Doctors also said that determination and continuous efforts made him emerge victorious in his fight against cancer. Nandan not only fought the disease but also continued with his hobby of making home and landscape models of bamboo and cane. During the last three years when he was undergoing his cancer treatment, he was also making one model made of bamboo and cane every day. said the treating doctors. Dr Minish Jain, an oncologist from the hospital said, “He was suffering from stage four colon cancer. His cancer had spread to the liver too. He showed complete willingness to take the entire treatment. He underwent 12 chemotherapy sessions. We gave him Folfox 6 chemotherapy. At this age, he is not only disease-free but also living an active life by pursuing his hobbies.” He added, “At his age, many are not willing to start the treatment. He not only underwent the complete treatment, but he also pursued his daily activities and hobbies. Cancer treatment is a prolonged treatment, and you need determined efforts to fight it back.” Kalbag said, “I am happy that I recovered completely, and I am disease free now. I followed all the instructions given by the doctor. I used to always follow a treatment schedule. I followed a healthy diet and did some basic routine exercises. I am pursuing my hobby. Every day I make models made of cane and bamboo. I have even started teaching about handicraft at some centres in Pune.” Dr Chakor Vora, a consultant medical oncologist from Sassoon hospital, said, “Many patients do not continue the treatment. Many are afraid when it comes to chemotherapy. But the determination shown by an 81-year-old cancer patient is remarkable. With the help of recent treatment options, it is possible to beat cancer and become disease-free, if we take correct and complete treatment.” Dr Shona Nag, a senior oncologist said, “It is too premature to say that it is a complete recovery since it is a stage four cancer, which may relapse. However, it is commendable that the senior citizen showed the will and determination needed to fight the disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/81-year-old-defeats-stage-four-cancer-successfully-say-pune-doctors/story-q3bq81VpNZMHy4GZWXOHlN.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Private schools in Pune dist seek time to reopen, demand free Covid-19 test for teachers||As the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations are mulling over reopening of schools for students for classes 9 to 12, in Pune’s rural area schools will be starting from Monday (November 23). However, Independent English Schools Association (IESA), which works for the betterment of the academic ecosystem of private schools in Maharashtra, has said they are unable to reopen schools immediately and need at least a weeks time.They have also put forth their various demands like free Covid-19 test of teachers, funds of purchasing Covid safety equipment and sanitisation among others.IESA also represents Maharashtra at the National Level through the National Independent School Alliance (NISA).There are 1,400 private schools in Pune and around 40,000 teachers teaching at these schools.“State government has declared that schools can reopen from November 23 for classes 9 to 12, but while issuing the guidelines for reopening schools they did not mention anything about private schools. The government should make arrangements to conduct free Covid-19 tests of teachers from private schools like that of government schools,” said Rajendra Singh, president, IESA. The Maharashtra education department has made it mandatory for teachers to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 before schools reopen and teachers from government schools can get themselves tested for free at state-run centres.“The financial condition of private schools is not stable and it is not possible to reopen schools immediately. It will take more one week’s time to commence classroom lectures for students, for that sanitisation of classes, benches and schools premises is necessary. So our other demand is that sanitisation equipment should also be provided to private schools by the government,” he said.“Also, our RTE admission fee is due from the education department, the state government has given around Rs 23 crore funds to the education department for RTE which it should disburse to schools immediately. This will ease the financial burden of private schools,” he said.Following sharp reactions from parents and teachers, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday rolled back its earlier decision to restart schools from November 23 and has now decided to defer it till December 13. The civic administration will review the situation and decide whether to open the campuses or not. While Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has held its decision to start school for Class 9-12 on November 23. The decision will now be reviewed on November 30. “The civic body has now decided to revise its earlier decisions. PMC has issued fresh order on Saturday stating that civic-run, as well as private schools, will not open till December 13 when the administration will review the situation and decide whether to open the campuses or not. Pune is seeing a rise in cases and so it seems only logical to postpone the opening of schools,” said mayor Murlidhar Mohol, on Saturday.Survey findingsIndependent English Schools Association (IESA) carried out a survey to know about students current status on attending the online and offline classes. In this survey, it is found that around six to eighteen per cent of students have not yet attended a single online lecture. As many as 30 to 35 per cent of students are still staying at their hometown or village and not returned back to Pune. Also, 50 to 60 per cent of parents are not willing to send their children to school to attend offline classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/private-schools-in-pun-dist-seek-time-to-reopen-demand-free-covid-19-test-for-teachers/story-LMXSoHyqodrJkaX8HWqpfI.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Govt will review Covid-19 situation for 8-10 days, then decide on lockdown: Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday said that the state government will review the Covid-19 situation over the next eight-10 days and take a call regarding lockdown in Maharashtra, when responding to a question regarding imposition of the same in the state. Pawar, while speaking to reporters in Pune, said that he is observing the relevant departments and getting updates about the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra. “I don’t want to make any statement regarding the lockdown as it will create panic among the common public. We will be reviewing the situation in the next 8-10 days and then, a decision regarding the lockdown in the state will be taken,” said Pawar, who was in Pune to campaign for Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) nominee Arun Lad, for the for graduate constituency poll. The deputy chief minister also shared examples of Ahmedabad and other places where night curfew has been imposed along with Delhi where the coronavirus disease tally has spiked over the last few days. In Maharashtra as well, the cases of fresh Covid-19 positive patients have been steadily rising post Diwali, when thousands of people came out on the streets in major cities for festive shopping. Pawar said, “During Diwali there was a huge crowd at the marketplaces as if Covid-19 was under control. Now, there are speculations that a second wave of Covid-19 may occur.” On schools being reopened in various parts of the state starting Monday, Pawar said that various steps are being taken to reopen schools. “Government has made a lot of regulations with respect to restarting of schools, which includes different ways on maintaining safety and following sanitisation guidelines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/govt-will-review-covid-19-situation-for-8-10-days-then-decide-on-lockdown-ajit-pawar/story-7MHKRNQvLKgcZWpAc6PBWJ.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh University to promote nearly 90,000 undergraduate students amid Covid pandemic||Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, has decided to promote nearly 90,000 students in the first and second year of graduation amid the Covid-19 pandemic. University vice-chancellor Sikander Kumar, who chaired a meeting of the executive council, said that students who needed to clear a compartment exam or had to reappear for a subject and were not able to take the exam due to the pandemic, will also be promoted to the next class. The students who will be eligible for promotion to higher classes include regular students and those taking distance education from the International Centre for Distance Education and Open Learning (ICDEOL). The promotion will be based on previous class performances of the student, 50-50 evaluation of performance in exams and internal assessment. Students of first year will be promoted based on their internal assessments. Students of ICDEOL will be promoted on the basis of internal evaluation assignment and personal contact programme attendance, while students who got late admission in colleges will be promoted after the evaluation of the average of subjects passed. The university executive council, which met on Saturday, decided to grant 10% reservation to economically weaker section students in postgraduate courses. It also decided to withdraw the transfer policy of non-teaching staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-pradesh-university-to-promote-nearly-90-000-undergraduate-students-amid-covid-pandemic/story-rlcjFxPNsmgZ58j9oYLAsN.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Bharti Singh, husband ordered to be released on bail by Mumbai court||Comedian Bharti Singh and husband Harsh Limbachiya, arrested last week by the Narcotics Control Bureau on a charge of possessing ganja or cannabis, were granted bail by a Mumbai court on Monday. The NCB had allegedly seized 86.5 gm of cannabis during a search at their suburban Andheri house and Limbachiya’s Versova production house.Bharti Singh was arrested on Saturday, her husband Harsh Limbachiya was placed under arrest the next day.Both of them were booked for possessing a small quantity of drugs as well as consumption of drugs. On Sunday, a court had rejected the NCB’s request to allow Harsh Limbachiya’s custodial interrogation and sent both of them to judicial custody. They had applied for bail soon after but the judge could not take up their request since the NCB officer concerned and the public prosecutor absented themselves.“Hence, at 2pm the court heard us and allowed the bail plea,” their lawyer Ayaz Khan said.The NCB had alleged that Bharti Singh had confessed to smoking cannabis purchased by her husband.The NCB had raided Bharti Singh’s house and her husband’s production house in Andheri’s Versova after the arrest of a 21-year-old accused of trafficking drugs. According to the NCB’s submissions in court, they had found 65 gram of a dry green leafy substance that tested positive for cannabis.Also Read: Bharti Singh-Haarsh Limbachiyaa arrested by NCB: TV colleagues react, express shock.The NCB had also conducted raids in the Khar Danda area and nabbed a 21-year-old drug trafficker in possession of various narcotics substances including 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantities) and 40 gram of cannabis and nitrazepam (psychotropic medicines).The NCB has been probing alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. NCB had arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some of Rajput’s staffers and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Chakraborty has denied the allegations against her. She, along with some other accused, were released on bail after spending about a month in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/comedian-bharti-singh-husband-get-bail-as-prosecution-absent-from-hearing/story-LtYlaBxidlHqxObDtP8zbN.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Let Bihar enact law on ‘love jihad’, then Maharashtra will think about it: Shiv Sena||Days after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders sought the enactment of a legislation against “love jihad”, a term coined by Hindutva groups for Hindu girls being allegedly forced to convert to Islam in the guise of marriage, the Shiv Sena said that it will study the law that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government brings into effect, if he does so. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that BJP leaders in Maharashtra are attempting to “distract” the Uddhav Thackeray-led government from the course of development by using such tactics.Last week, BJP leader Ram Kadam targeted the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and asked why it was silent on the atrocities committed against women under the pretext of “love”.The Shiv Sena said it will think about a legislation against “love jihad” if the Bihar government brings in such a legislation. BJP union minister Giriraj Singh has backed an enactment of the law in Bihar, but Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) is reportedly against it.Also Read | ‘Interfaith marriages in families of BJP leaders examples of Love Jihad?” questions Bhupesh BaghelRaut, the Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson, said, “I spoke to the chief minister about the demand for a ‘love jihad’ law by BJP leaders. We will study the law against ‘love jihad’ in other states, especially in Bihar, and then think about it. Nitish Kumar has become the chief minister with the help of the BJP, but the BJP is running the government. We will study what law Nitish Kumar’s government brings in. The BJP should bring in an ideal law on ‘love jihad’ in Bihar and then ask questions [to others] about it.”The Shiv Sena parliamentarian also slammed the BJP over the lack of a development plan for the country. He said that the politics of religion and communalism is being practised due to the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal. “The politics over ‘love jihad’ will end after the West Bengal elections,” Raut said.He added, “The BJP doesn’t have any issue related to development. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is guiding Maharashtra towards development, and therefore, they are attempting to disturb and distract us from the course. However, despite all this, Maharashtra will become the top state in the country in the next three years.”An editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana also hit out at the BJP leadership in Maharashtra and said that they shouldn’t play with the people’s lives during the Covid-19 pandemic for the sake of politics.Also Read: ‘Love Jihad’ a term created by BJP to divide nation: Gehlot“On one hand, they criticise the government for not controlling Covid-19 numbers, and on the other, they create chaos and crowding, which leads to the spread of Covid-19. The second wave of Covid-19 is coming, but the BJP thinks this wave is of their political ideology. They want to use the wave as the ladder to uninstall the saffron flag on the Mumbai civic body. That is fine; you play your politics, but why are you pushing innocent people into an abyss,” the editorial read.Radical Hindu groups have popularised the term “love jihad”, which they use to describe what they believe is an organised conspiracy of Muslim men to trick Hindu women into marriages. In February, junior home minister G Kishan Reddy told Parliament the term “love jihad” is not defined under the laws and no such case has been reported by any central agency. Despite the political mobilisation, experts say that the charges of love jihad are bogus and that adult men and women are free to convert under the constitutional right to freedom of religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/let-bihar-enact-law-on-love-jihad-then-maharashtra-will-think-about-it-shiv-sena/story-zAC8HHulEmJodnIvmbTQeM.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three members of Bathinda family found dead with bullet injuries in the head||Three members of a family were found dead at Kamla Nehru Colony in Bathinda on Monday morning. Superintendent of police Jaspal Singh said the three victims suffered bullet injuries in the head. There was no attempt to rob the house, the SP said. The dead were identified as Charanjit Singh Khokhar, 56, his wife Jaswinder Kaur, 49, and Simran Kaur, 20. Police said the crime was reported by the milk vendor. Khokar was an employee of the state cooperative department. The family lived in a three-storeyed house of a posh residential area in town. Police are scanning CCTV footage of the locality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-members-of-bathinda-family-found-dead-with-bullet-injuries-in-the-head/story-Dr1N9s7CoAOQdtC1p2wmMO.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Teachers’ unions to join nationwide strike against labour, farmer and education ‘reforms’||Teachers’ unions too have decided to join the labour and farmer unions from across the country for a nationwide general strike against government policies including the passing of farm laws and labour code besides the introduction of the new education policy in the times of the hardships unleashed by the coronavirus pandemic.In a joint statement released by the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (AIFUCTO), Maharashtra Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (MFUCTO) Bombay University and College Teachers’ Union (BUCTU) as well as the Shikshak Bharati have expressed their solidarity with the all India strike.Members of Shikshak Bharati and BUCTU will also hold a protest demonstration at the gate of Bombay University’s Kalina campus on November 26.“This strike is against the devastating health and economic crisis unleashed by Covid-19 and the lockdown on the working people of the country. This has been further aggravated by a series of anti-people legislations on agriculture and labour code enacted by the central government. Along with these measures, the National Education Policy (NEP) imposed on the nation during the pandemic will further cause irreparable harm to the equity and access of education,” said the joint statement released on Monday morning.Also Read: Farm leaders mobilise support for November 26 rally in capitalThe statement further highlights how the introduction of NEP will violate the constitutional mandates of the policy of reservation and right to free and compulsory education act. “This new act will systematically break the present structure of education and could also result in the closure of thousands of schools and colleges. Not only will this lead to high drop-out rates among students, but also simultaneously push more teachers and non-teaching staff in ad-hoc and contractual appointments,” said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/teachers-unions-to-join-nationwide-strike-against-labour-farmer-and-education-reforms/story-7LxuRLGHUelXAolm0MpKmK.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Stephanians initiate fundraiser to help fellow DU students beat financial distress||Recently when Aishwarya Reddy, a student of Lady Shri Ram College (LSR), died by suicide due to financial crisis, and the news reached a group of students from St Stephen’s College, it shook them like most others. But, the young guns decided to not let another fellow student fall prey to the many difficulties that they have been facing since the pandemic challenged their education and future prospects. Wanting to help peers who may be facing a similar crunch of resources, 25-30 students of St Stephen’s have initiated a fundraiser to support old as well as new students in the university, with their fees, mobile data packs, essential technological devices and study material. Evita Rodrigues, a final year student pursuing BA, who is one of the organisers of the fundraiser, says, “Shortly after we heard of Aishwarya’s death, a few of us started collecting funds. We came to learn that most of the smaller colleges have almost no support mechanism, be it for concessions or scholarships. And in absence of a significant alumni base, no funds are being raised either. We then expanded the team to bring in more students from our college, and put out an online form to collect details of students (beneficiaries) and potential donors. Some students have come forward to support their peers with internet data pack requests, but we certainly need more help.” “My father is a security guard, with an income of ₹9,000 per month. I needed around ₹13,000 for my college fee, which I received from the donors after I filled the form. I’m extremely thankful to the students at St Stephen’s who helped me else I might not have been able to continue my studies,” says Khemchand, a final year student at Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College, is one of the students who received financial aid through this initiative. Through the form, available on internet, the collected money goes straight from the donor to the beneficiary via bank details provided directly to the donors. The students carefully whet the background of all who are seeking help, through their college ID cards, fee receipts and income certificates. And it’s through this initiative that devices such as laptops and smartphones are also being arranged for students who need them. “The need is quite urgent, especially since DU exams happen next month, and it’s quite challenging to attempt practicals, arrange readings etc on a small smartphone. We have requests from visually impaired students as well, which we are keeping on priority. It is hard to access online classes on outdated phones, so we are trying to arrange for donations of devices,” says Susan Maria Mathew, a second year student at St Stephen’s. This group has so far managed to provide necessary devices to about 20 DU students. Prachi Jain, a resident of Aligarh, who recently got admission in Shyam Lal College, says she didn’t have a smartphone until the students who are part of this initiative helped her get one. “We had one phone in the house, and my sister also needed it for her classes. So I put in a request for a phone, simply because I need to pursue my classes. I also need a laptop to give my exams, but for now I’m happy that I won’t miss out on my studies,” says Jain, adding that she is grateful for this help from her peers. Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stephanians-initiate-fundraiser-to-help-fellow-du-students-beat-financial-distress/story-jaQgxze8RsuHyAN8H2cQNM.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Customs seizes gold worth Rs 3.26 crore from man at New Delhi railway station||Customs officials have seized over six kg of gold, worth Rs 3.26 crore, from the possession of a man at the New Delhi railway station, an official said on Monday.Two men have been arrested in the case, he said.“Acting on specific information, officers of customs (preventive) Delhi intercepted an individual at New Delhi railway station in the late afternoon of 19.11.2020, who had come from Howrah, Kolkata via Rajdhani Express,” Hemant Rohilla, Deputy Commissioner, Customs (Preventive), Delhi, said in a statement.Upon a personal search, around 6.3 kg of gold, valued at around Rs 3.26 crore, was seized from the possession of the man, he said.The seized gold was in the form of biscuits and cut-pieces and is believed to have been smuggled into the country through the northeastern border, the officer said, adding that it is of “foreign origin”.“He has admitted to being a routine carrier, having carried around 2 to 6 kg of smuggled gold every time on 15 earlier occasions (since the imposition of the lockdown due to Covid in late March and its subsequent lifting). Thus, total value of the smuggled gold comes out to be around 60 kg valued at over Rs 30 crore (based on average values),” Rohilla said.Follow-up searches were conducted and the receiver of the gold was also apprehended, he said, adding that incriminating documents and other evidence have been recovered.Both the accused were placed under arrest by the officers of the Customs (Preventive), Delhi on Sunday evening for violation of the provisions of the Customs Act, 1962 and remanded to 14 days of judicial custody, the officer said, adding that further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/customs-seizes-gold-worth-rs-3-26-crore-from-man-at-new-delhi-railway-station/story-nmoEjpKt0Xwy86mGKV7SSI.html
23-11-2020||Bangalore||CBI raids residence of ex-Congress minister Roshan Baig arrested in IMA scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday raided the Bengaluru residence of former Congress minister Roshan Baig, who was arrested by the federal agency in connection with a Rs 2,500 crore ponzi scheme on Sunday. A team of 12 CBI officials has been searching Baig’s premises in Coles Park since morning. The seven-time MLA was arrested on Sunday after being quizzed for nearly 10 hour and has been remanded to 14 day-judicial custody. He is currently lodged in Parapanna Agrahara jail. Karnataka-based I Monetary Advisors (IMA), an investment firm purportedly run in compliance with Islamic banking rules, collapsed in May last year after it could not repay either the deposits or dividends on the deposits it had illegally accepted. IMA co-founder Mohammed Mansoor Khan at the time of his arrest had alleged that Baig had cheated him of Rs 400 crore and forced him to gift expensive cars and jewellery. He had also named some other government officers. The former minister had then rejected the charge and claimed that except for some donations to Haj facilitation centers, he had not accepted any money. Over 51,500 depositors are said to have lost approximately Rs 2,500 crore collected by IMA and its subsidiaries in the ponzi scheme.The then coalition government of Congress and JD(S) had formed a special investigation team to probe the matter in September 2019. However, the BJP government which came to power later handed over the case to the CBI. The CBI has arraigned an IAS officer, two IPS officers, a KAS officer and a corporator as accused among others in the case after the state government gave permission for prosecuting them.Baig was suspended from the Congress party in June 2019 after he criticized the leader of opposition Siddaramaiah as well as then KPCC president Dinesh Gundu Rao. Baig had also attempted to join the BJP. He, however, was not inducted into BS Yediyurappa’s party, unlike 16 other disqualified legislators of Congress and JDS, whose revolt led to the collapse of the HD Kumarasamy led coalition government last year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cbi-raids-residence-of-ex-congress-minister-roshan-baig-arrested-in-ima-scam/story-vBZ3fZuFwV9bpDZUuZz06I.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||‘Is lockdown only solution?’: Delhi HC refuses to hear plea amid Covid-19 surge||The Delhi High Court on Monday refused to entertain a petition seeking a lockdown in the national capital with immediate effect in view of the surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Is lockdown the only solution?” the court asked the petitioner. A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan sought to know from Kaushal Kant Mishra, a doctor, as to whether a lockdown is a solution while also stating that they had not done any homework before filing the plea. The court said that a writ court does not have the jurisdiction to impose a lockdown as it a policy decision. “How do you think a writ court can do this?? Have you considered the studies? This situation is despite too much lockdown, “ Justice Jalan said. The court said that it was inclined to dismiss the plea with cost. Appearing for the Delhi government, advocate Gautam Narayan, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government told the court that a circular from the Centre issued on September 30, none of the Union Territories can impose lockdown without prior permission from the Centre. The court said that this is an “unnecessary litigation”. The plea was later dismissed as withdrawn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/is-lockdown-only-solution-delhi-hc-refuses-to-hear-plea-seeking-shutdown-in-delhi-amid-covid-19-surge/story-Hv8aaOcLQTsc1xDw8blCJP.html
23-11-2020||Patna||Bihar: Remains of ancient structures discovered in Chandan river||Remains of what seem to be ancient-age structures and settlements have been discovered in the Chandan river in Amarpur block of Banka district. The brick structures, which are spread over a vast area in the river, were first spotted by the locals of Bhadaria village who were preparing for Chhath Puja celebrations and were trying to create a ghat on the banks of the Chandan river for the rituals. The local administration of Banka has taken note of the findings and has informed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Patna circle, about it. Meanwhile experts said that the remains must be the ruins of some ancient settlements in this area and that excavations of the site and study of the findings would provide further insight in the history and heritage of the state, especially of Banka district.Also Read: Chhattisgarh government fixes tribal Devgudis to counter Maoists in Bastar region“Even the ancient age Vikramshila University which is now located in the neighbouring district of Bhagalpur, is not far from Amarpur block of Banka district and from Bhadaria village, where ancient structures have been discovered. This is why locals believe that the remains found in Chandan river might have some Buddhist connections,” Manoj Kumar Chaudhary, SDO (sub-divisional officer), Banka, who had visited the spot, said. “The matter has been reported to the top authorities in the administration and to the Archaeological Survey of India, Patna circle. They will take suitable action,” he said. The superintending archaeologist of the ASI HS Naik said a team of experts from the ASI would soon visit the site. “The pictures of the site shared by the locals show a long wall and cell-like structures in the river. Seems a settlement was there in ancient times which might have been buried by river water,” he said. Once experts review the site, further action would be taken on the basis of their report, the official added. Bipin Kumar, a local from Bhadaria village, said the remains of the structure are spread over a vast area in Chandan river. “And the size of brick is quite big. We often find this kind of brick in ancient monuments,” he said. “The structures were discovered after we removed a few layers of sand in the river to construct a ghaat for Chhath Puja. The water level in the river is low these days,” he said. Anil Kumar, the head of the history and archaeology department at Santi Niketan, West Bengal, who had done a study on Mandar hills in Banka, said the findings in Chandan river are important and needed to be studied well. “The Chandan river valley has great potential. In the 1960s, a team of Patna University’s ancient history department, which included RCP Singh, had discovered Mesolithic tools in the area,” he said. After that, no detailed work in Chandan river valley has taken place, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-remains-of-ancient-structures-discovered-in-chandan-river/story-9nHIqCcMD4UeWeBKoZINBO.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||MBBS students, dentists allowed to assist doctors in Covid-19 duties||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday gave orders for MBBS students and dentists to be allowed to assist in hospitals and Covid ICUs to meet manpower shortage amid coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the order, Delhi government hospitals can now engage 4th and 5th-year MBBS students and dentists to assist doctors in the treatment of Covid-19 patients.Delhi has seen an alarming spike in cases in recent weeks, recording more new cases than any other state in the country. The national capital recorded 6,746 new cases of Covid-19 and 121 fatalities on Sunday, pushing the death toll to 8,391, authorities said.This is the fifth time in the last 11 days that the daily toll has crossed the 100-mark.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said the number of Covid-19 and ICU beds have been increased in the city hospitals to ramp up medical infrastructure in order to deal with the surge in Covid-19 cases.“We have increased the number of beds in hospitals. As many as 17,292 Covid-19 beds available in Delhi out of which 7,700 beds are empty as of now. Intensive care unit (ICU) beds have also been increased by 400, more will be added in the days to come. Around 250 ICU beds will be increased in private hospitals too,” Jain said.The AAP government had on November 19 directed private hospitals to increase the percentage of non-ICU Covid-19 beds from 50 to 60.It had also ordered 42 private hospitals to reserve with immediate effect 80 per cent of their ICU beds for coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/mbbs-students-dentists-allowed-to-assist-doctors-in-covid-19-duties/story-pFjCrDTaAxmAKfO8DI8YNM.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt withdraws order to shut 2 markets over Covid-19 guidelines violation||The Delhi government on Monday withdrew its order to shut two markets in Punjabi Bagh and Nangloi area of West Delhi districts for flouting various coronavirus (Covid-19) guidelines including on social distancing and face masks. The markets were to remain shut till November 30, as per an order issued by the the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageA senior government official on Sunday had called these markers ‘unauthorised’ and said that the crackdown was a temporary measure due to the prevailing coronavirus situation in the Capital.“Both these markets are unauthorised and comprise around 100 makeshift shops selling goods ranging from garments to kitchen utensils. The crackdown was necessary in the light of rampant violation of Covid-19 regulations. This is not a lockdown, but a temporary measure because of an emergency,” he said.“The government directives for wearing face mask, maintaining physical distancing and other such Covid-19 safety measures were being flouted both by the vendors and shoppers in the two rehri-patri (street side) markets despite repeated instructions and warnings by officials,” he added.The Nangloi market association expressed relief over the withdrawal of the order and claimed that officials sealed the market despite all norms being followed.“It was wrong to seal the market. All norms were being followed here. They had sealed it on the basis of crowd on main road near market. Order was withdrawn last night. Official order copy awaited,” said Subhash Bindal, general secretary of Shukar Bazar Market Association, Nangloi Market.Meanwhile, Delhi reported 6,746 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total number of cases in the state to 5,29,863, according to the Delhi health department on Sunday. The total figure includes 4,81,260 recoveries and 40,212 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/order-to-shut-markets-in-delhi-s-punjabi-bagh-nangloi-over-covid-19-guidelines-violations-withdrawn/story-bTPFol7FQlcBVautuBvx1J.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Karachi will be a part of India one day’: Fadnavis on Bandra sweet shop row||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said that his party believes in ‘akhand bharat’ and that Karachi will be a part of India one day.He was responding to a question over the incident where a Shiv Sena leader allegedly asked Karachi Sweets shop owner in Bandra West to remove the word ‘Karachi’ from the names of their shop.“We believe in ‘Akhand Bharat’. We also believe that Karachi will be a part of India one day,” Fadnavis said.A video of Shiv Sena leader Nitin Madhukar Nandgaonkar asking Karachi Sweets shop owner to change the shop’s name recently went viral. “You have to do it, we’re giving you time. Change ‘Karachi’ to something in Marathi,” says Nitin Nandgaokar in the video, according to ANI. Mumbai: Video of Shiv Sena leader Nitin Nandgaokar goes viral, where he's allegedly asking Karachi Sweets shop owner in Bandra West to change the name 'Karachi'."You have to do it, we're giving you time. Change 'Karachi' to something in Marathi," says Nitin Nandgaokar in video. pic.twitter.com/PfmM4B65acAfter Nitin Nandgaokar’s visit, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut called the demand futile and clarified that changing the shop’s name is not the party’s official stance.“Karachi bakery and karachi sweets have been in mumbai since last 60 years. They have nothing to do with Pakistan. It makes no sense to ask for changing their names now.Demand for changing their name is not shivsena’s official stance,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/karachi-will-be-a-part-of-india-one-day-devendra-fadnavis-reacts-to-bandra-sweet-shop-row/story-pS1gdKQaaMctsV8iHXjTUK.html
23-11-2020||Lucknow||On 81st birthday, Mulayam Singh asks cadres to strengthen Samajwadi Party for 2022 UP polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) patron Mulayam Singh Yadav on Sunday, his 81st birthday, asked party cadres to energise themselves and strengthen the party for the 2022 UP assembly polls. Mulayam Yadav, the former defence minister and UP chief minister, celebrated his birthday in Lucknow with his son and SP president Akhilesh Yadav. This was Mulayam Yadav’s first appearance at the party office since the Covid-19 outbreak in March. During the celebrations, Akhilesh Yadav greeted Mulayam Yadav by draping a shawl around his shoulders. Party cadres then held a cake-cutting ceremony, recited mantras, distributed sweets and fruits and also organised a blood donation camp to mark the occasion. Also Read: Samajwadi Party workers celebrate Mulayam Singh Yadav’s 81st birthday in LucknowMulayam Yadav expressed gratitude to everyone for the celebrations and greetings. The party office and Vikramaditya Marg (the road on which the office and Mulayam Yadav’s house is situated) were decked up for the occasion. Several temporary arches and hoardings with birthday greetings for Mulayam Yadav were put up on the road. Speaking on the occasion, Akhilesh Yadav said: “Netaji [Mulayam Yadav] showed us the path of struggle and principles of Gandhi, Lohia and Ambedkar. Only this path will bring progress and prosperity. The SP is following the path he showed and us and we are committed to it. May his blessings be always with us as we fulfil our responsibilities with wisdom. We all have to work unitedly and fulfil the socialist dream.” Celebrations were also held in other parts of Lucknow and across the state. The newly reconstituted Uttarakhand unit of the party also held a celebration at its headquarters in Dehradun. Mulayam Yadav’s ancestral village Saifai also held a celebration and so did his brother Shivpal Yadav-led party—the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/on-81st-birthday-mulayam-singh-asks-cadres-to-strengthen-samajwadi-party-for-2022-up-polls/story-b4EOQbk8RsYRZNeUjda2ZJ.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi sees over 500 Covid-19 deaths in last 5 days||November is turning out to be the most challenging month for the national Capital in managing the Covid-19 pandemic. As the number of coronavirus cases is on the rise in Delhi, the national capital recorded 6,746 new cases of Covid-19 and 121 fatalities on Sunday, pushing the death toll to 8,391, authorities said.This is the fifth time in the last 11 days that the daily toll has crossed the 100-mark.On Saturday, the state government’s daily health bulletin had recorded 111 deaths. On Friday, the number was 118. On November 18, Delhi recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths — the highest so far in a day.The national capital has witnessed a sudden spike in coronavirus cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11.As per daily health bulletin, 103,228 cases and 1,250 deaths due to coronavirus have been reported between November 1-16 while 4,147 patients recovered during the same period. Last seven days alone saw 44,210 cases and 823 fatalities.Delhi’s positivity rate, the percentage of tests that return positive, was 12.29% on Sunday. The number of containment zones in Delhi rose to 4,697 on Sunday from 4,633 on Saturday.By Sunday evening, hospitals across Delhi — both private and public ones — had 17,423 total Covid-19 beds, of which 7,967 were vacant. The government records further showed that there are 4,086 ICU beds, of which 734 are vacant.  The National Centre for Disease Control in a report drafted recently had warned that Delhi needs to be prepared for about 15,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 per day taking into account the upcoming winter season-related respiratory problems, large influx of patients from outside and festive gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-sees-over-500-covid-19-deaths-in-last-5-days/story-pHuj1h3npL1whbjJmDWM4H.html
23-11-2020||Lucknow||UP: Winter sets in, Lucknow has coldest November in three years as mercury drops to 9.5°C||November this year is turning out to be the coldest since 2017 with the early morning temperature in Lucknow dipping to 9.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, which is two degrees Celsius below normal.Last year this month, the lowest temperature was 12.6 degrees Celsius on November 20 and in 2018, it was 10.2 degrees Celsius on November 8.In 2017, the lowest temperature was 8 degrees Celsius on November 24. The lowest-ever temperature for the month was 3.9 degrees Celsius on November 29, 1952, according to the Indian Meteorology Department (IMD) website.Also this year on November 16, Lucknow experienced a record highest single day rainfall measuring 26 mm in more than a decade for this month.Also read | More girls being adopted by foreign couples, UP gives credit to Mission Shakti programmeThe minimum temperature has dropped in several other cities of Uttar Pradesh as well. The night temperature in Varanasi dropped to 9.4 degrees Celsius which was 4 degrees below normal. The city of ghats witnessed its coldest November in a decade. In the last decade, the lowest temperature in Varanasi was 10 degrees Celsius recorded in 2017 and 2013.With 10 degree Celsius, Kanpur recorded lowest temperature in November this decade. The minimum temperature in Agra was 9.4 degrees Celsius.Experts say the nip in the early morning air is due to snowfall in hills including Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “It’s unusual for the minimum temperature to drop to single digits in November. Winter is setting in early this year,” said professor Dhruv Sen Singh of Lucknow University.“The drop in the minimum temperature is mainly because of a combination of cold winds blowing from the snow-clad Western Himalayan region as well as largely clear skies in Lucknow. When there is no cloud cover, the heat trapped in the ground dissipates fast, resulting in lower temperatures,” said JP Gupta, IMD director in Lucknow.He said snowfall in the Himalayas was an annual phenomenon, which impacts the temperature in all of northwest India, but local factors such as the absence of a cloud cover play an important role.The maximum temperature in Lucknow, however, was 24.4 degrees Celsius, which was 3.2 degrees below normal.The forecast for the next 24 hours is mist in the morning and clear sky thereafter. The maximum and minimum temperatures will be around 26 and 9 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-winter-sets-in-lucknow-has-coldest-november-in-three-years-as-mercury-drops-to-9-5-c/story-b59OHTqkJnZgtgMOEkoNpM.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Tanzanian held with 1kg cocaine worth Rs6 crore at Delhi’s IGI airport||Customs at the Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport on Saturday arrested a Tanzanian national for allegedly trying to smuggle a kilogram of cocaine worth around Rs6 crore into the country .The man was arrested following a tip-off and was intercepted by a team of Customs sleuths as soon as he landed at the Delhi airport from Addis Ababa. “He was asked to cooperate for a detailed frisking and baggage check. From his checked-in baggage, we recovered a packet full of a white powder which was tested to be cocaine. The total recovery is 990 grams worth Rs5.94 crore,” said a Customs officer from the airport. The man is being questioned about his previous involvements and source of the narcotics. It is also being probed to whom the consignment was to be delivered. Officers are also verifying if the man has association with any bigger drug cartel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/tanzanian-held-with-1kg-cocaine-worth-rs6-crore-at-delhi-s-igi-airport/story-7zWMJDb3LggknRUMgcqgtK.html
23-11-2020||Kolkata||Kolkata residents feel winter chill as mercury drops to 15 degrees Celsius||Kolkata residents got to feel the winter chill on Monday morning as the mercury dropped to 15.5 degrees Celsius. “The minimum temperature has dropped to 15.5 degrees Celsius which is three degrees below the normal. It has dropped by around four degrees since Sunday morning,” said a senior official of the India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata. The mercury has been steadily dropping over the past 48 hours. On Saturday, the minimum temperature was around 22 degrees Celsius; on Sunday, it had come down to around 19.5 degrees Celsius. Also Read: Mercury drops further over NW India as icy winds from Western Himalayas hit plains“The chill is here to stay for another two or three days. The temperature in the districts, particularly in the western parts of the state, has dropped even lower,” said the official. Officials said that a depression has formed over the Bay of Bengal near the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast and is likely to intensify further into a cyclone. “The system is sucking winds from all directions as a result of which cold and dry northerly winds are passing through Kolkata and other districts. This has helped to bring down the temperature,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/kolkata-residents-feel-winter-chill-as-mercury-drops-to-15-degrees-celsius/story-vX5FggyAW4Qh4IRbUXJ6RL.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: As Covid-19 cases rise, govt warns of a lockdown if people ignore guidelines||As Covid-19 cases start rising Maharashtra again, a concerned state government has warned of a lockdown. The Covid-19 pandemic had been brought under control in Maharashtra thanks to the restraint and discipline of the citizens, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said Sunday, but he also warned that if people did not continue to follow safety measures, it could trigger a second wave “like a tsunami”. The warning came as Maharashtra clocked over 5,000 cases for the fifth consecutive day, taking the tally to 1,780,208, with 5,753 new infections on Sunday. Nearly 20% of the cases recorded on Sunday came from Mumbai alone, where 1,135 new infections were recorded. The state had clocked fewer than 5,000 cases for nine days in a row till November 17, with a daily average of 3,628 cases.Also Read: G-20 summit ends with support for Covid-19 vaccines for allThackeray said that Maharashtra was at a crossroads in its fight against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and warned people that there could be another lockdown if appropriate behaviour was not followed.“Delhi, Ahmedabad, and some western countries have seen a surge in cases again... We are at a crossroads now. Today, the numbers have come down in Maharashtra. We have to decide which way we want to go. Do we want to go the lockdown way? We need to take control of our actions right now. The vaccine will come when it does, but for now, masks, social distancing and sanitisation are the only medicines to stay away from coronavirus,” Thackeray said.Health experts and the state administration are expecting a second wave to hit Maharashtra by December-end. The next eight-10 days are crucial to ascertain how huge the surge might be.The chief minister, in his address to the state, said that he’s been advised by some to impose night curfew like in Ahmedabad, Gujarat. “Some people are suggesting to me that there should be night curfew. But not everything can be done by enacting laws. We did not ban firecrackers for Diwali and instead we appealed to the people to exercise caution. And they followed. Similarly, I’m appealing to you not to venture out of your homes unnecessarily,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-as-covid-19-cases-rise-govt-warns-of-a-lockdown-if-people-ignore-guidelines/story-nKsjWT7A8EvUmdaSNpnTzN.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi to experience misty morning; partly cloudy sky later in the day: IMD||With a further drop in temperature, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday forecast a minimum temperature of 8 degree Celsius and a maximum of 25 degree Celsius in the national capital.As per the IMD forecast, Delhi will experience fog or mist in the morning and partly cloudy sky later in the day.Minimum temperatures continued to drop in most parts of northwest India on Sunday and Monday. Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of only 6.5 degrees Celsius, 5 degrees below normal until 6.30am.IMD data shows that Delhi recorded 7.3 degrees Celsius on November 28, 2006. It was the previous record for the lowest minimum temperature since IMD began maintaining data from 1990. The lowest ever minimum temperature was recorded on November 28, 1938, when the minimum temperature dipped to as low as 3.9 degrees Celsius.IMD scientists have warned that this time the Capital is likely to have a colder winter than usual this year, because of a Pacific Ocean weather phenomenon known as La Nina, which leads to a cascading impact on global weather in winter months.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC), said local factors, too, have contributed to making days colder. “Delhi has had a cloudless streak, with only one western disturbance so far bringing in moisture. When there are no clouds, the ground cools faster and the minimum temperatures stay low,” he added.Experts said a western disturbance on November 23 will briefly cause a slight increase in temperatures. Once that passes, days and nights will become colder again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-experience-misty-morning-partly-cloudy-sky-later-in-the-day-imd/story-vAJ1ypLVcVKylt3YTrvnYL.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality remains poor, likely to deteriorate further||Air quality in Delhi remained in the higher end of the "poor" category on Monday morning. The air quality index (AQI) reading at 6 am was 279. The average AQI reading on Sunday was recorded as 274 in the "poor" zone. The air quality is likely to deteriorate to "very poor", as wind speed is likely to reduce from Monday night onwards, government agencies have forecast. As per System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing forecast, air quality may deteriorate to "very poor" over the next two days on account of reduced ventilation and slow dispersion of pollutants. Also Read: Over 7 million litres of water sprayed in pollution hot spots: Delhi Fire deptBesides, the share of stubble burning to city’s PM2.5 levels on Sunday reduced to 12% from 13%. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists, the average wind speed may reduce to 5-6 kmph, not favourable for dispersion of pollutants. “Due to a Western Disturbance in the Western Himalayan Region, which impacts Delhi as well, the wind speed is likely to reduce while the minimum temperature is likely to rise slightly,” said a senior IMD scientist. On Sunday, Delhi recorded a minimum temperature of 6.9 degrees Celsius, the lowest minimum temperature recorded in the month of November in 17 years, as a cold wave swept parts of the city. The last time when the minimum temperature in November dropped lower than Sunday’s was on November 30, 2003, when it was recorded at 6.6 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-air-quality-remains-poor-likely-to-deteriorate-further/story-FJG6NbOLDFuOrlePakdV6O.html
23-11-2020||Patna||Will continue to raise issues of corruption, make them public: Tejashwi Yadav||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday said that his party will continue to raise the issues of corruption and make them public.Speaking to media when asked if Bihar minister Mewalal Choudhary’s resignation is a victory for him, Tejashwi said, “The mandate in the polls was for a change and everyone knew in which scam FIR was filed against Mewalal. Despite that, he won and was made Education Minister. I have been raising my voice before.”“We demanded his (Mewalal’s) resignation and it happened. We will continue to raise issues of corruption and bring them in public,” he said.Bihar Building Construction Minister Ashok Chaudhary was on Thursday given additional charge of the education department, following the resignation of Mewalal Choudhary over corruption allegations.Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan appointed Ashok Chaudhary as the education minister on the recommendation of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.Mewalal Choudhary was among the 14 ministers who were sworn in on November 16 as part of Nitish Kumar’s new term as Bihar chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/will-continue-to-raise-issues-of-corruption-make-them-public-tejashwi-yadav/story-9d68IbQH9BF6FTaRzfgg6O.html
23-11-2020||City||800 students in Patiala school deprived of mid day meal ration for 7 months||A shoddy implementation of the Mid Day Meal Scheme in Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s home district deprived 800 students of the ration allotted to them for seven months despite the Centre’s directions to ensure regular supply of the same to children during the closure of schools. The Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD) in March had directed all the states to provide mid-day meal to students on monthly basis when a countrywide lockdown was imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus. These 800 children study at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Pheelkhana, and is situated just 2 kilometres from the CM’s residence in Patiala. The matter came to light when the teachers flagged the issue of principal Karamjeet Singh not providing them ration for distribution to students. The state education department has provided the school with the requisite ration till October that never reached the students. Principal Karmjeet Singh admitted that around 800 students remained deprived of the ration during this period. He, however, failed to give a satisfactory reply as why the ration was not provided. The school has just started distributing 3kg rice and wheat to each student against the sanctioned 14kg rice and wheat each. Mera Devi, mother of Sahil Kumar who studies in class 8 in the school, said, “I earn Rs 6,000 a month by working as a housemaid. My husband lost his job of tiffin service to paying guests during the lockdown. We cook food just once a day. If the school had provided us mid-day meal ration, at least my son could eat twice a day. Even till now they have not provided any ration for my son,” Jaitra (40), a housewife and mother of Khushi who studies in class 7, said, “My husband, a painter, struggles to make both ends meet. Khushi was completely dependent on mid day meal but she did not get it since the school was closed.” A teacher said, “The education department needs to conduct an inquiry to check what is going on in the school. The department will find several irregularities if the inquiry is conducted by officials of other district.” “The rest of the ration will also be delivered to the students soon,” said the principal. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “I will direct the district education officer to look into the matter. Action will be taken against the person concerned if any irregularity is found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/800-students-in-patiala-school-deprived-of-mid-day-meal-ration-for-7-months/story-b6awtKPXWnFMreI0ZPLMFK.html
23-11-2020||City||Gobind Singh Longowal remains frontrunner for SGPC president’s post, again||Incumbent Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal has again emerged as a frontrunner in the race for the top post in the upcoming annual elections despite facing allegations of mishandling of the issue of missing 328 Guru Granth Sahib saroops. Besides electing the president, the SGPC general house will assemble on November 27 to choose vice-president, junior vice-president, general secretary and the 11 executive members.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who takes a final call to choose the top brass of the gurdwara body, is meeting the SGPC members in Chandigarh these days. Longowal, who is serving as the president for last three consecutive years, is seen as trustworthy and loyal by the SAD chief. An SGPC member said, “Longowal is a perfect yes man for the Badals and this will go in his favour. He even takes minor administrative decisions with the consent of Sukhbir.” “If the incumbent president is replaced, some senior faces in the SGPC house such as Tota Singh and Jagir Kaur may feel jittery amid a threat of revolt. Keeping the reins in hands of Longowal will be a safe bet for SAD,” said a member from Ludhiana district after holding a meeting with Sukhbir.A former executive committee member known for dissent within the SAD, said, “He does not take any decision on his own. In the current scenario, Sukhbir is not likely to take any chance by giving the reins to someone who poses challenge to his authority.” Secondly, the Badals are facing challenge from the Dhindsas (Rajya Sabha member Sukhbir Singh Dhindsa and his son MLA Parminder Singh Dhindsa) who turned rebels and floated a splinter party with the same nomenclature ‘Shiromani Akali Dal’ adding a suffix ‘Democratic’ to it.“The Badals picked Longowal from the bastion of the Dhindsas. Till the Dhindsas pose a challenge to them, Longowal will remain their top choice,” he added.Talwinder Singh Butter, who writes on the gurdwara body affairs, said, “This is for the first time in the recent years that no other face has emerged as a frontrunner to replace the incumbent president ahead of the annual polls.” Though names of senior Akali leaders Jagir Kaur, who has been SGPC president earlier, and former Punjab minister Tota Singh, are also doing the rounds, their seniority is a hurdle in their way of getting the top post. During the SGPC budget session recently, Jagir Kaur had even questioned the ability of Longowal in dealing with the issue of the missing saroops.Incumbent general secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami is also being seen as a candidate for the job as an educated face but he lacks political influence. Balbir Singh Ghunas will be on the forefront in the race if the SAD wants Dalit face for the position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gobind-singh-longowal-remains-frontrunner-for-sgpc-president-s-post-again/story-vuBvOTkT1g3jr3Vksuo10N.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: The flag wearer||He is sitting on his rickshaw saddle, by the arcades of a central Delhi avenue. It is late in the evening, and Pankaj Kumar is waiting for customers. He is in a very distinctive T-shirt—it is painted in stripes of saffron, white and green.“It is our tiranga,” he says, confirming that the shirt is modeled after the national flag. “The jhanda (flag) is a symbol of our country, it is our pehchan (identity), whether we are rich or poor, Bihari or Bengali.” Mr Kumar bought the shirt from a stall near the Red Fort. “It was expensive,” he notes, saying he had to shell out 250 rupees. This is almost as much as his daily income. He makes about 300 rupees everyday. “I know it is very low,” he says somberly, explaining that this drop in earnings took place following the arrival of the coronavirus pandemic. “Earlier I would earn one hundred rupees a hour, and if I was pedaling for 12 hours straight I would make 1,200 rupees daily.”In his late 20s, Mr Kumar, a native of Begusarai in Bihar, has been in the city since childhood, and has been a rickshaw puller for more than a decade.Looking down at his shirt, he says that he takes very good care for it. “It represents our country’s flag. I cannot disrespect it,” he murmurs, his tone solemn and grave. Usually, he would wear the same shirt continuously during his working hours, day after day until it wears off, “but this one is so nice, I want to last it longer... I wear it every other day, and give it a wash when I’m not wearing it.”Mr Kumar uses a public tap for washing and bathing. His house in Delhi is his rickshaw, he says, “where I sleep, eat and work.” Every night he returns to a patri (pavement) near the New Delhi railway station where he parks his rickshaw for the night. “That’s a night thikana (destination) for many rickshaw-wallas like me.... we all sleep on our respective rickshaws.“What will happen when the T-shirt gets too frayed for daily wear? “Usually I throw away my clothes, but this one... “ — here he pauses, probably considering the disposal of the wear in question for the first time. “I will fold it carefully and keep it in the baksa (box) under my rickshaw’s seat.... it’s a nishani (mark) of our desh (country).”Meanwhile, another rickshaw puller arrives, eavesdrops on the conversation and consequently gazes upon Mr Kumar’s shirt to see what the fuss is all about.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-flag-wearer/story-I82aeiFiEsT0vn6JydUloI.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 pushes tourism in Delhi to the edge||Satyam Bhatnagar runs a handicrafts shop in Paharganj’s main bazar, a backpackers’ paradise that boasts of hundreds of touristy establishments such as money changers, hotels, rooftop restaurants, tour operators, and handicrafts shops selling a range of stone and wood sculptures, puppets and magnets featuring Delhi monuments. His shop, Bhatnagar says, always saw a steady stream of foreign tourists before the Covid-19 pandemic hit in March. “But in the past seven months, I have not seen a single foreigner in the market which once teemed with tourists from all over the world at any hour of the day. Our sales are almost down to zero,” he says. The pandemic has almost wiped out tourism in Delhi. Paharganj, once a bustling, thriving market whose entire economy depends on foreign tourists, is a microcosm of the devastation caused by the ongoing coronavirus crisis in the capital’s tourism sector. The otherwise popular city tours conducted by Delhi Tourism ---a Delhi government undertaking that facilitates tourism in the city --- have no takers. Travel and tour operators in the city complain of the loss of lakhs of jobs and see no hope of their return in the near future.This is quite a sad turn for the tourism industry in Delhi, a city which last year was ranked 11th in the list of ‘Top 100 city destinations’ in the world by Euromonitor International, a global market research agency. Besides, it was among the country’s top four destinations with about 29 lakh foreign tourists arriving in the city in 2019, according to India Tourism statistics. This is peak travel season, and yet Paharganj wears a deserted look. No wonder then, on a bright, balmy November afternoon, Subhash Vij’s mood is dark as he sits inside his handicrafts shop filled with incense sticks, smoking pipes, designer cotton bags, and a host of brass and wood souvenirs. “Eighty per cent of our customers were foreign tourists, most of them from countries such as the US, the UK, Israel, Russia, Korea and Japan. Unlike other markets, which are thriving ever since the lockdown was lifted, shop keepers here have no business at all, as 80 per cent of the business in the market depended on foreign tourists. With restrictions on tourist visas continuing, our market is the biggest victim of the pandemic,” says Vij, who is also president of the Paharganj Market Association. Over the years as the market became a favourite with backpackers, dozens of eateries—many of them run by expats and mostly catering to foreign tourists--- came up in the market. Most, including popular ones such as Brown Bread Bakery, an Italian restaurant run by Italian and German expats, have remained shut. “Unlike restaurants in other parts of the city I cannot afford to open mine till foreign tourists are back because almost all my customers were tourists, ” says Surinder Sharma, who owns Diamond Restaurant in the market. With over 800 hotels, Paharganj is also Delhi’s biggest hotel hub—and half of them are shut. “A large number of guests of these hotels were foreign tourists, with as many 100 hotels completely dependent on them, ” says Ajay Kumar Agarwal, president Paharganj Hotel Mahasangh. “Quite a significant number of tourists who visited Delhi lived in Paharganj’s budget hotels.” The first hotels here came up in 1972 to cater to the visitors to the Asia 72 Trade Show, held at the newly opened Pragati Maidan to celebrate 25 years of India’s Independence. In the 70s, Paharganj also became a regular part of the hippie trail. In the 1990s, it attracted a large chunk of Russian and Japanese budget tourists. The Asian Games, 1982, triggered a hotel boom here. As many as 70 -80 hotels had come up here then, with many locals turning their houses into hotels. Rajan Sehgal, member, managing committee, Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI), says the city has roughly about 10,000 small and big tour operators, and about 3.5 lakh of the 5 lakh people employed in the city’s tourism sector have lost their jobs. “These jobs are not going to return any time soon because not just inbound tourism , but domestic tourism is unlikely to pick up in the near future,” he says. “We have lost 90 per cent of our business. We had eight employees, now we have only two. It is becoming impossible to sustain the business now,” says Anil Chetwani, managing director, CEE BEE CEE Travels and Tours. It is not just private travel and tour companies, even Delhi Tourism, too hardly have any takers for its many full and half-day guided city tours famous as Delhi Darshan , which it has been conducting for the past 40 years. The tours include visits to places such as Lakshmi Narayan Temple, Gandhi Smriti, Qutab Minar, Bahai’s House of Worship (Lotus Temple), Red Fort, Rajghat and Humayun’s Tomb. “ Most of our local and outstation guided tours have remained suspended as there are hardly any bookings for them. Besides, there is only 25 per cent footfall in our various properties such as Dilli Haat across the city. We do not see the situation changing in the next few months,” says Sanjay Goel, MD, Delhi Tourism. With no tourists coming to the city, among the worst hits are tour guides. The city has about 1,200 tourists guides approved by Union ministry of tourism; and another 5,000 irregulars. Most tour guides depended on freelance assignments from tour and travel operators, and on an average made about Rs 35,000 a month in the peak season. They have had no work in the past eight months. “Eighty per cent of the people in the group tours I conducted were foreigner tourists. I have not got any assignment since February. This is a peak tourist season, which lasts from October to March, and I have no work. I have never faced such a grim situation in the past 23 years that I have worked as a tour guide. I do not know how l would survive,” says Anand Kumar Pandey, a government-approved tour guide in Delhi. Sehgal believes that the government should promote golf tourism in Delhi and NCR which, with its many world-class golf courses can become a hot golf tourism destination. “There is a going to be a great demand for golf tourism in the post-Covid world. After all, it is a perfect sport for social distancing, ” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-pushes-tourism-in-delhi-to-the-edge/story-2kbTFF5LkpQXDsfZr5ffpN.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||25 more deaths reported in Haryana||Haryana recorded 25 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Sunday and logged 2,279 fresh cases, the state health bulletin said. Four people each succumbed in Gurugram, Hisar and Rohtak districts, three in Bhiwani, two each in Faridabad, Sonepat and Jhajjar, while one each died in Jind, Sirsa, Kurukshetra and Ambala districts. While the death toll has climbed to 2,188, the tally of people tested positive stands at 2,17,300. Meanwhile, as many as 1,94,768 people have recovered from the infection in Haryana so far. As many as 2,235 patients recovered on Sunday and the number of active Covid-19 cases rose to 20,344. Among the districts with the maximum number of new cases was Gurugram, where 649 infections were reported, followed by Faridabad 598, Hisar 160, Sonepat 128, Panchkula 75, Rohtak 66, Bhiwani 63, Karnal 61, and Ambala 56. There were 415 critical patients, including 359 on oxygen support and 56 on ventilators.Khattar concerned over rising caseload Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday expressed concern over the increasing cases of Covid-19, saying the third phase of the infection has started as everyday about 2,500 to 3,000 people are getting infected in the state. In a live telecast, Khattar appealed to the people to wear masks and maintain social distance. Stating that last nine months experience teaches us to be careful while fighting this battle, the chief minister said the state government is making provisions to provide masks in adequate quantity. “The fine amount of ₹500 or ₹2,000 for not wearing masks does not matter much as everything cannot be cured with penalty. But those who break the rules again and again must be punished.” he said, informing that health department has been directed to make one crore masks. He said that so far, about 32 lakh people have been tested which is about 12.5% of the total population of the state. Regarding the possibility of imposing a lockdown again, the CM said it might create more problems. He said during the first lockdown, markets, factories and businesses were closed and that “we should ensure that there is no need to take such a step again.” Khattar said as every child was not able to get the benefit of online education due to lack of resources, a decision had to be taken to reopen schools. But recently, schools were closed till November 30 when quite a few students and teachers were found Covid-19 positive. Now, whenever schools will be opened, Covid-19 tests will be conducted in their houses or localities, he added. Appreciating them for donating crores towards Covid fund, he said that employees should stay away from strikes and dharnas during this time of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/25-more-deaths-reported-in-haryana/story-yv9ETHbIYzcuo0luFAcdsN.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||14 months on, Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank depositors yet to get RBI relief on withdrawals||Fourteen months on, there is no relief to around 17 lakh depositors of the scam-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. On September 23, 2019, the RBI moratorium on the bank had barred the depositors from withdrawing money from all the 137 branches in six states. The apex bank regulator had first capped the withdrawal limit at Rs1,000. Later, depositors were allowed to withdraw money upto Rs50,000 in a six-month period, which was further increased to Rs1 lakh till December 22, 2020. PMC Bank’s top management is accused of unlawfully sanctioning around 73% of the bank’s loans to Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) group of companies and favouring its promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and his son Sarang. The bank allegedly concealed HDIL’s non-performing assets (NPAs) from RBI. The depositors, who constitute over 37% senior citizens, said they are facing a financial crisis. According to the depositors, the RBI administrator informed them that the documents of the assets mortgaged with the bank are not in order and hence, their auctioning has been delayed, owing to which, the central bank is unable to provide any relief to the depositors. Nikhil Vora, 51, who represents the PMC Depositors’ Association, said, the RBI is “lethargic” in its approach. “In the past 14 months, RBI failed to auction the assets of the accused mortgaged with the bank and recover money. The apex regulator could not detect the irregularities in the documents while scrutinising them and now despite learning about the wrongdoings, they are not doing anything. Why would citizens trust the banking system?” said Vora, whose lifetime earnings are stuck in the bank. “The depositors have explored all the options – from meeting ministers to politicians to suggesting RBI all the possible measures to bring the bank back on track. However, all the efforts have gone in vain. For the past 14 months, the depositors are left to die. The elderly depositors have all of their life savings in the bank and were running their homes on the interest they used to get from the bank. They are now living under tremendous financial stress which worsened owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Since the time the restrictions were imposed on the bank, 95 people (depositors or their kin) have died, of which four died by suicide,” added Vora. Another depositor, Anita Lohiya, said that RBI resolved similar issues pertaining to Yes Bank and Laxmi Vilas Bank in no time, but is not “concerned” about the lakhs of depositors of PMC Bank. “After deaths of more than 90 depositors, the RBI has not woken awakened. This is so frustrating for us. The finance minister said that now cooperatives banks are at par with commercial banks and the RBI has the power to save them. Yes Bank was saved in 13 days, while Lakshmi Vilas Bank will be saved in a month, but it’s been 14 months since PMC Bank depositors are facing problems. Passing the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act in the Parliament was just a waste of time.”She said the depositors will sit on a hunger strike for 10 days from Tuesday opposite the RBI headquarters. “If the central bank fails to resolve the issue even after that, then the depositors will be on indefinite hunger strike,” added Lohiya. Initially, the depositors were hopeful that the prompt action taken by the city police’s economic offences wing (EOW) would lead to the recovery of money from the accused, but nothing fruitful came out. “The police have far lesser scope for recovery in such a banking fraud. EOW has already shared details of the assets of the accused linked to the irregularities at the bank to the RBI administrator. The recovery of money by auctioning the mortgaged properties is the [central] bank’s duty and not of the police. So it would not be correct to expect recovery in the case from police. But we will ensure that the offenders are prosecuted,” said an EOW officer. Fifteen people have been arrested in the case so far. “While one accused has been granted on medical grounds, 14 of them are in jail. We have filed three charge sheets in the case, detailing the role of all the accused behind the fraud. The roles of the top management of the bank, its directors, officials, evaluators and auditors have been clearly established in the investigation. Sufficient evidences were collected. The two accused who were rejected anticipatory bail from the courts are to be arrested. Forensic auditing is still going on and we are recording of statements of key witnesses before the magistrate,” said senior police inspector, Kishore Parab from EOW, who is the chief of the special investigation team probing the case. RBI said that the efforts to revive the bank are on. In the first week of November, the RBI administrator for PMC Bank, AK Dixit, had invited expressions of interest from prospective equity investors to identify a suitable investor or group of investors willing to take over the management control to revive the bank. The new investors could be financial institutions, including banks and Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFCs), micro-finance institutions controlled by residents, individuals, companies, societies, trusts or any other such entities. The administrator was forced to reach out to potential bidders to bail out the troubled lender with a minimum capital infusion of ₹3,500 crore. The decision to go for an open bidding process was prompted by PMC Bank’s failed attempts to receive any interest from other lenders as cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks refused to bail out PMC Bank. PMC Bank had deposits worth ₹10,727.12 crore and advances of ₹4,472.78 crore and gross non-performing assets worth ₹3,518.89 crore as on March 31. Its share capital was ₹292.94 crore, and it registered a net loss of ₹6,835 crore in financial year 2019-20. The bank also has a negative net worth of ₹5,850.61 crore. Dixit wrote a letter to all the depositors, assuring them that a “meaningful resolution” is his top priority. “The bank has already initiated actions for the recovery of bad debts, including accounts of the HDIL group. We have intensified our recovery efforts through close follow up, settlements and legal action, as appropriate. We have taken aggressive steps to control costs and cut expenses. Branch network is being rationalised, premises are being surrendered and rents are being re-negotiated down,” stated his letter. He also assured depositors that he and his team are working in their best interest and that various options are being considered and discussions with different entities are going on. Dixit did not respond to phone calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/14-months-on-punjab-and-maharashtra-co-operative-bank-depositors-yet-to-get-rbi-relief-on-withdrawals/story-og2fTEGtyuXQvGHAvtKdLL.html
23-11-2020||City||FIR against Punjab farmers for transporting urea||A joint team of agriculture department officials and police on Sunday intercepted a tractor trailer in Fatehabad and seized 300 bags from the procession of three Punjab farmers, who were carrying the fertiliser for wheat sowing. Farmers initially need DAP, but after three weeks of wheat and mustard sowing, the crop demands urea, which is helpful in growth of the crops.A day earlier, Jind police had registered an FIR against four Punjab farmers, who were allegedly transporting 840 bags of urea in four tractor trailers as the neighbouring state is facing shortage amid the wheat sowing season due to suspension of freight trains in Punjab over farmers’ agitation against three farm laws. Nearly 10 FIRs have been registered against Punjab farmers in Haryana for carrying urea. Mahabir Prasad, quality control inspector, Fatehabad, said they had booked a group of Punjab farmers under Section 3 of the Fertilizer (Movement Control) Act and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act. “Fertiliser cannot be transported to another state without prior permission,” he added. A senior official of the agriculture department said farmers of the neighbouring state are buying urea from border areas of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind , Kaithal and Ambala. “We have directed the dealers not to sell urea to Punjab farmers because demand for the fertiliser is increasing in Haryana too. Some dealers have been selling urea to Punjab farmers at ₹50-70 more than the actual rates,” the official added.Abhay extends support to Punjab farmersExtending support to Punjab farmers, INLD’s Ellenabad MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said the farmers of the neighbouring state are sitting on dharna against three farm laws, which would ‘ruin’ the farming. “It is surprising that the police have been booking farmers for transporting urea from Haryana. The government’s claim of buying and selling commodities from any part of the country has fallen flat after state police seized urea bags from Punjab farmers and registered FIRs against them. The farmers living on Haryana-Punjab borders have family relations. Why can’t they buy urea and other things from any town of both the states,” Chautala questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fir-against-punjab-farmers-for-transporting-urea/story-Ic0hgPLUc5Wd8m20rM9bIO.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana excise department generated ₹600 crore more revenue this year: Dushyant||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said in past six months, the excise and taxation department generated ₹660 crore more revenue than the corresponding period of previous year. The deputy CM, who also holds the excise and taxation portfolio, has been battling the allegations of alleged irregularities pertaining to the sale of liquor during the lockdown. The new excise policy could not be implemented due to the lockdown. The old policy runs till the end of the financial year (March 31) and the new policy comes into effect from April 1. This year the new policy started from May 6. On Sunday, the excise department declared the figures for the first quarter (May 6 to August 19) and the second quarter (August 19 to November 18). “From May 6 to November 18, the department has collected ₹660 crore more revenue as compared to the corresponding six months of the previous year,” Dushyant Chautala said in a statement. He said the excise department will not only meet the target of raising ₹7,500 crore revenue as projected in the new policy, but also there is a possibility of generating about 25% additional revenue. He said in the first quarter (May 6 to August 19), a total revenue of ₹2,391 crore was generated in comparison to ₹2,142 crore during the same period last year. Similarly, in the second quarter (August 19 to November 18), ₹1,773 crore was collected, while in the second quarter last year this amount was ₹1,361. He said from the Covid cess, ₹195 crore has come to the treasury till the second quarter. The excise minister said the state government has made provisions in the excise policy to curb the practice of tax evasion and that the flow illicit liquor from neighbouring states has been curbed. “Due to the alertness of the officers of the department, every single rupee of excise revenue is coming into the treasury and that is why we are getting more revenue than the target,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-excise-department-generated-600-crore-more-revenue-this-year-dushyant/story-cGMZ29LixJRSs2t4oNihQM.html
23-11-2020||City||Farm leaders mobilise support for November 26 rally in capital||Ahead of their protest at Delhi against farm bills on November 26 and 27, farmer unions’ leaders from Haryana are visiting villages to ensure huge gatherings from the state for the two-day stir.Punjab farmers will also reach Haryana and join the local farmers for the march to Delhi. As per the information, farmers will enter the national capital from Delhi-Karnal highway, Delhi-Rohtak highway, Delhi-Agra highway and Delhi-Gurgram road. Union leaders said that most of the farmers, from Punjab too, will reach Delhi via NH 44 (Ambala-Karnal-Delhi). Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “We are touring each and every village to ensure all farmers from the state reach Delhi and join this protest against the black laws enacted by the Centre.” He said that the support is overwhelming and the government cannot suppress the voice of farmers by using the police force. “The government is worried about the farmers’ protest and it may impose another lockdown citing increasing number of Covid-19 cases, but they cannot stop us. We will reach Delhi by our own”, said BKU (Tikait) state president Ratan Mann.The government so far has not made any announcement in this regard and it is not clear whether the farmers will be allowed to proceed. However, farm leaders said there is a strong possibility that the Haryana government will not allow Punjab farmers to enter the state and the government may issue instructions to the district administrations to prevent the farmers to move from one district to another. Haryana inspector general of police (law and order) Navdeep Virk said, “We are working out a solution, but it is for sure that nobody will be allowed to disturb the law and order in the state. The police will ensure the implementation of the government’s order.” It has been learnt that farmers, arhtiyas, labourers and people associated with mandis will also join the protest.The farm leaders have also got the support of employees and trade unions as their representatives have announced to observe a strike on November 26 to join the farmers’ protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farm-leaders-mobilise-support-for-november-26-rally-in-capital/story-8oHiMMpEXdCcMwm9X1eh9J.html
23-11-2020||City||Former Panipat councillor’s body fished out||Body of former Panipat councillor Harish Sharma was fished out of Delhi parallel canal near Khubru village of Sonepat on Sunday, three days after he jumped into it following the registration of an FIR against him and his daughter for allegedly selling firecrackers and assaulting a police team. Harish’s family and supporters held a protest at Panipat flyover, accusing the police of abetting his suicide and also blocked traffic on the NH 44.His daughter Anjali Sharma also joined the protesters and threatened to intensify the stir if no action is taken against the cops, who raided their residence on Diwali and booked them for selling firecrackers and assaulting cops. She also demanded for investigation to be handed over to the central bureau of investigation (CBI). BJP MP from Rohtak Arvind Sharma later reached the spot to pacify the protesters and assured them of action against the cops as per the findings of the investigation. He also said that he will talk to top police officials for registration of fresh FIR for abetment to suicide against the police officials who raided the Sharma’s residence. After a high drama of more than three hours and repeated assurances from Arvind Sharma on their demands, including registration of fresh FIR against the cops, formation of a special investigation team and government jobs to the next kin of Harish and Rajesh, the protesters agreed to lift the blockade. Panipat DSP Varinder Saini said that the police will act as per Anjali’s statement. “An investigation is being conducted by a special investigation team,” he added. A day after registration of FIR against him and his daughter, Harish had jumped into a canal, with his brother Satish and friend Rajesh Sharma also jumping after him for the rescue. Satish was taken out by a local diver, but Rajesh couldn’t be saved. Haryana home minister Anil Vij has already formed a committee under ADGP Sandeep Khirwar for investigation in the case and two cops, who led the raid at Sharma’s residence, have been suspended. As per the information, the MP also arranged a telephonic conversation of Anjali with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The police also had to resort to using mild force to disperse the protesters to ensure smooth passage of traffic. Some protesters also sustained minor injuries, it has been learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-panipat-councillor-s-body-fished-out/story-wwolJNfR6hedJlx8gkj0ZK.html
23-11-2020||City||Two more lose battle to Covid-19 in Ludhiana, count 22, 044||Two patients died while 98 others tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, Ludhiana’s health officials said on Sunday. The contagion has so far claimed 881 lives in the district.As many as 22, 044 people have been infected by the virus until now, of which 20, 365 have recovered while 795 are still battling it.The two new fatalities include a 60-year-old male from Doraha and a 52-year-old male from Model Town.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that a total of 114 patients tested positive of which 98 belong to Ludhiana while 16 are from other states and districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-more-lose-battle-to-covid-19-in-ludhiana-count-22-044/story-qTFk4Oax2w5nVViyNAUPkM.html
23-11-2020||City||Ludhiana plastic factory blaze: Firemen’s families rue bureaucratic apathy||Families of the nine firemen, who lost their lives in the 2017 plastic factory fire and the subsequent building collapse, gathered near the tragedy site at Suffiyan Chowk on Sunday, to mark the third anniversary of the tragedy. In all, 16 persons had lost their lives in the incident, of which nine were firemen. Paying homage to their loved ones, the family members expressed disappointment over the bureaucratic apathy towards them. They claimed that the authorities seem to have forgotten the sacrifice of the firemen.Sixty-four-year-old Malkit Singh, who is the father of deceased fireman Manpreet Singh, said, “It has been three years since my son’s death but so far, no one in my family has been offered a job on compassionate grounds. Even those who were offered a job, have been recruited on probationary basis which is unfair.”Navan Hans, son of firefighter Manohar Lal who died in the incident, said that for the past two years, they had been holding a path (prayer ceremony) at the central fire station, near Laxmi Cinema but this time, they were denied permission. “We were told to look for another venue, following which, we approached the rickshaw factory located adjacent the tragedy site. During the plastic factory fire, the rickshaw factory had also suffered a lot of damage. When we approached the factory owner, he happily agreed and allowed us to organise the prayer meeting here,” said Hans.He added while honouring 14 other firemen for their bravery last year, the Centre had stated that the families of the firemen who died in the Ludhiana factory fire will be provided certain allowances. “But so far, we have received nothing—neither by the Centre nor the state government,” said Hans.Congress MLA Surinder Dawar, zonal commissioner Jasdev Singh Sekhon and the fire department officer visited the sport and paid their respects. Family members claimed that they had sent invitations to mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal too, but they did not turn up.Despite repeated attempts, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal was not available for comments. Mayor Sandhu, meanwhile, said, “I share a personal connect with the families of firefighters who laid down their lives for others. I make it a point to attend all their programmes. Today, I was out of town due to a family function. And despite my best efforts, I could not make it back on time. I had intimated the families about it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-plastic-factory-blaze-firemen-s-families-rue-bureaucratic-apathy/story-Op9n424G7gghOxmIwGztYN.html
23-11-2020||City||Maratha community to send one lakh petitions to Supreme Court for vacation of stay on reservation||More than two months after a three-judge Supreme Court (SC) bench put an interim stay on the reservations for Marathas in government jobs and school admissions, the community members have started a movement to plead the top court for the vacation of the stay by sending 1 lakh postal petitions. The community has been agitating after the bench stayed the implementation of the reservation and transferred the petition to a constitutional bench on September 9. The Maratha community was granted 12% reservations in employment and 13% in admissions two years ago under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. Owing to the stay by the Apex court on the implementation of the reservations, the junior college and medical course admissions in the state have been stalled. The Maharashtra government has requested the Chief Justice of India, through four applications in the past six weeks, to form a constitution bench to hear the reservation petition at the earliest. The 18-page petition by the community members states that the SC bench set aside the Bombay high court decision (HC), permitting the implementation of the reservations, without going into the factual aspects of the matter. “The reservation has been stayed without giving an opportunity of hearing to the members of the aggrieved SEBC category. The reservation to the Marathas has been stayed when there is 42% reservation given for 43% population, which excluding the reservation for SC (Scheduled Castes)/ST (Scheduled Tribes) and SEBC, is 62% reservation in the state. The 103rd Constitutional Amendment Act, 2019, has nullified the limit of 50% reservation and the existing reservations have been protected till the date of enactment. This means the reservation to Marathas, which was in existence by then, has been protected,” their petition stated. It further read that the reservation to Marathas was given in an extraordinary and exceptional situation and the HC had justified it under three grounds. “The situation arises because of an erroneous exclusion of Marathas for seven decades. Secondly, the reservation was given on the basis of the quantifiable data and recommendations by the state backward classes commission. The extraordinary situation has also arisen as 85% of the state population is backward,” the petition read, while quoting the HC order given last year. Balasaheb Sarate, a community leader who is a part of the movement, said, “The petition covers all the factual aspects, legal points and substantial questions of law for the attention of all the judges. Till date, more than 5,000 applications have been sent through registered post and email and the number is expected to reach 25,000 in a week. More than 2,500 community members have signed the online petition. In the first phase, at least one lakh applications will be submitted under our ‘One family, One Application’ drive. The community had submitted about 2 lakh memorandums to the state backward classes commission in 2018 as part of the collection of the quantifiable data. This movement too will get similar support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maratha-community-to-send-one-lakh-petitions-to-supreme-court-for-vacation-of-stay-on-reservation/story-G1nezCCVssY5tQfx6BxvGI.html
23-11-2020||City||Crimes go up in Ludhiana as cop presence goes down post Diwali||With police presence in the city visibly going down post Diwali, anti-social elements seem to be gaining momentum once again. As many as four cases of snatching, two cases of vehicle lifting and eight cases of burglaries have been reported in the city since November 15. The number of these crimes was much lower between November 9 and November 15, when the Ludhiana police had deployed around 2,500 personnel across the city to control the law and order situation amid the festive rush. The police had also formed 120 patrolling teams and set up 125 checkpoints at various points in the city during this period. The security plan clearly worked and only four cases of snatching, burglary and vehicle lifting were reported in the week before Diwali. However, as police withdrew its personnel from the city markets and other public places, the crimes starting going up again. On November 17 alone, four cases of burglary and one case of snatching was reported in the city. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said, “The safety and security of citizens is our priority and we will increase patrolling and checkpoints in the coming days to deter such incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/crimes-go-up-in-ludhiana-as-cop-presence-goes-down-post-diwali/story-WjULbIhQUZLzUKXKfYNwHN.html
23-11-2020||City||Leaders of ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi alliance to mull next step as Governor yet to take call on MLC nominees||Two weeks after the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government submitted the 12 names to be elected to the state legislative Council from the Governor’s quota to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, senior leaders of the ruling alliance will meet this week to discuss the next move over the issue. The meeting is likely to be held between chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra Congress chief and state minister Balasaheb Thorat to chalk out the next step to increase MVA’s strength in the upper house of the state legislature. The Raj Bhavan has not taken a call on the names yet. Though as per the constitutional provisions there is no time frame for the Governor to take a decision on the government’s recommendations, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray in his letter had requested Koshyari to take a call on the 12 names in 15 days, Sena minister Anil Parab said. “The CM has requested the Governor to take a decision in 15 days. It is a request, not a law. It is his (Governor’s) prerogative to accept the request or not. The 15-day period has ended and therefore, MVA leaders will meet to take a decision for the next course of action,” said Parab. When asked if the state government would move the court over the issue, Parab said, “For this, every aspect needs to be examined and only then can a decision be taken.” On November 6, a delegation of state ministers, including Parab, Amit Deshmukh (from the Congress) and Nawab Malik (from the Nationalist Congress Party) submitted the 12 names. While the Sena had sent the names of actor Urmila Matondkar, Nitin Bangude-Patil, Vijay Karanjkar and Chandrakant Raghuvanshi, the NCP had picked former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse, farmers’ leader Raju Shetti, Yashpal Bhinge and Anand Shinde. From the Congress, the names of party spokesperson Sachin Sawant, Aniruddha Wankar, Muzaffar Hussain and Rajini Patil were sent. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leaders-of-ruling-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-alliance-to-mull-next-step-as-governor-yet-to-take-call-on-mlc-nominees/story-k8rcOTi2vzJVCW5PAjJ3lJ.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Swachh Bharat Mission water plus certification: Chandigarh MC invites public opinion||For getting the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) water plus certification this year, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has sought public objections and comments.A city or a ward can be declared as water plus provided all wastewater released from households, commercial establishments, drains, nullahs is treated to a satisfactory level (as per Central Pollution Control Board norms), before releasing it into the environment.Further, adequate capacity of wastewater and sewage treatment facilities is to be ensured. The infrastructure should be maintained properly and cost recovery ensured through reuse/recycling of treated wastewater to ensure sustainability.“Chandigarh is treating all the waste, sewage water generated from residential, commercial and industrial areas at different treatment plants. No untreated water is flowing into the water bodies. More than 25% of the treated wastewater is being used in green areas, parks and lawns for their maintenance and development,” said an MC official.Notably, a National Green Tribunal (NGT) panel had recently directed the MC to plug the flowing of sewage water into the Sukhna choe and N-choe at five places.SBM Water Plus is the next level of certification after open defecation free++ (ODF++) and is also a precondition for a city to compete for seven-star garbage-free city rating so as to rank among top cleanest cities in Swachh Survekshan 2021.Chandigarh was accorded the ODF status first on September 27, 2016, and the city was certified ODF++ on September 19, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/swachh-bharat-mission-water-plus-certification-chandigarh-mc-invites-public-opinion/story-ULhUdEHDIbhdyk1vrvzWoJ.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board employee booked for duping city man of ₹4.5 lakh on pretext of providing flat||The police have registered a case against an employee of Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for duping a man of ₹4.5 lakh on the pretext of providing a CHB flat in Sector 49.Kulbir Singh of Sector 46 alleged that Joginder of Zirakpur, who worked for CHB, had promised him a flat in Sector 49 for which he had given him ₹4.5 lakh in advance. But Joginder was unable to get the flat after which he allegedly gave him a cheque of the same amount that was dishonoured. Kulbir said that afterwards, the accused stopped taking his calls.Police didn’t clarify when the incident had taken place or what Joginder’s designation was at CHB, which they said they will ask Kulbir during investigation.A case was registered under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). No arrest has been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-employee-booked-for-duping-city-man-of-4-5-lakh-on-pretext-of-providing-flat/story-uopsBIutDR5u2hTOwIKvdI.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s SGNP gets 6th tiger; pregnant tigress, four unborn cubs found dead at Maharashtra’s Umred sanctuary||Even as the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai’s Borivli area got its sixth tiger on Sunday, a three to four-year-old pregnant tigress was found dead at Umred Paoni Karhandla (UPK) wildlife sanctuary in Maharashtra’s Bhandara district. During patrolling, forest officials found four foetuses, around seven to eight weeks old, aborted near the carcass. At SGNP, forest officials said the 11-month-old tigress was brought to the national park around 7pm on Sunday from Chandrapur after covering a journey of almost 900km between since Friday. “The cub is healthy. She has been kept at a quarantined cage as per protocol. We will continuously monitor her health and allow her to settle first. Only then will we take a decision on relocating her closer to the rest of our tigers [at the safari area],” G Mallikarjuna, director and conservator of forest, SGNP said, adding, “The team that brought the cub to SGNP did not face any trouble during their long journey.” SGNP is now home to five female and one male Royal Bengal tigers. The cub was brought to SGNP after a failed reunion attempt with her mother at Chichpalli range of Chandrapur forest division in June. The forest department carried out a DNA matching study to accurately identify which tigress the cub belonged to but failed in reuniting them. “All tigresses at SGNP are dominant, and keep clear of the male tiger Sultan. We hope the female cub will help improve the breeding programme of the tiger safari,” said Mallikarjuna. Meanwhile, the pregnant tigress found dead at Umred was at compartment number 1452/1 of the TAS beat, which was within the forest area, and about 3 km away from a nearby village. “As per our observations during the post mortem and circumstantial evidences, prima facie, the tigress died due to infighting with another animal, most likely another tiger,” said Ravikiran Govekar, field director, Pench Tiger Reserve, adding, “The body was found dragged to about 50-m inside the forest. Several signs and indications of infighting were found near a stream in the area, including blood trails, multiple tracks of pugmarks, drag marks, and body hair spread in this region.” He added that the carcass was found eaten up from the left side with the rib cage broken. “There were puncture marks on the ventral neck (due to canines) and the death might have been caused due to asphyxia and bleeding,” he said. The carcass was disposed of as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) protocol. “The adult tigress was reported to have entered the UPK range in March, and thus was a new entrant to the sanctuary. We do not name tigers until they spend at least a year. In this case, it seems territorial dominance led to her death,” said Govekar. While samples of the carcass were collected for further examination, 25 camera traps across the area where the tigress was found dead will be used to collect additional information. “As there seems to be another tiger involved, we are monitoring the area to locate the animal to check whether it is injured. Additionally, further medical examination will help us explore and rule out all other possibilities for the tigress’ cause of death,” said Govekar. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-sgnp-gets-6th-tiger-pregnant-tigress-four-unborn-cubs-found-dead-at-maharashtra-s-umred-sanctuary/story-qdWwfYA1QOtki8FlGg7EOI.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi records 100-plus Covid-19 deaths for third consecutive day||The Capital recorded 6,746 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, as the city continued to combat a third wave of the disease, even as authorities continued to augment Delhi’s health infrastructure to ensure it was able to keep up with rising hospitalisations.In a grim statistic, the city saw over 100 deaths of the disease for the third day in a row, with 121 fatalities on Sunday — the second-highest single day toll so far. On Saturday, the state government’s daily health bulletin had recorded 111 deaths of the infection, and 118 on Friday. November 18 saw 131 deaths of the infection — the highest so far in a day.Meanwhile, the proportion of RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard to diagnose Covid-19, continued to remain high in the city’s total-test count. Of the 54,893 tests conducted on Sunday, 42% were of the RT-PCR variety, while the remainder were done using the rapid antigen method.The Capital’s positivity rate, the percentage of tests that return positive, was 12.29% on Sunday. The World Health Organization (WHO), recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region. In case the positivity rate rises, WHO recommends increasing testing numbers for prolonged periods of time till the number drops below 5%. Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday said 400 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients were added to the city’s hospitals in the last three days — as part of a strategy aimed at augmenting Covid-19 ICU beds by 1,650.“Total Covid-19 beds were increased to 17,252 till yesterday (Saturday). We are further increasing beds across hospitals. Around 7,700 beds are currently vacant. In the last 3 days, 400 ICU beds have been increased in Delhi’s hospitals. ICU beds will be further increased in the next 2-3 weeks. Under the augmentation plan private hospitals will have 250 more ICU beds, Delhi government hospitals will have 650 more and 750 are supposed to be added in central government hospitals,” said Jain in a press briefing.A majority of hospital beds, especially intensive care unit (ICU) ones, continue to be occupied. By Sunday evening, hospitals across Delhi — both private and public ones — had 17,423 total Covid-19 beds, of which 7,967 were vacant. The government records further showed that there are 4,086 ICU beds, of which 734 are vacant.Jain had earlier said the government’s order directing around 90 private hospitals in the city to increase beds reserved for Covid-19 patients from 50% to 60% has added another 2,644 beds.The increased Covid-19 deaths in Delhi have added to the burden of crematoriums. Jain said, “The municipal agencies have assured us that there will be no hassles in cremating Covid-19 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-records-100-plus-covid-deaths-for-third-consecutive-day/story-VPAB7wCyZIzUc0mcrCF3sI.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra saw highest leopard deaths in 5 years in 2020||The state saw 159 leopard deaths between January and November 2020, the highest in at least five years, and the decade’s highest human kills in leopard attacks (23), according to the forest department data. According to data from the office of the state’s principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF-wildlife), of the 159 deaths, 80 were natural, 64 were accidents (road accidents, train accidents, falling in open wells, and hunting by dogs), two were electrocuted, and 13 were poached. Last year, 110 leopard deaths were recorded in Maharashtra – 66 natural, 35 accidents, and nine poaching cases. There were 88 deaths in 2018 (54 natural, 27 accidents, seven poached), 86 deaths in 2017 (55 natural, 21 accidents, nine poaching and one electrocution), and 89 in 2016 (53 natural, 29 accidental, and seven poaching cases). Meanwhile, prior to 2020, 17 human kills by leopards were reported in 2013, followed by 14 in 2011, 2015 and 2017. Last year, 12 people were killed in leopard attacks. “Increasing leopard deaths and kills by the animal in 2020 is a result of considerable rise in their population,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF (wildlife), Maharashtra, adding, “While there is no population estimation study so far, cases are being reported from across the state as the animals are spread all over (rural, urban, and agricultural fields, forests). While people have learnt to live with this animal in most areas, leopards, too, are adaptable to threats around them. These factors have allowed their numbers to rise.” Kakodkar said there was a rise in poaching incidents this year too, owing to isolated cases in different parts of Maharashtra during the lockdown. The state forest department plans to conduct a population estimation exercise of leopards over the next two years. The forest department on Sunday said an example of the rise in population was witnessed at Sangareshwar sanctuary in Sangli (one of the smallest sanctuaries in Maharashtra) where leopard sighting was observed for the first time. “We have planned to go in for a sampling-based approach for all regions. While leopard numbers seem to be most in western Maharashtra, we have identified hotspots where most leopard deaths or human kills have been reported. They include Nashik, Nagar, parts of Marathwada, especially Aurangabad, Ratnagiri, and the entire sugarcane belt of Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli, north Maharashtra and Marathwada,” said Kakodkar. Delhi-based Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) estimates the number of leopard deaths in Maharashtra has been the highest in at least 10 years with 30 deaths in 2010, 34 in 2011, 43 in 2012, 36 in 2013, 41 in 2014, and 46 in 2015. WPSI data also showed Maharashtra had recorded 22 leopard kills in road accidents in 2018, 19 kills in road accidents and three in train accidents in 2019, and 19 road accidents and one train accident in 2020. “Fragmented forests and more linear infrastructure planned outside forests have worsened the situation in Maharashtra,” said Tito Joseph, programme coordinator, WPSI. Independent experts said there was a need for a mitigation focused approach to address the issue. “We really do not know what is happening on ground at the moment, and the cases being reported are a fraction of what they actually may be. With so many leopards, the number of human deaths is currently low across Maharashtra. For years, in areas like Nashik and Aurangabad, there has not been a systematic conflict resolution programme. An example of a successful approach is Mumbai, where people and leopards have learnt to live in co-existence and there have been absolutely no cases of human deaths. Thus, such a model carried out after stakeholder engagement needs to be replicated through a well-drafted program across hotspots identified by the department,” said noted human-leopard conflict expert Vidya Athreya, wildlife biologist with the Wildlife Conservation Society-India. Meanwhile, scientist from Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, Bilal Habib is presently undertaking a four-year study at the Junnar landscape (Pune) where a population estimation exercise will be done to understand the behavior of animals, how they hunt and how they use the human-dominated landscape. Ten leopards would be radio-collared under this exercise. “There is a need to think about strategies as soon as these numbers (deaths) start pushing up. We may need to think of a committee constituted to solve the tiger problem in Chandrapur district, for leopards as well. The focus should be on areas where leopards are actively breeding. Studies like ours at Junnar may help develop basic understanding of the issue and can be replicated across other problem areas in the state,” said Habib. The recent deaths Recent leopard deaths included a three-to-four-year-old pregnant leopard (carrying three unborn cubs) in a road accident on the Western Express Highway near Kashimira, Mira Road last Sunday. Another leopard was killed in a road accident on Saturday near Satara on the National Highway 4 that connects Pune and Bengaluru. “I will be directing local authorities to identify problem areas within their jurisdiction where mitigation measures are needed,” said Kakodkar, adding, “The spurt in population is causing more road and train accidents. On the main roads like Ghodbunder, there is a need for more speed breakers, signages, and similar mitigation measures that are being worked out with Sanjay Gandhi National Park forest staff.” Last week, two human deaths (a father and a son) killed in leopard attacks were reported from Aurangabad and another person killed prior to that from Jalna. Earlier this year, around 20 leopards were trapped along a 12-km stretch along the Darna River (between Sinnar and Eklahare) where leopard numbers had risen significantly leading to a surge in conflict with five deaths and five serious injuries reported since December 2019. “The entire sugarcane belt provides a lot of water, it provides good prey density, and due to long term harvesting, it provides a lot of security to these carnivores. It is a safe haven for leopards. That is the reason, leopard numbers have grown tremendously. The houses in this belt are not separated from the sugarcane fields. There are instances of farmers walking out of their house and being face to face with leopards leading to conflict. Apart from awareness not much is possible in these areas,” said Kakodkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-forest-department-plans-survey-to-check-on-state-of-leopards/story-ZRshA0gppscC3CKwNn4GjK.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots conspiracy: Police file charge sheet against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam||Delhi police on Sunday filed a charge sheet against Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Faizan Khan in the case of the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots. This is a supplementary charge sheet. Earlier, the police had charged 15 persons in the same case but did not name Khalid, a former JNU student leader. The police have arrested at least 21 people, including the three named in the fresh charge sheet, for planning and orchestrating the riots. In the charge sheet, the special cell of the police have claimed that the riots, which broke out in different parts of north east Delhi in February, were not spontaneous but was planned by some prominent voices of the anti-Citizen Amendment Act protests such as Khalid and Imam at the protest sites. Among those who were named in the main charge sheet were former councillors Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan. The police have invoked the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) against the arrested accused in the case. The main charge sheet lists statements by protected witnesses, WhatsApp messages of different anti-CAA groups, call detail records and other evidence to support charges against the accused. Delhi police’s additional spokesperson Anil Mittal said the 930-page supplemetary charge sheet against the three accused -- Khalid, Imam and Khan -- was filed on Sunday in the court of Amitabh Rawat, special judge, Karkardooma courts. The matter is listed for hearing on Monday.Mittal said the trio were charged under sections of UAPA and IPC sections of criminal conspiracy,.murder, attempt to murder, rioting, among others. Police said they have also been charged under sections of illegal possession of arms and under Prevent of Damage to Public Property Act (PDPPA), the officer said.On Friday, a Delhi court extended the judicial custody of Khalid and Imam till November 23. Faizan Khan, who was granted bail last month, was arrested by Delhi Police on July 29, and is alleged to have been part of the conspiracy hatched by a group of prominent anti-CAA activists, local politicians, student activists and some local residents in February 2020.Khan had allegedly supplied and activated the SIM card registered fraudulently in the name of one Abdul Jabbar, but had given it to Tanha and was used by Safoora Zargar. Tanha and Zargar have also been arrested in the case of the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots. The communal clashes had started in north east Delhi on February 23 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/riots-conspiracy-police-file-charge-sheet-against-umar-khalid-sharjeel-imam/story-zEJEzCfcOvstKyjUZlccDP.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt temporarily shuts two markets in West district after Covid-norm violations||The state government on Sunday temporarily shut two makeshift markets in west Delhi district, citing rampant violations of Covid-19 regulations concerning wearing masks in public places and social distancing.The two markets, in Punjabi Bagh and Nangloi localities, will remain shut till November 30, as per an order issued by the office of the concerned district magistrate. HT has seen the order.“Both these markets are unauthorised and comprise around 100 makeshift shops selling goods ranging from garments to kitchen utensils. The crackdown was necessary in the light of rampant violation of Covid-19 regulations. This is not a lockdown, but a temporary measure because of an emergency,” said a senior government official.Meanwhile, senior leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday launched RT-PCR testing facilities in assembly constituencies and distributed masks across the city.RT-PCR [reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction] tests are considered the most accurate diagnosis for Covid-19.The AAP’s initiative to distribute masks across Delhi started on Saturday, a day after the government implemented increased penalties, hiked from ₹500 to ₹2,000 — for not wearing masks, spitting and not adhering to social distancing rules in public places. The initiative was discussed in an all-party meeting chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress have initiated similar initiatives as well.The first major RT-PCR drive through mobile vans was launched by Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha, who also distributed masks in his assembly segment. “Increased RT-PCR testing is an effective way of knowing how much Covid-19 has spread in Delhi. We don’t want to be a mere statistic, but take proactive and effective steps to contain the spread of this dreadful pandemic. I’ve also observed several people wearing their masks incorrectly. It must be understood that the mask goes over the nose, not under it. That defeats the purpose of wearing one,” said Chadha.“There is no medicine to treat Covid-19. You can only protect yourself and your family by wearing a mask and following social distancing,” said Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj.“If you love your family and are worried about their life, do not leave the house without wearing a mask,” said Malviya Nagar MLA Somnath Bharti.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain and environment minister Gopal Rai also participated in the mask distribution drive on Sunday. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had distributed masks in his assembly constituency Patparganj on Saturday.While the revenue districts and the police continue distributing free masks, several market welfare associations in the city too have now joined hands in the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-temporarily-shuts-two-markets-in-west-district-after-covid-norm-violations/story-PSpEtV1nnG8ikfT2d0jKLN.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 lockdown rumours hit business in city markets||In east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar wholesale market, Akashdeep Balli pulled out a stack of packed jackets from a shelf in his shop as few eager customers asked him about the possibility of stock clearance rebates.As Balli wholeheartedly agreed, his neighbouring shop owners came out yelling higher discounts in the light of a “lockdown” which, they said, can be imposed any time due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.There is anxiety among traders in Delhi about a possible lockdown, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and several other senior leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) insist that it is out of question.Click here for complete coverage on Covid-19“This is the time of the year when the second round of trade for winter apparels take place. The first round happens in October. In late-November, most traders go for another round to refill their stocks. As small-time wholesalers, we are not going for the second round this year fearing a lockdown. Instead, we are only focussing on clearing current stocks at a discount and keep a close eye on the Covid-19 numbers and trends,” said Balli.In Delhi, several traders said rumours about the possibility of a lockdown was already in place during the festive season in October, largely backed by the high numbers of daily Covid-19 cases and deaths.The anxieties were triggered last week when the chief minister said that he has written to the central government asking permission for temporarily closing down markets, which are assessed as potential Covid-19 hot spots. Senior officials said that the government has not received anything on this regard from the Centre yet.Also Read | Delhi records 100-plus Covid deaths for third consecutive dayA Delhi government spokesperson said, “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has met the representatives of the market associations of Delhi to seek cooperation in controlling the rising cases of Covid-19 in the national capital. In the meeting, the CM was assured by the market associations that they will support the government to prevent coronavirus infections in the marketplaces.”“The CM clarified that the Delhi government does not want to shut down any market. He appealed to the market associations to provide masks to the shoppers who are visiting markets without masks. The Delhi government has no intention to hamper the ongoing economic activities but at the same time seriously monitoring the Covid situation. The government believes that with the participation of market associations, volunteers and the people of Delhi the situation will improve soon,” the spokesperson added.However, despite clarifications and assurances by the government, there is anxiety among traders in wholesale markets such as Gandhi Nagar and Sadar Bazar and prominent retail hubs such as Lajpat Nagar, Karol Bagh and Sarojini Nagar. HT visited these markets on Sunday.The wholesale markets such as Gandhi Nagar and Sadar Bazar are also a major source of garments for the thousands of local weekly markets, flea markets, and vendors operating without permanent shops in the prominent markets. So, temporary closing of one would have cascading effects on business in others, the traders said.“We are trying to convince traders that there will be no lockdown, with regular meetings, social media messages and video conferences, but it looks like the rumours and the fears have already affected the trade cycle – especially in winter apparels,” said Brijesh Goel, president of the chamber of trade and industry.A widely circulated message shared on WhatsApp which had a list of 16 prominent markets chosen for a “20-day lockdown” later this month also fanned fears. Senior government officials have dismissed the message as “rumours”. OP Gupta, president of wholesale garment traders’ association in Gandhi Nagar, said: “The anxieties have affected the winter garment business directly. And unsold stocks are a big problem because several designs go out of fashion in a year. Most traders are focusing on clearing unsold stocks now – often with big discounts. Fresh procurements entail risk. The market anyway has not recovered well from the shock of the first nationwide lockdown.”Devraj Baweja, president of general secretary of confederation of Sadar Bazar traders’ association, said: “Even though some traders in Delhi markets are trying to procure fresh stocks, dismissing possibilities of a lockdown, they are facing difficulties too. Material for winter garments come mostly from Ludhiana (in Punjab) and Tiruppur (in Tamil Nadu). In those states, traders have heard about the lockdown rumours in Delhi and they have clearly started to anticipate problems in recovery of debts. So, they too are hesitating to sell more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lockdown-rumours-hit-business-in-city-markets/story-nQcFpcycWhCGc9rrx56V9M.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Appoint official for inquiry into misgovernance charges: Education min to DU||The Union education ministry has asked Delhi University (DU) to appoint a representative for the visitorial inquiry to be held into a litany of charges related to administrative misgovernance against suspended vice-chancellor Yogesh K Tyagi.According to a person aware of the development, the ministry has written to DU officials referring to a specific provision in the Delhi University Act that mandates a representative of the university be held in case an enquiry is held.It is learnt that the office of President Ram Nath Kovind, who is the Visitor to central universities, had raised the issue.After the President’s office flagged the issue, the ministry is learnt to have informed the university that sub-section (3) of Section 7 of the DU Act, which pertains to the matter, needs to be followed in case of an enquiry. The ministry has also told the varsity that mandatory compliance of the provision is important to ensure that any challenge at a later stage can be defended.According to the sub-section concerned, the Visitor shall in every case give notice to the University of his intention to cause an inspection or inquiry to be made, and the University shall be entitled to appoint a representative who shall have the right to be present and be heard at such inspection or inquiry.Accordingly, the DU has been requested to appoint a representative who shall be present and have the right to be heard at the enquiry.The ministry has also sought clarification regarding some other aspects related to the enquiry from the varsity, the person cited above said.The ministry has pointed out that Section 45 of the DU Act provides that any dispute arising out of a contract between the University and any of its officers shall at the request of the officer, teacher or varsity itself be referred to a tribunal of arbitration.The ministry has sought to know from the varsity its view on whether this provision has a bearing on the present case. Delhi University (DU) Vice Chancellor Yogesh Kymar Tyagi was last month suspended and the process of initiating an enquiry into a range of charges of misgovernance and dereliction of duties began after a nod from President Kovind.According to an order issued by Union ministry of education joint secretary Chandra Shekhar Kumar, all orders issued with the approval of Yogesh Kumar Tyagi during the period of his absence on medical grounds, after pro-VC Joshi assumed charge as acting VC on July 17 this year, were set aside and to be treated as null and void.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/appoint-official-for-inquiry-into-misgovernance-charges-education-min-to-du/story-jOEdB9TMi96yP7QMEpW7iK.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Over 7 million litres of water sprayed in pollution hot spots: Delhi Fire dept||With the rise in pollution levels in the national capital, the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said it has sprayed around seven million litres of water, to suppress dust and other pollutants, over the past one month. The fire department sprays water at 13 hot spots in the city every morning and evening.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said the special drive was started on October 17. There are 13 hot spots identified in the city, where pollution levels are at their highest, including Okhla, Vivek Vihar, Punjabi Bagh, Rohini, Dwarka and industrial areas.“The spraying is done every morning for two hours and for about an hour-and-a-half every evening. Fifteen fire tenders are used every day and around 200,000 litres of water is sprayed every day. This helps settle dust in the air and clean the trees,” Garg said.He said the department will continue the practice until pollution levels subside. A 2019 analysis of Delhi’s pollution sources done by Council on Energy, Environment and Water showed that vehicular emissions contributes to 39.2% of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels in the city. Dust from roadsides is a close second, and contributes 37.8%. In PM 10 levels (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres), the contribution of road dust goes up to 65.9%, while construction activities contribute 21%. The Delhi government, as part of its anti-pollution campaign this year has identified road dust as a primary contributor to local pollution. Apart from directing construction agencies to ensure the installation of anti-smog guns, which spray water at construction sites, the government has also directed enforcement agencies such as the Public Works Department (PWD), the four municipalities of the city (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations, and the New Delhi Municipal Council) to ensure regular water sprinkling. Delhi environment minister, Gopal Rai said that going into winters, when the pollution levels are at its worst in the city, the aim would be to utilise all the resources to minimize the impact of polluting sources.“All agencies will have to come together and fight pollution. In fact, not just the government agencies, people of Delhi will also have to join hands with the government in this fight against pollution,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-7-million-litres-of-water-sprayed-in-pollution-hot-spots-delhi-fire-dept/story-JZgPgIHwRVBSaUAgFPJfTJ.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Marginal drop in air quality, IMD forecasts higher pollution levels from Monday||Delhi’s air remained in the poor zone on Sunday, deteriorating marginally from a day before, according to data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), as strong winds kept pollution levels from getting worse in the national capital.CPCB data shows that Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) on Sunday was 274, while on Saturday, this was recorded at 251, both in the ‘poor’ range. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said reasonably high wind speeds over the National Capital Region (NCR) have helped keep pollution levels in check. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the average wind speed recorded over the Capital on Sunday was around 10kmph. “On Saturday and Sunday, wind speeds were on the higher end, so the air quality has remained in the poor zone and not deteriorated much,” said Srivastava. He, however, warned that from Monday with the impact of a western disturbance over Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, wind over Delhi and its neighbouring satellite towns will slow down, causing pollution levels to rise. “From tomorrow (Monday), the wind speed is likely to slow down to around 6kmph,” he added. The Union government’s weather and air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said winds are forecast to slow down from Monday. “Slow winds and low ventilation is forecasted for November 23 and November 24. The AQI is likely to deteriorate to the middle end of very poor by tomorrow (Monday). It is likely to further deteriorate to the high end of very poor by November 24,” the Safar bulletin read. The Safar analysis also said that while instances of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana had reduced, they had not stopped completely. On Sunday, 649 fires in Punjab and Haryana contributed to 12% of levels of PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in Delhi’s air.Meanwhile, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday held a review meeting with the Public Works Department (PWD), where he was informed that the department had installed 23 anti-smog guns at key intersections and construction sites across the city. PWD officials in the meeting also assured that more will be installed, if necessary. Rai said PWD officials have also been instructed to sprinkle water on trees, roads and on the construction sites to combat dust pollution. “A total of 150 water tankers have been deployed for sprinkling water,” Rai said. He also said PWD officials have been instructed to increase this number to cover more locations. “I have also instructed PWD officials to increase the number of tankers further so that all of the city’s key roads can be covered. If necessary, we will install more anti-smog guns as well at key intersections in Delhi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/marginal-drop-in-air-quality-imd-forecasts-higher-pollution-levels-from-monday/story-RZk2UVnDx7seG6Ow6AV2MI.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Vehicles and chaos back at pedestrian-friendly markets||Over a year since Karol Bagh market was made pedestrian-friendly, with decorative street lights, benches, flower pots, and bollards, it is back to its usual congested self. A ground check by HT on Sunday found the lane marked for emergency services on the Ajmal Khan Road has been taken over by vehicles, street lights have been stained by people chewing paan or gutkha spitting on them, and cars and two-vehicles parked near the benches meant for the shoppers to relax. Similar scenes were witnessed at east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar market, which was also made pedestrian friendly under a project by the municipal bodies to decongest city markets and make some portions no-go zones for vehicles. The municipal corporations had allowed vehicular movement in these markets in July on the insistence by the traders that they need to ramp up sales that were devastated due to the prolonged lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Now, the civic bodies have extended the relaxation given for vehicle movement by two months. Traders of the two markets had sought to extend relaxation till March next year. The civic authorities say that the current relaxation is likely to continue till January 2021. “Vehicular movement was allowed on traders demand due to the pandemic. It is a temporary relaxation. In January, there will be an assessment and efforts will be made to re-launch the pedestrianisation plan,” a senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official said.Karol Bagh was the first shopping hub in Delhi to be pedestrianised, as part of which its main market road (Ajmal Khan Road) was restricted for vehicles in May last year. Similarly, around 1-km stretch between Chhachi Building and Ghondli Chowk in Krishna Nagar’s Lal Quarter Market was pedestrianised in October last year.Shoppers, however, said the experience was better with pedestrian facilities. “When there was no vehicular movement on the main road of the market, everything looked in order. But now, most of the space is taken over by vehicles. Many a times we have to sit on benches with cars parked just beside it,” Nikita Sangwan, a shopper in Karol Bagh market said.Murli Mani, president Ajmal Khan Road Traders Association, said due to Covid-19 pandemic sales went down by 60% and that restriction on vehicular movement will further restrict business.“Mostly shoppers use private vehicles. They do not want to use public transport due to Covid-19. If the main road is pedestrianised again, the customers will stop visiting the market. We have requested the civic body to extend relaxations till March but they have agreed to allow vehicular movement in the market till January 2021,” Mani said.Jagdish Vohra, president, Lal Quarter Market Association, said pedestrianisation should not be implemented till Covid-19 situation prevails.Jai Prakash, mayor north corporation, said, “It is an unprecedented situation which has badly hit the businesses. So, we also have to think about our traders and take necessary steps. These relaxations are temporary and pedestrianisation will be re-implemented when the situation improves.”Knowledge partner to the Union ministry of home affairs, Anuj Malhotra, who had assisted north and east corporations in making Karol Bagh and Krishna Nagar markets pedestrian friendly, said it was disappointing to see the vehicles running on a pedestrianised stretches. “Such relaxations should remain only temporary measures. The authorities should try to restore pedestrian-only stretches in both the markets,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vehicles-and-chaos-back-at-pedestrian-friendly-markets/story-BtwJW78n3naCi04bPUYM7J.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Robber out on parole caught for stealing cop’s pistol||A man out on parole broke into a south Delhi house where five policemen lived and stole a service revolver and 10 bullets belonging to one of them, the police said on Sunday after arresting him and two of his suspected partners. The three had planned to use the revolver to rob a Karol Bagh-based jeweller, but were caught before they could execute their plan, said Sanjay Bhatia, deputy commissioner of police (central district). The police identified the suspects as Atul Bhardwaj and his associates Vipin and Vishal. Bhardwaj was to return to jail on November 30 after a 45-day parole in a robbery case, for which he was imprisoned in September this year. “On November 17, he broke into a rented home in south Delhi’s Kishangarh. At the time, he didn’t know that the house had been rented out to five policemen,” said the DCP. In a bag lying in the house was a service revolver and 10 cartridges belonging to a Delhi Police constable on security duty.“Bhardwaj thought he could sell the revolver at a good price,” the officer said. But later, he allegedly roped in two of his associates and planned to use the revolver to rob the jeweller. The police, meanwhile, were hunting for the man who stole the police’s gun. “On Friday night, we received a tip-off that the man who had stolen the police’s revolver would be visiting Karol Bagh to carry out a reconnaissance of a jeweller he planned to rob,” Bhatia said. The police laid a trap and nabbed him, and seized a country-made pistol and two bullets.At his instance, his two associates were also arrested and the stolen revolver and the bullets recovered from them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/robber-out-on-parole-caught-for-stealing-cop-s-pistol/story-fEcPPbH5CNO4LMP4nAHAoI.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Abandoned building collapses in Keshavpuram, none hurt||An abandoned three-storey building in northwest Delhi’s Keshavpuram collapsed on Sunday afternoon. No one was injured in the incident, the police said. According to the police, the building was in an industrial area near Britannia Chowk and was not in use. Police said parts of the building were dilapidated and were being demolished over the past few days using cranes and bulldozer. The site was vacant on Sunday, when the collapse took place.A police team, firefighters, and teams from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) also reached the spot to asses the situation.Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said four fire tenders were sent to the spot but no rescue operation was required as the building was not in use.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanata Arya confirmed that no one was injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/abandoned-building-collapses-in-keshavpuram-none-hurt/story-XECdDgWk8iBssuP91Z16DO.html
23-11-2020||Delhi||Decorated cop plotted extorting Rs 2 crore from Delhi builder, arrested||Five months after a builder in south Delhi made a complaint about an extortion call from an alleged gangster, the Delhi Police on Sunday said they have arrested a decorated assistant sub-inspector of their own force for masterminding and facilitating the crime. The ASI, 48-year-old Rajbir Singh, allegedly passed on the builder’s phone number to the gangster and even advised him to shoot at his son’s car to scare them into paying up.The police had arrested the alleged gangster and three other suspects previously as part of their investigations, which eventually led to Singh’s role being revealed.The police did not reveal the builder’s name to protect his privacy.Singh had, in 2005, been conferred with the President’s Police Medal for Gallantry, as well as the Asadharan Karya Puraskar (award for extraordinary work) seven times, and also received an out-of-turn promotion in 2015. The police, in a statement released on Sunday, said they were contemplating dismissing him from service and examining the possibility of withdrawing the medals conferred on him.Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south), said the sequence of events, which culminated in the ASI’s arrest, began on June 28 when the builder received an extortion call for Rs 2 crore. “The caller introduced himself as gangster Kaala and threatened to eliminate his family if he didn’t pay Rs 2 crore,” Thakur said. The victim approached the police, who registered a case at Hauz Khas police station.Investigations revealed that the phone number used to make the extortion call was snatched in Rohtak in Haryana the previous evening. The SIM card was removed from that phone and inserted into another handset to make the call, the police said. Within the next month, the police arrested three suspects — Mukesh, Sawan and Sunny — and recovered three mobile phones from them.In August, the police arrested Kaala, an alleged criminal who works out of Rohtak. Meanwhile, as the police analysed call records from the seized phones, they found that ASI Singh had been in regular touch with Kaala and the other suspects before and after the extortion calls were made, said the DCP. “He had also met them extortionists a few times,” the officer added. The police then began focusing on Singh’s role and found that he knew the builder for at least 10 or 12 years. “After the extortion calls, on July 14, Singh had also called the builder to speak to him about the crime and offer help. But he was actually trying to gauge his mood and the situation,” Thakur said. The police then questioned the arrested suspects, who allegedly disclosed that the policeman was the mastermind. “Singh had passed on the builder’s phone number to Kaala to make the extortion calls,” Thakur said. When the builder did not pay, the ASI had also allegedly advised Kaala to shoot at his son’s car, an attack that eventually did not take place. “The ASI has denied making such a suggestion, though there is enough evidence against him for planning the crime and getting it executed,” said another police officer who didn’t want to be identified. Singh was arrested on Friday, until which point he was posted in the south-west zone of the police control room. “The Delhi Police is examining the possibility of withdrawal of medals conferred upon him. He has been suspended and proceedings for his dismissal are being contemplated,” read a statement released by the force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-police-cop-who-had-received-president-s-medal-arrested-for-role-in-extortion-calls-to-builder/story-usZ9UHuY8jtp4xkDFGV6IM.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Omaxe MD, 2 directors booked for fraudulent sale of flat||The managing director of Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Pvt Ltd, Rohtash Goel, and directors Bhupinder Singh and Kamal Kishore Gupta were booked on Sunday for fraudulently selling a flat built without requisite approvals. A case was registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Mullanpur police station after advocate and Ropar resident Manpreet Singh alleged that he had been fraudulently sold a flat in the Silver Birch project in Mullanpur’s New Chandigarh.In his complaint, Manpreet said he had bought the apartment in September 2019. It was previously registered in the name of a woman, Manju. Omaxe had taken approximately Rs 1.4 lakh as transfer fee for the allotment rights in his favour, which he transferred to the company through a bank transaction. However, “after checking the facts thoroughly, I found that the project was based on forgery of documents. The builders had got the project approved in 2010 by showing a forged layout of the housing project and started the bookings then,” alleged Manpreet. He also found that the project was coming up without the necessary change of land use certificate (CLU).In 2018, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had marked it “not to be sold”. “In spite of this, they continued selling the flats,” he added. As no action was taken by the police on his complaint in the matter in February this year, Manpreet moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, which sought a status report from the police, after which the FIR was registered.Allegations refutedRefuting Manpreet’s allegations, director, business development and liaison, Omaxe, Daleep Moudgil, said, “In 2011, we got the CLU for the land. Then layout was approved by the competent authority and accordingly, we got the zoning plan and building plans for independent floor from the authority, following which the construction was carried out. We have got occupation and completion certificate from the authority concerned.”“In December 2015, when we added more area, our layout was approved, but it was found that some revenue road from the corner of plot was passing through it. We have acquired this revenue road from the government and its CLU was also got approved and necessary rectification carried out in our revised layout, which we have already submitted with the competent authority,” Moudgil added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/omaxe-md-2-directors-booked-for-fraudulent-sale-of-flat/story-whjnlRKQvnXZytthg5olcO.html
23-11-2020||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee begins outreach in tribal belt days after Shah’s visit; BJP says it’s too late||Seventeen days after Union home minister Amit Shah visited Bankura district in the western part of West Bengal, discussed elections with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders from the region and had lunch at a tribal home, chief minister Mamata Banerjee reached the district on Sunday afternoon. Shah spent around eight hours in Bankura. Banerjee will be attending administrative meetings and public rallies till November 25, said Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders. “Mamata Banerjee is not a migratory bird who pays a visit once in a while to have lunch with people. She has done a lot for the tribal population. We are confident that she will do more in the future,” said Jyotsna Mandi, the TMC legislator from Ranibandh which is reserved for scheduled tribe candidates. Incidentally, the 13 assembly segments in Bankura district are part of two Lok Sabha seats that the BJP won last year. These are Bankura and Bishnupur. The BJP also won the Bardhaman-Durgapur and Asansol Lok Sabha seats in the adjoining district of West Burdwan. BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats in 2019.. Banerjee’s visit is significant because the TMC also launched its new outreach programme in Bankura on Saturday. All legislators in the state have been asked to visit their constituencies with local bureaucrats and interact with people about their problems and solve those within a stipulated time frame. Sampa Daripa, the legislator from Bankura assembly segment visited a tribal village prior to the chief minister’s visit. “The villagers are having some problems getting subsidised ration. They also want a road repaired. These will be taken care of,” said Daripa. BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu, who visited Durgapur on Sunday to attend organizational meetings, scoffed at the chief minister’s visit to the tribal belt. Also Read: 5 TMC MPs could resign any moment, says BJP MP Arjun Singh in poll-bound Bengal“Banerjee is making desperate efforts but nothing can save her government. It’s like saying prayers for the dying. She should have reached out to these people when they needed her help. All these years the TMC delivered nothing but corruption. The tribal people want jobs and security that she cannot provide,” said Basu. The region will be a crucial factor for the TMC in the assembly polls due in about five months because voters expressed their confidence in the BJP in 2019.Dr Subhas Sarkar wrested the Bankura Lok Sabha seat from the TMC by securing 49.2 % votes while TMC’s Saumitra Khan retained the Bishnupur seat after joining the BJP prior to the polls. Khan is now president of the BJP’s state youth front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/mamata-banerjee-begins-outreach-in-tribal-belt-days-after-shah-s-visit-bjp-says-it-s-too-late/story-aed4ugnhGB4xq9G9Eb2JHN.html
23-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka colleges may be shut again due to recent surge in Covid-19 cases||Barely a week after reopening of colleges, Karnataka government is rethinking the move. Degree, diploma and engineering colleges were reopened immediately after Diwali on November 17 but since Covid-19 cases in the state are again witnessing a fresh surge, the government is rethinking its strategy.Health minister Dr K Sudhakar, while speaking to reporters in Dharwad on Sunday, said, “If the cases go up as is being reported by you (media) then we might shutdown the colleges once again as there is no alternative.”Interestingly, the health minister’s statement comes ahead of a crucial meeting on Monday to decide on reopening of schools. The government, staff, students and parents are all concerned after reports of at least 130 students and staff found infected with Covid-19 after reopening of colleges.ALSO WATCH | Covid update: Poll rallies allowed in India; World Bank’s economy projection Health and education department officials had justified reopening of colleges citing the need for practical learning, lack of online education infrastructure facility and digital gadgets among poor students, health issues due to continuous exposure to digital devices as some of the reasons for reopening colleges.Sudhakar defended the move to reopen colleges saying that youth generally have more immunity and that the government had the dual responsibility of protecting their health and safeguarding their academic interests. However, he said there would be a rethink after getting more data from officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-colleges-may-be-shut-again-due-to-recent-surge-in-covid-19-cases/story-OA9OOiWlc8xrWeziD1shvN.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Pune district reports 770 Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths on Sunday||The state health department reported 770 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday and 11 deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.46 lakh Covid-19 cases till Sunday, of which 3.21 lakh have recovered, 7,322 have been reported dead and 17,209 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 323 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total count of Covid-19 cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to 1,77,487. Nine deaths on Sunday in PMC took the death toll to 4,166 while PCMC reported 206 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the final count of positive cases to 87,333. Zero deaths were reported in PCMC on Sunday and the death toll stands at 1,242. Pune rural reported 241 fresh cases taking the final count to 81,613 and two deaths took the death toll to 1,881, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 4,060 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.51 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.75%. Also, 5,753 fresh positive cases in the state were reported on Sunday, taking the total cases to over 17.80 lakh. In addition, 50 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,632. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.62%. Of 1,02,13,026 laboratory samples, 17,80,208 have tested positive (17.43%) for Covid-19 till Sunday. Currently, 5,15,976 people are in home quarantine and 5,615 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-district-reports-770-covid-19-cases-11-deaths-on-sunday/story-ZTrkcb79n9vgCjt5MAo5xO.html
23-11-2020||Pune||Reopening of schools: 5,671 teachers in rural Pune get tested, 17 positive||With schools in rural areas of the district set to reopen from Monday, the administration has completed conducting Covid-19 tests for teachers posted at these schools.According to data released by the Pune district education department, of the total 20,244 teachers and non-teaching staff in Pune rural, 5,671 of them underwent the Covid-19 test on Saturday (November 21). At least 17 of them were found to be Covid-19 positive. “We are currently carrying out Covid-19 tests of teachers in Pune district and till now, around 17 teachers have been found positive. Once we complete the testing of all the teachers and get their reports, the schools in Pune district will be started in a phasewise manner till December 1. Currently, only three subjects will be taught in the school to the students – Mathematics, Science and English. The daily school timings will be only for three hours,” said Ganpat More, primary education office, Pune Zilla Parisha. There are approximately 6.5 lakh students in Pune district studying in Classes 9 to 12 and around 22,000 teachers for teaching various subjects to them. Though the state government has given permission to start the schools from November 23, majority of parents are not yet willing to send their children to school until the Covid-19 vaccine is available. “It is a high risk to send our children to school to attend physical classes. My son is in Class 10 and currently, he attends online classes daily, for school as well as private classes. So, we will not be sending our son to school till there is a medicine or vaccine available,” said Shailesh Sirvi, a parent.Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the decision on reopening schools in the city will be taken after a review meeting on December 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/reopening-of-schools-5-671-teachers-in-rural-pune-get-tested-17-positive/story-pFsE19T3WiZuKpgvpYfRsK.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Save Ambala’s war cemetery, MP KJ Alphons writes to Haryana CM||Ambala Former union tourism minister and Rajya Sabha MP for Rajasthan KJ Alphons has written to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and principal secretary to the state government (archaeology and museums department) Ashok Khemka, highlighting the “obstruction” created by a man named Shaukat Masih Bhatti at the Ambala Christian Cemetery on Jagadhari Road.BJP parliamentarian Alphons’s letter dated November 12 also encloses a representation from the Cemetery Committee member Father Anthony of the Holy Redeemer Church in the city. It reads that Bhatti, allegedly a self-declared Anglican bishop, has taken custody of the burial ground and is denying access to the committee to maintain the heritage site.“Obstruction is being caused by one Shaukat Masih Bhatti... He has locked the gate. His objective is to convert this into real estate, step by step. This is a war cemetery and government property. Since it is a national heritage (site) it must be protected and maintained properly.... the Cemetery Committee is constituted with the blessings of the government, kindly permit them to continue functioning, allowing persons to be buried there, and undertaking all maintenance work,” writes Alphons.HT on November 18 highlighted how the burial ground was virtually in ruins as two parties battled over possession rights.The site has graves of around 66 World War I (1914-1918) soldiers, 20 of Anglo-Boer War (1899-1902) prisoners who fought in South Africa and those of a number of Britons from the pre-independence era.Commenting on the matter, Khemka on Saturday said the letter was yet to be examined.“Ownership and possession lies with two different bodies, but protection is with my department. Any kind of changes at the site can be done with the approval of the department. As stated in the letter, here the dispute is about the possession,” he said.However, Bhatti hit out at the Alphons saying “he doesn’t know the Christian law” and reiterated his claim that he was the chairman of the committee.“Seems like Mr Alphons is not aware of the constitution, which has recognised only two churches in India – the Church of England, known as the Anglican Church, and the Catholic Church, even after Independence. I’m affiliated with the Anglican Church. On the custody of the cemetery point, I’m the chairman of the committee and have full rights to deny entry to those who are using the body’s documents without my permission,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/save-ambala-s-war-cemetery-writes-mp-kj-alphons-to-haryana-cm/story-6ijcDPrmGucXOtwiMYzkLP.html
23-11-2020||Lifestyle||In Mumbai, one man’s mission to put fish back into the sea||When Kapil Jani, 31, goes for his run at Juhu beach in Mumbai every other day, he keeps an eye on the fishing nets. If they’re blue, he keeps running. If they’re white, he has to stop. The blue nets are smaller and designed to catch baby shrimp. The bigger white nets, held vertically, capture larger fish, including tonnes of marine life every year that the fishherfolk can’t sell. Jani, having run past as this bycatch was gasping for air on the sand, decided to do something about it. So when the nets are white, he stops, waits, collects up the bycatch as the fisherfolk do their sorting, and releases it back into the ocean.He’s been doing this on and off, for three years. “It was almost instinctive,” he says. His day job that of environment, health and safety manager for the Essel Group, but in his own time, he’s been an animal rescuer for years. “Birds, insects, bats… when I see something in distress, I go to help,” he says. In October this year, his solo campaign became a group effort. “One morning I saw that there were hundreds of fish on the beach — octopus, bamboo sharks, pufferfish, moray eels, all dying,” Jani says. What he was witnessing was a seasonal phenomenon called upwelling. Swapnil Tandel, a marine expert and fishery consultant, explains: “Every winter, as the depths cool, that water rises to the surface, carrying with it a lot of nutrients and attracting sea creatures of all kinds. During this time, the fishermen are also in overdrive, after the monsoon months of no fishing.” Put the two factors together and you have a situation where innocent byswimmers snacking on their nutrients get caught in the nets by the thousands. “For the Kolis it’s a happy lottery of pomfret, Bombay duck, stingrays, lobster, crabs, cuttlefish, bangda and more. The bycatch is proportionate,” Jani says. Realising he couldn’t deal with these volumes alone, he reached out to friends, family, conservation groups and NGOs. “Different groups had different ideas on how to deal with this, but all I was looking for was more hands,” Jani says. The next day, he was working with three buckets and a few friends. “People on the shore also joined in when they saw what we were doing. We worked every day for four days,” he says. Since then, Kapil and his handful of volunteers have become regulars on the shore here. They have a WhatsApp group where they coordinate their visits to the beach and discuss what was observed and done each day. The reality is that there are policy-level changes needed, but in the meanwhile, every bit helps, Tandel says. Jani has his eye on the immediate and is looking to scale up his effort. “My hope is that by this time next year we will have enough people stretched across whatever shores are left in Mumbai, given all the coastal road work, operating in tandem with the Koli community,” he says. “As they work, we’ll start scooping and putting all the fish they don’t want back in the sea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/more-lifestyle/in-mumbai-one-man-s-mission-to-put-fish-back-into-the-sea/story-vHkTTu4eBgxbGmTVVUxI6H.html
23-11-2020||Mumbai||Seaplane services in India take flight; routes hold the key to success, say experts||After Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi inaugurated a seaplane service between Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad and Kevadia on October 31, for those who want to visit the Statue of Unity, seaplane services are back in the spotlight. This route is the first seaplane to operate under the government’s Udey Desh ka Aam Naagarik (UDAN) project. Industry experts have raised concerns regarding recently-launched seaplane routes, flagging how previous seaplane services were forced to shut down due to poor response.The new seaplane service in Gujarat comes almost three years after PM Modi travelled by seaplane from Sabarmati riverfront to Dharoj Dam in 2017, and announced his government’s intention to harness waterways. In addition to the newly-operational Ahmedabad-Kevadia stretch, 16 seaplane routes were recently announced as part of UDAN. These routes include Port Blair to Havelock, Delhi to Haridwar and Delhi to Rishikesh. Seaplane services will also cater to Udaipur, the backwaters of Kerala, Leh and Dal Lake. Previously, between 2011 and 2017, Pawan Hans Helicopters Limited (PHHL) and Mumbai-based Maritime Energy Heli Air Service Pvt Ltd (Mehair) had operated seaplane services in Andaman and Nicobar islands. Mehair had also operated seaplanes between from Mumbai to Pawna dam (Lonavla) and Mumbai to Aamby Valley. These operations closed down owing to poor response and high ticket prices. Siddharth Verma, co-founder of Mehair said, “It’s good to see seaplane operations resuming and the government’s contribution to it in the form of UDAN is a big support to the operators. It is a much-needed push to establish seaplane services in the country. ” Verma said Mehair plans to relaunch seaplane services in the second quarter of 2021. “We have firm plans to relaunch with a Cessna 208A from Mumbai and another Cessna 208A from Goa,” he said. Industry experts said they hoped the UDAN scheme would boost seaplane activity, but routes should be chosen keeping in mind both tourism and business traffic to prevent another set of failures.“During Covid times, there has been no international tourism at all. All flights operated under the government’s efforts are seeing passengers travelling for emergency purposes. Domestically too, India will barely see tourism traffic increasing until the vaccine is available,” said aviation expert, Captain Mohan Ranganathan. Another industry expert, requesting anonymity, questioned the government’s decision to choose Kevadia as a destination. “Kevadia is not even a township and reportedly lacks developed accommodation facilities. It seems that there are preferences for some routes over those which can bring success to seaplane operations. I do not see the newly-commenced route to be a good idea to commence seaplane operations,” said the expert. Kevadia is 3.5 kilometres from the location of the colossal statue of Sardar Patel that is known as the Statue of Unity and is the world’s tallest statue.A former Airports Authority of India (AAI) official said, “Seaplane services were a hit with tourists in Andaman and Nicobar islands and were high in demand until the contract expired. However, these services didn’t see passenger load when they were extended to other parts of the country, like Maharashtra and Kerala.” The official attributed the limited popularity of seaplane services to affordability. “Today a tourist can use the service by paying around Rs 2,000, for which he had to earlier pay around Rs 4,200 (for a 30-minute ride). The tax regime was different. Value-added tax (VAT) was higher and infrastructure like seaplane corridors and water drones were not in place.”In terms of operational ease, a former Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) official said seaplane operators under UDAN could obtain assured slots from airports. Requesting anonymity, the official said, “They [the slots] may not be the most desirable ones, but at least getting slots and parking bays in major busy airports like Delhi and Mumbai doesn’t become a problem. The biggest step this time is policy change. The government has introduced stringent water drone requirements. UDAN has undoubtedly reduced hurdles. The rest of it depends on how the operator markets and ensures the sustainability of their business.”The official agreed with industry experts who said that routes with more than one type of passenger traffic were essential to make seaplanes a successful business model and a sustainable mode of transport in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seaplane-services-in-india-take-flight-routes-hold-the-key-to-success-say-experts/story-48Av1puBDlNrrxqIByyNtK.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn seals 14 areas as Covid cases see two-fold spike in a month||In the wake of a consistent surge in Covid-19 cases over the past month in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Thursday sealed 14 areas after declaring these as micro-containment zones.The affected areas are in Sectors 8, 10, 19, 23, 26, 28, 30, 32-A, 34-B, 46-A, 50-C, 51-B, Modern Housing Complex and Ram Darbar, Phase-2.This is the third-highest number of areas to get the tag in a day. On September 24, the administration had notified 24 zones and another 20 on October 1.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the current status of the Covid-19 outbreak 19 was examined by the area affected committee and advised to declare 14 areas as micro-containment zones.“Residents of these areas will be screened, along with frequent sanitisation of the localities. People living there are advised to strictly maintain social distancing, wear masks and follow hand hygiene,” he added.No bend in Covid curveIn a worrisome trend, the city has been witnessing a steady rise in cases since the mid of October, with Thursday recording 155 cases in a single day after a gap of 45 days since October 3. The number of active cases also breached the 1,100 mark to reach 1,105, while the Covid deaths surpassed 250 on Monday and are 254 as of Thursday.From 316 cases in the week between October 16 and 22, a month later, November 13 to 19 recorded 779 cases – an over two-fold spike in infections.The situation is similar in neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula, where the cases also burgeoned by more than a double in the same period (see box).“The spike in cases is the fallout of not following precautions during the festival season. The manner in which the infections are increasing gives the sense that we should be ready to deal with the second surge soon,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh.UT health department director Dr Amandeep Kang said people who may have come in contact with positive patients and those having symptoms should immediately get themselves tested to rein in the rise in cases and fatalities. A department official, wishing not to be named, said to encourage testing, they were considering to slash the testing rates at private centres by 25% for RT-PCR as well as Rapid Antigen Test on the lines of a recent decision by Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-admn-seals-14-areas-as-covid-cases-see-twofold-spike-in-a-month/story-Z39koB9aY2khW2tHuV91TP.html
23-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amid rising Covid cases in Chandigarh, museums, Rock Garden thrown open||Having remained out of bounds for nearly eight months, Rock Garden, Tagore Theatre and various government museums will be reopened for the public from Tuesday.These were closed off in March in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. Except the Rock Garden, which is expected to be opened on Thursday, the other centres will be accessible from Tuesday.The decision, which was taken at Monday’s Covid-19 review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, comes even as Covid-19 cases in the city are surging once again since the onset of November. Against the 444 cases between October 23 and 29, the number rose to 502 in the subsequent week (October 30 to November 5) and further to 749 last week (November 6 to 12) – a jump of 69% in a fortnight.Even in the last four days, 261 fresh infections have surfaced despite a dip in the number of tests due to the festive season.“The Covid-19 situation is under control. Also, since cinema halls and malls are open, why shouldn’t public places like Rock Garden also be accessible? The decision is in line with the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) order that puts restrictions only on containment zones,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.Notably, the Union ministry of culture on November 5 had allowed opening of arts galleries, museums and exhibition halls from November 10.On delay in opening the museums in Chandigarh, Parida said, “We decided to analyse the Covid-19 situation in the city till Diwali before allowing their opening.”Cinema halls and multiplexes were allowed to open with 50% capacity on October 15 after a gap of more than seven months. SOP issued by culture ministryThe Union ministry of culture in its November 5 order issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the opening of museums, art galleries and exhibition halls. To allow museums and art galleries to reopen and resume their operations, strict precautionary measures are to be observed by all staff members and visitors to prevent transmission of Covid-19.“We have started conducting tests of all staff at the various museums and art galleries under the administration’s purview, and so far, nobody has been found infected,” said a UT official, not wishing to be named.“Access to different segments of a museum will be regulated to prevent crowding. A UV sanitising box will be placed at the ticket counter to sanitise the currency notes and tickets exchanged. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory for all visitors and staff. Besides, every person will be checked for temperature before being allowed entry,” the official added.What’s openGovernment Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10Natural History Museum, Sector 10Chandigarh Architecture Museum, Sector 10Rock Garden, Sector 1Capitol Complex, Sector 1International Doll Museum, Sector 23Le Corbusier Centre, Sector 19Tagore Theatre, Sector 18Museum Maison Jeanneret, Sector 5Protocols enforcedSocial distancingFace mask mandatory at all timesSanitisation of premises on a regular basisAvailability of hand sanitisersUse of audio guides to be suspendedElevator operation to be limitedUse of touch-based technology to be limitedDigital payments advised for purchase of entry ticketsFloor markers for social distancingUV sanitisation boxes at counters for tickets and cashTemperature screening of all visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amid-rising-cases-in-chandigarh-museums-rock-garden-thrown-open/story-3ri8y3JviNeoa6p0hv5pcI.html
