25-11-2020||Mumbai||4.5-km Sewri-Worli elevated corridor project for Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link awarded to contractor||An important connector to the ambitious Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) project has gained momentum, with the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) having finalised a contractor to start work on the Sewri-Worli elevated corridor (SWEC). The metropolitan authority has appointed J Kumar Infraprojects Ltd for the ₹1,276-crore project, with a letter of authority issued to the company last month.SWEC is a 4.5-km elevated corridor connecting the under-construction MTHL at Sewri on the east and the upcoming coastal road at Worli on the west.According to a statement issued by MMRDA, the project alignment starts from Sewri (East), crossing the eastern freeway and harbour railway line, passing over RA Kidwai Road and Acharya Donde Marg, crossing above the existing flyover at Ambedkar Road, Elphinstone bridge in Parel and flyover at Senapati Bapat Road and then making its way through Kamgar Nagar and Dr Annie Besant Road before it connects at Narayan Hardikar Marg at Worli. “The project includes two rail overbridges (RoB) at Sewri and another two-tier bridge at Prabhadevi. The latter crosses the Central Railway and the Western Railway lines,” said a senior official from MMRDA. The project is expected to be completed in three years. The 22-km MTHL, connecting Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, was expected to be completed by September 2022, however, it is facing a six-month delay owing to the pandemic, officials said.In July, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) had given a clearance to the project. The coastal zone authority had asked MMRDA to conduct a public hearing for the project, stating that it will cause an impact for those staying at Worli Seaface. Around 438m of land on both ends of the corridor also falls under CRZ-II (coastal regulatory zone which is developed up to the shoreline and falls within the municipal limits).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/4-5-km-sewri-worli-elevated-corridor-project-for-mumbai-trans-harbour-link-awarded-to-contractor/story-H0ZjUolx0m6IFjamEim0JM.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body panel mulls taking back Bandra plot from film corporation||The improvement committee of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is considering taking back a prime plot in Bandra that was leased to National Film Development Corporation (NFDC) as part of an initiative to promote the arts and cinema in particular. BMC had handed over the plot to NFDC in 2015. On Wednesday, the civic body tabled a proposal to take the plot back, citing failure on part of NFDC to set up the proposed film cultural centre and a children’s theatre at the site.In 2014, BMC’s improvement committee and general body cleared a proposal to hand over a prime plot in Bandra to NFDC for 30 years, with Rs 1 as annual rent. The plot, which already has a theatre, is on Sherly Rajan Road, and measures about 712 square meters. NFDC and BMC signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) that NFDC would develop the plot as part of a project to promote arts and culture. On Wednesday, a proposal to cancel the MoU with NFDC and take back the theatre was tabled before the improvement committee. The committee will visit the theatre before taking a decision. A senior civic official said, “Several show-cause notices were served to them [NFDC] as they failed to set up the centre and there were several delays. We are now proceeding to cancel the lease.”BMC listed six breaches of lease conditions, including failure on NFDC’s part to start the proposed film and cultural centre, and renovating the existing children’s theatre. Other breaches include loss of revenue due to non-functional centre and not including a representative of BMC in the advisory committee formed by NFDC for the film and cultural centre.An official from NFDC, requesting anonymity, said, “There were many hurdles including delays in registration and financial troubles that led to the overall delay of this project. We have explained this to the civic body and are expecting an extension.”Corporators have demanded the civic administration submit a list of other plots handed over for promotion of art and culture where no progress has taken place. Congress corporator Ashraf Azmi said, “There could be many such plots which have not been developed by the caretakers to whom they were handed over. I am writing to the municipal commissioner to submit details of all such plots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-panel-mulls-taking-back-bandra-plot-from-film-corporation/story-Je195fQOCJ0vAfSMDYKezN.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||MH-CET 2020: Engineering aspirants in Maharashtra to be awarded full marks for 29 questions with errors||After months of delay, engineering aspirants awaiting the results of their entrance exam have reason to cheer. In a circular released on its website, the state common entrance test (CET) cell has revealed that many objections raised by students against errors in questions in the CET exams held in September and October have been accepted. This means that all students who appeared for the exam will be awarded full marks for at least 29 questions.“Students had raised objections on a large number of questions. Many were certain the CET cell will accept the challenges this year because they had proof that the questions themselves were wrong or that in some cases, the correct answer was not incorporated in the options mentioned,” said Abhay Joshi, an engineering aspirant. The circular, shared by the CET cell, has stated that objections were accepted for 65 questions. Maximum questions that are being awarded full marks are either due to an error in the question itself or the errors in the options provided per question. It further explains each unique question ID across the four sections (physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics) for which objection was raised by students and accepted by an expert committee put together by the CET cell.This year, a nationwide lockdown due to increasing Covid-19 cases pushed entrance exams for all undergraduate professional courses by a few months, and the state CET cell conducted the CET exams for engineering aspirants in September. However, after receiving complaints, several students who missed the exams in September due to Covid-19 were allowed to appear for the exam in October. The CET cell displayed their answer key on their website on November 10 and started accepting objections and grievances regarding the exam between November 10 and 12.“As per the report submitted by experts in this matter, changes suggested by the experts will be incorporated in the database, and accordingly the results will be processed,” stated the circular released on Wednesday. Results for the MH-CET exam will be declared on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mh-cet-2020-engineering-aspirants-in-maharashtra-to-be-awarded-full-marks-for-29-questions-with-errors/story-3uSXsI5IP4aPdeV5WIS1kN.html
25-11-2020||City||Minister Arora to hold weekly meetings with Ludhiana industrialists to resolve pending issues||With the industrialists raising hue and cry over its pending demands, Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora has announced to hold weekly meetings with industry representatives to resolve the issues.Arora and Fatehgarh Sahib MP Amar Singh on Wednesday attended one such meeting with industrialists at the office of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) at Focal Point wherein issues of poor condition of roads and sewerage system, abolition of fixed charges from electricity bills during the lockdown period, and shifting of small industry situated in mixed land use areas were discussed.Arora, while acknowledging that industries have been facing problems, said that industrialists can meet him in Chandigarh by taking appointments every week. The minister also said that the Punjab government will shortly announce a one-time settlement (OTS) policy to dispose of the pending VAT assessment cases. Traders and industrialists have been objecting to the VAT assessment notices being served by the sales tax department pertaining to the year 2014. Punjab medium industry development board chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka, Punjab small industries and export corporation chairman Gurpreet Singh Gogi, CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja, Punjab large industrial development board vice-chairman Ramesh Joshi, Hand Tools’ Association president SC Ralhan and additional managing director Avneet Kaur also participated in the meeting. ₹ 25 lakh grant for centre of excellence for engineeringMP Amar Singh announced a grant of ₹25 lakh from MPLADS funds to set up a centre of excellence for engineering in Ludhiana. He said that construction of concrete roads has already started in many Focal Point areas and a project worth ₹40 crore has been approved by the state government for further development.Arora urges farmers to clear tracks in Jandiala GuruThanking the farmers for lifting their protest, Arora appealed to a lone farm association in Jandiala Guru to clear the tracks as well so that trains can move smoothly. He said the industry would have suffered huge losses if train services remained suspended for a few more days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/minister-arora-to-hold-weekly-meetings-with-ludhiana-industrialists-to-resolve-pending-issues/story-tY3UFtk4kVAhXusmDESNdJ.html
25-11-2020||City||FYJC admissions to resume from Nov 26 after two-month gap||PUNE The government will resume the admission process of first-year junior college (FYJC) or Class 11 from Thursday (November 26) in the state and Pune region after a gap of more than two months. The state government issued a government resolution (GR) regarding the same late on Tuesday.Earlier in the first round of the admissions, out of the total 14.3 lakh FYJC students, 11.5 lakh of them had sought admission. The remaining 2.79 lakh students will now complete their admission process.Due to the interim stay given by the Supreme Court (SC) on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education, the state education department had stopped the admission process for FYJC since September 9.“In view of the delayed admission process due to stay on Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) reservation by Supreme Court of India, students whose admission was rejected or cancelled and got first preference but did not take admission during round 1, will be allowed to take admission,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.The detailed schedule of second merit list of the FYJC admissions for the Pune region was declared on Wednesday by the deputy director of education (DYDE), Pune. While the first general merit list of admissions of FYJC has already been completed online after the state SSC (Class 10) results were declared online on July 29, 2020.For this year’s admission process a total of 72,820 students are eligible for the first round of admission in 304 colleges of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area.On November 26, at 10 am the vacancy list for regular admission round-II will be displayed online, including quota seats surrendered by junior colleges and Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) seats converted to general quota. From November 26 at 5 pm to December 1 till 11.55 pm application form (part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for regular round-II will start online. Then from December 2 at 5 pm, additional time given for verification of part -1 form by guidance centre and secondary schools, updation of choices in option form, Part-2 filling will be closed. Also, December 3 and 4 are reserved for data processing.“On December 5 at 11 am junior college allotment list for regular round-II admissions will be displayed online. Accordingly, display of cut-off list for regular admission round-2 will be done and SMS will be sent to students. Then from December 5 at 11.30 am to December 9 at 5 pm, students need to confirm admission in the allotted colleges. Admission confirmation, rejection or cancellation needs to be done by using student login,” said Jagtap.“In view of the pandemic situation, junior colleges should collect their admission fee only through digital payment modes, like payment gateway, bank transfer (NEFT/RTGS/IMPS/UPI), any e-wallets approved by the Government of India or Reserve Bank of India to contain the spreading of coronavirus,” he said.On December 10, the vacancy list for third regular admission round will be displayed by the colleges at 10 am.Important datesNovember 26 – Second general updated merit list will be declaredNovember 26 to December 1 – Application form (Part-1) edit and choice filling or updating of option form (Part-2) for regular round-II will startDecember 5 – List will be displayed of junior college allotment list for regular round-II admissions and cut-off list for regular admissionDecember 5 to 9 – Students need to confirm admission in the allotted junior collegeDecember 10 - Vacancy list for third regular admission round will be displayed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fyjc-admissions-to-resume-from-nov-26-after-two-month-gap/story-ZnuzmxMUu7jvEbc1SSo1RJ.html
25-11-2020||City||Pune dist reports 1,025 fresh Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||PUNE The state health department reported 1,025 Covid-19 positive cases on Wednesday and six deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.48 lakh Covid-19 cases out of which 3.23 lakh have recovered, 7,337 have been reported dead and 18,402 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 418 new cases taking the total count to 178,536 and two deaths taking the death toll to 4,171 while Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 229 new cases taking the final count to 87,891 and one death with 1,245 as death toll. Pune rural reported 378 new cases taking the final count to 82,387 and three deaths taking the death toll to 1,888, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 4,844 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.63 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.64 per cent. Also, 6,159 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 17.95 lakh. In addition, 65 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,772. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.61 per cent. Out of 1,04,56,962 laboratory samples, 17,95,959 have been tested positive (17.17 per cent) for Covid-19 until November 25. Currently, 5,29,344 people are in home quarantine and 6,980 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-dist-reports-1-025-fresh-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/story-tRYaRAYII4bYMyUJlHlZbI.html
25-11-2020||City||Restaurant, marriage palace owners seek relief in night curfew curbs||Imposition of night curfew in the state from December 1 has come as a shocker to the hospitality sector. City’s hotel and restaurant owners rued that while their businesses were already affected due to the ongoing pandemic, the imposition of night curfew will further take its toll. As per the directions issued by the Punjab government on Wednesday, night curfew will be clamped from 10pm till 5am and all hotels, shops and marriage places will have to down shutters by 9:30pm.Restaurant owners said that most of the footfall is witnessed after 8pm and the new restrictions will hit their existing business by 50%. Also, the labour force will again move out in absence of work, they added. The vice-president of Hotels and Restaurant Association, Amarjit Singh, said, “We were already getting 35-40% response due to the ongoing pandemic and the imposition of night curfew will further bring down the footfall. The restaurant business will again shrink. The government should review its decision.”The restaurant owners have demanded that the government should at least allow home delivery of food during night, otherwise “it will be difficult for them to survive amid pandemic”.Owner of Basant restaurants, Bhupinder Basant, said, “The dine-in business will almost come to an end with the imposition of night curfew. The government should allow home delivery of meals to prevent the sector from collapsing. Already, many of the labourers have not come back after the lockdown and more will leave in the absence of work.”Traders stated that the announcement has also put the shopkeepers in a tight spot. Even though the night curfew is not expected to affect traders as most of the shops are shut by that time in the city, it has instilled fear among them about their future prospects. General secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Sunil Mehra, said, “The government should have discussed the matter with traders before announcing the night curfew. No relief has been provided by the government and this move will further reduce footfall in the market as the public will now fear stepping out of the houses even during the daytime.”Wedding plans in troubled watersPanic has gripped the owners of marriage palaces and their customers, who have booked night events between December 1 and 15. Owners said that patrons have already started calling to cancel or reschedule the ceremonies.Marriage palace and banquet hall owners have sought from the government a ban on the entry of new guests after 9.30pm, while urging it to allow the guests who have already arrived to attend the functions post-deadline. President of Hotels and Restaurant Association Amarvir Singh said, “We will not allow new guests after 9.30pm. The government should pay heed to our problems, otherwise we will suffer huge losses as bookings have already been made.”Marriage Palaces Welfare Association chief Amarjit Singh Sant said they were now in a tight corner. “Even the customers are in panic and continuously calling up to cancel or reschedule the events,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/restaurant-marriage-palace-owners-seek-relief-in-night-curfew-curbs/story-vTkgvNTzOhpdsDgAKchCGP.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||You will soon fear probes, don’t forget Shiv Sena is in power in Maharashtra, Raut threatens BJP||A day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) carried out searches at the properties of Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik, Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that they are not afraid of such probes. He went on to warn ally-turned-foe, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) that they will soon fear similar probes.Raut’s statement came in response to leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis’ comment that nobody should be afraid of the investigation if there is no wrongdoing. Raut said that the BJP should not forget the Shiv Sena is in power in Maharashtra and Uddhav Thackeray is the chief minister.“Nobody fears an investigation; there is no reason to. I will say that now you all will have to fear investigations. Don’t forget that we are in power in Maharashtra and that Uddhav Thackeray is the chief minister. Soon, everybody will know who fears probes,” he told reporters in Mumbai on Wednesday. “You are shuffling cards now, but we will beat you at your game,” Raut added, without naming the BJP.He added that he will not be surprised if he or other “pillars” of the Maharashtra government receive a notice from the ED soon. “I have not received any notice from ED. I am awaiting it. I will not be surprised if I or Ajit Pawar gets one. I have come to know that they are digging old graves. We are prepared for it.”The Shiv Sena chief spokesperson added that he will soon send a list of 120 leaders from the BJP to ED. “Assets of some leaders have gone from ₹1 crore to ₹5,000 crore in a year, but the ED will not touch them… Let this political vendetta in the name of an investigation get over. I will send names of 120 leaders from the ruling party to ED and finance ministry. Then I will see who ED summons,” he said.Responding to Raut’s statements, BJP Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil said, “It is extremely good; I suggest he should send it [names] at the earliest… who has tied your hands or legs or shut your mouths [to start any probe].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/you-will-soon-fear-probes-don-t-forget-we-are-in-power-in-maharashtra-raut-threatens-bjp/story-1vNWbh9YmhSAdhUuyyheDJ.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra government issues GR to restart admissions for professional UG courses||The state government issued a government resolution (GR) on Tuesday, restarting the admissions process for most professional undergraduate (UG) courses. As per the GR, admissions to undergraduate engineering, medical, law and architecture courses may be completed without reserving 12% for socially and economically backward classes (SEBC). The GR will remain in effect until the Supreme Court’s (SC) final order on the SEBC quota.On September 9, SC stayed all admissions to educational institutes in Maharashtra under the SEBC quota for the 2020-21 academic year. The only exception was postgraduate medical admissions. On September 21, the Maharashtra government filed a petition in SC to vacate the stay on admissions. The state government released a GR on November 24, directing all admissions to be conducted without the SEBC quota for the time being. Admissions completed before the SC’s order of September 9 will not be affected by the GR.Earlier this month, admissions to UG medical and dental courses started without the SEBC quota. “Too much time had already been wasted waiting this year, first due to the lockdown and now for clarity on the SEBC quota so the state medical department allowed for MBBS and BDS admissions to commence without the quota,” said a senior official from the state department of higher and technical education.Commissioner of Maharashtra’s common entrance test (CET) cell CD Joshi said admission schedules may be released by next week. “We are studying the new GR and have also sought clarity on some issues from the government, especially when it comes to admissions to professional courses,” said Joshi. With no clear admission schedule in sight, many candidates have opted for admissions outside Maharashtra. Mumbai resident Meena S, 19, is awaiting her CET results for architecture, but on Monday, began online classes at a college in New Delhi. “I was hopeful of securing admissions in JJ School of Architecture or Rachna Sansad College of Architecture, both of which are close to home. However, I have already secured a seat in New Delhi and have begun classes,” said Meena, whose preference remains the colleges in Mumbai.Engineering students are facing a similar dilemma, particularly those seeking direct admission to second-year engineering after completing diplomas. CET exams for admission to technical courses were held in October and results are expected on November 28. “The third semester for second-year students is at its end now. Even if I get admission, how will I cope with the semester? I am hoping colleges make special arrangements for lateral entry students,” said a diploma holder. The uncertainty has meant the University of Mumbai (MU) was unable to prepare an academic calendar for professional courses. “We always follow MU’s academic calendar and accordingly plan syllabus, practicals, term test etc. We haven’t been able to do so this year, so there is no plan in place at all,” said Vaibhav Narwade, senate member of MU and a professor at an engineering college in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-issues-gr-to-restart-admissions-for-professional-ug-courses/story-tHfwpaT4NX27aGzNI7xrTM.html
25-11-2020||City||2 die, 104 test positive for Covid in Ludhiana||Covid-19 claimed two more lives in Ludhiana on Wednesday, while 104 residents were found infected with the virus, health bulletin stated. The latest figures have pushed the death toll to 888 and total caseload to 22,346.Of the total patients, 856 are still infected (active cases), while 20,599 have recovered, taking Ludhiana’s recovery rate to 92.42%.After a short lull, except for November 15 when 64 cases were reported, the number of daily infections has been averaging 80 since November 5. Among those who died on Wednesday were two men, aged 46 and 72.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-die-104-test-positive-for-covid-in-ludhiana/story-HL8HCX1enZuKsbuIwrOH5H.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC seeks police response on Tahir Hussain’s fresh bail plea||The Delhi high court sought the response of the Delhi Police on a fresh bail plea moved by former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, who has been arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots that had broken out in February.Justice Suresh Kait issued a notice to the police and asked the Investigating officer (IO) to file a status report on the plea, Hussain’s counsel Rizwan said. Delhi Police’s special cell has charged Hussain for rioting, murder and inciting rioters. He has also been charged for hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate the riots and funding the communal carnage.A trial court, on October 22, had denied bail to Hussain in the case related to the looting of a shop in Dayalpur which had caused a loss of about ₹20 lakh to the shop owner.Hussain, in his present plea, has sought bail on the grounds that there were only general allegations in the FIR and no specific allegation was made against him. He also contended that there were 10 accused in the case and nine have already been granted bail and only he was still in jail.Hussain further said he was not even named in the FIR and claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. Hussain’s legal counsels have in the past denied all the allegations and said he was a victim of political rivalry.The FIR was lodged on March 4 on the complaint given by one Zeeshan, who owns a furniture shop at the main Sherpur Chowk in Dayalpur. Zeeshan stated that on February 25, he had received a call that the shutter of his shop had been broken and articles looted by rioters as a result of which he had incurred a loss of ₹20 lakh.Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 400 injured. While Delhi Police has claimed that violence had erupted from a standoff between protesters and supporters of the amended citizenship law, several civil society members and student activists have criticised the Delhi Police for its lopsided investigation into the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-seeks-police-response-on-tahir-hussain-s-fresh-bail-plea/story-HhC0Na298MFU8JDCA40odP.html
25-11-2020||City||2 trains carrying urea reach Ludhiana||Two trains carrying urea reached the district on Wednesday, bringing much-needed respite to the farmers.Shortage of urea was severely affecting the wheat and potato crops. According to Ludhiana chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal, two trains carrying around 2,650 tonnes of urea each have reached Khanna and Ludhiana railway stations on Wednesday and more such trains are expected in next couple of days.Due to train blockade in Punjab, there was an acute shortage of urea in Ludhiana. As of October 31, just about 7% stocks of urea and around 71% stocks of DAP fertiliser were left in the district.Benipal informed that although some stock of urea and DAP was coming in trucks, the quantity was still not enough to meet the demand of farmers as each truck can carry a maximum of around 500 bags of urea (about 20 tonnes). “Whereas today, 1,18,000 bags of urea have arrived in two trains alone,” he added. In Ludhiana district, wheat is sown on nearly 2.5 lakh hectares and potato on around 13,500 hectares, along with some other crops. For that, 1.1 lakh tonnes of urea is required and till Tuesday, the pending demand was of 65,000 tonnes. Now, with the arrival of about 5,300 tonnes of urea, the cooperative societies of the district would get the supplies.The sowing of wheat had started in the first week of November and shortage of both urea and DAP was affecting the operations, adding to the farmers’ woes.As per officials of the agriculture department, there is a demand of 47,432 tonnes of urea in the cooperative societies of the district — 6,772 tonnes in Payal, 7,043 tonnes in Ludhiana (West), 5,989 tonnes in Ludhiana (East), 7,452 tonnes in Raikot, 2,763 tonnes in Khanna, 5,603 tonnes in Samrala and 11,857 tonnes in Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-trains-carrying-urea-reach-ludhiana/story-X3kUXPsIXTSPkoSEjwFWKN.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Rai asks BJP to stop blame game and help in curbing pollution||New Delhi: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday slammed the BJP for undermining the efforts of the Delhi government to control pollution in the Capital. Rai said that instead of finding faults with the Delhi government for distributing the Pusa bio-decomposer free of cost to farmers to find a solution to the problem of stubble burning in Delhi, the BJP should contribute towards curbing pollution in the city. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, a day after the Delhi BJP accused the Delhi government of not providing the bio-decomposer developed by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI) to farmers in Delhi, Rai said that his government was taking measures to fight pollution but the BJP leaders, on the other hand, were misleading people. “No BJP leader is seen participating in any campaign, they are just seen playing blame game and doing politics. The bio-decomposer solution was sprayed on 2,000 acres of land across Delhi after the farmers filled the forms. The government has the record of the forms filled for spraying the solution on the fields, as evidence against the charges of the BJP leaders,” Rai said. He added that based on the effectiveness of the bio-decomposer, the Delhi government had filed a petition in front of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) on Tuesday. “Under the leadership of Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the people of Delhi have waged a war against pollution. We introduced ‘red light on gaadi off’ campaign to curb vehicle pollution, anti-dust campaign to combat dust pollution, we have deployed teams and are taking action on biomass burning across Delhi. We have introduced the bio decomposer technique in association with IARI, Pusa, to combat pollution due to stubble burning in Delhi,” said Rai. Hitting back at Rai, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “By spending crores of rupees, CM Kejriwal is campaigning on TV to make fertilizers from the paddy stubble, but the farmers said that neither any fertilizer is being made in any area nor has any farmer been contacted in this regard by the Kejriwal government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/rai-asks-bjp-to-stop-blame-game-and-help-in-curbing-pollution/story-vtzvClqF7rib5TfewIt9JJ.html
25-11-2020||City||EDMC demands tax dues from Delhi govt||New Delhi: The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Tuesday asked the Delhi government to release Rs 216 crore as part of the civic body’s basic tax assignment (BTA) share. The municipality, which passed a proposal to this effect in its House meeting on Tuesday, alleged that the government had deducted Rs 216 crore from its BTA share in the name of interest for an old loan. The civic body representatives said the municipality was already going through an acute financial crisis and deduction of money from its BTA share will only make things worse for the corporation in the time of the coronavirus pandemic.The Delhi government did not respond to requests for a comment.A senior official of the EDMC explained that BTA is part of a tax share which the Delhi government collects as electricity tax, advertisement on DTC buses among others on behalf of the municipality. “As per our BTA share, the Delhi government has to give us Rs 720.75 crore in three quarters, i.e. April-June, July-September and October-December But we got only Rs 144 crore from the government,” the official said.East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain said the Delhi government had earlier told the corporation that its revenue collection had dipped due to the pandemic and so they would pay EDMC only 50% of the total BTA share this year. So, according to the new arrangement, the Delhi government had to pay EDMC Rs 360 crore instead of Rs 720.75 crore as BTA share, Jain said. “But the government paid us only Rs 144 crore. When we asked, they said Rs 216 crore was deducted towards an old loan taken by the civic body in 2012-13. Such an act is not fair and we demand that the Rs 216 crore should be paid back to the corporation immediately as its financial condition is not good,” Jain said.Jain said the loan the government was talking about was given to the civic body in 2012-13, amounting to around Rs 1,000 crore. But the government added around Rs 900 crore to it as interest, he said.Jain said a proposal to demand back the deducted amount was passed in a House meeting. “When the central government has implemented a moratorium scheme, why is the state government deducting funds from our share in the name of interest,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/edmc-demands-tax-dues-from-delhi-govt/story-3TXMXYrunRfNvRcIUSS1eO.html
25-11-2020||City||Mayur Vihar murders: Can’t believe Rajiv could kill, say relatives||Relatives of 60-year-old builder Rajiv Sunda, who hacked four of his family members to death at his Mayur Vihar residence on Tuesday, are in utter disbelief. They are yet to come to terms with the fact that an old and frail man committed such a heinous crime.As per the police, prima facie evidence indicated that Rajiv had killed his wife Sunita Sunda, 58; son Ashish Sunda, 35; daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32; and grandson Suchet, 12. Expressing shock over the deaths, Rajesh Kumar, brother-in-law of the accused, said, “A man of short stature, Rajiv appeared to be harmless. My sister Sunita was married to him for 36 years. Due to Rajiv’s introvert personality and rude behaviour, all his relatives used to stay away from him. I used to visit them occasionally, but could not imagine that he could end up killing his family in such a brutal manner.” He said that Rajiv Sunda was born in an affluent family in Jharkhand. The only brother of four sisters, Rajiv completed his graduation from Kolkata. After facing losses in business, his family moved to Ludhiana. Rajiv’s sisters are married in Ludhiana in well-off families as well, Rajesh said. “Rajiv had enough money to run the house. It is difficult to speculate that any financial constraint would have driven him to take such a step,” he added. “He brought toys worth over ₹10,000 for his grandsons once he went out to shop with me,” said Ashok Kumar, father of Garima, who is facing allegation of abetment to suicide as per the note left by Rajiv.‘My family suffered double blow’Ashok said it was on October 13 that he lost his wife Anita to a sudden cardiac arrest. “We were recovering from the shock and this happened. Garima was looking after us. She used to visit us and cook food for me and my son Gaurav. On Monday, she prepared meal that could last four days and told me that her father-in-law was objecting to her frequent visits. I left her at a distance from the house, unaware of the fact that it could be the last time I saw her,” lamented Ashok Kumar. He said there used to be skirmishes in the family, but he had never imagined that if would turn fatal.‘Rajiv turned religious recently’Ashok said that while Ashish, who had invested money in the share market, and his mother Sunita were religious, Rajiv had started taking keen interest in worshipping recently. Meanwhile, the relatives gathered at the civil hospital mortuary expressed regret over the death of Suchet. Ashok remembered him as a beautiful child with an infectious smile.Suchet used to study in Class 7 at a Civil Lines school.“Even Rajiv loved his grandson a lot. I wonder how he would have mustered the courage to take the lives of his son, wife and grandson. Suchet called us around 6am and told us that a fight had ensued at their house. We assumed it to be a routine affair. Had I reached there in time, I could have saved them,” Ashok said as he broke into tears.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mayur-vihar-murders-can-t-believe-rajiv-could-kill-say-relatives/story-pw0sh1FYHvsSOMlEXNBcfI.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Allahabad High court directs drone surveillance to check violation of social distancing and mask norms||Ghaziabad: The Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed that all crowded places should be manned with the help of drones 24 hours a day to identify instances and places where people are not wearing masks and are not adhering to social distancing norms in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. The surveillance activity will be taken up in the districts of Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar and Prayagraj, the court said. A bench of Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar gave the directions while hearing a petition on the ‘Inhuman Condition at Quarantine Centres And for Providing Better Treatment to Corona Positive.’ Giving directions to Prayagraj Police, the court directed, “The court is of the view that vigilance vis-a-vis wearing of masks should continue for at least 30 more days. On the next date fixed, the learned additional advocate general may also inform regarding the surveillance that would be done by drones. This surveillance should be done by the available drones in crowded areas on a 24 x 7 basis.” It directed, “The learned additional advocate general to see that surveillance is done vis-a-vis wearing of masks in the districts of Lucknow, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur and Gautam Budh Nagar where there is a great upsurge in the spread of the Covid-19 infection. This surveillance should be done on the same pattern as it is being done in Allahabad (sic).” Enforcement against those not wearing face masks needs a major boost in Ghaziabad as the city police, according to official records, could penalise only 487 persons in the first 23 days of November for violations. In contrast, the records show the police penalised 2,353 persons in October, 5,779 in September, 11,410 in August and the highest, 20,936, in the month of July, besides 17,917 in June and 2,131 in May. “We are conducting regular drives and will step up the activity further. The court’s directions will be complied with. We have 2-3 drones and more can be hired for surveillance,” said Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police, Ghaziabad. According to state control room records of November 25, Ghaziabad district had a total of 22,008 cases while the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district had a tally of 21,801 cases with both emerging at the third and fourth spots, respectively, in terms of highest number of active cases in Uttar Pradesh. After the directions, the Ghaziabad district administration on Wednesday directed officials to rope deploy drones for surveillance. “We have ordered deployment of 10 drones in the first phase and they will be placed at locations where people gather in large numbers, such as markets and other public places. A close watch will be maintained on people flouting social distancing or not wearing masks. For the purpose, we have directed a separate wing at our control room where the drone activity will be displayed on screen,” Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, said. The district magistrate has also assigned a nodal officer to keep track of drone surveillance. “The records of drone surveillance will be preserved. I have directed that responsibility will be fixed on local SHOs and traders’ associations if there is violation of norms in public places or markets,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/allahabad-high-court-directs-drone-surveillance-to-check-violation-of-social-distancing-and-mask-norms/story-lv31Zrk4VIVOnrC8aVUJ9I.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Realtors demand time extension and other relief||To cope up with the Covid-19 pandemic impact, realtors on Wednesday demanded multiple relief measures from the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera), including last mile funding, restructuring of existing business loans and more time to deliver projects.“We need an additional six months to deliver ongoing housing projects as nationwide lockdown due to the pandemic affected our work schedule. The UP-Rera had earlier given us six months time but we want more in view of the market situation,” said RK Arora president of the UP chapter of national real estate development council (Naredco), which arranged a webinar as part of its three-day Infrastructure Summit-2020 from Wednesday. UP-Rera chief Rajive Kumar participated in the webinar during which the requests were put forward.The realtors also demanded additional funds to complete certain projects that are 80% to 95% complete. Another demand is that existing loans should be ‘restructured’.“It means that if a developer is unable to pay the loan then he should be given opportunity to get the loan amount rescheduled so that he gets more time to repay and loan instalment should be rescheduled. It will help the realtor not to become non performing assets,” said Arora.Naredco national president Niranjan Hiranandani also attended the meet.Meanwhile the confederation of real estate developers association of India (CREDAI), another builders’ group asked the state government to reduce the stamp fee from 5% to 2%.“Maharashtra government has reduced stamp fee to 2% to help the homebuyers. We demanded the UP government do the same. And we also demanded 1% of total property cost on registration fee should be waived off,” said Subodh Goyal secretary of CREDAI’s Western UP chapter. The UPRERA chairman Rajive Kumar assured the realtors help on prevailing issues.“We discussed these issues with the realtors and assured them (realtors) help. We are in the role of supporting the real estate sector and we will do the needful. We have already made recommendations to Reserve bank of India and the ministry of finance on the issue of last mile funding and restructuring of loans. Now if Naredco gives in written then we will again do the needful after looking into these issues. And on stamp fee issue we have already made suggestions and let the state government take a positive decision on it,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/realtors-demand-time-extension-and-other-relief/story-Z2sEoMHzSKwCEfUdCMnUYM.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Health minister says ‘no’ to another lockdown, cross-border restictions||Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh on Wednesday said that despite a surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi movement across the borders will not be restricted and stressed on precautionary measures. “With all commercial activities open now, no lockdown can be imposed now in any case. Only a thorough behavioural change like restricting the gathering in social functions and festivals, can put brake on the spread of this virus,” said the minister who was in Noida’s sector 59. Singh said that the state government had been executing tried and tested protocols to check the spread of Covid-19 in districts sharing borders with the national capital and that the situation was under control. “Our target is to test at least 175,000 people a day across the state and we are on track. As spike in positive cases can’t be ruled out particularly after the festive season, we have asked the health officials of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad districts, to conduct random sampling at borders. The state government has also asked for random testing at different airports, railway stations, bus stands and inter-state borders,” he said. The health minister, who is also the in-charge minister for GB Nagar district, said that the administration has been asked to intensify their target on residents of Noida or Ghaziabad who work in Delhi and vice-versa. “The trend clearly indicates that there is no major infection among those who don’t need to cross the border to eke out their livelihood. We are focussing more on surveillance than cursing the mechanism like the Delhi government. After all, we have to develop the winning instinct with the resources available. The Central government has been providing all the helps to check the spread,” he said. Earlier, Singh also took stock of Covid-19 preparedness in GB Nagar, after the sudden surge in Delhi. The minister also inaugurated dialysis in district hospital and CT scan facility in Covid-dedicated hospital in sector 39.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/health-minister-says-no-to-another-lockdown-cross-border-restictions/story-l5ueDSpe0bc5mNyHSjOkgK.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Gautam Buddh Nagar relaxes condition over weddings: No need for permissions, just send two emails||The Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration on Wednesday said that people do not need to seek permission for weddings if organisers adhered to guest limits in closed and open spaces. directions given by the UP state where the limits for guests was capped for events held in closed and open spaces. On Monday, the government had capped guest limit in closed spaces like halls/room at 50% capacity, subject to maximum of 100 people. This was reduced from 200 earlier. The order also limited gathering open spaces at below 40% of capacity, which previously had no limit.District magistrate Suhas LY clarified that organisers of other events -- cultural, political, social and religious, among others -- will have to take prior permission. “There will be no separate permission required for weddings provided that there is strict compliance of government directions. The wedding organisers will be required to send information to two email IDs -- city.mag.noida@gmail.com and ad.cplogbn@gmail.com. The relaxation is not for other events. Our officials will conduct surprise inspections and will take suitable action if directions are flouted,” Suhas, said. Organisers will have to sanitise the venue before the wedding and ensure availability of sanitizers, masks, thermal scanning and social-distancing. Meanwhile in Ghaziabad, people queued up outside the office of the sub-divisional magistrate on Wednesday for permission to events like marriages and hired lawyers to draft their application. “During the past three days or so we have issued around 2,000 wedding permits. Those applying have to give details about guests, venue and even the hall,” said DP Singh, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar). “We are telling applicants that musicians in bands and even Halwais will be counted under the guest limit.” “With the new guest limit, we are now forced to call our guests and telling them about the directions of the government and to avoid travelling,” said Harish Sharma, a resident of Sahibabad who had come to the SDM office seeking a wedding permit. Mani Kant Sharma, a resident of Maliwara, said that he has already limited the number of guests to minimum after the new directions were issued on Monday. “The capacity of the farmhouse which we have booked is for 800 people. But we have limited the total guests to about 225 which is less than the below 40% limit set for open spaces. This is done to avoid any action. We had already obtained the permission before the new order by the government was issued. Still, we will invite only limited guests,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gautam-buddh-nagar-relaxes-condition-over-weddings-no-need-for-permissions-just-send-two-emails/story-zvL5hXxdiWihbgsiIeVXIJ.html
25-11-2020||Noida||UP directs for increasing share of RT-PCR tests||Ghaziabad: The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday directed districts to ensure Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) Covid-19 tests, considered to be the most accurate, is 40% of all tests. UP’s additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad said that the total tests conducted in the state on Tuesday was a record 178,549 and that included 72,808 -- or 40% of all tests -- RT-PCR tests. A majority of the rest of the tests were rapid antigen tests that is less accurate but much faster.“The chief minister has directed that the ratio of RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing will be 40:60. Earlier the targets was 33% RT-PCR tests,” Prasad, said. The state government on November 12 had revised the antigen test targets for the both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar from 2,000 per day to 3500 per day besides the regular RT-PCR tests. Ghaziabad officials said that they were are meeting the 3,500 target given by the state government and also conducting about 1500-2000 RT-PCR tests per day. “Since the RT-PCR test is confirmatory, we will increase the RT-PCR testing in the district. We can contract more of lab technicians for the purpose and will be able to add about 10 more teams to our present resources,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate. Ghaziabad had conducted a total of 526,533 tests till November 24 of which 58.8% were rapid antigen tests. “RT-PCR tests and can even detect low viral load and is preferred as a confirmatory test. We are now conducting around 1500-2000 RT-PCR tests a day at 30 locations and will be able to deploy more teams once we get more lab technicians to conduct RT-PCR tests,” said Dr. NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “The specificity (ability to identify healthy individuals) of both rapid antigen kits and RT-PCR is almost similar but the sensitivity (ability of test to detect disease in individual) of RT-PCR is more at about 80% as compared to 70-75% sensitivity of rapid antigen kits. So, RT-PCR becomes a preferred choice rather than testing a patient first with rapid antigen kit and then following a negative result with RT-PCR test. In my opinion, the RT-PCR should be conducted for all ILI and SARI patients,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/up-directs-for-increasing-share-of-rt-pcr-tests/story-zNkkEpw0r3wHXLUXblF4uJ.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Cages set up, drone survey ordered to trace missing Leopard||Ghaziabad: District officials have made elaborate arrangements to trace the missing leopard that surfaced at Raj Nagar on Tuesday morning and was captured in CCTV cameras installed at residences in the locality. The district administration officials said at least five cages have been set up to trap the animal. They have directed the forest department to make use of drones to trace the leopard in the thick vegetation. The leopard, stated to be a female, had emerged from the generator room of the official residence of Kanchan Verma, vice-chairperson of the Ghaziabad Development Authority. Later it jumped to the adjacent Raj Kunj locality before disappearing into the campus of nearby school, Ingraham Institute, located on Hapur Road. Police PCR vans are making announcements, asking residents to be careful and not to venture out after dusk, and to switch on lights outside houses at night. “The leopard is yet to be traced and forest department teams are camping at the school. They have set up five cages at different places to trap the animal. I have told them they can make use of surveillance drones to trace it as the nearby areas have thick vegetation,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said . Official sources said they have not found any carcass of dogs or cattle from nearby areas. Rumours of a leopard moving around was also doing rounds from nearby Dadri in Gautam Budh Nagar. Gautam Budh Nagar officials denied the claims. “We have not received any complaint, nor has anyone spotted a leopard in Dadri or any other range of the district,” said Kitab Singh, range forest office, Dadri. The school campus spans about 23 acres and houses two English and Hindi medium wings, besides a polytechnic, staff quarters and other facilities. There are also vast open areas with thick vegetation. “Our wing is located at a distance from the spot where the animal was stated to have entered the campus. We do not have students at present and we have alerted our staff members who live in the campus. An alert has been issued by the district administration. Meanwhile, we have deputed some of our staff to stay alert and keep a watch on open spaces,” said Aparna Ruth, principal of Ingraham Institute English Medium School. The district administration on Tuesday evening had confirmed that the animal was a leopard and its surfacing had scared residents of Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar and nearby areas. “Everyone is keen to know whether the animal has been captured or not. People are hesitant and scared to venture out. A leopard is a shy animal and generally moves around in search of food,” said Ruchin Mehra, a city-based animal activist. “It is quite possible the animal has probably strayed into the city limits from areas such as the Muradnagar canal or Loni where such sightings have come to light during past years,” he said. In December, 2014, the body of a leopard was discovered near the river Yamuna in Pychara village in Loni. A day later, another leopard was found dead in the fields of Abupur in Modi Nagar, Ghaziabad and was suspected to have died due to electrocution. Besides these, an animal from the cat family, possibly a leopard, was spotted in Vaishali’s Sector 3 on August 1. On December 17 last year, a three-and-half year old male leopard was trapped and captured from the Hindon airbase. Also, in April, 2017, a male leopard was captured from Krishna Vihar Kuti area close to the Hindon airbase after it injured a man, a child and a cattle. According to officials, the leopard, Panthera pardus, is listed under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and included in Appendix I of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife Fauna and Flora). It is listed as Near Threatened on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List. They said that a leopard is known to travel 50-100km in the fields at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/cages-set-up-drone-survey-ordered-to-trace-missing-leopard/story-v1j77WHxNqhCwt56SpnA4I.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad most polluted for 4th consecutive day, officials blame Ghazipur landfill fire for spike||Ghaziabad: For the fourth consecutive day, Ghaziabad emerged as the most polluted city across the country as its pollution levels hovered high in the “severe” category on Wednesday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) records showed that the city has been topping the list of most polluted cities in India since November 22. On November 22, the air quality index (AQI) stood at 288 in the “poor” category category, at 365 at “very poor” on November 23 and at 428 in the “severe” zone on November 24. The AQI was 444 in the “severe” category on Wednesday. The officials said the burning of garbage at the Ghazipur landfill site in East Delhi affected the AQI levels at the Indirapuram and Vasundhara monitoring stations. “Apart from the already prevalent pollution concentration, the fire at the Ghazipur landfill site affected the air quality in the city with the Indirapuram and Vasundhara monitoring stations recording ‘severe’ pollution levels. So, the overall AQI has deteriorated,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UP pollution control board. Teams from the Delhi Fire Services were working to control the fire after they received call around 10pm on Tuesday. The fire was raging till Wednesday afternoon. Several air quality monitoring stations in East Delhi also showed a major spike in pollution levels. At Patparganj, the station recorded an AQI of 427 at 4pm on Wednesday while Anand Vihar recorded 448 at the same time. The landfill site is located close to Khoda Colony near UP Gate. The two monitoring stations in Indirapuram and Vasundhara in Ghaziabad are also located nearby. The AQI at 4pm on Wednesday was recorded at 445 in Indirapuram, 476 in Loni, 419 in Sanjay Nagar and 438 in Vasundhara. “The AQI levels at Loni are already high as work on road construction, drains, U-turns, etc., are going on. Besides there is local housing construction as well. So, the reading at Loni has basically remained high during the present season. All these factors combined have directly affected the pollution levels in the city,” he added. Officials of the Indian Meteorological Department had said on Tuesday that the wind speed reduction has been detrimental to the dispersal of pollutants trapped in the region. Wind speed is likely to pick up after November 26 and will help in flushing out pollutants. The officials had said instances of stubble burning counts have decreased drastically and the activity is in the final phases. According to the forecast of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s PM2.5 levels stood at 12%, 6% and 4% on November 22, 23 and 24, while it reduced further to 2% on November 25. “Despite chalking out numerous plans, there is hardly any implementation at the ground level. Instances of burning of waste and garbage are rampant and construction works are still going on. It was essential that construction of roads, etc., should have been completed before the onset of the winter season. The pollution board also has a severe resource and staff crunch and it is very difficult for them to carry out enforcement and surveillance,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-most-polluted-for-4th-consecutive-day-officials-blame-ghazipur-landfill-fire-for-spike/story-hlLpZ5E9GZRWFaVVSBsYgK.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Noida’s air quality slips to severe again||After oscillating between ‘moderate’ and ‘very poor’ in the last week, the air quality of Noida slipped to ‘severe’ category again on Wednesday, as calmer winds and local emissions led to sharp rise in pollutants, with no scope for ventilation. While neighbouring Ghaziabad has been reeling under ‘severe’ air quality in the past 48 hours, the air in Greater Noida has been in the ‘very poor’ category, threatening to slip into ‘severe’. Monitoring agencies expect pollution levels to drop slightly from Thursday onwards.However, higher humidity levels and low temperatures will make dispersion of pollutants difficult as heavier air (due to low temperatures) trap pollutants better. Meanwhile, the agencies stated that winds directions are currently easterly, which means that the intrusion of smoke from neighbouring states is minimal. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the wind speed will remain largely calm over next two days, and certain regions may see a slight drizzle. “The wind direction on Wednesday was easterly and south-easterly directions reached maximum speeds of 8 kmph . Certain parts of NCR received drizzle or traces of rain on Wednesday while some areas are expected to witness some drizzling on Thursday morning. However the low intensity will only give rise to the humidity, due to which even if wind speed increases, the ventilation will be low,’ said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. However, the agencies do believe that the ongoing fire at Ghazipur landfill site – one of the largest landfill site of Delhi on the north-west side of Noida – could be a contributing factor. The Ghazipur landfill site had caught fire around Tuesday, 10 pm, leading to smouldering of the solid waste throughout the day. “We have not received any update about the possible effect on air quality. However, it is logical and obvious that a huge fire near the district will definitely have some effect on the overall air quality of the region,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Noida. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday was 414 or ‘severe’ against 396 or ‘very-poor’ a day earlier and 301 on Monday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 394 against 382 a day earlier and 286 on Monday. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 444 against 428 a day earlier, both ‘very-poor’ against 365 on Monday. The AQI between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The pollution mass remained high for all three cities, with PM2.5 for past 24-hours in Noida recorded at 243.94 microgrammes per cubic against 229.74 microgrammes per cubic metres a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 250.9 units against 238.16 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 331.23 against 335.35 a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 units. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to see slight improvement in coming days. “Winds are forecasted to pick up and improve the ventilation condition by Thursday. The AQI is forecasted to improve towards the middle-end of the very poor category by tomorrow and likely stay in the lower end of very poor on 27th and 28th November,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-s-air-quality-slips-to-severe-again/story-bsewR1T4srSIpCsM4O4mQM.html
25-11-2020||Noida||NIIMS gets approval for 150 MBBS seats, becomes third medical college in district||In a boost to the city’s medical education sector, Noida International Institute of Medical Sciences (NIIMS) has been recognised and has been approved 150 seats for its MBBS courses. The National medical commission approved it earlier this month, said the institute’s administration. Till now district Gautam Budh Nagar had two medical colleges -- School of Medical Sciences and Research, Sharda University and Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS) -- both situated in Greater Noida. While Sharda University has 150 MBBS seats, GIMS currently has 100 such seats. “NIIMS has started accepting fresh batch of MBBS students for the coming academic session of 2020 -2021. Currently the NEET counselling is underway and to facilitate registration applicants can visit the NIIMS website and register themselves for NIIMS alongside scheduling campus visits,” said a statement from the institute. Recently NIIMS had set up a National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certified Covid-19 testing laboratory. “NIIMS as an institution is totally dedicated to the cause of bracing up the healthcare system in India. With an integrated approach we have developed an ecosystem that on one hand churns out quality medical practitioners and on the other meets the ever-growing need of according efficient healthcare solutions and treatment to the needies with our 350+ bedded on campus hospital,” says Dr. Devesh Kumar Singh, Chairman, NIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/niims-gets-approval-for-150-mbbs-seats-becomes-third-medical-college-in-district/story-D4QFMoqiPmtaddarh8DqiN.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Air ‘severe’ in Noida, Ghaziabad; ‘very poor’ in Faridabad||The air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad deteriorated to reach “severe” level on Wednesday, while it remained “very poor” in Greater Noida and Faridabad and “poor” in Gurgaon, a government agency said.Noida had its air quality in the “severe” category on November 15, a day after Diwali, when large parts of the National Capital Region recorded high pollution.   Presence of PM 2.5 and PM 10 pollutants also remained high in the five neighbouring cities of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Wednesday was 444 in Ghaziabad, 414 in Noida, 394 in Greater Noida, 348 in Faridabad and 299 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB’s Sameer app.  On Tuesday, it was 428 in Ghaziabad, 396 in Noida, 382 in Greater Noida, 360 in Faridabad and 296 in Gurgaon. It was 365 in Ghaziabad on Monday, 301 in Noida, 286 in Greater Noida, 285 in Gurgaon and 272 in Faridabad. On Sunday, the AQI was 242 in Gurgaon, 234 in Faridabad, 288 in Ghaziabad, 273 in Noida and 270 in Greater Noida, it showed.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “poor” category may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while “very poor” may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure and “severe” could affect healthy people and seriously impact those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all stations there. Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad have four stations each, while Gurgaon has three and Greater Noida two, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/air-severe-in-noida-ghaziabad-very-poor-in-faridabad/story-r94V0UiVW1cQnXi6lTVxdP.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Police on high alert for farmer movement, labour strike||Police in Gautam Budh Nagar are on high alert in light of the nationwide farmer movement and labour union strike called for Thursday. Several farmer organizations have called for a ‘Delhi chalo’ movement on November 26 and 27 following which police in Delhi-NCR are on high alert. “Organisations in our district are not participating. So there was no need for any additional force deployment but we will stay on alert and monitor the situation closely,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh. Drone cameras will also be used to keep an eye on public movement. Police carried out flag marches on Wednesday in various industrial belts to keep workers from assembling in public during the trade unions’ strike on Thursday.The trade unions are protesting against “anti-worker” and “anti-farmer” policies of the government. “Public gatherings are not allowed in the current scenario (due to the pandemic). Action can be taken against any unlawful assembly. Workers can also be booked for the violation of the essential services maintenance act. We have requested workers in industrial belts to continue with their work like normal tomorrow. That is why the flag marches were carried out,” said Singh. Police will be carrying out extensive patrolling across the district to ensure law and order. The police commissionerate also launched six specialised patrolling vehicles to monitor the Yamuna expressway. “These vehicles will keep at eye on the Jewar airport construction sites. They will patrol the expressway to ensure law and order, keep street crime at bay and to provide necessary support in cases of accidents specially during nights,” said DCP, zone 3, Rajesh Kumar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/police-on-high-alert-for-farmer-movement-labour-strike/story-rEG2QbZTbGGeHBtA13V7pK.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Burglary at banquet hall in Noida||Noida Police on Wednesday registered a case against unidentified staff of a sector 52 banquet hall after a family that had booked the space alleged that somebody had stolen cash and valuables worth ₹7 lakh.The family from Nithari had booked the banquet hall for an engagement party on Tuesday evening. “The staff there had allotted us a room for us to keep our belongings and to use for personal errands. We had kept a bag containing ₹4.5 lakh cash and ₹2.5 lakh worth jewellery there and locked it before proceeding to attend the ceremony,” said Sunny, the groom’s older brother. He alleged that someone had broke in and decamped with the bag containing the valuables. “As soon as we realised this we immediately informed the manager. But when we checked the CCTV footage, we found that the cameras had not recorded anything,” he said. Family members alleged that they noticed a particular waiter who was nowhere to be found after the burglary was discovered. “The waiter in question was not serving properly, which is why we noticed him. He was not even on the list of the staff. Someone must have helped him carry out the burglary. We immediately alerted the police,” said Dharmendra, a relative. Based on the complaint, a case of burglary (section 380 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at the sector 24 police station. “A probe in the matter is underway. We will question all the staff to identify him. There is no CCTV footage of the incident,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, sector 24 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/burglary-at-banquet-hall-in-noida/story-xTCV8O9Xaq3r5MwEjijJrK.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Elderly man dies by suicide in Sector 24, leaves behind note||A 63-year-old man allegedly died by suicide on Wednesday morning in an area under sector 24 police’s jurisdiction, with investigators later recovering a note from the room of the man.Police said that they came to know about the incident around 11.30 am after they received a memo from a hospital in sector 26. “The family had found the man hanging in his house and rushed him to a hospital nearby, where he was declared brought dead. After we received information from the hospital, a team was rushed to the spot and the body was sent for autopsy,” said Prabhat Dikshit, station house officer, sector 24 police station. He said that the family found a suicide note from the spot. “In the note, the man has said that he was taking full responsibility for his actions and no one else was responsible or was to be blamed for it. He also mentioned that his family or friends should not be bothered for his death. But there was no specific reason mentioned in the note. The family has also not indicated any trouble which might have prompted him to end his life,” said the SHO. Later, the body of the man was handed over to the family following the autopsy. The man had retired three years ago from the managerial post of a private company and was living with his family in Noida. The family, so far, have not filed any complaint in the matter. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914066202000 from ‘Roshni’ (Hyderabad-based) and +914424640050 from Sneha India Foundation (Delhi-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/elderly-man-dies-by-suicide-in-sector-24-leaves-behind-note/story-hxVHxwbiii5kScHJHirZHM.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida authority on a lookout for agency to help them acquire land||The Greater Noida authority is likely to hire a private agency that will help in land acquisition for new industrial sectors. The authority realised that it does not have enough staff to process the files of landowners, said officials.“The agency to be hired will assist the authority in keeping land records, conduct a land audit and also inform farmers about the process. The agency will make the process quick, easy for both the authority and farmers,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority.Interested agencies can apply for the job till December 16 as the authority has issued a request for proposal (RFP) on its official website- www.greaternoidaauthority.in. The authority issued request for proposal (RFP) on November 23 and the pre-bid meeting is scheduled for, said officials.The agency’s work will be for at least 36 months with possible extension depending upon the requirement. The agency will prepare proposals for land acquisition, conducting social impact assessment on socio-economic conditions of farmers, whose land is to be acquired and implementation of section 11 and 19 of land act-2013, said officials.The authority had on August 4, 2020 in its 118th board meeting decided to spend Rs2000 crore on buying the agricultural land from the farmers in the financial year 2020-21 with a aim to prepare fresh land meant to set up industrial units in the city. The authority aims to buy at least 2500 acres of land in this 2020-21 financial year so that it can develop the same and allot it to interested corporate houses and international and domestic investors, who want to set up manufacturing units in this city. The authority has allocated Rs2000 crore for the land buying because it has focused on creation of jobs in this region for the youth so that the local economy can be fuelled, said officials. Officials hope once the agency will be hired the land acquisition work will be expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-authority-on-a-lookout-for-agency-to-help-them-acquire-land/story-tsAPwTuHJcact7I468jYgO.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||City air on the verge of ‘very poor’ zone, rain to improve AQI on Thursday||Air quality in the city remained in the ‘poor’ zone on Wednesday, with a reading of 299 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, marginally worse than the AQI of 296 recorded the previous day. Experts attributed the lack of improvement in air quality to local factors and slow wind speeds, due to which pollutants couldn’t be dispersed. Gurugram remained the least polluted city in the National Capital Region (NCR) for the second consecutive day, as the AQI in neighbouring Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad worsened to the ‘severe’ category, while Faridabad was in the ‘very poor’ category. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional weather forecasting centre, said that since Gurugram was located to the south, local factors, such as geography and relatively better dispersion of pollutants, might have played a role in keeping the air quality marginally better than other NCR cities. “Wind direction and location play a role due to which there might be a variation in the air quality of different cities. When we look at Palam or Gurugram, towards the south, the dispersion is slightly higher, whereas places such as Delhi are densely populated and vehicular emissions are also higher, due to which dispersion doesn’t take place properly. Comparatively, winds also slightly faster on the outskirts,” said Srivastava. The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was at 243.38 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The PM2.5 level was almost four times the permissible limit of 60µg/m³.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve significantly and reach the lower end of ‘poor’ category on Thursday, with a chance of light rain. The air quality is likely to improve further but remain in the ‘poor’ category on Friday.“Since stubble burning has decreased these days, the air pollution is mostly due to local factors and emissions from industries. The pollutants are not getting dispersed on account of slow wind speed,” said Srivastava.The minimum temperature of Gurugram increased by two degrees on Wednesday, to settle at 11 degrees Celsius, as per IMD data, up from a minimum temperature of 9.6 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 22.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which decreased by one degree from the day before, according to the IMD’s Palam observatory in Delhi, which, according to the MeT department officials, gives a fairly accurate reading of the city’s weather. The IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) did not record the city’s maximum temperature on Wednesday. Srivastava said that the minimum temperature would remain in a similar range on Thursday while very light rain may occur in a scattered manner in some parts. “The city might see very light rain or drizzling on account of the western disturbance on Wednesday night or Thursday morning. The temperature won’t be affected much and will stay around 10-11 degrees Celsius in Gurugram,” said Srivastava. He said that while the minimum temperature had stayed in a similar range over the past two days, the maximum temperature had fallen by a degree or two. “Due to a cloud cover, the maximum temperature might fall marginally on Thursday. The minimum temperature will stay in a similar range,” said Srivastava. He said that the temperature would again dip from November 28-29 once the western disturbance passes. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 24 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 13 degrees. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-on-the-verge-of-very-poor-zone-rain-to-improve-aqi-on-thursday/story-l256NT1C9WLP7oEsFlSWzK.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||661 new cases in Gurugram district, total count reaches 46,555||The Covid-19 count in Gurugram district reached 46,555 with 661 new cases reported on Wednesday, according to health department data. Active cases rose to 6,181 while the death toll stood at 272 as three deaths related to the SARS-CoV-2 virus were confirmed on Wednesday. To flatten the curve of new infections, the health department said it has ramped up overall testing, while gradually increasing the proportion of rapid antigen tests. However, according to experts, a higher percentage of rapid antigen tests masks the accurate prevalence of the disease due to its poor accuracy in detecting cases. Data shows that in the last one week, rapid antigen tests have increased by almost 16 percentage points. Out of the total 47, 795 tests conducted in the last one week, nearly 27% were antigen tests. If compared to the previous week, the proportion of antigen tests was just 11% when more than 25,000 tests were being administered.The daily average, including 4,500 tests conducted in a single day on November 21, shows nearly 1,800 rapid antigen tests have been conducted every day in the last one week, out of the 6,000 overall tests administered in a day. On Wednesday too, at least 6,284 Covid-19 tests were administered, of which 4,873 were the gold standard Revers Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and 1,411 were rapid antigen.The rapid antigen test has to be done in high-risk areas with repeat testing to control the transmission of the virus. Due to its poor accuracy in identifying true positives, the test is generally not preferred. Studies shows that increased antigen testing impacts the test positivity rate - total number of positive samples of the total samples collected – an important indicator to gauge the prevalence of infection. In the last one week, due to the increased rapid antigen tests, the weekly positivity rate has even come down to almost 12%, compared to the previous week positivity rate of almost 17%. Scientifically, it has been one of the major drawbacks of antigen tests that it masks the exact positivity rate.Experts suggest that positivity rate through RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests should be separately calculated to have a clearer picture of the prevalence of infection. “Gurugram should declare break up of tests done, cases detected through RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests, respectively, on a daily and a cumulative basis and show their positivity rates separately to present more accurate picture,” said Dheeraj Singh, a data scientist who has been monitoring district’s Covid-19 data. An antigen test can detect coronavirus disease cases only when the viral load is high. In some cases, it even misses out the symptomatic person. Therefore, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, it is mandatory to conduct RT-PCR for every rapid antigen negative test. However, it is left to the decision of the lab technicians at the time of testing based on the symptom of the suspected cases. A record 37,244 tests were administered across the state on Wednesday, with Faridabad conducting the highest sample collection of 14,209 on Wednesday.Sampling dayThe state health department has decided to observe November 28 as sampling day across the state. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, state health department, said, “The target is to do a minimum test of 50,000 tests across the state, of which 80% should be RT-PCR. Health health department has been directed to tie up with labs in advance. The sampling would be targeted as well as random.”He said that the Haryana Medical Service Corporation Limited will ensure the supply of Viral Transport Medium kits and other materials.More than 30,000 tests are administered across the state every day. According to the state health bulletin, 3,269,677 tests have been administered in the state till Wednesday, of which 88% tests have been conducted by government labs. Sirsa, Panipat, Ambala, Narnaul and Panchkula have conducted the fewest tests in the state. Earlier this week, senior state officials clarified that testing will be specifically increased in Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, where cases are highest in the state. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said, “Based on the resources available, the department will chalk out the strategy for the upcoming sampling day on November 28. We will have to consider logistics, availability of manpower and delivery of test results within 48 hours if a record number of RT-PCR tests are to be administered. Sites where testing camps will be held will be decided on Thursday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/661-new-cases-in-gurugram-district-total-count-reaches-46-555/story-BknJ3EIkluh2oJU8yNSzOK.html
25-11-2020||City||DTCP refuses completion certificate to Malibu Towne over violations||Gurugram: The department of town and country planning has refused to grant completion certificate to Malibu Towne, a residential colony on Sohna Road, on account of alleged violations of the layout plan and illegal construction. DTCP officials said directions have been given to the developer to remove these deficiencies and apply for the completion certificate again. A completion certificate is granted to certify that a developer has completed all works and laid services in a colony as per the plan. A developer, after obtaining it, has to take care of the colony for five years after which it can be handed over to a government agency for maintenance. The department said Malibu Estate Pvt Ltd had applied for a completion certificate in 2017. A detailed check by officials revealed that the developer had not obtained occupancy certificate for four community buildings despite extension given by the department to amend violations, it said. The department listed violations such as construction of an office and sewage treatment plant in green belt, a telephone exchange and water works in green area and similar illegal constructions. The department has asked the developer to submit a certificate stating that the profit earned from this project was not more than 15%, which is part of the licence conditions. “A number of complaints pertaining to these matters have been lodged with the department and after inspection, several irregularities were found after which completion was refused,” Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said. Mann said that for a plotted colony to be handed over to MCG or any other government agency for maintenance, obtaining a completion certificate was a must. “A completion certificate means all services and infrastructure have been laid and the colony can be taken over for maintenance. Without it, the handover can’t happen,” he said.MCG had recently sought information from the department regarding the status of infrastructure and services in Malibu Towne colony for taking over its maintenance. Vijay Shivnath, a member of the volunteer group managing the colony, said that there were several deficiencies in the colony but many of these are minor and could be overcome if the department and developer work in unison. “It is important that the colony gets a completion certificate soon so that it can be transferred to MCG and get integrated with the large civic system of the city,” he said. A representative of Malibu Estate Pvt Ltd did not reply to phone calls and a message seeking a response in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dtcp-refuses-completion-certificate-to-malibu-towne-over-violations/story-b9RJiGx3W66ZZCbbZP6XUP.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||Man wanted for nine murders held in Uttarakhand||The police on Tuesday arrested 23-year-old Pawan Nehra, a wanted gangster, from Haldwani in Uttarakhand for his alleged involvement in nine murders, including a triple murder in Basai this August. The police had announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to his arrest after he had fled the spot. Nine of his close aides, however, were arrested following the incident. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Nehra had shot dead three people over in a feud over a 1,000 square yard plot in Basai. “Joni Kataria, who is in jail in a murder case, had an ancestral plot in Basai, which was usurped by Nehra’s aide and this led to a feud. The opposite gang had joined hands with late Ashok Rathi’s group and killed Nehra’s right-hand man about two years ago. In retaliation, they murdered nine people of the other gang,” he said. Two of his aides, Sawan alias JD, of Jhajjar, and Monu alias Sukha, of Rohtak, were also arrested with Nehra, said police, adding they were planning to rob a vehicle when they were caught. The police recovered three mobile phones, three internet devices and three countrymade pistols from him and two of his gang members. Sangwan said Nehra was released on bail from Bhondsi jail last September. He had been arrested in connection with robbery cases and he had been on the run since. He is involved in hundreds of cases of loot, robbery, gang wars, attempt to murder, murder and kidnapping. He was leading a gang in Basai and had recruited more than 70 members. Nehra had allegedly started making extortion calls to businessmen in Gurugram and had opened fire at a few places when they refused to pay. On August 20, around 5pm, unidentified armed men had shot dead two people after cornering them in an empty plot near Wings Apartment in Bhawani Enclave. Another person was shot dead in Basai village within a few minutes of the first shooting. The police had recovered CCTV footage in which several suspects were seen chasing one of the victims on scooters and later, shooting the victim. Sangwan said that after shooting two of the gang members, they followed another into the residential society and killed him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-wanted-for-nine-murders-held-in-uttarakhand/story-3VWBMjaxASAqeHI48Tr8uL.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP seeks applications for commercial projects on vacant plots||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has sought applications for setting up commercial projects on vacant plots across the state. The commercial colonies will come up under the net planned area of residential sectors, the notice issued by the department stated, adding that developers can submit applications within two months.As per the DTCP notice, commercial projects can have a minimum area of 0.2 acre and the licences can be sought across the state. The said commercial projects will be governed by the policy notified by the department in 2017 for grant of licence for setting up colonies, under which there is a cap on the net planned area. Under a commercial colony, malls, multi-purpose buildings with stores and offices, independent shops and similar projects are allowed. DTCP officials said that such projects can come up in leftover land pockets such as unlicensed land, unacquired land, areas released from acquisition proceedings or that have remained unlicensed since they independently fulfil the area norms for grant of licence in residential sectors. Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said that a window of two months has been given to developers to seek licences for such commercial projects. “There are many small plots of land and leftover pockets that can be developed commercially under this policy. This will help in reducing unauthorised constructions,” he said. In a related development, the enforcement wing of the DTCP on Wednesday carried out a demolition drive along the Dwarka Expressway, in which 15 shops, 10 boundary walls and one shed constructed in Sector 119 were razed. “The shops were constructed illegally and being used as offices by property dealers. Three earth moving machines were deployed in the demolition and a large police team was supporting the enforcement department,” said RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, said that in the coming weeks, the department will carry out anti-encroachment drives in developing sectors along the Dwarka Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-seeks-applications-for-commercial-projects-on-vacant-plots/story-b9ZpgGH4QBM9HZZjjqA9SL.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||Enforcing manufacturer responsibility for plastics remains a challenge, say HSPCB officials||Officials with the state pollution control board said that enforcing the extended producer responsibility clause of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, remains a challenge as most manufacturing units continue to operate under the radar.Earlier this month, a public notice was issued directing all manufacturers, importers and brand owners introducing plastic products into the market in Haryana to register themselves with the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) at the earliest, or face penal action. The responsible parties have also been tasked with working out their own logistics to comply with the extended producer responsibility (EPR) clause of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) Plastic Waste Management Rules (PWM), 2016.As per the EPR clause, which was added to the PWM Rules via an amendment in 2018, “Producers, importers and brand owners who introduce these products into the market... need to establish a system for collecting back the plastic waste generated due to their products.” However, HSPCB officials said enforcing the guidelines remains a major logistical challenge. This is evidenced by the board’s annual reports on implementation of the PWM Rules, which pegs the estimated plastic waste generated in Haryana in 2019-20 at 190,163 tonnes. The report, however, lists only 45 registered manufacturing units in the state, along with 46 recycling units. A total of 5,897 challans worth Rs 12.77 lakh were issued in the last financial year for violations of the PWM Rules.The numbers suggest that Haryana’s plastic waste problem is ballooning. In 2018-19, Haryana generated an estimated 68,375 tonnes of plastic refuse, which shot up by 178% in 2019-20.“Our observation is that there are several such manufacturers operating without registration, in areas where such industries are disallowed, and who are also manufacturing carry bags less than 50 microns thickness. These are all violations of the PWM Rules,” said Satender Pal, senior environment engineer, HSPCB. Officials failed to provide a specific number or an estimate of the number of unregistered manufacturing units, either at the state or district level.According to a 2018 CPCB report, there are at least 1,020 unregistered units involved in either the manufacture or recycling of plastic across the country. “We have issued a public notice on November 12, which is a chance for such unauthorised manufacturers to come forward, register themselves, and submit their plans for compliance with EPR. Failing this, regional officers at the district level will be forced to identify such violators through physical inspections and take legal action,” Pal said.Detailing the issues with enforcement, S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, said, “The responsibility of coming forward here lies with the polluter, who does not really have any incentive to do so. Moreover, a large portion of the industry is still unregulated and there is little directional framework that is being given to them. We have to find a better way to ensure compliance.” Narayanan added that Central rules for solid waste, e-waste and construction waste management clearly lay out the logistics for collection of waste, involving guidelines for citizens and urban local bodies. “With plastic waste management rules, the modalities for collection of waste are left to the producers and importers, who have to work out their own channels to get back the waste they produce. This is again tricky to enforce, not just for us, but the manufacturers themselves,” Narayanan said.The HSPCB’s public notice, officials said, mainly targets smaller manufacturers and not larger companies, such as e-commerce giants or those manufacturing bulk quantities of thermoplastics. “The EPR clause has been monitored directly by the CPCB. It is only after recent NGT orders that states have been tasked with cracking down on smaller manufacturers, most of whom are unregistered. Larger companies, such as e-commerce providers, who operate in more than two states, are required to register with the CPCB directly,” said Kuldeep Singh, the HSPCB’s regional officer for Gurugram. “At the district level, we will soon be creating an inventory of possible violators and submitting it to our headquarters in Panchkula. We will go ahead and prosecute them as per provisions as provisions of the Environment Protection Act once when we get the go-ahead. We expect this to take a couple of months,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/enforcing-manufacturer-responsibility-for-plastics-remains-a-challenge-say-hspcb-officials/story-7mxZwmpYHVXjCpPy24r5GP.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||At 19ºC, Ludhiana logs lowest max temp on November 25 since 1997||Cold, foggy and cloudy weather conditions continued to make the residents shiver as the city recorded the lowest maximum temperature ever since November 25, 1997, on Wednesday when the mercury fell to 19ºC. In 1997, the lowest temperature on this particular day was recorded at 16.5ºC. As per the school of climate change and agricultural meteorology, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), the maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 19ºC, which is 5.2 degrees lower than the normal temperature recorded at this time of the year, while the minimum temperature was recorded at 11.6ºC, 2.7 degrees above normal. PAU experts said that weather conditions are expected to remain cloudy on Thursday with chances of thunderstorm at isolated areas. Dry weather conditions have been predicted Friday onwards. Head of department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, PK Sidhu, said the winter season arrived early this year and lowest temperatures are being recorded since the past three to four decades. The western disturbance will move past Jammu and Kashmir area by Thursday following which, dry weather conditions are expected in the state, Sidhu added. Meanwhile, winter season this year has caught the residents by surprise with low temperatures being witnessed even during the day. One of the residents of Nehru Nagar, Gurminder Singh, said, “Winters have arrived early this year and low temperatures are being recorded. Usually, we start wearing jackets in December, but this year, the chilly weather has forced people to pull out the woollens in November only.” Weather conditions beneficial for cropsPK Sidhu said that the dip in maximum temperature is good for wheat crop and vegetables. When the minimum temperature falls to 2-3ºC, then it starts damaging the winter vegetable crops, but till now it has been going well for farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/at-19c-city-logs-lowest-max-temp-on-november-25-since-1997/story-JcQpqgQFKFoq8xPUu6O0RM.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor’s warning: ‘Follow Covid safety norms or we will have no choice but to impose lockdown’||As she completed one year in office on November 22, mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday spoke to HT about her priorities for the city. Amid plan to distribute Covid vaccine, Pednekar said “the authorities may not be left with any other option than lockdown in case of a second wave, if citizens do not follow safety protocols”. Excerpts from an interview with the health worker-turned-politician, who is the city’s 77th mayor: How was your first year in office as a mayor? Very challenging, thanks to the Covid-19 epidemic. Four months after I took charge as the mayor, we had to handle the unprecedented health crisis. I think our handling of the pandemic has been much better than several cities. Besides, I have taken up several initiatives to streamline the administrative process. Do you think Mumbai will have to go into a lockdown if a second wave hits Mumbai? It is very clear from what chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji said a few days ago. Nobody wants another lockdown, but if the second wave hits us and citizens continue to flout safety protocols, there is no other option. It may be debatable whether lockdown solves the purpose or not, but to some extent it does. We need to understand that unless we have an actual vaccine in our hands, wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing is the only vaccine. I am not saying that citizens are not following safety protocols, but say out of 100, there are always two people who flout it. It is because of these two people that the other 98 will have to suffer. If people do not listen despite so many requests, the administration or the state government will have no other option. Also read: Follow Covid-19 norms to avoid lockdown: CM Uddhav Thackeray tells people of MaharashtraHow does the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plan to distribute the vaccine? Do you think that by next year at least 50% of Mumbai will be vaccinated, considering we get a vaccine by January 2021? As of now, I cannot give any timeline. Mumbai is a huge city and we will definitely want to vaccinate all citizens as soon as possible. There are two or more companies in the race for the vaccine, and we expect the vaccine to come soon. The timeline will depend on when we are likely to get the vaccine and how many doses each individual will require. Some vaccines would require one dose, while some require more than one. For a city like Mumbai, if we have to give every citizen three doses, there is a possibility that this exercise might go on till 2023. Hence, it will be wrong to give a statement on any date for now. What about setting up infrastructure for quick distribution and administration of vaccine? The state government has appointed a taskforce to plan vaccine distribution mechanism. From the BMC’s end, we are also preparing a master plan on vaccine storage and distribution. Detailed planning on setting up network to administer the vaccine and who will get it first will be made in the coming days. There are several allegations of corruption by civic officials in awarding contracts during Covid-19. What is your reaction? It is not that the administration has the power to spend the funds the way they want. They have to follow certain rules and guidelines. If there is any violation or wrongdoing by the administration, action will be taken. The BJP has made allegations that you misused your position as a mayor and also obtained tenements allotted by the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) illegally. How do you respond to that? In case of allegations that are made against me, there is an authority named SRA involved. So we should ask the authority if there was any wrongdoing. This will bring out the truth. I am ready to clarify things. If there is anything wrong, I am here in front of everyone. Nobody is untouchable in case of wrongdoing. Also read: Mumbai mayor visits hospital in nurse’s uniform, encourages health staffWhat is the plan for your remaining tenure? Tackling Covid-19 will remain a priority. Health infrastructure will be on top of our agenda followed by education, better roads, water and fire safety. Taking steps to safeguard environment will also be one of our priorities. All parties have started preparations for the 2022 civic polls. Are you confident that the Shiv Sena will retain power in BMC? I am confident of our workers and elected representatives who work for citizens at ground level and not just during the elections. Mumbai’s citizens will vote for us again. I do not want to comment on the BJP, Congress or NCP. As far as the alliances are concerned, the decision will be taken by the Sena leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-s-warning-follow-covid-safety-norms-or-we-will-have-no-choice-but-to-impose-lockdown/story-7ndp7VMowPHa1fqksB1jHI.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||‘The Making of Hero’ bags award at Tata Lit Fest||The book, “The Making of Hero: Four Brothers, Two Wheels and a Revolution that Shaped India”, authored by Hero Enterprise chairman Sunil Kant Munjal, has won the Business Book of the Year 2020 award at the prestigious Tata Literature Live! Festival.The festival, popularly knows as the Tata Lit Fest, was held virtually over six days starting November 16 and had more than 10-lakh attendants. The festival culminated with the awards evening on November 22.Published by HarperCollins, “The Making of Hero”, was pitted against strong contenders including works by Arvind Panagariya and Jaspreet Bindra. After reaching the short list, it edged out Sudhir Sitapati’s “The Brand Factory” and BS Ajaikumar’s “Excellence Has No Borders” to emerge victorious.“I wrote this book to celebrate the life and times of my father and uncles in a ravaged India, a struggling India and emerging India. They are the true heroes of this story. I hope readers see this as a timeless story of aspiration and power of the human spirit and derive some lessons from it. Stories of grit must be told to as many people in as many ways as possible. I am delighted that a Hindi edition will also be published early next year,” said Munjal said.The book narrates the inspirational story of four partition-displaced brothers -- Dayanand Munjal, Satyanand Munjal, Brijmohan Lall Munjal and OP Munjal – who went on to lay the foundation of one of most prestigious “Make in India” stories. How the Munjal brothers laid the foundation of Hero Cycles in 1956 in a partition-ravaged Punjab, and scripted a success story, is the crux of this book. It also narrates how the enterprise created strong social value and transformed transportation in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/the-making-of-hero-bags-award-at-tata-lit-fest/story-zu35swNLqXT5Z7msevIEWK.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai railway stations see crowding as BMC begins Covid-19 screening||Crowding was witnessed at railway stations, with little regard for social distancing, as the civic body from Wednesday began screening travellers for Covid-19 at six railway stations. As images from Bandra Terminus went viral, the Western Railway (WR) issued a statement on Wednesday evening, stating the crowding was a result of flouting of the prescribed standard operating procedures (SOP) by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). “Initially, the authorities of BMC started conducting 100 % Rapid Antigen tests of all passengers which was not as per SOP issued by BMC. It resulted in mass assembly of passengers in the subway,” stated the WR statement. “It was brought to their notice by Railway Authorities that as per the SOP according to BMC Circular, passengers without symptoms would be allowed to go home while passengers who displayed symptoms shall be segregated & made to undergo Rapid Antigen test. Later on, the BMC started following the provisions of SOP regarding asymptomatic passengers which also eased the situation. Also, initially two testing booths were set up by BMC. On request of Railway Authorities the number of booths was increased to six to speed up the testing.” At the time of going to press, BMC had not commented on the statement issued by WR on the crowdingThe BMC screened 9,779 passengers at six railway stations – Borivli, Dadar, Bandra Terminus, CST, Mumbai Central and Kurla terminus – using rapid antigen kits and found 10 positive cases. The decision to screen passengers was taken after the state government made it compulsory to test citizens arriving from four states – Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa - at airports and railway stations, including at land borders. Also read: Maharashtra won’t allow passengers from 4 states without Covid-negative reportThe highest number of passengers – 3,400 – was screened at Mumbai Central, but no cases were detected, followed by second highest (2,046) at Bandra terminus, where five cases were detected. Further, 2,000 passengers were screened at Dadar, in which one positive case was detected; 1,079 passengers were screened at CSMT (0 cases detected.) Lastly, at Borivli, 918 passengers were screened and one person was found positive, followed by 315 screened at Kurla Terminus, in which three tested positive. As per guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government, passengers have to produce a negative RT-PCR report even on landing at airports in Maharashtra. The test should have been done 72 hours prior to the scheduled journey. According to BMC officials, incoming passengers from the four states were screened at the city airport. However, only those passengers not carrying negative reports were made to undergo RT-PCR tests, for which the data will be available by Thursday. Meanwhile, those travelling by roads to Maharashtra, too, will have to undergo screening at the borders check posts. People with symptoms will have to undergo antigen test. If found positive, travellers will be admitted to Covid centres and would have to bear the treatment cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-railway-stations-see-crowding-as-bmc-begins-covid-19-screening/story-JU2iIGawSElt7zJ1ppWkJO.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Avon Cycles to set up new manufacturing unit in Ludhiana’s Neelon||In view of the increased demand for bicycles post-lockdown, Avon Cycles Limited on Wednesday announced the setting up of a new plant in Neelon at a cost of Rs 100 crore.According to company officials, this plant will manufacture aluminium and steel frames and complete bicycles. The intention behind establishing this state-of-the-art plant is to deliver mass premium and high-end cycles, factoring in the current and the future demand across the country, they said.‘At Avon, we believe in pedalling forward! Continuing on our journey towards delivering world-class products, we are establishing a new production plant,” said Onkar Singh Pahwa, CMD, Avon Cycles.These parts will be manufactured using the latest machinery procured from Indian as well as international markets.The new plant aims to stand out in terms of both quality and quantity adding over 5,000 bicycles per day to the current production of 10,000 bicycles from its existing plant located in GT Road, Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/avon-to-set-up-a-new-plant-in-ludhiana-s-neelon/story-5FHi7WWyG58xq6spGbHWhL.html
25-11-2020||City||Reopening of institutions: Colleges affiliated to Punjab Technical University must get staff, students tested for Covid||Punjab Technical University (PTU) has made it compulsory for its affiliated colleges to get all staff members and students tested for Covid-19 before reopening.  Following this, several colleges have tied up with the health department to conduct the tests. Many colleges have decided to reopen only after coronavirus cases decline and the situation is under control. At Punjab College of Technical Education (PCTE), 250 students were tested on Wednesday. They were accommodated in the college hall and social distancing was maintained. Doctors and assistants conducted swab tests. More than 205 students were tested last Friday. Only one tested positive and has been home quarantining as per guidelines of the health department. KNS Kang, director general, said, “Abiding by the instructions from PTU, a team from the health department is conducting Covid tests for students. The staff has already been tested and over 700 students have been tested so far. We are planning to start with only practical classes, and for theory, online classes will continue .”At Gulzar group of Institutes, staff members have been tested for the virus. The testing was arranged by Khanna civil hospital under the guidelines of senior medical officer. Students who want to attend physical classes have been asked to get themselves tested, and after receiving their parents’ consent, they will be allowed to attend. Gurkirat Singh, executive director, GGI said: “We will start classes by taking all necessary precautionary measures. Students have been instructed to wear face masks and maintain social distancing in the classrooms.”Authorities of Gujranwala Guru Nanak Institute of Management and Technology, Ghumar Mandi, conducted a survey last week and asked students whether they want to attend physical classes or continue online. Around 60% students said they prefer to continue online. Harpreet Singh, college principal, said, “We are not reopening right now as the intermediate semester exams are starting from December 1 and we want students to revise by staying at home. We are discussing with the college management, and whenever the situation improves, crash courses of practicals will be conducted.”At Khalsa Institute of Management and Technology, Civil Lines, the college authorities have designed a consent form sent it to parents. But, majority of them have refused to sent their wards to college and want online classes to continue. Harpreet Kaur, director, said, “We are continuing with the online classes and if any student has any query, then they can visit college to get their doubts cleared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/reopening-of-institutions-colleges-affiliated-to-punjab-technical-university-must-get-staff-students-tested-for-covid/story-pNLcH9eQNYVXIrdrLGGbNK.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Train services resume: Coolies, vendors struggle to make ends meet in Ludhiana||With limited trains plying on the tracks of the Ludhiana railway station, coolies and vendors are struggling to make ends meet. On Wednesday, the food stalls at the station were also found closed as vendors opted to keep their establishments closed due to low footfall.Income of coolies has also been affected adversely due to limited passengers visiting the station and majority of them opting to carry their own luggage to avoid getting infected. As per schedule released by the railways, 15 trains were expected to halt at the Ludhiana Railway Station on Wednesday. Of these, Paschim Express from Bandra to Amritsar, which was scheduled to reach Ludhiana at 8am, arrived four hours late. Passengers finally boarded the train at 1.10pm. A passenger, Gopal Krishan, said: “I reached the station at 8am with my family to board the train to Amritsar. But, we had to wait for four hours. Due to surging Covid cases, there was low footfall at the station. Officials of the government railway police were asking all passengers to maintain social distancing and most people were wearing masks and abiding by safety protocols.” The Sachkhand express from Nanded to Amritsar, which was scheduled to reach Ludhiana at 5.35am, was cancelled.A coolie, Radhe Shyam, who has been working at the Ludhiana Railway Station for the last 12 years, said: “I reached the station early in the morning as two trains were expected to arrive between 5am and 8 am. But, one of them was cancelled and another was running late. I rested at the platform and the first train arrived at 1.10 pm. I managed to earn only Rs 100 till afternoon. Due to few trains halting at the station, and passengers preferring to carry their own luggage, coolies are struggling to make ends meet.”All food stalls and trolleys from platform numbers one to seven have been non-operational since March, when trains services were suspended amid the Covid outbreak. Even when the train services have partially resumed now, vendors have decided not to reopen as most passengers are carrying eatables on their own.Earlier, around 150 to 200 trains used to traverse from Ludhiana, and the station witnessed a footfall of around 80,000 passengers everyday.Som Nath, President of the Vendors’ Cooperative Society, said, “After the railways suspended train services in March, all vendors lost their source of income and have been without work since then. We are ready to open the stalls at the station as our income has been affected for many months. Majority of the vendors at stalls and moving trolleys sell food items such as ‘chhole kulche’, chips, cold drinks, biscuits, water bottles, etc. But, due to limited passengers visiting the station, it is not feasible for them to reopen.”Ludhiana railway superintendent Ashok Salaria, said: “Out of the 15 trains expected to arrive at the station on Wednesday, one of them was cancelled and few were running late.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/train-services-resume-coolies-vendors-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-in-ludhiana/story-5w8wekj5McflraoxuWhetM.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi logs less than 100 Covid deaths after 5 days, positivity rate further drops to 8.49%||Delhi on Wednesday registered 5,246 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 99 more related fatalities which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 545,787 and 8,720 respectively. The national capital’s daily toll on Wednesday was below the 100-mark for the first time after five days.From the past 13 days, the daily deaths due to Covid-19 crossed the 100-mark at least seven times. Delhi reported 109 deaths on Tuesday, 121 on Monday and Sunday, 111 on Saturday, 118 on Friday and 131 on November 18- which has been the highest till date and 104 on November 12.On the other hand, Delhi had recorded its highest single-day spike of nearly 8,600 cases on November 11. For the past several days, the state has been adding the maximum number of cases towards the country’s daily Covid-19 tally.Also Read: District authorities setting up micro-containment zones as Covid-19 cases surge in DelhiNearly 499,000 people have recovered from the disease till now while active cases went further down to 38,287 from 38,501 on Tuesday. The containment zones in Delhi have now mounted to 4,980.As many as 61,778 tests, including 26,080 RT-PCR tests, were carried out on Tuesday , the state health department’s bulletin showed.During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Covid-19 review meet with chief ministers of all states on Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that Covid-19 cases and positivity rate had been steadily decreasing in the national capital since November 10.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicSenior officials at the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that Kejriwal sought the Prime Minister’s intervention to get rid of pollution due to stubble burning from adjoining states, especially in view of recent bio decomposer. The CM also sought reservation of additional 1,000 beds in intensive care units (ICUs) of hospitals run by the Centre till the third wave lasts in the state.(With PTI inputs).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-logs-less-than-100-covid-deaths-after-5-days-positivity-rate-further-drops-to-8-49/story-PPy4dLJ1Ec8WmCRXcjAytM.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana seals borders with Punjab, water cannons used to stop farmers’ march||Undeterred by heavy security arrangements, farmers in Haryana on Wednesday brazenly challenged the police personnel, used tractors to remove and demolish multi-layer barricades on highways and marched towards the national capital in vehicles to join the ‘Delhi Chalo’ stir against the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The Haryana police also used water cannons against the state’s farmers on the national highway in Ambala and Kurukshetra to stop them from moving to Delhi. The state has also suspended its transport bus service to Punjab with immediate effect because of the stir. “We have suspended roadways service to Punjab for the next two days,” transport minister Mool Chand Sharma said.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday had said the state government has decided to seal the Haryana-Punjab border on November 25 and 26 and Haryana-Delhi border on November 26 and 27 in view of the proposed ‘Delhi Chalo’ call given by the farmers. Haryana had set up road barricades on borders with Punjab and deployed additional police forces to prevent farmers’ entry into the state. Cranes were used to put boulders on roads to stop their movement and traffic was diverted to alternate routes. Water cannons and ambulances were also stationed on the inter-state borders. Restrictions have also been imposed at other inter-state borders with Punjab, including Sirsa, Kurukshetra and Jind districts. Ambala was the epicentre of confrontation between police officials and peasants. Security forces deployed across the state were on their toes as Haryana sealed its border with Punjab to prevent entry of farmers from the neighbouring state. Despite appeals to withdraw the ‘Delhi Chalo’ call, farmers gathered in sizeable numbers on the national highway near the new grain market in Ambala Cantonment. Farmers, mostly from northern districts of Haryana— Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and other nearby areas—had begun assembling in the forenoon. The peasants led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Charuni hit the roads using tractor trailers, cars, bikes. They were also carrying ration and tents. Tension prevailed as farmers outnumbered the cops and resorted to removing barricades even as police exercising restraint desisted from using force to prevent law and order situation. Police used water cannons when the farmers managed to break the barricades in Ambala. Superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia said the farmer vehicles had tried to run-over the police. It was after a failed round of talks between police and BKU state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni that the activists started marching towards Delhi. They were stopped on the outskirts where police had erected cemented and iron barricades which were later broken by the agitating farmers. Police made yet another futile attempt to stop the farmers who on their vehicles broke the barricades and crossed Ambala towards Kurukshetra. Stating that police avoided direct confrontation with the farmers, Ambala SP accused them of creating law and order situation. “The farmers resorted to stone-pelting...they tried to hit the cops with their speeding vehicles and run-over them...some cops might have got injured... we will lodge an FIR against them,” the SP said.Police failed to stop the farmers’ cavalcade in Kurukshetra district despite installing barricades and using water cannons. Barricades were set up at Karnal’s Karan Lake where the farmers were expected to reach late night. Police also tried to stop the farmers at Tyora vllage near Shahbad in Kurukshetra where water cannons were again used to stop them. However, the farmers managed to cross the barricades to march forward. “We are farmers and don’t have any plan or strategy but we will not clash with the police and continue our march peacefully,” Charuni said. He said they will try to reach Delhi and start their protest wherever the police will stop them. The district administration of Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts has blocked the state border to prevent entry of farmers from Punjab. “Police have been deployed at the state border in Cheeka of Kaithal district and farmers from Punjab will not be allowed to enter Haryana,” said Kaithal SP Shahank Kumar Sawan.The farmers stopped their cavalcade near Samana Bahu village of Karnal district for the night and will proceed for Delhi on Thursday morning.With inputs from Karnal, Rohtak, Ambala||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-seals-borders-with-punjab-water-cannons-used-to-stop-farmers-march/story-rlKgIVh7Ga1cVfJfkh1qRI.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||MMR’s air quality turns poor after Diwali||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) witnessed a sharp spike in pollution levels on Wednesday, according to data from the Central and state pollution control bodies. MMR’s AQI on Wednesday was much worse than in the entire Diwali period (November 14-16) when overall AQI remained in the moderate category.The air quality index (AQI) on Wednesday entered the poor category at 206, calculated from an average of 16 locations in MMR, with the prominent pollutant being PM2.5 — tiny pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).Read: Mumbai’s pollution levels spiked in October; highest so far in 2020, according to MPCBIt was 137 (moderate) on Tuesday with PM2.5 as the prominent pollutant.Even the AQI, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) under the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES), was in the moderate category at 180 during the day, but increased to poor (201) by Tuesday evening from an average of 10 locations.CPCB and SAFAR both categorise AQI levels from 0-50 as good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor, and above 401 is severe. Researchers said Mumbai’s air quality was likely to remain poor for the next two days at least. “The wind pattern over Mumbai region is presently northerly to north-easterly with winds coming from the land bringing more dust over the city. At the same time we expect temperatures to drop due to northerly winds and pollutant particles getting accumulated and suspended close to the surface. Thus, air quality is likely to remain in the upper end of the moderate and lower end of the poor category,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR.Location-wise AQI, according to pollution control board data, showed Vasai was the most polluted location in MMR with an AQI of 303 (very poor), followed by Worli 301 (very poor), Kurla 272 (poor), and Kalyan 267 (poor). Colaba had the cleanest air at 118 (moderate).According to SAFAR, BKC, Andheri and Chembur recorded the worst AQI in the poor category.The concentration of PM2.5 was 91 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3 while PM10 levels were 167 µg/m3 against the safe limit of 100 µg/m3.An AQI of 190 (moderate) has been predicted for Thursday, said SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmr-s-air-quality-turns-poor-after-diwali/story-puEOrN4ELKJg5qXpey8uNM.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Ahmed Patel: The key Congress man in Maharashtra, from UPA to MVA||Ahmed Patel, the Congress’s master strategist or ‘Chanakya’ who passed away on Wednesday, had played a key role in the formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising three parties with different ideologies around this time last year. After the Shiv Sena fell out with its long-standing ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), following the Assembly polls in October last year, the Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), who were in talks for formation of the government, approached the Congress for an alliance. The party’s national leadership was reluctant to join hands with the Sena, which was seen as the party advocating Hindutva and was known for its stand against outsiders or migrants. Also read: The centrality of Ahmed Patel in Indian politicsThe party’s south Indian leaders, including organisational secretary KC Venugopal, had reportedly warned the leadership about the fallout of such an alliance in other parts of the country, according to state Congress leaders. Then, Congress leaders from Maharashtra approached Patel to stress the need to form the government to keep the state unit together, after the poor performance in the past two Lok Sabha and Assembly polls. “A majority of the 42 MLAs elected were of the opinion that the party should be part of the coalition. Some of the younger MLAs had also warned of a split in the party if the Congress did not concede to their demand to be part of the government. The leadership then appointed Patel to take stock of the situation and look at the pros and cons,” said a state Congress leader. Leaders and MLAs felt that being in power would help keep the BJP out of power and give an opportunity to regain lost ground in the state, where the party was born 135 years ago. Also read: Ahmed Patel: Congress’ indispensable man, an emissary and an archetypal party person“Patel also convinced the central leadership that the Sena had shed its aggressive stand over north Indians and minorities. He had meetings with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray separately before forming the government to decide the terms. He was keen on a common minimum programme which could underline the secular face of the alliance. He also clarified the Congress would not agree to secondary treatment in terms of sharing of power, although it was a junior partner in terms of number of MLAs,” said the leader, adding that Patel was common link between Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Pawar and Thackeray in the entire process. Revenue minister and former chief minister Ashok Chavan said, “Ahmedbhai presented the political position in the state before the party leadership. He spoke to the MLAs and conveyed it to the leadership impartially. It helped us in forming the government in Maharashtra.” “Ahmedbhai also had a dialogue with party MLAs who were lodged in Rajasthan to avoid any attempt of poaching,” said a senior Congress leader requesting anonymity.Thackeray, in his condolence message, said: “The party has lost its Chanakya, who would stand by them in every moment of challenge. He was actively involved in social work, besides his political engagements. His guidance and experience helped us a lot while forming the three-party alliance that formed the government in Maharashtra last year. Not only the Congress, but even the MVA has lost its guide.” Pawar tweeted, “Deeply saddened to know about the demise of veteran Congress leader Shri Ahmed Patel. His contribution to @INCINdia will always be remembered. My sincere condolences to members of his family.” Patel shared cordial relations with Pawar. He was Congress’s pointsperson to communicate with the NCP leadership, especially during the UPA government at the Centre. He had played a key role in forming the Congress-NCP alliance that ruled Maharashtra from 1999 to 2014. “The two parties came together to form a government in Maharashtra in 1999 in just a few months after Pawar quit the Congress to form his own outfit. The alliance after the fallout was a strategic move in which Patel played a major role,” another party leader said. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray said, “Over the years, Patel forged relationships even beyond the political sphere. He valued each of them and stood by his friends in good and bad times. I have fond memories of Patel and will always cherish those.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahmed-patel-the-key-congress-man-in-maharashtra-from-upa-to-mva/story-rHHSOxv8EcOOhzg5eAk8uK.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Cake mixing ceremonies 2020: Sanitised kitchens, virtual streaming, mask on||The timeless tradition of cake mixing sets the mood for the festive season that bring Christmas cheer every year. But amid Covid-19 pandemic, this tradition and its celebration has gone virtual at hotels in Delhi-NCR. While most hotels have chosen not to conduct cake-mixing ceremony this time around, a select few have come up with innovative solutions to maintain social distancing. Cake mixing tradition live streamingThis year, it was more of a “virtual bond” than a physical gathering. Chef Rajesh Roy, executive chef, Le Meridien Gurgaon, says, “Preparing for a celebration is truly an event where people bond with each other by performing this ritual of pouring and mixing of dry fruits with much fun and enthusiasm. This year we created the festive mood by live streaming the cake mixing tradition, which enables an audience to join us and savoured the moment.” Sanitised kitchens, and social distancingThe annual Christmas cake mixing ceremony was an intimate affair this year unlike previous years. “In order to ensure the safety of our guests and associates, and as part of our restrengthened commitment, a select team of pâtissiers and bakers conducted the cake mixing ceremony in our sanitised kitchens while maintaining the highest levels of hygiene, safety and physical distancing protocols,” says Rajesh Wadhwa, executive chef, Taj Palace, New Delhi. More than 150 kilos of rich candied fruits and nuts along with several litres of ambrosial spirits and a selection of freshly pounded aromatic spices such as cinnamon, nutmeg, clove and fennel were used for this ceremony. Wadhwa, who has been leading this tradition for over 17 years here, says, “The heady mixture will now be allowed to rest for around 45 days for the fruits and nuts to soak up the goodness of the spices and the spirit. The redolent, fruity mixture shall then be used to create some finest Christmas cakes, Plum Puddings, Dundee cakes, Stöllen breads, Mince Pies and other traditional festive indulgences.” Apron, gloves, chef hat and a maskThe cake mixing ceremony embarks the beginning of the year end. And this year, some places invited their guests for the first time, to participate and rejoice the festive spirit. Rishi Mehra, director, Food & Beverage – The Leela Palace New Delhi, says, “We are also incorporating the popular Indian sweet petha, for the soaking this time, along with other regular accompaniments such as seasonal fruits, berries, etc. The merriment will be observed while adhering to all safety measures, and our comprehensive safety program that underlines the safety and hygiene protocols we ensure for the well being of our guests and associates. Each guest will be provided with an apron, a pair of gloves, a chef hat and a mask. The ceremony will be followed by a special high tea for our patrons.” Qui-et a mixing Refraining from the traditional cake mixing ceremony, some hotels in Delhi-NCR are preferring to keep guests out of this ceremony, this time around. “Keeping in mind the prevailing Covid-19 situation, we will have a quiet and restrained cake mixing, without guests. But proper hygiene protocols will be maintained,” says Kush Kapoor, CEO, Roseate Hotels & Resorts.Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/cake-mixing-ceremonies-2020-sanitised-kitchens-virtual-streaming-mask-on/story-TCbGOErgaAZd7073Th05PI.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots: Accused committed ‘crime against humanity’, police says in charge sheet||The accused persons in the recent Delhi riots allegedly committed a “crime against humanity” carried out in an “extremely brutal”, “grotesque” and “dastardly” manner, police has said in its supplementary charge sheet filed in a case in a court here.The charge sheet, which names former JNU student leader Umar Khalid and JNU student Sharjeel Imam as accused, said there was a “tacit understanding” between the accused persons to carry out an “illegal” act. It stated that by a “sustained and well-oiled” campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community.“All the accused persons came together in pursuit of an unlawful object. The offences have been committed by the accused persons in an extremely brutal, grotesque and dastardly manner. Innocent victims and helpless were targeted of this ghastly, horrendous and horrifying crime. Precious lives were lost. Accused persons are charge sheeted for commission of grave, serious and heinous offences.“It is pertinent to mention here that their acts and commissions have shocked the collective conscience of the society. The accused persons’ conduct exhibits total disregard for human values and shows a totally depraved, brutal and scheming mind. The accused persons have committed a crime against humanity,” Police claimed in the charge sheet filed on Sunday.It further said that the criminal conspiracy was continuing and has suffered setbacks with the exposure and arrest of the accused persons but it was neither aborted nor abandoned.The charge sheet said the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner.“With the leaders choosing to either remain safely glued to their television sets in the comfort of their homes in upscale locations of Delhi-NCR using their communication devices as the weapon of the enlightened or leaving Delhi for outside destinations to create the most acceptable alibi, the brunt of the conspiracy was suffered by those who reside in most densely populated district of India where day to day survival requires blood and sweat of the toiler and the breadwinner. The crime committed by the key conspirators is not just legally but morally reprehensible,” it said.It alleged the charge sheeted accused had entered into a deep rooted and sinister conspiracy to do an illegal act with an objective to disturb societal harmony by their terrorist acts. “By a sustained and well oiled campaign, they created an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community. Innocent people were killed as a result of this cold blooded, brutal, gruesome and diabolical conspiracy. Government and private properties were damaged, destroyed and destructed. “The law and order situation was paralysed, essential services became unavailable and rumours and disinformation became the order of the day as desired by the accused persons who were acting in a systematic, structured and organised manner,” the charge sheet said. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-riots-accused-committed-crime-against-humanity-police-says-in-charge-sheet/story-jnFkmqFKkO8vK8eUw1GR8M.html
25-11-2020||City||Covid +ve aspirants can take HPAS exam separately at place identified by district: HPPSC||The Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) has asked candidates appearing for the Himachal Pradesh Administrative Combined Competitive (Main) written examination 2019 to inform the commission if they are Covid-19 positive or under home quarantine so that arrangements can be made for them to take the examination at respective quarantine centre/covid care centre/any other place identified by the district administration. The candidates have been directed to inform the commission till November 27 through email at hppsc.shimla.71@gmail.com.The HPPSC will be conducting the examination from December 1 in Dharamshala and Shimla. On December 1, the English exam will be conducted in the morning session (9am to 12pm) while Hindi exam will be conducted during the evening session (2pm to 5pm). The essay examination will be held from 10am to 1pm on December 2, general studies-I (10am to 1pm) on December 3, general studies-II (10am to 1pm) on December 4, general studies-III (10am to 1pm) on December 5. The optional paper-I (9am to 12pm) and optional paper -II (2pm to 5pm) will be conducted on December 7.HPPSC joint secretary Ekta Kapta said the admit card and instructions have been uploaded on the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-ve-aspirants-can-take-hpas-exam-separately-at-place-identified-by-district-hppsc/story-nnhEuPMUmQv5GcfL8YF4wJ.html
25-11-2020||City||Snowfall, rain continues in Himachal, more likely tomorrow||Snowfall in higher reaches and rainfall in middle and lower hills of Himachal Pradesh continued for the third consecutive day as yellow weather warnings have been issued for seven districts including Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Shimla, Mandi, Chamba, Kangra and Kullu.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snow and rain in isolated places of higher and middle hills is very likely to continue on November 26 while the weather will remain clear in lower hills and plains. The weather will be clear throughout the state from November 27 to December 1.On Wednesday, Baralacha received around 70 cm snow, Rohtang 65 cm, Koksar 25 cm, Kalpa and Solang got 15 cm each, Hansa in Lahaul Spiti 5 cm and Gondla 4.5 cm. Minimum temperature in Shimla was 6.5°C while it was 3.9°C in Kufri. Manali in Kullu district recorded 3.8°C minimum temperature while it was 6.8°C and 2.3°C in Dharamshala and Dalhousie respectively.Minimum temperature in Una was 9.7°C, Solan 7.5°C, Bilaspur 11.5°C, Hamirpur 11.2°C, Nahan 11.3°C, Mandi 9.1°C and minus 0.4°C in Kalpa of Kinnaur. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district is the coldest at minus 2.5°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/snowfall-rain-continues-in-himachal-more-likely-tomorrow/story-X3JQLcxlyOJpZgFhlxcAMP.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Capt Amarinder, Navjot Singh Sidhu break ice over lunch||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had a meeting at the former’s farmhouse in Siswan near Chandigarh, signalling a rapprochement between the two. The chief minister had invited Sidhu over for the personal luncheon meeting to break the ice and the two leaders were together for close to an hour. “It was a warm & cordial luncheon meeting that saw CM@capt_amarinder and Navjot Singh Sidhu discuss a host of important political matters of Punjab and national interest. The two leaders spent a pleasant over an hour sharing thoughts on vital issues. @sherryontopp @INCIndia,” the chief minister’s media adviser, Raveen Thurkral, tweeted after the meeting. The two leaders discussed several issues, including the stir against the Centre’s farm laws on a day the state farmers started their Delhi Chalo march, during the meeting, according to sources privy to details of their interaction. Sidhu, who has been keeping the media at arm’s length for the past many months, could not be contacted. FROM FROSTY TIES TO THE THAW Though Amarinder and Sidhu have been seen together on party platforms twice in the past two months, the meeting was their first in the past one-and-a-half years amid talk of the cricketer-turned-politician’s re-induction into the state cabinet. The relations between the two leaders were frosty for a long time but things went south when Amarinder stripped Sidhu of the local government portfolio and the latter quit the state cabinet. The CM had blamed his inept handling of the department for the poor performance of the party in urban pockets during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Sidhu maintained a low profile thereafter and kept taking an occasional dig at the state government’s functioning social media but without directly naming the chief minister. CROWD-PULLING POWER PLUS FOR CONGRESS The efforts to get the two to bury the hatchet started after former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat was appointed the All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of party affairs in Punjab three months ago. He ensured Sidhu’s presence at former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s tractor rally in Moga last month by going to his house in Amritsar and bringing him along. Rawat, who sees Sidhu’s crowd-pulling power as a huge plus for the Congress at both state and national levels, is pushing for an important role for him ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. Both Amarinder and Sidhu have also been making efforts to mend their relations. The CM had asked Sidhu to second the resolution in the state assembly against the Centre’s farm laws and then the latter also participated in a protest led by the chief minister in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-cm-capt-amarinder-navjot-singh-sidhu-break-ice-over-lunch/story-vYxBr6Fr7bTdrRIvNUSeWN.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Lokkala 2020: Daily online performances to showcase folk artistes from Pune region||The Lalit Kala Kendra of the department of performing arts, Savitribai Phule Pune University(SPPU) has come up with a unique 20-day programme to help folk artistes get a platform for their performances. Through the online platform, Lokkala 2020, students and faculty members selected 20 troupes from villages near Pune and will begin showcasing folk dances, music and other styles online for 20 minutes from 8pm starting November 30. This will continue till December 19. The programme is being conducted under the National Centre for Folk Performing Arts Studies, Research and Welfare Centre, which has been set up by SPPU two-and-a-half years ago.“The folk artistes have not been able to perform due to the Covid-19 pandemic since the last eight months. Most of the artistes perform via invitations to village jatra, weddings, or any other auspicious events, but due to the pandemic, traditional folk artistes are struggling to survive,” said Praveen Bhole, head of department, Lalit Kala Kendra.“When the lockdown was implemented, Lalit Kala Kendra along with Tech Mahindra Foundation helped 350 folk artistes with groceries and a ration, but that could not sustain them for so long. Also, with a ban on large gatherings, it is difficult for many of these folk artistes to earn their livelihood,” Bhole added.The students spent a month and half scouting for such artistes in villages near Pune. “The emphasis was on providing a platform to endangered forms of performing folk art like Waru, Bharadi, songs of Lakhabai, among others. A five-member team of Bhushan Bhingarkar, Suraj Shinde, Bipin Ghobale, Pratik Halge and Unmesh Dhore scouted villages like Donde, Dhamni, Loni, Belhe and Narayangaon to meet these folk artistes personally.“Initially, it was difficult to convince these artistes as they thought that we were just making fun of their sustenance. However, after two to three personal meetings along with a letter from our department, we got the folk artistes to agree to the programme,” said Bhushan Bhingarkar, a student specialising in theatre at the Lalit Kala Kendra.The performers will be getting a royalty for their performances of Rs 5,000 from the Welfare Centre along with the online platform to showcase their talent.Nandarani Bhokate, a Lavani singer and Tamasha artiste from Sakurdi village, Khed Taluka, said, “I am so happy that we finally get to showcase our kala (talent). The last eight months have been difficult for us. I have been part of a Tamasha pati (group) since the age of 7. Performing artistes get work only through invitations and with the lockdown, there has been no work. To set up one pati of Tamasha for two months of shows, we need at least Rs 5 to 6 lakh. This year, we have not performed at all. These students and their professors have given us a ray of hope and also a platform to appeal to the government to also look after us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/lokkala-2020-daily-online-performances-to-showcase-folk-artistes-from-pune-region/story-xx3wsCAmfZOJNfevm3w6iK.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Vegetable prices down by 40 per cent in Pune||The vegetable prices which were skyrocketing during Diwali have now dropped by at least 40 per cent due to a surplus in stock arrival at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) managed market. The retail market price for essentials had seen a steep rise during the past week with citizens complaining of unaffordability and a pinch on the tight daily spending budget. According to traders, during the shortage period, there was a huge demand for onions, carrots, garlic tomatoes, leafy vegetables, red and green chillies, ginger and other vegetables which led to a price rise. According to Madhukant Garad, APMC chief more than 500 trucks of leafy vegetables arrived in the market on Monday which made up for the shortage. “Since there was a shortage of vegetables and rising demand for them, the prices increased. Now the prices have stabilised and citizens can buy them at affordable rates,” Garad said. The Gultekdi vegetable market also saw arrival of adequate vegetables and fruits during the past two days which led to the stabilisation of prices, commission agents involved in the business said. Anupreet Kaur, a resident of NIBM said, “We had to buy onions at the rate of Rs 80 per kilogram and cucumber was selling around Rs 60 per kilogram for the last three days. Today, I bought them at Rs 40 and Rs 20 respectively. The price rise is simply unaffordable and the APMC must keep a tab on the rising prices so that customers are not fleeced by the vegetable sellers when buying at retail prices.” Vegetable wholeseller Vilas Bhujbal said, “The prices of onions, potatoes and garlic are still high while all other vegetable prices have come down as the shortage is over. After Diwali, the prices usually go down due to long vacations. The current prices were high due to a shortage of vegetable supply.” Vegetable prices crash after festive seasonMethi Last month: ₹50 This week: ₹40 Now: ₹20 Spring Onion Last month: ₹50 This week: ₹40 Now: ₹20 Onions Last month: ₹ 90 This week: ₹60 Now: ₹40 Ladies finger Last month: ₹105 This week: ₹90 Now ₹50 Pumpkin Last month: Rs 50 This week: Rs 40 Now: Rs 20 Tomatoes Last month: ₹90 This week: ₹70 Now: ₹30 Potatoes Last month: ₹70 This week: ₹60 Now: ₹40 Cucumber Last month: ₹75 This week ₹60 Now: ₹25 Carrots Last month: ₹60 This week: ₹50 Now: ₹30 Coriander Last month: ₹35 This week: ₹30 Now: ₹15-20 Green Peas Last month: ₹75 This week: ₹60 Now: ₹40||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/vegetable-prices-down-by-40-per-cent-in-pune/story-5Tqwdv0WVmLNs2AYIKJk6O.html
25-11-2020||Pune||PMC to reopen subways in the city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to reopen all subways in the city which are closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Srinivas Bonala, PMC additional city engineer and officer-in-charge Pune city has 17 subways and three subways are for vehicles. “All of the subways were closed during lockdown but as everything is back on track and open citizens are facing trouble crossing the roads in the city. Therefore, the Pune Municipal Corporation has decided to open up the subways.” Bonala issued instructions to all the regional ward offices and instructed them to clean up the subways and begin the process of reopening them again. Since the subways were closed for over eight months, they are in need of cleaning before they can be opened up for pedestrians. BJP leader and spokesperson Sandeep Khardekar said he was following up with the Pune Municipal Corporation since the last many days demanding the opening up of the subways across the city. “After lockdown was lifted, citizens have begun going for walks and shopping but were facing problems crossing the roads since the subways were shut. I appealed to the Pune municipal administration to open up the subways for the convenience of the pedestrians,” Khardekar told HT. Khardekar believes the subways should be ready for use in the next two days. “As the administration has instructed to clean up the subways and open them up, I’m expecting that in the next two days, subways would be fully functional for the pedestrians. Already, the work of cleaning the subway on Karve road has begun,” Khardekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pmc-to-reopen-subways-in-the-city/story-xdZe0EYFR7673nFwKV17AN.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Barred from entering Haryana, farmers from Punjab prepare for long haul at inter-state border||Barred from entering Haryana en route their Delhi Chalo march, leaders of farmer organisations of Punjab on Wednesday announced that they will sit on dharna at the inter-state border for a week. The decision was taken after the Haryana government placed barricades and sealed all main entry points from Punjab to prevent the farmers from marching to the national capital. Bharti Kisan Union (Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, “We don’t want a confrontation. Our aim is to oppose the Centre’s farm laws. If we are not allowed to cross Haryana and head for Delhi on Thursday, our protest destination will be the border points for a week. If we get public support, the duration of the dharnas may be increased.” The Left-leaning union is considered the largest among the 31 farmer unions with a significant following in Sangrur, Mansa, Bathinda districts. “Haryana has restricted movement. One can come from Haryana into Punjab but cannot go from our state,” said Darshan Pal, the president of the Krantikari Kisan Union. Shambu, Ghanaur, Dera Bassi, Khanauri, Pehowa and Jakhal are the main entry points into Haryana from Patiala, Mohali and Bathinda districts and a large number of farmers reached these points on Wednesday. “Despite tough weather conditions, it is going to be a long protest by farmers. They are leaving home and readying to protest for two to three months. They are bringing along tents, ration, firewood, clothes, medicines and other articles of daily needs,” he added. KHANAURI, DABWALI KEY SPOTS Farm activists started reaching Dabwali border in Bathinda and Khanauri in Sangrur since Tuesday night. “Khanauri will be the key point where our activists will gather in the maximum number followed by Doomwali on the Bathinda-Sirsa border near Dabwali. Our supporters will start gathering from Wednesday evening at the designated spots,” Ugrahan said. Nearly 1,000 BKU activists had gathered at Doomwali border till Wednesday afternoon. Traffic from Bathinda in Punjab to Haryana was blocked after the Sirsa district administration sealed the Doomwali barrier. Commuters were allowed to enter Haryana from the Talwandi-Rori route and via Sardulgarh in Mansa district. Police sources said vehicles carrying flags of farmer associations were stopped by Haryana Police at the two border points. TRAFFIC JAM ON DELHI-SANGRUR HIGHWAY An estimated 1,000 BKU, Sidhupur, activists tried to enter Haryana with tractor-trolleys through Khanauri but the Haryana Police stopped them in their tracks. The BKU, Sidhupur, members had assembled at Mehlan Chowk, 10km from Sangrur, and headed towards Khanauri. The tractor-trolleys caused long jams on the Delhi-Sangrur highway. Members of the BKU, Ugrahan, camped near the Khanauri border but did not try to enter Haryana. They will attempt to march to Delhi on November 26. MONITORING SITUATION CLOSELY: BATHINDA IG Activists of 30 other farmer unions from south Malwa are to gather at Talwandi Sabo on Wednesday night and they are scheduled to head for Haryana early on Thursday. However, activists of Bharti Kisan Union, Sidhupur, from Bathinda and adjoining areas left for Delhi on Tuesday afternoon itself. Inspector general of police (IG), Bathinda range, Jaskaran Singh said the farmer organisations had sought permission to reach Delhi via Doomwali and Talwandi-Rori routes in Bathinda and via Sardulgarh in Mansa district. “We are monitoring the situation closely to ensure law and order,” the IGP said. (With inputs by Avtar Singh at Khanauri, Sangrur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/barred-from-entering-haryana-farmers-from-punjab-prepare-for-long-haul-at-inter-state-border/story-XS28wSBVtoLqQ6EDPwGIpJ.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||15-day window fine, but clearing backlog will take months: Punjab industry||At a time the industry in the state wants to literally fly out of its current situation towards recovery and normalcy, the resumption of goods trains, though a breather, only highlights that it will be a long, hard clawback for all stakeholders. The sheer quantity of backlog to be cleared and uncertainty over what happens after 15 days, if no permanent solution is found to end the farmers’ stir, are adding to the disquiet among owners.  Thousands of containers with export material are still stocked at dry ports in Ludhiana, while an even larger number of containers (around 8,000) with import material are stuck in transit. Officials at dry ports in the financial capital of the state have seen a steep fall in Exim (export-import) business for the past two months. Officials say it will take at least a month for the situation to stabilise.Dry Ports in Ludhiana’s Dhandari Kalan, Sahnewal, Focal Point and Kila Raipur account for 95% of logistics business in the region. The logistics business itself has shrunk by 50% over the past two months. At the Gateway Rail Freight Ltd (GRFL) in Sahnewal, which accounts for the maximum share of business, by volume, among the Exims, approximately 1,000 containers for exports continue to be stranded, while another 2,800 containers carrying import material are stuck in transit. “A larger number of containers have been transported by road after exporters lifted from dry ports, considering the uncertainty over resumption of train services. This added to their costs, while also leading to loss of clientele. This was another major setback for the local industry,” said Rajeev Sharma, terminal head, ICD Gateway Rail Freight Limited, Sahnewal. ICD stands for Inland Container Depot. “Manufacturers are ordering extra, fearing that trains will again be stopped after 15 days. The industry has suffered enough. The government should think of saving the industry and not just farmers,” said Rahul Verma, owner of a dyeing unit. Badish Jindal, president, All Industries and Trade Forum, said the industry had suffered losses in crores of rupees and the government should clarify its stand. “The government should clear the uncertainty. It will take months for the situation to return to normalcy as imports are stuck and it will take months for the already stocked containers to clear. The focus should be to clear the backlog and run a greater number of goods trains over passenger trains.” Onkar Singh Pahwa, CMD of Avon Cycles, said the resumption of goods trains, was great, but there was lot of fear and panic in industrialists. “I hope goods trains run smoothly now without any hurdle,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/15-day-window-fine-but-clearing-backlog-will-take-months-punjab-industry/story-BRzgyNAPWE597Dcv8280zI.html
25-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: As Covid-19 cases increase, Dehradun orders traders to follow weekly shutdown schedule||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases being reported from Dehradun, the district administration has ordered traders from different markets to strictly follow the schedule weekly closure of markets. Ashish Srivastava, the district magistrate of Dehradun, said the decision was taken after it was noticed that shops in many markets were not closed on the weekly closure days decided earlier. “We have again decided one particular day for different markets to remain closed in the district to break the chain of the infection. In Dehradun, it is Sunday, for Mussoorie, it is Tuesday… and other days for places like Doiwala, Vikasnagar, Rishikesh. Only shops for essential services will remain open on the closure days in these areas, and markets and localities will be sanitised.” Also Read: Uttarakhand to allow pilgrims for Mahakumbh after negative Covid-19 testDehradun has been continuously reporting the maximum number of cases in Uttarakhand for months. An order issued by the Dehradun district magistrate on Wednesday stated that essential services like shops selling fruits, vegetables and milk, petrol pumps, gas services and medicine shops will remain open. The order further mentioned that in the event of a violation of orders, officials have been directed to take action according to the provisions described in the Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act. Dehradun has so far reported 20,426 Covid-19 cases, the highest in Uttarakhand, followed by Haridwar (11,864), US Nagar (10,159) and Nainital (8,313). Uttarakhand has so far reported over 72,000 Covid-19 cases, of which over 65,000 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-as-covid-19-cases-increase-dehradun-orders-traders-to-follow-weekly-shutdown-schedule/story-b9VddX709sCYArPrm1MCeI.html
25-11-2020||India||District authorities setting up micro-containment zones as Covid-19 cases surge in Delhi||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, some district authorities have been setting up micro-containment zones where two or more infections have been reported for better management of the pandemic, officials said on Wednesday.Normally, an area is marked containment zone where three or more Covid-19 cases are detected. But it is a dynamic exercise, conducted by district authorities on a need-based manner, they said.The Delhi Epidemic Disease Covid-19 Regulation, 2020, authorises district magistrates to seal off a geographical area, banning entry and exit of the population from the containment zone and to take any measures directed by the health department to prevent the spread of the disease.According to a senior Delhi government official, micro-containment zones have been formed in the southwest and northwest districts, while other districts were also using a flexible approach to ensure restricting virus transmission in the best possible way.Read more | Arvind Kejriwal asks experts to audit Covid-19 deaths, suggest measures to reduce fatalities in DelhiThe southwest district magistrate had on Sunday issued an order for setting up of micro-containment zones in view of “large scale outbreak” of the novel coronavirus in the district.“To contain the further spread of the disease, it is hereby ordered that micro-containment zone shall be formed upon detection of two or more Covid-19 positive cases in the same house/building/in the vicinity of each other,” stated the order.A senior district official said the step was taken for better enforcement of quarantine measures.According to the latest data, there are 4,980 containment zones in the city with the maximum 863 in the southwest district. In the northeast district too, authorities have been using two or more cases criterion to carve out more micro-containment zones.“The purpose of setting up a containment zone is to ensure prevention of the spread of Covid-19 and save people from infection. The change (in criteria) will help better monitoring of the situation,” said a senior district officer in northeast Delhi.Officials said micro-containment zones also means that while the infected people are quarantined, the residents of the neighbourhood are saved from inconveniences.By this, the number of containment zones has gone up but people covered have gone down, a government data showed.In July, the city had around 1,000 bigger containment zones with over four lakh people, however, by mid-November, there were 4,467 containment zones covering 1.61 lakh people, figures showed.In a containment zone, entry and exit are not permitted, with district and health officials providing necessary supplies and monitoring infected persons.For the past few weeks, Delhi has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus infection with the city reporting 6,224 fresh Covid-19 cases and 109 deaths on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/district-authorities-setting-up-micro-containment-zones-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-delhi/story-1tebbIGoXhyZvn0Z7OypXK.html
25-11-2020||Jaipur||Night temperatures rise across Rajasthan due to western disturbance||The mercury went up a few notches across Rajasthan on Wednesday, with Dabok recording the lowest temperature in the state at 9.4 degrees Celsius.Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Kota and Bundi recorded their respective minimums at 11.2 degrees Celsius, 11.5 degrees Celsius, 11.6 degrees Celsius and 11.8 degrees Celsius, while the night temperatures in other districts were recorded between 12 and 17 degrees Celsius.The rise in the temperatures was because of a cloudy weather due to a western disturbance, which will pass by Thursday, according to the meteorological department here.The temperatures are likely to dip by 2-3 degrees after Thursday, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/night-temperatures-rise-across-rajasthan-due-to-western-disturbance/story-3FbwRm96JCAdxk1Iru3XuI.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Police refuse permission for farmers’ protest march, warn of legal action||The Delhi Police on Wednesday said that they have refused permission to farmers’ organisations to protest in Delhi on Thursday and Friday and that any such gathering in the national capital will attract legal action. The protesting farmers from Punjab and Haryana are scheduled to reach Delhi on Thursday via several highways for their two-day protest march named ‘Delhi Chalo’.Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson, said that all the requests received from various farmer organisations have been rejected and this has been communicated to them already.Also Read: Will reach Delhi to support farmers, says Jat leader Yashpal MalikSinghal said that two such requests were received by his office, and both were rejected. Jantar Mantar, which is the usual location for such large protests, is in the New Delhi district. “Please co-operate with Delhi Police in ensuring no gathering in Delhi amid Coronavirus, failing which legal action will be taken,” Singhal said on Twitter. In the past, the police have registered hundreds of cases against protesters who took to the streets without police permission during the pandemic. They were booked under the Indian Penal Code section pertaining to disobedience of an order by a public servant, as well as under the Epidemic Diseases Act. Haryana has already sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state in response to the march against the Centre’s new farm laws that liberalise the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-police-refuse-permission-for-farmers-protest-march-warn-of-legal-action/story-Hpys2gnBd0h7Gp9cRGTzcJ.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana steps up vigil along border with Punjab to prevent entry of farmers||Haryana on Wednesday sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state in response to the onward Delhi Chalo march against the Centre’s new farm laws that liberalise the agriculture sector. Heavy police force and Rapid Action Force (RAF) were deployed to maintain law and order after farmers of Haryana started gathering at different locations across the state to express solidarity. Farmers affiliated with the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) from the northern Haryana districts of Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Kaithal, gathered outside the New Grain Market in Ambala Cantonment near Mohra village on National Highway 44. Police and a company of the RAF stood guard, while senior police officials tried to convince the farmers to call off the march to the national capital on Thursday. Instead, farm union leaders started a protest against the impounding of a tractor and the arrest of their activists. Addressing the crowd, BKU state chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The police have to release our activists and the vehicle. We will march towards Delhi, breaking the barricades.” PROHIBITORY ORDERS IN JIND Prohibitory orders were imposed in Jind to avoid any untoward incident, while police was deployed at the district’s Datta Singhwala village besides Brahamwala in Fatehabad’s Ratia, areas near Tohana and Jakhal and the Dabwali-Bathinda border in Sirsa district. In Jind, the farmers said they have been making arrangements for food and fuel for Punjab farmers. Rohtak inspector general of police (IG) Sandeep Khirwar said up to 1,500 police personnel have been deployed for security in Jhajjar district and more will be deployed at Bahadurgarh. “We have given strict orders to policemen to stop farmers’ entry into the district,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-steps-up-vigil-along-border-with-punjab-to-prevent-entry-of-farmers/story-hh5zWfODqCSrg7b6oAT9dP.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal asks experts to audit Covid-19 deaths, suggest measures to reduce fatalities in Delhi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has requested a team of experts to audit the recent cases of Covid-19 deaths in the national Capital and suggest measures which could help reduce deaths, said a senior government official.The request was made on Wednesday in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal chairs the DDMA and Kejriwal is its vice-chairperson.Also read | Delhi govt withdraws order to shut 2 markets over Covid-19 guidelines violationDelhi recorded 109 Covid-19-related deaths on Tuesday, after logging 121 deaths for two consecutive days. On Saturday, 111 deaths were recorded. On November 18, Delhi had recorded 131 deaths -- the highest for a single day yet.During Wednesday’s meeting, the DDMA is learnt to have discussed Covid-19 management plan in the light of recommendations from Union home minister Amit Shah last week and a vaccine delivery and administration plan for the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/kejriwal-asks-experts-to-audit-covid-19-deaths-suggest-measures-to-reduce-fatalities-in-delhi/story-F2TPBiPvAXdEdJb4I4hykI.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Fire at Ghazipur landfill rages for over 12 hours, adds to Delhi’s pollution woes||On the day when Delhi’s air quality slipped into the severe zone, a fire at east Delhi’s Ghazipur landfill has added to the Capital’s problems. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) teams which have been working to control the fire, said that they received a call to report the fire at 9.56pm on Tuesday and it was still raging on Wednesday afternoon. “Because the fire is on a landfill where several flammable items have been dumped, it has taken us some time to control it. The fire is not spreading now but we are yet to douse it completely,” said a DFS official. The official said that nine fire tenders are present at the spot. Also Read: At 401, Delhi’s air quality slips into severe categoryWith the landfill fire raging overnight, Delhi’s air quality slipped into the severe zone early Wednesday, with the air quality index (AQI) recording 401 at 6am according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. At 1pm, the AQI reading continued to remain in the dangerous level, at 406.Air quality monitoring stations in east Delhi, which are closer to the landfill showed a major spike in pollution levels. At Patparganj, the levels were 423 and at Anand Vihar, the average AQI reading shot up to 445 at 1pm. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai’s office did not respond to queries of whether any action was being initiated to control the blaze or against any agency, at the time this report was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-at-ghazipur-landfill-rages-for-over-12-hours-adds-to-delhi-s-pollution-woes/story-VwyudL8DSDbZpi1w0PnIkK.html
25-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand wildlife board clears proposal to de-notify elephant reserve||The Uttarakhand State Wildlife Advisory Board on Tuesday approved the de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve as an elephant reserve to pave way for the expansion of the Dehradun airport project, said forest officials. Harak Singh Rawat, state forest minister, said, “The state wildlife board, during its 16th meeting, approved the de-notification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve as there is no law to define an elephant reserve. In the late 90s and early 2000, the state government had sent a proposal to the Centre seeking a clarification regarding the said area, after which it was notified as an elephant reserve in 2002. But as per the norms of the central government, there is no law or Act yet under which the legal status of an elephant reserve is defined.” He added that the state government will issue an official order within a few days in this regard. “In future, if the Centre makes a law governing elephant reserves, then Shivalik area will automatically fall under its purview. We have de-notified it as of now and when the central government brings any law, we will abide by it,” said Rawat. Also Read: Sri Lanka digs moat around Ampara landfill to keep out hungry elephantsIn September, the state government wrote to the union environment ministry for obtaining prior approval under Section 2 of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 for non-forestry use of 87.0815 hectares of forest land for “expansion of the Jolly Grant Airport.” This land is within the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. Officials estimate that about 10,000 trees will be cut for the expansion. State forest department to allow tourists in Gangotri National Park The wildlife board also approved a notification stating the state forest department will not stop tourists going to Gangotri National Park, near the Indo-China border, if the district magistrate gives a go-ahead after checking all security measures. “Till now, a limited number of tourists were allowed to visit the Gangotri National Park, as permission from forest department was also needed. To promote tourism, we have now decided that the forest department will not stop tourists from going to Gangotri National Park if they have the required permits from the district magistrate,” added the state forest minister. Probe ordered in death of radio-collared elephant Meanwhile, hours after a radio-collared elephant died in Haridwar forest division on Tuesday morning, the state government ordered a probe in the matter. Raising the issue in front of the members of the board, Rawat instructed them to investigate the cause behind the frequent deaths of elephants in the state. “In the past few days, elephant deaths have increased in the state, mostly due to electrocution. A radio-collared elephant died on Tuesday due to electrocution, which could have been avoided. The officials should investigate this matter and ensure that mitigation measures are put in place to prevent deaths because of electrocution,” added Rawat. State forest department to resend proposal to NBWL to modify height of underpass in Rajaji Tiger Reserve In October, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) had declined the Uttarakhand forest department’s request to modify conditions imposed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) for the road passing through the buffer area of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, an ecologically sensitive area in terms of the movement of wildlife. The state forest department requested modifications, such as reducing the length of underpass for wild animals and its height from 8m to 5m. During the 16th state wildlife board meeting it was decided that the state forest department will again send a proposal to NBWL, seeking a modification in the height of the underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-wildlife-board-clears-proposal-to-de-notify-elephant-reserve/story-1VQ6rUyr2t552JlTyLrmpL.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra:131 bird nests removed before tree transplantation for Metro Line 4, 4A||A bird nest survey prior to the commencement of tree transplantation for two Metro lines at Thane saw the removal of 131 nests from 107 trees between Friday and Monday.This is the second time such a survey is being done for Metro line 4 (Wadala to Kasarvadavali stretch that includes 11 stations in Thane), and for the first time for Metro line 4A (part of the Metro 4 extension Kasarvadavali-Gaimukh). In a joint survey conducted on foot of around 565 trees by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), the Maharashtra forest department and animal rescue group Resqink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), 131 of 132 nests were found vacant (without eggs or abandoned by birds) and removed, while one nest with young ones in them was left untouched near Mogharpada in Thane (west) along the Metro 4A line. “It was decided that transplanting the tree with young ones on it would be put on hold until the birds grow older, and we will visit the site later again to check the status,” said Manoj Pardeshi, forester, wildlife, Thane, adding that the bird nest survey was conducted to ensure wildlife was not affected in any manner due to Metro construction projects.Also Read: Maharashtra: Panje tidal water blockade lifted, strengthens demand for bird sanctuaryMMRDA officials said the survey was carried out across two packages from Thane Teen Hath Naka to Gaimukh with 10 bird nests surveyed near the Mogharpada depot, 42 nests between Cadbury junction to Majiwada, and 80 nests between Kapurbawdi to Kasarvadavali.“The survey was undertaken with experts, engineers, forest officials, and using necessary equipment including a man lift machine (aerial work platform) to ensure birds are not harmed during the tree transplantation process, and majority of nests which were vacant carefully removed as per wildlife laws,” said Yamini Meshram, deputy engineer, MMRDA.BG Pawar, joint commissioner, MMRDA said, “This is being done to ensure that we do not disrupt the normal habitat of these birds due to the ongoing metro construction work, and we are also ensuring minimal number of tree loss during construction.”During the first survey during January and February, 160 bird nests were safely removed from 128 trees over three days along the Metro 4 route. “This was followed by 150 trees transplanted to Sape village, Bhiwandi, where 98% survival rate was recorded. Now, based on changes of design for a few stations, this survey was conducted. Following this, 345 trees will be transplanted under the Metro 4A route, and another 341 trees for the Metro 4 route at Sape village. There are plans to cut 13 trees for Metro 4A and 6 for Metro 4 in Thane jurisdiction, which have either larger girth while some are deceased. They cannot be transplanted as they will not survive. However, the final decision on cutting the trees is yet to be taken,” an MMRDA official said.Birds sighted during the survey included kites, parakeets, myna, pigeon, munia, kingfisher, sparrow among others but dominated by crows. “Less active nesting was observed due to ongoing Metro construction work and human activity after which the existing batches of birds may have changed their nesting location due to construction noise,” said Pawan Sharma, president, RAWW. He added that the team spotted maximum nests were made using binding metal wires showing unique crafting techniques and survival instincts of birds. “However, such nests are not as safe as young ones could get stuck between the metal wires, entangling their foot, and gradually dying a slow death,” said Sharma, adding, “Such studies are important to understand and improve how development projects can be balanced with environment, and how their impact can be minimised around surrounding wildlife.”Pardeshi added that the bird survey was yet to be conducted across one more stretch under the Metro 5 line (Thane-Bhiwandi-Kalyan). “We are studying whether this line falls under the Thane or Kalyan jurisdiction, and accordingly the local forest department would undertake the survey later this week,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-131-bird-nests-removed-before-tree-transplantation-for-metro-line-4-4a/story-xfoXpI9fTAKaTlpINfBHOK.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Ahmed Patel played a significant role in formation of MVA govt: Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, while expressing grief over the demise of Ahmed Patel, has said that the veteran Congress leader played a key role in the formation of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. “The party has lost its Chanakya, who would stand by party during every challenge. He was actively involved in social works besides his political engagements. His guidance and experience helped us a lot while forming the three-party alliance that formed the government in Maharashtra last year. Not only Congress, but even the MVA has lost its guide,” Thackeray said. Patel was part of party top brass that was deliberating the issue of supporting the Shiv-Sena led government in Maharashtra.He led a Congress team that came to Mumbai to facilitate Congress support to form the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ahmed-patel-played-a-significant-role-in-formation-of-maharashtra-vikas-aghadi-govt-uddhav-thackeray/story-ttiy6yag70rikqbanyze7L.html
25-11-2020||Noida||Leopard spotted near residences of district officials in Ghaziabad; teams pressed in for search ops||Residents of Raj Nagar were taken aback when a Leopard was spotted roaming around in the streets of Raj Kunj locality Tuesday morning, after it emerged from the official residence of the vice-chairperson of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) located adjacent.The district magistrate on Tuesday evening confirmed that the animal was a leopard and that teams from Delhi and Meerut were called in to trace the feline at the earliest.The area where the leopard was spotted is dotted with official residences of the Ghaziabad district magistrate, the senior superintendent of police and those of other administrative officers. The area also has schools and the Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad.The animal emerged from the official residence of Kanchan Verma, the vice-chairperson of GDA, around 11am, and attacked a gardener, Hari Mohan, in the process. Mohan said that he suffered a minor injury to his hand.“It seemed like a leopard, given its height and length, and was probably hiding in the generator room. When the staff went there to turn on the generator, the animal jumped out and tried to attack the gardener. When other staff ran to save him, the animal jumped to the adjacent Raj Kunj locality,” Verma said.“From there, it is learnt that the animal jumped into a school, which is located at the back side. Its images were captured in the CCTV installed at my residence. There are also pug marks of the animal in the garden,” she added.Raj Kunj has 90 houses. The feline was spotted by residents while its images were taken in CCTV cameras while it roamed the streets.“Our neighbours spotted the animal roaming outside their houses and they raised an alert. Since Monday night, all stray dogs in the area have been barking continuously. When the leopard came, children playing in the park ran to their homes. After some time, the leopard jumped the boundary wall and went to the school area, which has large fields and has thick vegetation,” said Ajay Audhichya, a resident of Raj Kunj.“Teams of the forest department asked us about the weight and height of the animal but they could not spot it or capture it,” he added.Teams from the Kavi Nagar police and the forest department went to the school, Ingraham Institute, and alerted officials.“The teams searched the school campus but the animal could not be located. We also shut down the premises as a precautionary measure but nothing was found during the search. In the morning we heard loud noises from the house of the GDA V-C nearby. It was probably due to the spotting of the animal there,” said Rajiv Kumar, principal of Ingraham Institute, Hindi medium branch, Hapur Road.Search still onThe search for the animal continued till late Tuesday but to no avail.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the forest department is carrying out a detailed search for the animal.“The forest department teams are on the job and have called rescue teams from Meerut and Delhi to capture the animal. They have confirmed that it was a leopard and not a fishing cat. I have directed officials to make announcements in nearby localities so that residents along with their children should stay indoors till the animal is safely captured,” said Pandey.The neighbouring localities are Raj Nagar, Kavi Nagar, Shashtri Nagar, among others.The last time an animal from the cat family, possibly a leopard, was spotted in the city was on August 1 when the feline had ventured into the locality’s Sector 3 area. Its images were captured in CCTVs. The forest department had conducted a recce of the area but could not conclusively tell whether it was a leopard or a fishing cat.In another sighting last year on December 17, a leopard had ventured into the Hindon airbase. The three and half year-old male leopard was trapped and later released safely in the Saharanpur forest range.Before this, April 2017 a male leopard was captured from Krishna Vihar Kuti area near Bhopra, which is close to the Hindon airbase. The leopard was captured after about five hours, during which it had to be tranquilised thrice. However, before it was captured, it injured a man, a child and cattle.According to officials, the leopard, Panthera pardus, is listed under the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and included in Appendix I of CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wildlife Fauna and Flora). It is also listed as Near Threatened on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List.They said that a leopard is known to travel 50-100km in fields during night. Likewise, the fishing cat is also listed as endangered on the IUCN Red List. It means that it faces a high threat of extinction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/leopard-spotted-near-residences-of-district-officials-in-ghaziabad-teams-pressed-in-for-search-ops/story-d4TYLsGqTecTSFqidKrVYM.html
25-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Govt watchdog to check content and filming of scenes in movies and series||The Madhya Pradesh (MP) government will keep an eye on the content and scenes of movies and serials filmed at the holy and historical places in the state, said Narottam Mishra, the MP home minister, on Tuesday. The state government took this decision after there was a controversy over a kissing scene in a web series A Suitable Boy, based on Vikram Seth’s novel of the same name, which was filmed at Maheshwar Temple in Khargone district. An FIR has been registered at Rewa against two executives of streaming platform Netflix for allegedly insulting religious sentiments. Mishra said, “We have directed the district officers to record videos of the shooting of movies and series in heritage buildings and holy places of MP.” Also Read: UP makes ‘love jihad’ a punishable offence“Obscene pictures can’t be filmed at holy places. A team of officers will check scenes and content. In case of any mistake and violation, the director and producer will be held responsible and the district administration will take action against them,” said Mishra. According to an officer of tourism department, “Strict guidelines will be formed to check the content and scenes. The entertainment company will have to adhere to the guidelines while shooting in MP.” However, people in the tourism industry say it will dissuade the entertainment industry from choosing MP for shooting. A tourism company owner Akshay Hunka said, “We are also not in a favour of such scenes which hurt any kind of sentiments, but such guidelines, producers and directors will not choose destinations in MP for shooting.” Congress spokesperson JP Dhanopia said, “The formulation of guidelines is a good step but it shouldn’t be against the freedom of expression and speech. In the name of keeping an eye on such things, the BJP-led state government will do moral policing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/govt-watchdog-to-check-content-and-filming-of-scenes-of-movies-and-series-in-madhya-pradesh/story-lB0X9NdO9ee6rHvnP7E2JJ.html
25-11-2020||Lucknow||UP: Trust to raise over Rs700 crore from people for construction of Ayodhya’s Ram temple||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust will raise over Rs713.45 crore from people for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.The trust aims to raise over Rs688.52 crore through Rs100 coupons and another Rs24.92 crore through Rs10 coupons, said senior Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) members in the know.The plan is to raise the most funds from Uttar Pradesh, which has witnessed, and been a part of, the struggle for the temple construction for decades now, informed a senior VHP office bearer.General secretary of the trust and VHP vice-president Champat Rai informed Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and other senior functionaries about the fund-raising plan at the two-day national executive meet of RSS’s east UP office bearers that concluded recently in Prayagraj, VHP members said.Also Read: Upcoming Ayodhya airport to be named after Lord RamFor the collection of funds, the country would be divided into 44 regions or pranths, including six in Uttar Pradesh.“These six pranths of UP include Braj, Meerut, Kanpur, Awadh, Kashi and Goraksh,” said a VHP leader, requesting anonymity.The VHP and all its allied organisations will play a vital role in this mission. The decision to start the fund collection by dividing the country into 44 regions is based on the fact that the RSS has 44 pranths across the country, he explained.After UP, Maharashtra would be the next biggest centre for the collection of funds, where over Rs74 crore would be raised.“Funds will be raised by involving 46 million (4.6 crore) members of 9.2 million (92 lakh) families across Maharashtra,” said another VHP leader who requested anonymity.The trust aims to raise Rs57 crore from Rajasthan, over Rs72 crore from Madhya Pradesh and over Rs38.50 crore from Gujarat.“Through the fund collection initiative, the trust aims to reach 7.5 million (75 lakh) families in Rajasthan, 5.4 million (54 lakh) in Gujarat and 9.4 million (94 lakh) in Madhya Pradesh,” he explained.Around 600,000 families of Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh, 40 lakh families of north eastern states, 34 lakh families each of West Bengal and Odisha, 23 lakh families of Kerala, 44 lakh families of Bihar and 22 lakh families of Jharkhand are to be targeted through the coupon distribution for raising funds, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-trust-to-raise-over-rs700-crore-from-people-for-construction-of-ayodhya-s-ram-temple/story-JT6upC8nZP3oEc9coaPQoM.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||At 401, Delhi’s air quality slips into severe category||Delhi’s air quality took a turn for the worse Wednesday with the city’s air quality slipping into the severe zone, with its AQI recording 401 at 6am.On Tuesday, the city’s air quality index (AQI) had settled at 379, in very poor zone, according to the 24-hour rolling average of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings at 4pm. On Monday, the AQI was in the same range but with a lower reading of 302. Government agencies forecast that the air quality could enter severe zone on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory was 6.7 degrees Celsius, nearly four degrees below the season’s normal. Also read | Diwali pollution this year higher than 2019: DPCCGovernment data on farm fires and experts indicated that the current deterioration in Delhi’s air was largely due to weather conditions adverse to the dispersal of pollutants and local pollution sources (such as road and construction dust, vehicular emissions and garbage burning), reaffirming the argument that the root of the city’s annual ordeal goes beyond firecracker bursting on Diwali and burning of crop stubble in neighbouring states — two of the factors widely cited for the grim AQI readings in October-November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-401-delhi-s-air-quality-slips-into-severe-category/story-XAfLTUAso7jJDpcWmotwrL.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hooda condemns farmers’ detention ahead of Delhi march||Condemning the detention of farmers on the birth anniversary of peasant leader Chhotu Ram, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said the legitimate demands of farmers cannot be suppressed. Hooda, who took a meeting of the Congress Legislature Party in Chandigarh, said taking farmers into detention in the middle of the night cannot be justified and the government should release these leaders at the earliest.Supporting the demand of farmers, Hooda said that without guaranteed MSP, the new farm laws were not in the interest of farmers. “The Congress will come up with a proposal to amend the Agricultural Produce Market Committee Act in the next assembly session. The last time the government refused to consider this, saying the proposal was not given 15 days ago, as mandated by law,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooda-condemns-farmers-detention-ahead-of-delhi-march/story-dUNO95o9n0TahGCVU7cjzI.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Haryana limits social, political gatherings to counter Covid surge||The Haryana government on Tuesday decided to limit the number of persons allowed at social gatherings such as marriages, political or religious functions, in view of the fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that to contain the spread of the virus, particularly in the six national capital region districts of Gurugram, Rewari, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonepat and Hisar, gatherings will be restricted to 50 persons in case of indoor events and 100 persons in case of outdoor events. In the remaining districts, the gathering has been limited to 100 persons for indoor functions and 200 persons for outdoor. These orders will be effective from November 26. Khattar said this during a video conference of chief ministers of eight states, presided over by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Health and home minister Anil Vij was also present. The other seven states included Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Kerala, Gujarat and Delhi.Testing ramped up in NCR districts, says CMKhattar said the Covid-19 situation in Haryana remained satisfactory in the first and second phase. However, in the third phase, there has been a spurt in number of cases in the past few days, especially in the districts abutting Delhi. He said that the state government has ramped up testing in NCR areas so that people found positive could be isolated to keep a check on the further spread of infection. Referring to the steps being taken by the state government to effectively combat the Covid-19 situation, he said that testing in Haryana has reached 1.24 lakh per million which is much more than the national average of 80,000 per million. He said that at present, 32,000 tests per day were being conducted which would be further increased in the coming days. Apart from this, special emphasis is being laid on contact tracing of positive patients. He said that at present, the positivity rate in the state is 6.86 % and fatality rate is 1.01%. Efforts are being made to bring down the fatality rate below 1%, he said.1 crore masks to be distributed, claims Khattar The chief minister said that people in the state are being encouraged to wear masks and maintain social distancing. He said that one crore masks would soon be distributed in the state. The police and urban local body officials have been directed to strictly enforce the wearing of masks and issue challan to the offenders. A fine of ₹500 will be imposed on those who are found without masks. ‘Sufficient beds available’Khattar said they have further strengthened the hospital infrastructure and an arrangement of 57,000 beds has been made in different hospitals which is sufficient keeping in view the number of cases. He said that the state government has further strengthened the home isolation care of Covid-19 patients so that they could be provided treatment facilities at their homes. On being asked to comment on any possibility of night curfew in Haryana, the CM said at present there is no need of imposing night curfew in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-surge-haryana-limits-social-political-gatherings-to-counter-covid-surge/story-dYlVbFedB3eKUg6llBT5CJ.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||33 more succumb to Covid-19 in Haryana||Thirty-three people succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Tuesday, pushing the toll to 2,249, as per the state health bulletin. The state also recorded 2,329 fresh cases, with the maximum number of cases coming from the districts in the national capital region.In Faridabad district, five patients lost the battle to the contagion, four in Hisar, three each in Gurugram and Rohtak, two patients each died in Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Charkhi Dadri districts. As per the bulletin, there were 445 critically ill patients in the state on Tuesday, including 392 on oxygen support and 53 on ventilators. The tally of infections now stands at 2, 22, 292, while 1, 99, 278 people have recovered from the infection so far. The state also registered recovery of as many as 1,943 patients on Tuesday while the number of active cases was 20,765. Among the districts with the highest number of fresh cases are Gurugram 822, Faridabad 557, Hisar 164, Rewari 117, Rohtak 97, Sonepat 60, and Karnal 76.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/33-more-succumb-to-covid-19-in-haryana/story-nlRncaXBR0QsXcvsE1mqYP.html
25-11-2020||City||Karnal man pushes his 3 kids into canal after altercation with wife||A fruit-juice seller was arrested after he allegedly pushed his three minor children into a canal near Kulvehri village of Karnal district on Monday evening, in a drunken state. Though divers have been pressed into service, there is no trace of the kids, aged three, five and eight, yet.As per information, the accused, identified as Sushil Kumar of Nalipur village, had an altercation with his wife in the evening following which he took the children on his bike and pushed them into the canal one by one. As soon as the villagers came to know about the incident, they tried to rescue the children but to no avail. The accused is said to have admitted to the crime and also accused his wife of having an extra-marital affair. Kunjpura police station in-charge Munish Kumar said search operation is on with help of divers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/karnal-man-pushes-his-3-kids-into-canal-after-altercation-with-wife/story-PBvkUQXM5QLe3V027HSoUO.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Passport forgery: Punjab and Haryana HC grants interim protection from arrest to 2 Afghan Sikhs||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has granted interim protection from arrest to two Afghan Sikhs booked by Haryana police in an alleged case of forgery of passports.The HC bench of justice Arvind Singh Sangwan, while seeking response from the government by February 24, ordered that in the event of arrest, they be released on interim bail upon submission of surety to the satisfaction of the investigating officer.The petitioners, a 26-year-old woman and a 14-year-old boy, had approached the HC after an FIR was registered under the Passport Act and the Prevention of Corruption Act at Tohana in Fatehabad on August 20. Their counsel, Arshdeep Singh Kler, had told the court that they were the victims of the fraud played by the main accused arrested earlier. They got defrauded by agents to get them citizenship in India and that their family was living in the country for 30 years now. The main accused in the scam are allegedly one Deepak Puri and Monu Sachdeva, against whom allegations are that by taking money from various persons, they had tried to get the passport by giving fake documents. These two were not even named in the FIR, Kler had told the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/passport-forgery-punjab-and-haryana-hc-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-2-afghan-sikhs/story-DDl9kOgm0lIjwl1oOe3XKP.html
25-11-2020||City||Will reach Delhi to support farmers, says Jat leader Yashpal Malik||All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) chief Yashpal Malik said people associated with the front will reach Delhi on November 26 to support the agitating farmers. The Jat leader, who was addressing a rally at Jassia village on the birth anniversary of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram, also condemned the government for detaining farmer leaders ahead of the march. “It is painful to know that people who are fighting for their rights are being sent to police stations in these cold weather conditions. The Centre should amend the laws or else people would be forced to come out on streets,” he said.Malik also said that he would call a meeting soon to decide the future course of action regarding the agitation.He also urged the government to release Jat youths languishing in jails after the 2016 stir and provide reservation to the community under the other backward class (OBC) category.“The BJP-JJP coalition government should bring Jat reservation bill again in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha and accord reservation to Jats and five other communities,” he said. “The government had agreed to withdraw all cases, whether in the ambit of the state or the Centre, but it has so far failed to fulfill this promise,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/will-reach-delhi-to-support-farmers-says-jat-leader-yashpal-malik/story-x4CKtVR2Uztk0oyGcYTBvJ.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana BJP affairs in-charge to start state tour from November 25||Vinod Tawde, the newly appointed Haryana BJP affairs in-charge will kick-off his maiden five-day tour of the state from Wednesday along with the co-in charge Annapurna Devi. While Tawde is a leader of opposition in Maharashtra Vidhan Parishad, Annapurna is an MP from Jharkhand. In a statement, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said both the leaders will hold meetings with Haryana MPs in Delhi on November 25 along with the state BJP chief OP Dhankar, before embarking on Haryana tour.On Thursday, Tawde will visit Chandigarh where he is slated to interact with BJP MLAs, cabinet ministers and chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The state BJP affairs in-charge will address party workers of eight districts in Kurukshetra on November 27 where a training camp will be held. Similar training camps will be held in Hisar on November 28 and in Gurugram on November 29 where Tawde will address the party workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-bjp-affairs-in-charge-to-start-state-tour-from-november-25/story-RsunVPViYgi3O1W1D1BPJP.html
25-11-2020||City||Over 32 Haryana farmer leaders detained ahead of ‘Delhi Chalo’ march||The Haryana Police detained over 32 farmer leaders from across the state in a major crackdown ahead of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, against the Centre’s new farm laws, on November 26. All the leaders were taken into detention between Monday night and Tuesday morning. Swaraj India’s Haryana unit chief Rajiv Godara said police had arrested Prahalad Singh Bharukhera from Sirsa, who along with other farmers, was sitting on a dharna against the laws and demanding the resignation of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala.“Police also detained Mandeep Singh Nathwan and Ram Chander Shanwal from Fatehabad’s Ratia, besides other leaders. I urge all citizens, farmers and political leaders to stand up against the government which is suppressing the voice of farmers,” said Godara.Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha secretary Balbir Singh Takhan and BKU (Takait)’s youth state chief Ravi Azad were detained and lodged at Bhiwani’s Behal police station.Takhan said the government and police have reached a new low by detaining farmers in the middle of the night. “We had already apprehended that the police might detain farmers before they left for Delhi. But the government can’t stop us from reaching Delhi to raise our voice against these laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/over-32-haryana-farmer-leaders-detained-ahead-of-delhi-chalo-march/story-L5KhvACbrhTlCHrcE8pcpK.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: NDMC privileges||You must have come across this signage: “NDMC Limit End”This board demarcates the limits of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) zone, which has some of India’s most expensive real estate, like in Amrita Shergil Marg. Some of the country’s most important people, including the President, Prime Minister, Cabinet ministers, senior bureaucrats and ambassadors of powerful nations, reside in the NDMC zone.This evening, a man is sleeping on the pavement, under one of the aforementioned signs near the New Delhi railway station. A few clothes are strung on a chord clamped on a side wall. It almost looks like a refugee stopped at a border. Of course, anyone can walk into the NDMC limits. But if the common man is here, it generally is on work. Soon he must exit, perhaps tossing a longing glance at the signboard as he goes.But what exactly is the NDMC state of mind?One afternoon, a young woman is walking her cocker spaniels on a tree-lined pavement in the NDMC zone. Waving towards the adjacent DDA (Delhi Development Authority) Officers Colony on Bhagwan Das Road, she says, “My father’s official house.” Identifying herself by her first name only, Divya explains: “We moved here from across the Yamuna. This part of the city is more organized, more quiet, and full of trees.”The rest of the smoggy metropolis—more than 90 percent of it—comes under the other municipal bodies—namely the Cantonment Board, and (primarily) the three bodies that have replaced the MCD—the South Delhi, North Delhi and East Delhi municipal corporations.NDMC describes itself on its website as “the territory that has been described as Lutyens’ Delhi”. Its origins go back to the days of our colonizers. It began as the Imperial Delhi Committee, shortly after the British moved the seat of power from Calcutta to Delhi. The name was changed to the New Delhi Municipal Committee in 1927.Despite teeming with VVIPs, patches of the NDMC also host a kind of populace that does not consist of politicians and bureaucrats. A stroll through its wide avenues takes you past the homeless, the minders of cheap food kiosks, and even some slum-dwellers.Indeed, sometimes two NDMC neighbourhoods, though physically close to each other, may give the impression of being on different planets. You’ll realise that while ambling through the adjoining localities of BK Dutt Colony and far more upscale Jor Bagh, separated by just a road. The former has narrower lanes and more density of people than Jor Bagh, with its broad avenues and gated mansions guarded by uniformed vigils.Even so, one knows when one is in an NDMC area. It feels far neater, and some of its parts are so idyllic that they don’t appear to be part of the city the rest of us experience daily.To deftly witness the city’s disparities, you ought to stroll along the border regions of NDMC someday. And don’t forget to click a keepsake selfie by the signage saying: NDMC Limit End.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-ndmc-privileges/story-1eTFYv7kj5XerlAxrCvfwJ.html
25-11-2020||City||Patiala school staff accuse principal of irregularities in mid day meal scheme||Patiala The entire workforce of 59 at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Pheel Khana village, including the vice-principal, have complained against their principal Karamjeet Singh, accusing him of committing irregularities in the Mid Day Meal (MDM) scheme. The matter came to such a head after the school distributed stale rice and wheat, infested with insects and worms, to parents of students at the school premises on Tuesday. Packets of 4kg of rice and wheat were distributed even as the MDM workers, ordered to distribute this ration alleging that the grain was not in an eatable condition. The school is already facing an inquiry from the district education department over its failure to disburse MDM to 800 students during the lockdown. HT has a copy of the complaint, which states, “No accurate information has been given to us by school principal Karamjeet Singh on the MDM. There are several irregularities. The principal has distributed ration only three times and that, too, not to all students.” Of 59 staffers, 45 are teachers, four class-4 employees, two members of non-teaching staff and eight MDM workers. Block primary education officer Prithi Singh, said, “We are already conducting an inquiry into it. The head office had sought the MDM record of school. We sent it to them.”Santosh, an MDM worker, who has been with the school for years said, “On Monday, they told us to open the drums (containers), of leftover ration. These drums had grain that had been kept over for over a year. That is why I can vouch for the inedible quality of the rice and wheat.”Principal Karamjeet said, “We are only supplying what we got from the department. We had received the rice in such a condition.” Deputy district education officer (secondary education), Sukhwinder Khosla, said, “Yes, the school has delayed ration distribution. As far as I know, the rice was already infested when the school got its supply. We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patiala-school-staff-accuse-principal-of-irregularities-in-mid-day-meal-scheme/story-5Jjl26m1UmSzZIBMmF5uzL.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||How HP lost control over Covid battle||Until October the Covid-19 situation in Himachal Pradesh seemed to be under control with the recovery rate well above 86% and new infections decreasing.By November, however, things changed and the third wave hit the state. More than 12,300 cases and 238 fatalities were recorded this month as compared to the previous highest tally of 8,938 cases in September since the outbreak.The recovery rate also slipped below 80%. HP now has the highest ratio of active cases in terms of population in the country and also the highest positivity rate.Four of its districts are among the top 10 in India with the highest infection rate. Safety norms disregarded The state government as well as the people are to be blamed for the problem, with the former taking decisions recklessly and the latter disregarding safety norms. “There was carelessness in following the Covid-19 protocol, which is why the Himsuraksha Abhiyan for information, education and communication has been launched,” said Amitabh Awasthi, secretary (health). However, there was no shortage of oxygen cylinders in the hospital, except for one day when the vehicle carrying cylinders had an accident, he added.Nearly eight months down the line since the outbreak, Awasthi says makeshift hospitals will now come up within 10 to 15 days. Sanjay Chauhan, former Shimla mayor and CPI(M) leader, however, blamed “lack of proper health services” for the Covid19 cases and deaths. “Now the situation is going beyond control and may create havoc if not controlled in time. Without wasting any time the government should chalk out a war like strategy and form a task force under capable leadership consisting of health and other experts.” Super spreader eventsFor the public, it was as if the virus did not exist as social gatherings, mainly marriages, turned into super spreader events with people refusing to follow social distancing norms, even as the ceiling on numbers of attendees was removed. “There is no coordination between the government and leaders. The government adopted double standards on social distancing when it came to marriages, where they restricted guests from attending. But there were no rules for BJP rallies,” said Kuldeep Singh Rathore, president of the Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee. Large crowds gathered at the political rallies, the recent one held in Bilaspur where BJP national president JP Nadda addressed party workers. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, instead of focusing on controlling the pandemic, remained busy with public meetings and tours across the state. No social distancing norms were followed by the political leaders and the party workers. The festive season too led to a spike as crowds thronged the markets, without following safety rules. Earlier, bazaars were being sanitised. This stopped. The government decision to open schools for regular classes also backfired. A large number of teachers and students were infected and educational institutions closed within a week of reopening. No check on touristsThere were no controls on tourist arrivals during festivals and weekends, which added to the spread, especially in Lahaul-Spiti district. “It opened the floodgates for the virus in Himachal. There is no check on tourists coming to the state and they were allowed to visit places that did not have infections,” added Rathore. The state government also allowed buses to ply with 100% occupancy and also resumed inter-state bus services . Registration and quarantining of people from coming from other states was also done away with, making detection and tracing difficult. Course correction Scrambling to contain the Covid-19 spread the state government has now imposed fresh curbs. School and educational institutions will remain closed till the year end. The buses will ply with 50% occupancy. All the political rallies have been cancelled till December 15. Cancelling the winter session of the state assembly is also being considered. It’s slated for December 7 to 12 at Dharamshala. But will this be too little too late?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/surrender-how-hp-lost-control-over-covid-battle/story-J4aF3ZpTfbEpNoa99sOMzH.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||One lakh people cured in J&K, recovery rate soars to 93.47%||The tally of Covid recoveries crossed 1 lakh on Tuesday, after 495 patients were discharged from different hospitals.Officials said that 1,00,322 people have recovered in the UT, taking the recovery rate to 93.47%, the highest so far. The UT has 5,357 active cases, which is 4.99% of the total positive cases.The UT also recorded 10 deaths and 431 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the Covid count to 1,07,330 and death toll to 1,651. Officials said 178 people tested positive in Kashmir and 253 in Jammu. Four persons succumbed to the disease in Jammu and six in Kashmir division. A total 1,085 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 566 in Jammu. So far, 173 people have lost their lives in November. As many as 326 people succumbed to the infection in August, 478 in September and 293 in October.The death toll crossed 500-mark on August 13, 1000-mark on September 20 and 1500-mark on November 03.With 12,540 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 522 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. An average seven deaths a day have been reported in November so far, 10 were reported in October on an average per day against 16 in September.The total number of tests conducted in the UT has crossed 28.56 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 84 more people tested positive, followed by Pulwama at 19 cases.In Jammu division, highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 122, followed by 37 in Udhampur.Srinagar tops the case tally with 22,513 cases and 408 deaths, followed by Jammu district with 19,966 cases and 292 deaths.Till date, 7.71 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 19,528 in home quarantine, 5,357 in isolation, and 48,738 under home surveillance. Besides, 6.95 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/one-lakh-people-cured-in-j-k-recovery-rate-soars-to-93-47/story-92tdy6SxgXn6gc3cTyq4zO.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||High court raps Punjab govt for delay in giving revised pay scales to 4 forest officers||The high court has rapped the Punjab government for dilly-dallying on giving revised pay scales to four state forest corporation officers. The high court bench of justice Sudhir Mittal said that delay in amendment of the bylaws, which led to delay in granting benefits were due to corporation and the state government, the officers could not have been made to suffer on account of the inefficiency of the state apparatus. The bench remarked that the state is supposed to be a model employer. However, the facts of this case show that they can be more callous than a private employer. “A private employer may justify his actions citing profit but the state does not even have this excuse. It may try to impute callousness to the impersonal nature of the state machinery but such justification can never be acceptable. While considering issues concerning its employees, the state cannot remain impersonal. It must adopt a humane approach so that the employees remain motivated and serve to the best of their abilities,” it said. The officers had reached high court in 2014 as representations at various levels failed to get any results on giving them benefits of 5th pay commission. The four deputy forest officers are employees of Punjab State Forest Development Corporation. The corporation recruited them in 2000 to deal with increasing workload at the level of project officers. Two were recruited and two more corporation got from the forest department on deputation. While in 2010 all employees in the state got new pay scales with the implementation of 5th pay commission but these four got excluded. They approached at various levels but failed to get any relief, which prompted them to approach high court. The corporation had submitted that after creation of the posts, same was not included in its bye-laws and unless and until the amended bye-laws were approved by the government, revised pay scales could not be granted. Corporation had put entire blame upon the state for delaying approval to the new byelaws. However, court directed that revised pay scales be given to them from the date in others cases, besides benefits under Assured Career Progression Scheme, 2006. All dues have been directed to be cleared with 10% interest in four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-raps-punjab-govt-for-delay-in-giving-revised-pay-scales-to-4-forest-officers/story-pmwSllvEMHZWa8Z7vowU7O.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Conduct all exams online, parents in Maharashtra tell state education department||As schools in Maharashtra continue to operate online, parents have now requested the state education department to conduct all exams and assessments virtually owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a recent letter addressed to the department, a Maharashtra-based school parents’ body named Indiawide Parents’ Association has also urged the state to mark students on the basis of internal assessments for the academic year 2020-21. “It is a huge risk for students to travel to school for exams. Even appearing for board exams, which are held at different centres, are risky owing to the rising cases of Covid-19. We request the state government and the education department to conduct all the exams online for this year. At this point, the health of the students is of utmost importance,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the association. Officials from the department said they would respond on the demands made by the parents after looking into the details.Early this month, the government had announced that Class 10 and Class 12 board exams will be held only after May. Class 12 exams are usually held in February, while Class 10 exams are conducted in March. However, due to online learning and the likely delay in finishing the syllabus, the government has decided to postpone the exams. While schools in some parts of the state reopened on Monday, teachers are now requesting the department to come up with an academic calendar for the coming days. “Uniform guidelines are needed to conduct the exams as in their absence, schools are making their own timetables, which is confusing for the students,” said the principal of a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/conduct-all-exams-online-parents-in-maharashtra-tell-state-education-department/story-zlFm3s4eBDUUvlfy1ia43M.html
25-11-2020||City||Dera follower’s murder in Bathinda: Punjab gangster Sukha Gill’s FB page resurfaces||The Facebook page of Punjab gangster Sukhpreet Singh, alias Sukha Gill Lamme resurfaced on Tuesday, within less than 48-hours of being taken down after its administrator owned the responsibility of murdering a Dera Sacha Sauda follower last week. However, earlier posts detailing the killing of Manohar Lal Arora and an open threat to ‘others’ were missing from the timeline. Sources said it was not a new page but the hate content was taken down from the original one. The administrator of the criminal’s page posted a message that previous posts related to Arora’s murder were deleted but he still stands by the reason behind the crime. “Sikh kom de dokhi bach ke chalan” (violators of Sikh traditions or religion) was a veiled threat message was found posted today on the same page. HT had reported that Bathinda police had approached the Facebook administration seeking cyber details of the social media page published in the name of a criminal was that was found fanning religious feelings and threatening violence. Within hours of Arora’s killing on November 20, the FB page in question had claimed that the foreign exchange trader was murdered by Rajinder and Aman to avenge the sacrilege incidents of 2015. A couple of posts in the last 24-hours from the gangster’s social media page also threatened to eliminate anyone involved in the sacrilege of the scriptures of Sikhs. Police had already clarified that the deceased was not found in any criminal activities and his name was never cropped up in any case of sacrilege. Sources said the page was deactivated by FB on Sunday evening and posts were deleted for talking and promoting violence. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk had confirmed of writing to FB in this regard. “It appears that the FB acted as per it policy of discouraging violence and hate content online. The cyber wing of the state police is closely monitoring activities of various people but most likely the controversial FB page is being handled by unidentified persons from overseas,” said a source. Meanwhile, dera followers continue to hold demonstration for the fourth consecutive day at sect’s state headquarters at Salabatpura village, about 50-kms from here. A number of protesters continues to increase as they refused to hold cremation until the preparators Arora’s murder are arrested. SSP Virk said the police have rounded a few acquaintances of the gangster Sukhpreet Singh. He said none of the persons being questioned is a suspect in Arora’s murder. “We working on certain leads and hope the main accused will be arrested soon,” said the SSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dera-follower-s-murder-in-bathinda-punjab-gangster-sukha-gill-s-fb-page-resurfaces/story-vZuVBH6YOzU8kaPXDUcc5J.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K sees subdued campaign, candidates rely on social media||The district development council (DDC) polls, the first electoral exercise to be held in Jammu and Kashmir after the revocation the former state’s special status and bifurcation, are round the corner but the election fever is conspicuously absent as are buntings, banners and mega rallies. Amid the Covid crisis, most candidates in fray for the 280 seats, are opting for door-to-door campaigning or are using social media platforms, especially news portals to seek votes, especially in rural areas. Many candidates, especially young ones, have made short video messages seeking votes and highlighting their priorities.Advocate Irfan Hafeez Lone, who is contesting from Sangrama, says he prefers door-to-door campaigning. “I am not tech savvy myself but my friends are using social media to boost my campaign. My opponents have money and muscle power but I am confident of winning.Social media will certainly play an important role.”So far, only the BJP and Apni Party have held rallies and conventions in different parts of the Union Territory. Top BJP national leaders were seen campaigning in different parts of Kashmir. Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari, who presided over a party convention under tight security at Sherwani Hall in Baramulla, said these elections were being for development of areas in different assembly segments: “The people who will get elected will form development plans for their areas. This is the third tier of the Panchayat Raj system.”J&K Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir said the party had decided that local workers will play a major role in seeking votes for party candidates in DDC polls: “We are also planning some rallies in different parts of J&K.” On Tuesday, former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah, who is also president of the six-party alliance of regional parties, released a short video seeking votes for alliance candidates. The message was shared by all prominent leaders of the PAGD on social media.Peoples Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf, whose party is part of the alliance, said their candidates are relying both on door-to-door campaigning and social media. “We have many young educated candidates. Besides using social media they also travel from village-to-village seeking votes. Since these are grassroots elections local impact will have influence.” Adnan said campaigning has been mostly left to the local leadership. “Top leaders will go for limited campaigning.”Political analyst Ishfaq Ahmad says people in Kashmir were still shocked over the decisions announced on August 5, 2019. “Though all parties are in fray, enthusiasm is missing even among the top leaders of major regional political parties. Now, vote percentage is crucial, which will determine the future of politics in J&K.’ Different parties and independent candidates will contest the eight-phased election for 280 seats slated for November 28 to December 19. The counting will take place on December 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-sees-subdued-campaign-candidates-rely-on-social-media/story-FIm4TSnr3EsgrHMNHphlrK.html
25-11-2020||City||Another thalassaemia patient found HIV+ at Bathinda civil hospital||With another thalassaemia child patient found infected with HIV here on Tuesday, the state health department has decided to write to the state vigilance bureau to investigate the repeated incidents of wrong blood infusion. Since October, five persons, including four thalassaemia patients, between 8-13 years, who were treated at Shaheed Bhai Mani Civil Hospital, were found infected with HIV virus. Senior medical officer (SMO) of the civil hospital said an 11-year-old boy from Barnala district was found infected before infusion of blood today at the local blood bank. He said it is being probed from where the child may have caught the infection. “After the surfacing of several cases where patients were found infected with HIV, every thalassaemia patient visiting the blood bank at the hospital are medically screened. Today four children were tested for their health status of which one was tested positive for HIV and another with hepatitis-C. They will be given treatment as per the protocol,” he said. Since October, six MLTs and one doctor at the blood bank have been found guilty by the department of infusion of HIV+ blood. Of the six persons, all hired on a contract basis, have been dismissed. On October 16, an MLT Baldev Singh Romana was arrested in an attempt to murder case on the basis of a health department investigation for his alleged role leading to an intentional infusion of infected blood to a seven-year-old patient to settle scores with colleagues at the blood bank. State health secretary Hussan Lal said two departmental inquiries have suspected a mischievous role played by several department staff and there may have been a link. He said the SVB is better equipped and trained to find out possibilities of a nexus behind repeated cases of wrong blood infusion. “On Monday, four medical lab technologist (MLTs) were dismissed for their gross negligence and professional misconduct in discharging duties. It was found that the blood bank staffers in question violated protocol by issuing blood of an HIV positive person without checking it to a thalassemic patient early this month,” said Lal. He said Punjab State AIDS Control Society (PSACS) --- that works under the health department --- has been asked to examine the functioning of all blood banks of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/another-thalassaemia-patient-found-hiv-at-bathinda-civil-hospital/story-p4Gh66pTK67aRHtsLZ9NaL.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||2,740 bottles of liquor seized from Rajouri, two arrested||In a major success, police and the army’s Rashtriya Rifles battalion seized 2, 740 bottles of liquor, allegedly being smuggled towards Keri Doongi area of Rajouri, ahead of the district development council (DDC) polls.Giving details about the operation, Rajouri senior superintendent of police (SSP) Chandan Kohli said, “The team intercepted two vehicles on the way to Doongi, on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. Upon checking, the team found a huge consignment of liquor loaded in the vehicles.” He added that in all, there were 2,740 bottles packed in 74 cases.The vehicles drivers, identified as Deepak Sharma and Mohd Zahid, were arrested on the spot.The SSP added that security arrangements have been stepped up in the district to foil the nefarious designs of anti-social elements ahead of DDC polls, set to begin on November 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/2-740-bottles-of-liquor-seized-from-rajouri-two-arrested/story-j9YUCFDceZ1zDnyOCzifwI.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||MMRDA orders 12 more train sets for Mumbai Metro-2 and 7 extension||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which is expected to start trial runs for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and Metro-7 (Dahisar East-Andheri East) corridors from January 2021, has ordered 12 more train sets for the extension of these two lines. With this, the total train sets ordered by MMRDA has gone up to 96. According to MMRDA, it has ordered an additional 12 train sets of six cars each for the Metro-2B (DN Nagar-Mankhurd), Metro-7A and Metro-9 (Andheri to Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport and Dahisar to Mira Bhayander) from Bengaluru-based Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML). According to BEML’s letter dated November 22, the order is valued at ₹501 crore. With this, the total contract value has increased to ₹4,318 crore from the existing ₹3,817 crore for supplies before August 2023. A senior official from MMRDA said that with 72 more coaches, MMRDA will receive a total of 576 coaches from BEML. In a press conference held in September, MMRDA metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev had said that the authority will receive the first set of coaches in December, following which the trial runs are expected to start from January 14, 2021. The commercial operations are then expected to begin from May 2021. The two corridors were initially expected to be operational by December this year but the work was delayed owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the ensuing lockdown. The first set of trains will be housed at the Charkop depot. Coaches will be light-weight/ energy efficient and fully air-conditioned. The features will also enable driverless options. The trains will also have seats for the specially-abled, space for a cycle and charging points for mobile and laptops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mmrda-orders-12-more-train-sets-for-mumbai-metro-2-and-7-extension/story-H9oGEASaiXS7c7xwPi3a3J.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||IITs welcome new BTech batch virtually this year||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) welcomed first-year students registered for Bachelor of technology (BTech) virtually this year. The new academic year for BTech students at IIT commenced virtually on November 11.“Registration and orientation program for new UG entrants was conducted through [the] online mode this year with the help of the IIT-Bombay’s official channel,” said a spokesperson for the institute. Admissions to most professional UG courses remains delayed across the country. At IIT Madras, 938 BTech, 175 dual degree and 52 Masters students have been admitted for the 2020-21 academic year. The new batch started operating virtually on November 16. “We are starting the new academic year in a trimester pattern, instead of the usual two semesters annually. All classes will be held online and relevant information will be shared through the institute’s student email system,” said a spokesperson for IIT Madras. IIT Mandi’s new batch started from November 23, with a week long student induction program. Regular online classes for course work will commence from December 1. With regular classes already having shifted online during the lockdown, most IITs have initiated surveys among the new batches to find out if all students are equipped with laptops and adequate internet to attend online lectures. IIT Hyderabad has enabled a bank loan system for students who need to buy laptops by which the institute will pay the interest on the loan taken by the student.Professor Chitralekha Mahanta, dean academic affairs, IIT-Guwahati, said the institute is exploring options to see how it can support students from low income groups for whom remote learning may be a challenge. “On a case to case basis, needy students are being brought back to campus to facilitate them with the requisite environment for online learning,” said Mahanta.While working on facilitating virtual classes, IITs are also planning phased returns to campus. “Decisions on re-commencing physical in-person classes will be taken after evaluating the situation in Tamil Nadu and other states as well as in accordance with the central government,” said a spokesperson for IIT Madras. Professor Shantanu Roy, dean (academic) of IIT Delhi, said the institutes are planning phased openings and at present, only PhD students are returning to campus. At IIT Bombay, several Covid-19 task force committees have been formed and a sub-committee is currently working on rebooting the campus once the lockdown has been lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/iits-welcome-new-btech-batch-virtually-this-year/story-NGxJG7EYZpENLuwxZENgdI.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||At Mumbai civic body, Sena, BJP join hands to pass proposal for acquiring land for garden||In a rare moment of cooperation, the Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came together at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) general body meeting to pass a proposal for the acquisition of a plot at Exsar, Borivali, which has been reserved to create a public garden as per the Development Plan. The meeting was organised via video-conferencing on Tuesday. The administration had pitched the proposal to acquire the plot using any of the three options: by availing BMC’s accommodation/reservation policy in which the developer has to hand over 70% of a reserved plot to the civic body at the time of redevelopment of the existing building on the plot; by offering transferred development rights (TDR) to the owner of the plot; or by paying the owner the cost of the land as per the present ready reckoner rate. Leader of the Opposition in the civic body, Ravi Raja from the Congress, and his party colleagues logged out of the meeting against the decision. “I moved an amendment to the administration’s proposal, opposing the transfer of money to the land owner, and instead availing the options of TDR or accommodation/reservation policy for acquiring this land. BMC cannot pay money to the land owner, as its financial health is poor currently. However, the BJP and the Shiv Sena rejected my motion. So Congress staged a walk-out,” said Raja. However, Bhalchandra Shirsat from BJP said that the municipal commissioner’s proposal already asks for permission to avail either of the three options. “Thus, Raja’s proposal duplicated that concept. The original proposal is already agreeing to Ravi Raja’s demand. The proposal that was passed allows BMC to make an agreement with the land owner, and mutually decide which of the tree options to avail to acquire this land.” The original nod to acquire the land was given by the general body in 2009, by paying money to the owner, as the accommodation reservation policy did not exist at the time. As per that original proposal, the owner of the 5,798 square metre plot wanted to develop it and submitted a purchase notice to BMC. The civic body was due to pay the owner Rs180.16 crore via the collector’s office as compensation for acquiring the land, of which Rs83.27 crore was paid in 2019 for one portion of the land. BMC is yet to pay Rs96.89 crore to the collector for the remaining portion. Borivli corporator Sheetal Mhatre from the Shiv Sena also opposed the move. “There are about 3,000 families living in the buildings on this land. BMC has no plans to relocate them. I demanded assurance that these families will be relocated in-situ. What is the point of acquiring land to develop a garden when there are residents living there, especially when BMC has no immediate plans to move them?” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/at-mumbai-civic-body-sena-bjp-join-hands-to-pass-proposal-for-acquiring-land-for-garden/story-7hz928mdbW9i0VQ9RU7cCJ.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Road mishaps killed 447 people in Mumbai last year||Bloomberg Philanthropies Initiative for Global Road Safety and its partners, including Mumbai traffic police, released a report on Tuesday analysing the death and injury data in Mumbai. After analysing 184 kilometres of roads in Mumbai, the crash analysis team found a consistent decrease in road traffic deaths between 2015 and 2019. With 447 people losing their lives in road crashes in Mumbai in 2019, there was a dip of 3% compared to 2018 statistics and a 47% dip compared to 2015 figures. The report found that 80% of victims of road deaths are males and 99% perpetrators of fatal crashes are also male. Most drivers involved in fatal accidents in 2019 were between the age group of 20-24 years.Dr Sara Whitehead, public health and preventive medicine consultant, Vital Strategies, said, “The continuous decrease in road traffic deaths from 2015 through 2019 is an impressive testament to the hard work of city officials and police in Mumbai. But too many Mumbaikars are still at risk of injury or death just by walking through the streets.”Most victims of fatal accidents fell in the age group of 30 to 59 years. In 2019, 90% of the city’s total road deaths were made up of pedestrians, cyclists and motorcycle riders. This group also made up 83% of the total injured in road crashes.Maximum fatalities were recorded on Ghatkopar Mahul Road and Balasaheb Thackeray flyover. The most vulnerable intersections with maximum road crash fatalities were Amar Mahal and Godrej junctions. Between 2017 and 2019, 25 people have died at Amar Mahal junction and 18 have died at Godrej junction. On weekdays, the peak hours of 7pm to 9pm saw the most injuries and deaths. During weekends, the riskiest time was between 10pm and 11pm.Mumbai Traffic Control Branch also released its report on road crash deaths in the city this year, from January to August. During this period, the city recorded a total of 172 fatalities, of which 47% were pedestrians. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Yashasvi Yadav said, “We urge the people of Mumbai to drive at safe speeds, always wear helmets and seatbelts, and to never drink and drive.” Yadav said there are plans to implement intelligent traffic management systems to control traffic and reduce accidents in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/road-mishaps-killed-447-people-in-mumbai-last-year/story-tazdSuhgFRLuZ1TCQIQ5wK.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC proposes one-time regularisation scheme||A one-time regularisation policy for large-scale building violations in the rehabilitation colonies under the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) limits is on the cards. More than 4,300 allottees in the rehabilitation colonies in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran and Sector 52-53 stand to gain from the regularisation scheme. As per the MC proposal, which is to be tabled before the general house meeting scheduled for November 27, all building violations will be regularised by the payment of one-time need-based charges to give relief to the residents. Also, the MC will stop issuing violation and resumption notices to the residents. The proposal is being brought after BJP councillors Anil Kumar Dubey and Chandrawati Shukla submitted a representation wherein they requested to make suitable changes in the policy and regularisation of building violations. Dubey and Shukla requested the MC to make suitable changes in the policy, regularise the building violations, and stop the issuance of notices. Questioning the timing of the proposal, Congress councillor and leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla said, “For the last four years, the BJP didn’t care about the issue and now, with less than a year before MC election, they are introducing this selective agenda. Such a step should be for all rehabilitation colonies in the city. The agenda also doesn’t mention the rates for regularisation.” For the rehabilitation of economically weaker section (EWS) of society living in slums, scheme named “Licensing of Tenements and Sites and Services in Chandigarh” was introduced by the UT administration. In 1995, the work of rehabilitation of colonies was transferred to the MC. The number of transit sites at Vikas Nagar and Sector 52-53 are 4,300. Under this rehabilitation scheme, transit sites in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran and Sector 52-53 were allotted in 1998by the UT estate office to residents of various slums during the year. As per survey conducted by the MC, it has been found that most of allottees have “violated the terms and conditions of allotment by constructing unauthorised structures, cantilevers, toilets, additional storeys in contravention of the approved plan”. Even though these sites were allotted for a period of five years, which was extendable for further five years each, the MC survey found that nearly 90% of the licensees have sold out the transit sites on general power of attorney in violation of the terms and conditions of the scheme. The MC has from time to time issued violation notices to the allottees of the rehabilitation colonies. “But it is difficult to root out all the illegal occupants and cancel or resume the transit sites,” states the MC report. As per allotment conditions, each licensee is liable to pay monthly rent. It has been fixed at ₹244 per month for the period from 2018to 2023. In 1998, UT had allowed that in case of licensee’s death, a fresh licence be created in favour of the spouse, and in case of his/her death, in favour of surviving heirs provided that such prospective new licensee is already actually residing in the premises. In 2010, the administration allowed use of ground floor of the premises allotted under different rehabilitation schemes in different parts of Chandigarh for opening commercial spaces – boutique, beauty parlour, mobile repair, barber, stationery or electric shops. Rampant violations90% of the licensees have sold out the transit sites on general power of attorney.Flouting of the terms and conditions of allotment by opening of illegal commercial establishments. Most allottees have violated the building rules and approved site layout plan by constructing unauthorised cantilevers, toilets, additional storey, and rooms. The proposalRegularisation of building violations by payment of one-time need-based charges. Issuance of violation notices be stopped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-proposes-one-time-regularisation-scheme/story-NeIBIKn9iHYBMocVHnfKlI.html
25-11-2020||City||Farmers in Delhi haven’t got stubble solution yet, alleges BJP||New Delhi: Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit chief Adesh Gupta on Tuesday alleged none of Delhi’s farmers had received the Pusa bio-decomposer, which the Delhi government claims to have distributed free of cost to cultivators in the capital’s rural belt to convert stubble into manure. Gupta said the Kejriwal government was patting its back for spraying a bio-decomposer, developed by the Indian Agriculture Research Institute (IARI), in the farmlands of Delhi, which will convert stubble into manure without having to burn it, but it was just a delusion as farmers hadn’t received its benefit. The BJP leader made these allegations after visiting villages in the Narela and Bawana assembly constituencies along with the leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and other party leaders. The BJP leaders visited Ghoga, Daryapur, Harevali, Nagal, Bazipur and Majra Dabas villages.It could not be determined, however, if the leaders had visited the spots where the government has used the compound on an experimental basis.The Delhi government did not respond to repeated calls and messages for a comment.“During our visit, farmers exposed the lies of the (Arvind) Kejriwal government and said they did not receive any bio-decomposer, which turns Parali into fertilisers. Kejriwal government has installed huge hoardings in other states to propagate that farmers in Delhi are getting medicine to make fertilisers from paddy stubble, which is reducing pollution, which is not the truth,” Gupta said.Gupta said that during the visit, he found fields full of paddy stubble, which is causing a delay in sowing of wheat.The Delhi government has said that scientists of the Pusa Institute have developed a bio-decomposer solution that can convert stubble into manure.Leader of opposition Bidhuri alleged he had raised the plight of farmers in Delhi in an all-party meeting with the chief minister but he “did not pay attention to it”. “The Delhi Government is doing politics in the name of farmers. It is not making fertilisers from paddy stubble anywhere in Delhi. Kejriwal government is registering a case against farmers and fining Rs 50,000 for Parali burning,” Bidhuri said.The Delhi government had last month tied up with researchers of IARI to spray this bio-decomposer free of cost in the farmlands of Delhi, so that farmers do not have to set their fields on fire to get rid of the stubble. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday said they have submitted a report to the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), stating the effectiveness of this bio-decomposer. “We have asked the commission to extend the benefits of this product to other agrarian states where stubble burning is a major problem, because of which air pollution becomes a recurrent problem in Delhi,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-in-delhi-haven-t-got-stubble-solution-yet-alleges-bjp/story-71pP8CnJXUdcS6gtC0ugcK.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks Centre to use bio-decomoposer in Punjab, Haryana||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday urged the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) to consider the use of the bio-decomoposer technology developed by Pusa scientists to tackle the problem of continuing stubble burning in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Punjab. “A 15-member impact assessment committee has ascertained the effectiveness of the decomposer spray in turning stubble into compost and providing a solution to farmers in Delhi. The findings of the committee report have been submitted to the CAQM as well on Monday,” said Rai at a press conference. Rai said the bio-decomoposer used on 22,000 acres of land in Delhi turned 90% crop residue into manure within 15-20 days. Rai said that high pollution levels from stubble burning contributed to a spike in Covid-19 cases in the capital over the last 15 days. “The pollution situation has been critical in the city over the past many days. We need to find a permanent solution to this problem. We urge the CAQM to spray the bio-decomoposer solution in the states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan considering its success in Delhi,” the minister said. He said the solution is cost-effective and has been provided to farmers free of cost. “The central government gives a subsidy to help farmers buy (stubble-cutting ) machines. But the farmers themselves are supposed to pay a major part. This is why the farmers avoid buying these machines and burn stubble. If all states follow the Delhi government’s model, then sprinkling of this stubble-burning solution can happen in half of what the central government spends in providing subsidies on the machines,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-asks-centre-to-use-bio-decomoposer-in-punjab-haryana/story-xoBJAXhIG16eLPrRVxhCgI.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Diwali pollution this year higher than 2019: DPCC||Delhi’s overall pollution levels this Diwali were higher than last year, shows an analysis by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC).“All pollutants recorded much higher levels on Diwali (November 14) this year as compared to the same in 2019. Besides, a gradual rise in particulate matter (PM) concentrations were observed in the days preceding the festival,” the analysis stated. Delhi recorded an overall average AQI of 414 on Diwali day this year. Last year, it had recorded an average AQI of 337 on Diwali (October 27).Higher levels of PM 2.5 (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) and PM 10 (coarse dust particles) were reported this year at all 13 hot spots as compared to last year. Higher concentrations of pollutants such as carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and oxides of nitrogen (No2), all of which are harmful, were also seen this year compared to 2019, DPCC said.“Of all the hot spots, Jahangirpuri, Ashok Vihar and Rohini recorded the worst air quality. The PM 10 values here crossed 1000 µg/m3, 10 times above the permissible limit. Besides, these three stations recorded the highest PM 2.5 concentrations with levels as high as 900 µg/m3. The levels peaked for around three hours at all the three hot spots,” the report said.According to Indian standards, the 24-hour average permissible limits for PM 2.5 and PM 10 are 60µg/m3 and 100µg/m3, respectively. Among the hot spots, the lowest PM 2.5 concentrations were found at Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka and Wazirpur while the lowest PM 10 concentrations were seen at Dwarka, Narela and Okhla, it said.Delhi’s overall average PM 2.5 levels on Diwali this year were almost 20 times higher than the prescribed safe limit. The concentrations ranged from 274µg/m3 to 1131 µg/m3 as compared to last year’s 58 µg/m3 to 1070 µg/m3.The PM 10 levels shot up by more than 14 times with the average concentration ranging from 392 µg/m3 to 1408 µg/m3. In 2019, it ranged between 149µg/m3 and 1391µg/m3.“For both PM 10 and 2.5, the levels peaked at midnight for about three hours while the highest concentration for both was observed at Ashok Vihar. Here, the PM 2.5 levels spiked to 2939µg/m3 while PM 10 levels rose to 3320µg/m3,” the report said.There was also a rise in the levels of noise pollution. “The noise levels were monitored at 26 locations. The noise levels ranged from 51 dB at Najafgarh to 81.5 dB at Jahangirpuri. On a normal day, the levels here range from 45.5 dB to 68.6dB,” it said.But when compared to the past five years, the years 2017 and 2018 recorded worse air than in 2019 and 2020, the analysis says, without elaborating further. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) too in its Diwali pollution analysis earlier this month had said that the overall pollution levels this year were higher than last year. The apex pollution watchdog attributed the high levels this year to bursting of firecrackers and a higher share of stubble burning coinciding with unfavourable meteorological conditions during the festival season. According to CPCB’s analysis, the share of stubble burning in the city’s PM 2.5 levels this year was 32%, as compared to 19% last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/diwali-pollution-this-year-higher-than-2019-dpcc/story-PnfO5nvWr7CeRFqKqJiLgL.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||In Delhi riots charge sheet, police claim outsiders launched Shaheen Bagh||Delhi Police have alleged that JNU students had started the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest at Shaheen Bagh and that in the initial days of the sit-in demonstration, those who occupied the roads were not local residents. The police have claimed in a supplementary charge sheet filed in the conspiracy to trigger communal riots in Delhi in which the investigating agency has named Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam. While Khalid has passed out of JNU, Imam was a student of the university when he was arrested. In the charge sheet, filed on Sunday in the Karkardooma court, the special cell alleged that Imam and his accomplices had distributed pamplets, mobilised clerics from nearby mosques and made announcements. As evidence against Imam, who police have charged as one of the main conspirators, police have attached scanned copy of details of a meeting held on December 15, 2019 at an eatery inside JNU. This was the day when violence broke out near Jamia Millia Islamia campus. The scanned copy of what police claim were “minutes of the meeting” show how the core committee members of the Muslim Students of JNU spoke about roping in Bhim Army and visiting Deoband as part of the mobilising protesters. The chief of the Bhim Army Chandrashekhar has been named in the violence at Daryaganj on December 20 during an anti-CAA protest. The police, in their 1000-page charge sheet has termed Umar Khalid as the mentor of Imam. “Sharjeel Imam was an active participant in events and occasions observed within the JNU campus and was well received for his oratorical skills. Umar Khalid, his mentor, had a special interest in Sharjeel Imam. The religious fantacism of Sharjeel coupled with his academic legacy and sharp rhetorical skills was just the perfect combination that Umar Khalid was looking to exploit to execute the lessons that he learnt from his attempted seditious uprising in JNU in 2016,” the charge sheet read.The agency also said though he is “deeply communal”, Khalid pretends to be an atheist.The police also alleged in the charge sheet that on 27 December 2019, Imam held a meeting with conspirators at a private residence close to the Shaheen Bagh protest site.“The extremist and communal stance taken by Sharjeel Imam had yielded rich dividends and Shaheen Bagh chakka jaam was being projected nationally and internationally as a site of democratic resistance against the government of India which was being allegedly portrayed as anti-Muslim by the accused,” the charge sheet read.The police also said that Khalid “with his intellectual acumen, knew very well that a large majority of Indian Muslims will never subscribe to the perverted definition of Islam being espoused by his disciple Sharjeel Imam, and no amount of rhetoric and obfuscation of facts will be enough to brainwash the Indian Muslims into actually believing that CAA would question their nationality”.Quoting witness named as Helium in the charge sheet, the police claimed that the witness had said that he attended a protest called at Jantar Mantar on 10 February 2020, where he was introduced to Umar Khalid and his father SQR Ilyas. At the protest, Khalid told him that he should mobilise the Bangladeshi immigrants and the Rohingyas who live in Jahangirpuri and urge them to fight against the CAA. The police said that it was not a surprise that on 23 February 2020, while Khalid was away from Delhi, women from Jahangir Puri had travelled about 60 kms over the day to reach Jafrabad to be received by arrested accused Devangna Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Guifisha Fatima and who took on the deployed police forces by use of chilli powder, crushed glass bottles and stones which led to the riots.Umar Khalid’ counsel Trideep Pais had said that though his client was against the idea of the new Citizenship law; and that he(Khalid) was not ashamed of it, Khalid was not involved in any violence of the conspiracy of the riots.Sharjeel Imam’s lawyer has also denied all the allegations and charges as baseless.Delhi Police have been criticised by many student activists and civil society groups of targeting anti-government voices by arresting them for riot cases. Police have been accused of arresting prominent anti-CAA voices for the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/in-delhi-riots-charge-sheet-police-claim-outsiders-launched-shaheen-bagh/story-3TxDuzaN7Utl5kqLGquVYK.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||At 109, Delhi records over 100 Covid-19 deaths for fifth consecutive day||Delhi registered over 100 Covid-19 deaths a day for the fifth consecutive day on Tuesday, with the national capital recording 109 deaths, taking the toll to 8,621, as per the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Delhi also reported 6,224 new cases on Tuesday. On Monday, Delhi saw 4,454 cases and 121 deaths.Even so, the Delhi government claimed that the city’s death rate was “the lowest among major cities”. “Delhi has the least fatality ratio among all major cities in India. Rapid addition of intensive care unit (ICU) beds and other medical facilities have helped us achieve this. We are doing our best to save each and every life,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet. Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe data attached in the tweet mentions that Delhi’s case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 1.6%, and comparing it to states with the highest CFR -- Ahmedabad with 4.2%, Ludhiana with 4%, and Mumbai with 3.9%. As per the data shared by the minister, Delhi was 15th on a list of cities with the highest mortality. Of the total number of deaths, 2,110 have been reported in November alone when Delhi saw its third surge in Covid-19 cases. So far, the highest number of deaths in a single day was 131, reported on November 18, and the highest number of cases in a day was 8,593, reported on November 11. On Monday, Jain had said the number of deaths is likely to go down over the next two weeks, as well as the number of cases and claimed that the positivity rate was already going down. “Death rate usually follows the curve of the number of cases and it should start coming down in the next two weeks,” he had said in the press briefing. On average, Delhi has reported 6,423 new cases a day during the last seven days, as compared to an average of 7,436 cases on average last week (if the number of cases on Diwali and the day after are not considered when fewer tests had been conducted.) The average positivity rate has dropped from 13.5% last week to 11.7 this week, as per the data. Experts say that the spread of infection is under control when a positivity rate of 5% or less and is maintained at that for at least two weeks. The number of hospitalisations has also started declining over the past two days. After reaching the peak of 9,522 patients being admitted to city hospitals on November 21, the number has reduced to 9,367 on Tuesday. The Delhi government has been working on increasing intensive care unit beds in its hospitals as well as private ones. The government had ordered its hospitals to add 663 ICU beds last week. On Tuesday, the government said that it had ordered 1,200 BiPap or Bi-level Positive Airway Pressure machines. “We are in the process of increasing the number of ICU beds that are either equipped with a ventilator – which can also be used in Bipap mode – or with high flow nasal cannula. The Bipap machines will help us in doing so,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director, Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi’s biggest Covid treatment centre. Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, said, “Not only will these Bipap machines help us in increasing the current bed strength of 663, but will also prepare us for the future. Because of low temperatures and high levels of pollution, the cases may go up again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-109-delhi-records-over-100-covid-19-deaths-for-fifth-consecutive-day/story-JV5zsgLMDR43vzHBLK9ZgJ.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik after ED raid: Have done no wrong||Breaking his silence over the searches carried out by Enforcement Directorate on his properties and detention of his son in connection with a money-laundering case, Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik told ABP Majha on Tuesday evening that he had not seen such “politics of vendetta”. “The kind of vendetta politics happening in the past six to seven years was never seen before in the country. If this is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s strategy to pressurise the Shiv Sena, then they need to change it. Today you are in power, tomorrow we will come, what will happen then,” he asked. He, however, maintained that he would cooperate with the Central agency, if summoned. According to Sarnaik, ED questioned his son Vihang over their connections with TOPSGRUP, a security service provider company owned by Rahul Nanda. Also read: ED raids Shiv Sena MLA’s properties, questions son in money-laundering probe against security firm“I spoke to Vihang over the phone. He was asked if the owners of TOPSGRUP and we have any financial relation. We are not connected. We know them as a security agency. We use their security services on a professional basis at our sites. They have taken all documents related to our businesses. Vihang was also questioned about use of credit card for purchases in Macau or bank accounts in America for business purposes. He told them they are on record with the income tax department,” he said. The Sena legislator added that he expects such attacks on him after he took on BJP in the past few months. “The day I moved a privilege motion against Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami, and spoke to reopen Anvay Naik case, I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far. Uddhavsaheb has made me the spokesperson to put forward the party’s views. Today they told him [Vihang] your father speaks a lot on Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami. I will continue to speak wherever Mumbai, Maharashtra or its police are maligned. I have done nothing wrong in my business,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-mla-sarnaik-after-ed-raid-have-done-no-wrong/story-XHY6fNJEUDsGmQZDqvtpnL.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Housing scheme: Chandigarh employees reject admn’s proposals||Representatives of Chandigarh employees on Tuesday in a letter to the UT adviser rejected the two fresh proposals of the administration under the UT Employees Self-financing Housing Scheme. Two housing proposals — a seven-storey project and a mix of seven and eleven-storey projects — were discussed in a meeting chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida with employees’ representatives Dharmender Shastri, Balwinder Singh and Brahmprakash Yadav on November 17. The letter stated, “Finding the rates not viable and acceptable the successful employees have shown their inability to accept the same being beyond their reach.” Addressing the adviser, the letter further stated, “You are requested to reconsider the rates of land and construction prices keeping in view the concerns and interest of the allottees who are employees of Chandigarh administration, and also considering the spirit of the scheme so that orders passed by the high court from time to time, are obeyed in letter and spirit. Around 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by the Chandigarh Housing Board for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008. The project comprised 252 3BHK flats with servant quarters, 168 2BHK with servant quarters, 3,066 1BHK and 444 single-room flats. A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around ₹57 crore with the CHB under the scheme. Later, the scheme was shelved and then revived after the employees took up the matter with MP Kirron Kher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/housing-scheme-chandigarh-employees-reject-admn-s-proposals/story-N8J2m069RL1EG4gudyof4O.html
25-11-2020||City||Delhi engineer found dead in Pune hotel||PUNE: A 29-year-old engineer from Delhi was found dead at a hotel in Pune, officials said on Tuesday. The engineer, who worked in a private firm in Noida, Uttar Pradesh, is suspected to have died by suicide on Sunday. He is survived by his parents and a wife in her third trimester of pregnancy, according to the police. “There was a suicide note that we found in his hotel room. It was written inside a notebook in Hindi. It was pretty vague and mentioned some trouble that he had run into in life. There is no way of telling if it was work-related or personal,” said inspector (crime) V Goud of Shivajinagar police station. The man was reported missing by his family in Delhi since October last week while his body was found in a hotel located at Model Colony in Shivajinagar, Pune, officials said. The family had even lodged a missing complaint in Delhi on October 30. The police are verifying whether he had any connection with Pune. His family members arrived in Pune on Monday and took custody of the body after a post-mortem was conducted. His death was recorded in an accidental death report at the Shivajinagar police station. The techie, according to Goud, had recorded a message to his wife, which indicated he attempted to end life multiple times before hanging self in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-engineer-found-dead-in-pune-hotel/story-BycOQ5ka7dU0sm9xdFv7PK.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||AAP accuses civic bodies of burdening public with taxes and giving waivers to contractors||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi (MCDs) of corruption and causing stress to people by increasing the property tax, especially at a time when they were struggling to recover from the economic impact of the nationwide lockdown and the pandemic.The BJP dismissed the allegations and said no property tax was increased during the current fiscal and all decisions were taken in accordance with laws and policies.“On the one hand, the BJP-ruled MCDs have doubled commercial property tax and, on the other hand, they are bringing in schemes to give illegal favours to contractors. This is outright corruption. This has been done in south MCD. Now it is going to happen in North MCD also,” said the AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj in a press conference.He further said, “Now the BJP-ruled MCD is bringing in a proposal to increase residential property tax by 34% in all categories. They have already increased taxes on commercial properties several times. But the same MCDs are forgoing the fee charged on parking contractors and advertisement contractors. Such policies have contributed to the stress of the common people who are struggling to recover from the financial shock of the nationwide lockdown.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “None of the three MCDs has increased any property tax rates for the general public or even traders during the current financial year. Only commercial property tax was slightly increased, as directed by the municipal valuation committee. On Monday, Saurabh Bhardwaj had himself said why are MCDs not increasing tax and keeping a check on commercially rented properties and, surprisingly, today, he is objecting to his own demand.”“The waiver given to advertising agencies and parking contractors was done as per the central government policy to allow relief to government contractors for the four months of the lockdown period. Even the Delhi government has given similar relief to several categories of traders,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-accuses-civic-bodies-of-burdening-public-with-taxes-and-giving-waivers-to-contractors/story-90miYhPXfeHkOl9yDNdMTJ.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: West, north districts with crowded markets saw most mask-rule violation in festive season||The most number of mask rule violations this festive season was reported from west and north Delhi districts of the national capital, show police data, unlike the month before that, when the most number of such violations was reported from south and south-west Delhi. In light of the data review, Delhi Police officers said the two districts have a larger number of much-favoured markets, such as Sadar Bazaar and Kamla Nagar, and these marketplaces had seen huge crowds since Dussehra till Diwali.According to the data seen by HT, between October 23 (two days before Dussehra) and November 10 (four days before Diwali), police fined 5,018 persons in west Delhi for violating the mask rule, while they fined 4,991 persons in north Delhi. South and south-west Delhi reported 4741 and 2163 instances, respectively, during the same period.Overall, until November 24, police had fined 506, 272 persons across Delhi for not wearing masks. North district comprises marketplaces such as Kamla Nagar, Maurice Nagar and Sadar Bazaar and until two months ago, this district did not figure in the top three or four districts with the maximum number of violations as people were mostly avoiding crowded places, and also, the Covid-19 vigil was more heightened in public places. The same was the case with west Delhi that houses markets such as Tilak Nagar and Rajouri Garden, police said.But all that changed when the festive season approached. A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said, “West and north topped the list during the recent review period as they have a number of bust markets. Markets such as Tilak Nagar and Rajouri Garden in west Delhi saw huge crowds in the days before Diwali. In north Delhi, too, Sadar Bazaar and Kamla Nagar were alarmingly crowded. At one point, our officers on the ground were outnumbered by the massive crowd.” As predicted by government agencies, the increase in Delhi’s Covid-19 deaths and daily positive cases has coincided with the festive season, when more people had stepped out of homes and were casual in their adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour. To ensure that people comply with the mask rule, the Delhi government last Friday increased the penalty for mask rule violations from ₹500 to ₹2,000. The district-wise police’s prosecution data shows that between June 15 (the day when police started issuing fines) and November 10, the west district has topped the list with 53,970 violations, followed by south district with 51,476. Between June 15 and July 3 -- when the data was reviewed for the first time by senior police officers to understand the pattern of violations -- it was the south-west district that had topped the list with 2,699 violations. North district was then ranked fifth, while west Delhi was 11th. Commenting on people not following rules in Sadar Bazaar Market -- the photographs of the crowded market had gone viral on social media -- Devraj Baweja, president, Confederation of Sadar Bazaar Trader Association, said, “There were encroachments on roads and lanes due to which there was little space available for shoppers. Even so, the crowds were excessive during the festival. The casual attitude of the public towards the pandemic also resulted in violations. We are now ensuring that such violations do not happen. The encroachments have been removed and shoppers are told to wear masks before entering the market.” While the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had on October 8 warned that Delhi could report 15,000 daily cases during the festive season, the cases reached a maximum of 8,593 on November 11. Delhi is currently reporting between 5,000 and 7,500 new cases daily. The state government had called the rise in cases as the third wave of the virus infection and asked people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. On Tuesday, Delhi saw 6,224 new Covid-19 cases, and 109 deaths. In west Delhi, Ramesh Khanna, president, Rajouri Garden Market Traders Association, said the association has been donating masks to shoppers. “We have deployed security guards in the market to conduct random inspections and urge people to wear their masks properly. We ensure that every shop has sanitisers and shopkeepers also keep extra masks handy. We have made all arrangements,” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/west-north-districts-with-crowded-markets-saw-most-mask-rule-violation-in-festive-season/story-f1iiFiY5f6777xoG46QFaJ.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Kejriwal asks Modi to reserve 1,000 ICU beds in central hospitals||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reserve 1,000 ICU beds in central government hospitals in Delhi for Covid-19 patients even as he expressed concerns over the rising mortality rate and pointed out air pollution caused by stubble burning in neighbouring states as a contributing factor to the severity of the “third wave” in the Capital.The Prime Minister held a high-level Covid-19 review meeting on Tuesday with chief ministers of all states on Tuesday, with special emphasis on eight high focus states, including Delhi. “CM Arvind Kejriwal said that there is a sufficient number of non-ICU Covid beds available in Delhi, but there is a shortage of ICU beds. He appealed to the PM to reserve 1,000 ICU beds in the central government hospitals located in the city for Delhiites. CM Arvind Kejriwal said that the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi peaked on 10 November with 8,600 positive cases, but now the positivity rate is constantly declining. The pollution from stubble burning in the neighbouring states has been a significant contributor in making the third wave of corona [Covid-19] more dangerous,” the CM’s office said in a press statement.Also Read | States must start working on cold storage facilities for Covid-19 vaccine, says PM Modi at meeting with chief ministersKejriwal is learnt to have told the PM that out of the total ICU beds available across Delhi, around 3,500 ICU beds are occupied and 724 ICU beds are vacant. He appreciated Union home minister Amit Shah’s intervention in this regard as “supportive” and pointed out how Delhi had scaled up tests from around 20,000 per day to 60,000 per day between June and September – the period between the first two waves of Covid-19 in the Capital.“But the rising mortality rate is a matter of concern and we have to reduce the mortality rate. We hope that the mortality rate will also reduce along with the declining positivity ratio in the coming days,” the statement quoted Kejriwal saying in the meeting.“CM Arvind Kejriwal further said that several factors were instrumental in making the third wave of corona [Covid-19] in Delhi more dangerous, increased pollution levels in Delhi recently played a big role. The pollution from stubble burning in the neighbouring states has been one of the major reasons. The Delhi government has recently induced a solution to the issue of stubble burning with the help of the Pusa Agricultural Institute. The government has used the bio-decomposer technology developed by Pusa Institute across the farmlands in Delhi, which has converted the straw on the fields into manure,” according to the statement.The chief minister also sought the intervention of the Prime Minister to resolve the issue of stubble burning with the help of bio-decomposer technology. He said, “We want that under your leadership, the Chief Ministers of Delhi, Punjab, and Haryana should work together as a team to eliminate stubble burning,” the statement said.Later in the day, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain posted some data on Twitter, saying that Delhi has the lowest case fatality ratio (at 1.6%) compared to Chennai, Pune, Surat, Thane, Kolkata, Kanpur, Nagpur, Howrah, Patiala, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mumbai, Ludhiana and Ahmedabad. Jain tweeted, “Delhi has least fatality ratio amongst all major cities in India. Rapid addition of ICU beds and other medical facilities have helped us achieve this. We are doing our best to save each and every life..”Delhi reported 121 Covid-19 deaths on Monday -- the fourth consecutive day that the fatalities remained over 100. The number of deaths has shot up over the fortnight, with 114 people dying on average each day during this week, as compared to 93 the week before and 65 the week before that. The seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – number of deaths among those who test positive — is inching closer to 2%. It stood at 1.84% as per data shared in Monday’s health bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kejriwal-asks-modi-to-reserve-1-000-icu-beds-in-central-hospitals/story-ZsX0Qm945flAbBQ4qlLAhM.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: NDPS court grants bail to two alleged drug peddlers||The special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Tuesday granted bail to two alleged peddlers Ankush Arneja and Suryadeep Malhotra, booked in connection with a drug case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.Arneja was arrested on September 14 in connection with the case. Malhotra was arrested the next day, based on the Arneja’s statement in which he had claimed to have supplied drugs to Malhotra. As per NCB’s case, Arneja had supplied drugs to several accused, including Kshitij Prasad. It is alleged that Arenja is “running a kitchen in a plush area of Mumbai and selling narcotics substances like weed, hash and mephedrone or MD to high profile individuals”. Malhotra, a close friend of Showik Chakraborty, was allegedly providing drugs to Rajput. The lawyer for the two accused, Taraq Sayyed, had argued that the case is based on the statement of a co-accused, and was therefore invalid. It was alleged that their names cropped up in the interrogation of other drug peddlers, and they were arrested, based on those statements. Sayyed relied on the recent verdict of the Supreme Court (SC), which held that the confession statement of a co-accused, given before the investigating officer, cannot be taken as substantial evidence against the other accused. Considering this, the court granted bail to the two accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-ndps-court-grants-bail-to-two-alleged-drug-peddlers/story-rwUoFSgI0YbBK0lzVkUwFI.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||If everything else is open, then why not spas, HC asks Delhi govt||The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought to know from the Delhi government as to “what was so special about spas that they are not being allowed to open its services in the city”, even though everything else -- markets, gyms, restaurants, Metro and buses -- was operational. The Centre,in a notification of November 18, had said it did not have problems with the opening of spas.Reiterating this, the Union government, through its advocate Anjana Gosain, told justice Navin Chawla that it has no objection if the spas are reopened, with the staff adhering to Covid-19 rules and norms. The Delhi government, however, informed the court that it was not going allow spas to reopen as Covid-19 cases were rising in the city.“Why only spas? What is so special about spas? You have opened everything else. Look at markets, restaurants, Metros, buses, all are open and running full time,” the judge said.On oral instructions, advocate Anjum Javed, additional standing counsel, Delhi government, said the services are not likely to reopen and sought time from the court to file an affidavit in this regard. The court was hearing a plea moved by various spa owners which have been shut since March 25, when the nationwide lockdown was first announced. In their plea, the owners contended they have been trained as professional therapists under the National Skills Development Mission launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.They said when most businesses, such as salons, gyms, restaurants and bars, have been granted permission to reopen and even the Delhi Metro has restarted, then spas too should be allowed to open.The petitioners have claimed that the spas in other states are running with safety measures, but are not permitted in Delhi. The matter would be now heard on December 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/if-everything-else-is-open-then-why-not-spas-hc-asks-delhi-govt/story-v3JvpADjfQnaIZZE4pcANO.html
25-11-2020||City||Teen dead, 5 injured after gas cylinder explodes at Mumabai’s Sakinaka||A 15-year-old girl died, while five others suffered injuries after a fire broke out following a gas cylinder explosion in a chawl at Sakinaka on Tuesday, the civic body’s disaster management cell said.The fire was reported at 9.28pm and extinguished by the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) by 10pm.The injured were rushed to Rajawadi Hospital, where a 15-year-old girl, identified as Almas, was declared dead on arrival. The other injured include a 45-year-old man and 60-year-old woman and three minors, an eight-year-old boy and two girls, aged 14 and 16 years, said the disaster management cell of the civic body. They are undergoing treatment for burn injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/teen-dead-5-injured-after-gas-cylinder-explodes-at-mumabai-s-sakinaka/story-VmLtVXaOXOBIsJXovR3XcP.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Schools are unlikely to reopen until we have Covid-19 vaccine: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said schools in the national capital are unlikely to reopen until “we have the Covid-19 vaccine”. Schools have remained shut in Delhi since March in view of the pandemic situation and classes are being conducted online. The Delhi government last month announced that all schools in the city will remain closed till further notice. “Until there is some vaccine, schools are not likely to reopen in Delhi...Parents won’t send their kids to schools until they are assured that they will be safe,” he said. Sisodia, who is also the deputy chief minister of Delhi, said the government will consult all the stakeholders before taking any decision on reopening schools. “We are regularly consulting parents and they are concerned about the safety of their children.”Delhi has recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases and fatalities in November with both the maximum number of daily cases and deaths being reported this month. On October 28, Sisodia, during a press conference, had said, “Reports suggest that wherever schools were reopened, an increase in the number of cases was observed in those countries. The chief minister [Arvind Kejriwal] and I have thought this through even as parents and whether we would be willing to expose our kids to such a risk. This is why we have decided that all schools in the national capital will remain closed until further orders.”Principals said that parents are not in favour of reopening schools. “Although we are worried about the students who are not being able to attend online classes due to lack of devices and internet connectivity, we think that it’s still not the time to reopen schools. Parents are also worried about the safety of their students. Even teachers are scared of their safety. Let the situation normalise in Delhi before taking any decision on this,” said AK Jha, head of school at Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-are-unlikely-to-reopen-until-we-have-covid-19-vaccine-sisodia/story-NMCwWDGsvb5w3eNTZFJOPL.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Five years on, CBI files chargesheet against four in forgery case||Nearly two years after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court refused to accept the closure report, the investigating agency has filed a chargesheet against four persons for allegedly forging documents to get a bank loan to purchase a property in Sector 9.The case dates back to 2015, when as per CBI, a case of forgery and cheating was registered by the Chandigarh Police on the complaint of city resident Deepa Duggal against GS Chawla (now deceased), his wife, Jagjeet Kaur, their son, HS Chawla, two relatives GS Bhatti and Sarabjit Singh at Sector 17 police station. There were allegations that all five forged documents to get a bank loan of Rs 6.25 crores for a property being sold by Deepa Duggal in Sector 9, Chandigarh.At the same time, a counter case was registered by Chawla against Deepa Duggal at Sector 3 police station, alleging that she concealed the facts of the property.Later, the cases were investigated by the CBI, which in 2018 submitted the closure reports in both the complaints.In December 2018, the court accepted the closure report filed in the case against Deepa Duggal, however, the CBI court refused to accept the closure report in the case against Chawlas.Pointing out discrepancies, the court had directed the CBI to conduct further investigation into the matter.On Tuesday, the investigating agency submitted the chargesheet filed against four persons including Jagjeet Kaur, her son HS Chawla, relatives Gurcharan Singh and Sarabjit Singh. GS Chawla had died this year, hence his name was not mentioned in the chargesheet.The chargesheet has been filed under Sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine), and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.The case is now listed for November 25.2015 graft caseIn 2015, GS Chawla’s daughter Guneet Kaur has filed another case alleging that the economic offences wing (EOW) officials were demanding Rs 40 lakh for settling the case.In the same year, CBI laid a trap and arrested former DSP EOW RC Meena, along with sub-inspector Surinder Kumar Bhardwaj, two businessmen, Aman Grover, owner of KLG Hotel and Sanjay Dahuja, owner of Berkeley Automobiles, for allegedly accepting the bribe on behalf of the police officials.The case is going on in the special court of CBI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/five-years-on-cbi-files-chargesheet-against-four-in-forgery-case/story-DpgHreFFuLL4ivfyvZ6eWN.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||After video goes viral, woman who shot at shuttered shop in north-east Delhi arrested||Delhi police on Monday arrested a 28-year-old woman for allegedly opening fire at a grocery shop last Wednesday. The video of the woman firing the shots in north-east Delhi’s Chauhan Bangar area and loudly abusing someone (the person is not seen in the video) was widely shared on social media after the incident. Investigation has revealed that she had bought the pistol from one of her contacts in Loni, Ghaziabad, to frighten the shop owner. Police have identified the arrested woman as Nusrat (only by her first name), who lives in Chauhan Bangar with her second husband. Police said the woman, a homemaker, does not have any previous criminal record. According to the police, on November 18, a call was received at Jafrabad police station reporting that multiple gunshots have been fired in lane number four of Chauhan Bangar area. A police team reached the spot, found that four rounds had been fired at the shutter of a closed grocery shop.During inquiry, police found that the shop belonged to one Fahim, who also lives in the same area. With the help of CCTV footage and local inquiries, it was found that the person who had fired the shots was a woman clad in a burqa.“Further inquiries helped us identify her and she was arrested following a search. She was booked for illegal possession of arms and under other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. During questioning, the woman told us that a man known to her, Shahrukh, 25, had mortgaged his cellphone with the grocery shop owner some time ago and the shop owner was not returning the phone. When she went to ask for Shahrukh’s phone, Fahim refused to hand it over and this sparked a heated argument between the woman and the shop owner,” said a senior police officer, adding that this happened a few days before the day of shooting (November 18). Nusrat returned home, but to take revenge, she arranged for a pistol from one Maksood, in Loni, Ghaziabad, with the help of a person named Irfan. “She said Irfan also took her to Fahim’s shop in Chauhan Bangar on November 18 on his motorcycle and she fired at the shuttered shop. Irfan also helped her flee the spot after the shooting. Nusrat said she later handed over the pistol to Irfan,” the officer quoted above said.Deputy commissioner of police (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said while Nusrat has been arrested, information is being gathered about Irfan. “Multiple teams have been formed and searches are underway to arrest him and recover the pistol,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-video-goes-viral-woman-who-shot-at-shuttered-shop-in-north-east-delhi-arrested/story-jZPsTOmihXizbBKZZhyuEL.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Two held for morphing photos of women, blackmailing them||Delhi Police has arrested a graphics designer and his friend for allegedly morphing pictures of women and men after downloading them from social media websites and blackmailing them for money. Senior officers said at least 45 complainants have been traced across the country and Rs 12 lakh of the extorted amount has been recovered from the two men.Police identified the arrested men as 20-year-old Shoaib Akhtar, a resident of Uttar Dinajpur in West Bengal, who is a diploma holder in graphic designing, and his associate Nasimul Haque, 21, who is from the same place. Police recovered from them four mobile phones and two laptops along with multiple SIM cards used in the crime.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said last Friday, a woman working with an airline complained that a person had threatened to circulate a morphed photograph of her on the internet if he is not paid. “A case was registered and we managed to get details of the suspects. Akhtar and Haque were arrested following a raid in Gurugram. Their third associate Jabaar is absconding,” Arya said.The DCP said four mobiles phones and two laptops recovered from the two men were being checked by forensic experts to track other victims. The duo said they used to create intimate pictures of women and then sent these to their targets, demanding money for not uploading them on the internet.Arya said his team has managed to contact another woman based in Allahabad, who also works with an airline. She had also filed a similar complaint against the two men.“Akhtar told police he was terminated from his private job at an online loan-providing firm during the lockdown, after which he started misusing company data to reach out to its women customers. At least 45 men and women who were targeted by the duo have been traced. Their bank account from which Rs 12 lakh of extorted amount was recovered, has been frozen and further investigation is in progress,” Arya said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/two-held-for-morphing-photos-of-women-blackmailing-them/story-D7eHthNXH9KBMrAKGHjMHJ.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray seeks PM’s intervention to halt ‘politicisation’ of Covid-19 by BJP in Maharashtra||During his meeting with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray took a dig at the former’s party in the state for taking to the streets over opening up of temples and other issues. The CM said that the “politicisation” may jeopardise the efforts to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. Thackeray participated in a video conference convened by the PM to take stock of the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the eight states with highest cases on Tuesday morning. Thackeray, without naming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), requested the PM to “tame some of the political parties” who have been playing with the lives of people by resorting to the agitations on roads. He said that the PM should instruct these political parties not to play politics amid the global pandemic. “The Prime Minister or the Union home minister should convene a joint meeting of all political parties to deliberate with them about the seriousness of the pandemic. The parties should be asked to cooperate with the state government. Following the protocols set by the Centre, we have been appealing to people to follow Covid-19 protocol by maintaining distance and wear masks but a few political parties have been resorting to [gathering] on the streets with the intention of gaining political mileage out of the challenge. This could ruin our efforts and lead to the second wave of the infection,” Thackeray said.The CM was referring to the state unit of the BJP which had taken to the streets demanding for the reopening of religious places and other issues including inflated electricity bills.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan made a presentation on the current scenario of Covid-19 cases across the country, with a focus of the eight states with the highest case count. The meeting was also attended by Union home minister Amit Shah. Thackeray told the PM that the daily caseload in the state has reduced to 4,700-5,000 cases from 24,000 in September. “When the cases in some of the states like Delhi, Haryana, West Bengal have increased, the decline in the cases in Maharashtra is high (76%). Our case fatality rate is indeed as high as 2.44, but we are trying to reduce it. We aim to bring the positivity rate below 5%, for which we have been aggressively testing and tracing suspected contacts. We have increased daily testing to around 80,000,” he said.Thackeray also apprised the PM of the Maharashtra government’s outreach programme “My Family, My Responsibility”, and said that it helped in tracing suspected contacts and people with comorbidities. He also said that patients with post-Covid-19 symptoms are being closely monitored by the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-seeks-pm-s-intervention-to-halt-politicisation-of-covid-19-by-bjp-in-maharashtra/story-n0vsjZ5LI0Ll69XjKOIoBL.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||70-year-old property dealer shot dead in Vikaspuri||A 70-year-old man was shot dead on a street near his house by two bike-borne assailants in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri on Monday evening. Police said they are probing the identity of the killers and checking if the murder was the result of a business deal that went wrong. Attam Singh, who had come to India from Afghanistan 28 years ago, was a property dealer. CCTV footage of the shooting showing the two men firing at Singh is widely circulating on social media. Singh lived in Vikaspuri with his son who runs a mobile phone business from Gaffar Market. Locals told police Singh was socially active and volunteered for social service at a gurudwara.Around 5.30 pm on Monday, the police control room received a call about a man who had been shot near his house in Vikaspuri. A police team reached the spot and found Singh lying unconscious. He was taken to a nearby hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. He had gunshot injuries to his forehead, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said Singh was shot by two men who approached him on a bike as soon as he got out of his car near his house while returning from a gurdwara.“Witnesses and locals told us the two men were wearing helmets. The pillion rider took out a pistol and shot Singh. As he collapsed, the duo sped away before onlookers could react. Visibly, Singh had one bullet wound to his head. However, his post-mortem reports are awaited to confirm this,” Purohit said.The CCTV footage that captured the shooting shows people walking on the road when Singh was shot. The bikers, both wearing helmets, are seen firing at him just as Singh exits the car. Police suspect the two may have been trailing him and are scanning other cameras on the road. A crime and forensics team has picked up clues from the spot for inspection. The DCP said Singh dealt in real estate and it is possible some recent property deal may have sparked enmity.“His deals are being looked into. We are speaking to his family and friends to know more. CCTV footage are being checked to identify the suspects or track the vehicle used in crime. A case of murder has been registered. His phone call records are being checked to find who all were in touch with him recently,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/70-year-old-property-dealer-shot-dead-in-vikaspuri/story-5UTWfZ6kEF8wzKxdmPQ7lL.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Several last-minute additions to CPWD’s makeover plan for central secretariat buildings||The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has submitted a conceptual plan for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings and central conference centre along with the Prime Minister office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave -- all part of the Central Vista redevelopment project -- to the union environment ministry for environmental clearance.The masterplan submitted by the HCP Design, Planning and Management Private Limited, the Ahmedabad-based architecture firm tasked with the redevelopment project, proposed to consolidate all ministries into 11 central secretariat buildings that would be built on either side of the Rajpath. At present, the ministries are housed in various buildings such as Vayu Bhawan, Nirman Bhawan, Shashtri Bhawan and Rail Bhawan among others.The masterplan also proposed a central conference centre, Prime Minister office and residence, Special Protection Group building and Vice-President Enclave.These buildings were not part of the initial plan submitted by CPWD to the environment ministry, official documents suggest.The ministry’s expert appraisal committee will consider CPWD’s application to amend the terms of reference (TOR) for redeveloping the common central secretariat buildings, on Wednesday.The amendment application was made only a day after the environment ministry granted the TOR based on CPWD’s initial proposal to redevelop only the common central secretariat and central conference centre.The application has angered citizens groups about the alleged piecemeal approach in which the entire Central Vista project is being implemented.The application for amending the TOR, available on the Parivesh website and seen by HT, suggests that the Prime Ministers’ Office, Prime Minister’s residence, Vice-President enclave and Special Protection Group building have been added to the proposal. This had led to an increase in the built-up area from 1,754,057.35 sqm to 1,837,057.35 sqm and an uptick in waste water generation, municipal waste generation, increase of investment cost from Rs 11,038 crore to Rs 11,794 crore and other features of the area development project.The TOR is essentially the scope of the project. The grant of TOR is the initial clearance needed for any development project.“We can’t apply for environment clearance without land use change. All the buildings are individual projects. Therefore, we have to independently seek environment approval for them. Now that plans for other buildings are ready, we are in the process of getting necessary approvals,” said a senior CPWD official, requesting anonymity.Several citizens have requested the Chairman of the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC), T Haque, to reject the application on the grounds that it is only a part of the larger Central Vista Redevelopment project but is being pursued in a piecemeal manner, leading to improper assessment of environmental impacts.Lt Col Anuj Srivastava (retired) of Lokpath, a citizen’s movement, wrote in his submission to Haque on November 24 that the ministry of housing and urban affairs and CPWD are being encouraged to resubmit their proposals associated with the project because of the leniency shown by the EAC on infrastructure projects.The EAC had granted environmental clearance to the Parliament building on June 17. The MoHUA and CPWD were granted TOR by EAC on November 10 and the next day, they applied for amendment with addition of other buildings, all part of the Central Vista project.Haque did not respond to HT’s queries on the project on Tuesday.A senior official of the ministry of housing and urban affairs said this is a procedural matter.“The government is constantly changing the contours of the CV redevelopment project in its applications for approvals and the Expert Appraisal Committee has not bothered to ask them any questions. All the important questions are raised by people watching this show of regulatory abetment since the time this project was announced. The Environment Ministry has basically allowed the CPWD and the Urban development Ministry to decide for themselves how and which environmental laws should be applied to this project,” said Manju Menon, senior fellow at Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/several-last-minute-additions-to-cpwd-s-makeover-plan-for-central-secretariat-buildings/story-L9n6mEQHc9t3CjLUh6sZPP.html
25-11-2020||City||Ease of doing business reforms: Punjab govt to provide six services online||For the implementation of ease of doing business (EoDB) reforms, the state government has extended the facility of application, and obtaining NOC for six services to be provided online henceforth, said Mohali district magistrate Girish Dayalan. These services include NOC required under Gas Cylinder Rules 2016, NOC for setting up explosive manufacturing/storage/sale/transport, licence for sale of crackers, application for grant, amendment, transfer, or renewal of a licence to store compressed gas/auto LPG under SMPV (U) Rules, NOC for petroleum, diesel and naphtha for storage/sale/transport/ manufacturing and cinematograph licence and licence for the screening of films. These services can be availed online at https://pbindustries.gov.in/ static /eodb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ease-of-doing-business-reforms-punjab-govt-to-provide-six-services-online/story-luORlng73dGSL7KKOpp2IP.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||ED raids Shiv Sena MLA’s properties, questions son in money-laundering probe against security firm||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday questioned Shiv Sena member of legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik’s son, Vihang, for nearly five hours after raiding over 10 places, including Sarnaik’s properties, in Mumbai and Thane in connection with a money-laundering case linked to TOPSGRUP, a security service provider company owned by Rahul Nanda. The Central agency suspects that the MLA illegally pumped money into Nanda’s businesses. Tuesday’s raids set off another political storm with Sena and its allies — NCP and Congress — saying BJP was using Central agencies to disrupt the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.Sarnaik, who was not at his residence when the raids happened, was later seen coming out of Sena mouthpiece Saamana’s office in Parel, where he held an hour-long meeting with Sena MP Sanjay Raut. Sarnaik refused to comment on the ED raid or Vihang’s case. “Let me find out what has happened. So far, we do not have any details,” he said. Meanwhile, Nanda, in his statement, said, “This is ridiculous! Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny into my business or company ever! He or Sena has nothing to do with TOPS! This is absolutely absurd and this is again the mischief done by the [company’s] management who have tried to mislead the ED by making these irresponsible and ridiculous allegations!”ED sources said that their probe was based on an MECR (FIR) registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police station on October 28 on the direction of the 16th Metropolitan Magistrate Court, against TOPSGRUP, Nanda and family members. Also read: MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s properties raided: Sena, Cong, NCP term it vendetta; BJP says not ED action not politically motivatedThe company’s managing director, Ramesh Ramakrishna Iyer, is a complainant in the case and who approached the court alleging Nanda’s involvement in unlawful activities, massive irregularities in the company, misappropriation of funds amounting to ₹175 crore and cheating the company’s employees, its shareholders, other government and private organisations with forged documents. The case was transferred to the Mumbai Police economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation.Iyer, who has been managing director since 2006, said that he discovered diversion and misappropriation of funds by Nanda in 2009. Iyer alleged in the complaint (a copy of which is with HT) that in 2008, Nanda bought 51% of London-based The Shield Guarding Company Limited’s shares, for around ₹130 crore. This amount was allegedly taken from ICICI Ventures Limited and private share investors of Everstone Capital. Nanda allegedly inflated the total worth of his net assets since funds worth four times the value of one’s net assets may be sent abroad legally. “The investment companies, despite knowing this, invested in TOPSGRUP,” stated Iyer’s complaint, adding that Nanda diverted funds from The Shield and bought properties in London.Iyer has also alleged Nanda took loans against subsidiary companies of TOPSGRUP — including Tops Securities UK Limited and Topsgrup Holding BV in the Netherlands — and used the money to buy property in London, which is in violation of loan statutory rules. Nanda did not show the income earned from these properties in his income tax filings in India, said Iyer in his complaint.Iyer and company’s chief finance officer Amar Panaghal alleged that Nanda made a bogus balance sheet for the financial year of 2018-19 to use overdraft and cash credit facilities from Allahabad Bank (Prabhadevi branch) and Corporate Bank (Kalina branch). For this, he allegedly changed the statutory auditors, without the approval of shareholders.Iyer also alleged that in 2017, Nanda and his family transferred 66% of their shares in TOPSGRUP to a Mauritius-based Nanda family trust, which is in violation of the Private Securities Agencies (Regulations) Act.Commenting on the ED’s action and the allegations levelled against him, Nanda, said, “The ED had questioned us about our UK acquisition in 2009, which we have explained and we gave them evidence that everything was done 100% legally. They also questioned me about our trust in Mauritius, which again we have answered and told them that this was created legally by lawyers and that there is zero money in the Mauritius trust. This was all a mischief played by Ramesh [Iyer], Amar [Panaghal] and the coterie who complained to the ED and have sent them on a wild goose chase. We have written and told them [authorities] that all fund transfers done in 2009 was done 100% legally with all requisite legal and RBI permissions.Also read: Raided by ED, TOPSGRUP denies link with Shiv Sena MLA Sarnaik, partyIyer has denied all allegations levelled against him by Nanda, saying his complaint was registered after due verification of facts. Nanda, too, has submitted a police complaint against Iyer at the Khar police station some months back.Early on Tuesday, ED officials from Delhi and Mumbai jointly carried out raids at Sarnaik’s residences and office in Thane amid tight security. The ED detained Vihang for questioning and reached ED office by 3pm. The raids on Sarnaik’s property, including his houses and offices, began around 7.30am. Sarnaik represents the Ovala-Majiwada constituency from Thane and is a popular leader in Thane and the Mira-Bhayander belt of the Sena. Apart from politics, he also owns construction and hospitality businesses under the Vihang Group of Companies. Sources from ED said, “The raid first started at his residence in Basilius building in Rodas Enclave in Hiranandani Estate. His house on the 28th and 29th floor of the building was raided. The search here went on for over four hours.” The team later moved on to his other residence at Vasant Lawns in Majiwada and then his office at Dev Corpora building along the Eastern Express Highway. “The search was conducted at over 10 of his properties in Thane. Sarnaik’s elder son Vihang was questioned for over three hours at the Vasant Lawns residence. His younger son Purvesh and his wife were present during the questioning. Vihang was later taken to ED office in Ballard Estate in south Mumbai.” The team raided the properties amid tight security, along with BSF jawans and local police officers. Sarnaik and Purvesh had both switched off their phones and were unavailable for comment. Sarnaik, who was out of the country, later reached Mumbai after hearing about the raid and met senior Sena leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-raids-shiv-sena-mla-s-properties-questions-son-in-money-laundering-probe-against-security-firm/story-9oPK56X8aZVDOWA9jiO09H.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Covid clouds TB with fewer ‘reported’ cases, say Pune doctors||With the city in the grip of Covid, tuberculosis (TB), another respiratory ailment, has missed the spotlight with fewer cases being reported. The city saw less than 1,000 TB cases reported his year as compared to the previous year, not due to an improved situation, but because of lack of healthcare facilities or Covid-19 scare. Although Covid has caused more deaths in absolute number as compared to TB, the case fatality rate (CFR) of TB is 5.63% which for Covid is 2%. TB is another respiratory ailment which is also infectious, which raises questions on whether there is an underreporting of the cases and whether the patients got access to medical facilities. PM Narendra Modi launched a TB free India campaign in 2018 in which he said that the country would be free of TB by 2025. Under this campaign various initiatives were launched, including door-to-door survey and target to local authorities to detect TB cases based on population. However, this year, due to the Covid pandemic most hospitals had to be converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals and due to the scare people did not step out for their regular treatment. PMC assistant health chief and TB programme head Dr Vaishali Jadhav said, “We have seen a drop in the notifications from private hospitals because of the lockdown. Every city is given a target which we could not meet this year due to multiple reasons mainly Covid and lockdowns. Although we do get all TB patients who visit government hospitals notified, we do not get them from private hospitals.” Dr Sanjay Darade, district tuberculosis officer with Pune zilla parisahd said, “We have seen a drop of almost 40% of TB cases being reported this year. Due to Covid, we had to convert our rural hospitals and primary healthcare centres into dedicated Covid flu clinics or hospitals. We have reported about 167 deaths due to Covid this year.” TB causes millions of deaths in the country and is also highly infective. Dr Abhijit More, public health expert, said, “The pandemic has certainly put a lot of pressure on the government machinery and so the non-Covid ailment programmes have been affected, including TB. It is also true that 50% of TB patients take treatment in private hospitals and so notifications from private hospitals were not reported properly mainly as half of them were shut for most time of this year, while the other half became dedicated Covid hospitals. TB although does not spread as fast at Covid-19, but the proportion of people who lose lives due to TB vis-à-vis Covid, then TB is definitely more fatal.” With over 4,600 deaths out of 1.67 lakh cases, Covid CFR is around 2.75% which means 2.75 people died due to Covid for every 100 infected people while TB reported a CFR of about 5.63% deaths for every 100 TB infected people. The district administration will now kick-start their annual campaign to detect the “hidden” TB cases through their door-to-door survey. Dr Darade said, “We will start the campaign by December 1 to December 16 during which we will cover 100% of the population in rural areas and 30% of the population in city areas and from December 17-31, we will focus on treatment and follow-up of patients.” A welcome sign Drop in TB cases reported by PMC from Pune city in 2020 2015: 4,465 2016: 5,074 2017: 5,401 2018: 6,171 2019: 6,632 In 2020, as of November 24, 5,074 TB cases have been notified from both private (36) and public (189) hospitals and 286 deaths recorded in Pune city which takes the case fatality rate due to TB to about 5.63% Deaths due to TB from January- November 24, 2020 Drug Sensitive TB: Public - 45 Private - 225 Total = 270 Drug Resistant TB Public- 13 Private - 3 Total = 16||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/covid-clouds-tb-with-fewer-reported-cases/story-xXO8Ve5qyPnRHQgYtGWzBP.html
25-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt gives nod to transplant 400 trees for new Parliament||The Delhi government has approved the transplantation of 400 trees for the building of the new Parliament. The process is underway and uprooting of trees has already started, said officials of the Delhi government’s environment and forest department. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai’s office on Tuesday confirmed that permission for the project has been granted. “The permission has been given after due inspection of the area and in line with the state government’s transplantation policy. We understand that development work is important while ensuring the survival of maximum number of trees,” said the minister’s office in response to HT’s queries.As per the Delhi government’s transplantation policy, 80% of the transplanted trees must survive after a year. Besides, compensatory plantation has to be carried out by the agency undertaking the work.A senior official of the environment and forest department said permission has been given to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to transplant a total of 400 trees for the new Parliament project. “The trees have already started being transplanted. Some of the trees are around 40 to 50 years old. The CPWD will have to carry out compensatory plantation for the same. Around 4,000 saplings will have to be planted to compensate for the uprooted trees,” said the official, who did not wish to be named.An inspection will be carried out by the department after the transplantation work is over, the official added.Meanwhile, officials of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), under whose jurisdiction the area falls, said some of the trees that will be uprooted for the project such as the ones on Raisina Road and Red Cross Road are around 100 years old. “There are around 20 jamun trees (a native species) on Raisina Road while 20-25 neem trees are there on Red Cross Road that are very old. It is difficult for old trees to survive, as they mostly have dead cells and are not able to regenerate on being translocated,” said a second senior official, who did not wish to be named.Experts say while transplantation could be a good solution for younger trees, it may not work in case of older trees and native species such as jamun, which are fragile.“An attempt to transplant trees may set a good precedent and is better than just felling them. However, in case of fragile species such as jamun, which are quite big and old like the ones in Lutyens’ Delhi are, may not be successful, as these species are not resilient enough to survive the shock of uprooting and human handling. In this exercise, there may be a loss of some old and big trees while the younger ones may survive,” said Vijay Dhasmana, curator, Aravalli Biodiversity Park, Gurugram.CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem, Delhi University, said only young and shallow-rooted species are known to survive transplantation. Trees aged around 10-15 years can survive transplantation and regrow well. However, with older trees and those with a deep-tap root systems such as jamun, transplantation would be a failure. “A younger jamun, if its roots are taken out intact, may survive. But in case of species as old as 50-100 years, the roots have penetrated too deep and they cannot be taken out without being damaged during transplantation. Hence, these trees, even if they survive, will not flourish or perform any ecological functions, which is equal to being dead,” he said. He added that some ficus species such as peepal, bargad and gular can also survive translocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-gives-nod-to-transplant-400-trees-for-new-parliament/story-5Cuyimt7KYYyrS8sVaEnXM.html
25-11-2020||Pune||RTE admission deadline extended till November 28||The state primary education department has extended the deadline to complete the Right to Education (RTE) admission process till November 28. The department fears that over 32,000 RTE seats would remain vacant in the state this year because of the Covid situation. Till date, 81,705 students have confirmed their admissions of the total 1,15,477 seats selected for RTE admissions in the state for the academic year 2020-21. “The first lottery of RTE admissions was announced on March 17, the admission process of selected students going on till September 27. From September 30 to November 23 admission process of students in the waiting list was done. Still, more than 32,000 seats are vacant under the RTE, so the deadline has been extended by a week,” said Dinkar Patil, state primary education department director. In Pune district, 16,949 vacancies were available at the 972 RTE registered schools for this year. For this, 62,919 applications were filed, 16,617 students were selected and, as on November 24, 11,143 students have confirmed the admission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/rte-admissions-deadline-extended-till-november-28/story-B0SDkP1tiWP7atzABiCKmL.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Fire at Pune slum caused LPG cylinder blast, no casualty||PUNE: A blaze at Lohiyanagar slum area in Pune caused a cylinder blast in one of the houses on Monday night. The fire was contained within an hour by Pune fire brigade.While no casualty was reported, around 5-6 huts were destroyed in the fire. The fire brigade had deployed six vehicles and emptied two tankers in the dousing process. Chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise was present at the spot.“There were no casualties of injuries in the fire. The people gathered after the fire and in that one man’s foot was injured. But that was a minor injury,” said Ranpise.The fire brigade vehicles had a tough time entering the narrow lanes of Lohiyanagar. Bigger vehicles had to be lined on the main road with an extended water line reaching the spot. Along with fire brigade vehicles and tankers, one Devdut rescue vehicle and one ambulance were also present on the site. The fire incident was recorded at Lashkar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-in-pune-slum-caused-lpg-cylinder-blast-no-casualty/story-LPBhezBbIdTJOWayPPCn8M.html
25-11-2020||Pune||18-year-old arrested for throwing acid-like substance on woman in Pune||An 18-year-old was arrested by Pune police for throwing an acid-like substance on an 18-year-old woman in Pune on Monday morning. The woman is under treatment for burn injuries at Sassoon General Hospital. The arrested man was identified as Abuzar Ajay Tamboli (18), a resident of Parvati Darshan, Pune. The two were childhood friends and the woman had recently married, according to the police. She was visiting her parents’ place after marriage and when Tamboli learned about her visit, he called her near a local school in the area. They met near the school at 8am on Monday and got into an argument. During the argument, the man pulled out a bottle of acid-like material and threw it on the left side of her face, according to the police. The school where it happened is in close vicinity of Parvati Darshan police outpost in the jurisdiction of Dattawadi police station. The liquid was splashed on the left side of her upper body and she sustained burn injuries. However, whether it was acid or something else is investigated by the police. A case under Sections 326(b) (voluntarily throwing or attempting to throw acid, etc) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dattawadi police station against Tamboli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/18-year-old-arrested-for-throwing-acid-like-substance-on-woman/story-1v7RrYZqcQMaCg97wvkVjJ.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Missing Pune businessman found in Jaipur after five weeks||Industrialist Gautam Pashankar, who was reported missing by his family on October 21, was found at a hotel in Jaipur, Rajasthan, on Tuesday by officials of Pune police crime branch. The officials of crime branch Unit 1 found the 65-year-old businessman at Hotel Fort Chandragupt. “Today, at 3 pm, a team of Unit-1 crime branch tracked Gautum Pashankar to a hotel in Jaipur, Rajasthan. The process of getting him back to Pune is going on,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The businessman was reported missing by his family after his driver dropped him outside his house and left. The police have questioned many people and visited multiple locations, including Kolhapur where he was initially traced. “He is not telling us much right now. He says he will speak tomorrow when we reach Pune. He was alone here and nobody was with him and nobody brought him here. He seems to have gotten himself there,” said sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad of Unit 1 of Crime branch who went to Jaipur to collect the missing man. On the day Pashankar went missing, he was traced to Kolhapur, according to his family members. “I spoke with him. He did not sound well. He is not keeping well. He has not been taking care of himself. Now we are more worried about his health. He is a heart patient, has undergone a bypass and has high blood pressure. For five weeks, we do not know if he has taken any medication. The crime branch team has definitely done a great job. Sunil Takawale and Bachchan Singh were in constant touch with me. They assured me that they will have a good news soon and they did indeed deliver,” said Kapil Pashankar, son of the businessman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/missing-pune-businessman-found-in-jaipur-after-five-weeks/story-ZQECNrgLH5Fc9e0BO9plQJ.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Four-state entry ban leaves Punekars to change home return travel plans||For Sagar Abnawe, a businessman from Pune, it was a shock to know that a “negative” Covid-19 test report was needed to return to Pune. To avoid this trouble, Sagar travelled to Karnataka and entered Maharashtra via Belgaum. Abnawe had gone to Goa for a holiday. Many holiday-makers are now altering travel plans to come back to Maharashtra from Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Delhi NCR. On Monday, the state government issued a circular regarding persons returning to Maharashtra state from these four states. It is now compulsory to do a Covid test before entering Maharashtra– road, railways or airways. “I had come to Goa four days ago with four friends and we were about to return to Pune on Wednesday. We do not want to do Covid tests and so we are altering our travel plans. Now, we are going to Karnataka and via Belgaum we will cross into the state,” said Sagar. Similarly, Niraj Patel, who went to see his relatives in Ahmedabad is thinking on same lines of altering the travel plans. “I have come to Ahmedabad for a Diwali vacation. I was planning to come back to Pune next week, but now due to this sudden new circular I am a bit worried now. I don’t want to do Covid test, as I am completely fine and so I have decided to travel to Madhya Pradesh to a friend’s place. And then, at Indore I will catch a private tourist bus to Pune,” Patel said. Talking about this decision state health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The number of Covid positive patients is again on the rise in the state and so this decision has been taken for people coming from all these four states. Each and every person entering Maharashtra needs to undergo a Covid test and only when his/her report is negative they will be allowed to enter, or else, if positive, will be sent to a Covid care centre (CCC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/four-state-entry-ban-leaves-punekars-to-change-home-return-travel-plans/story-H7c5VfUBLaq0nXm2rAHEGL.html
25-11-2020||Pune||Ambassadors to visit Pune on Dec 4 to oversee Covid-19 vaccine production, distribution plan||Ambassadors and high commissioners of various countries will visit Serum Institute of India in Pune on December 4 to oversee the production of the Covid-19 vaccine and the company’s distribution plan, once it gets a nod from the regulators for use. According to the itinerary released by the Ministry of External Affairs, the “familiarisation” visit of foreign ambassadors and high commissioners based in Delhi will be for one day and in two groups. The ambassadors will visit Serum Institute in the morning and spend around three hours visiting facilities at the company’s Hadapsar campus. By afternoon, they will arrive at Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited at its Hinjewadi campus before heading back to Delhi. “As per the earlier plan, the ambassadors were to visit Pune on November 27. However, their visit has been rescheduled for December 4. At Serum Institute, the ambassadors will see production of the Covid-19 vaccine and the distribution plan. A similar programme is planned at Gennova Biopharmaceuticals, which is also into vaccine production,” said Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. Pune-based Serum institute of India (SII), the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. Both University of Oxford and AstraZeneca on Monday said that their coronavirus vaccine was up to 90% effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for arrival of shots in India by the end of the year. Serum has enrolled 1,600 participants in India for late-stage trials of the Covishield vaccine. While the Pune firm plans to distribute vaccine shots globally, it has committed to reserving half of what it produces for India. Earlier this month, the ministry of external affairs had conducted a session with heads of missions and international organisations to brief them about India’s handling of the pandemic, the software development for vaccine delivery and international cooperation on the pandemic and research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/ambassadors-to-visit-pune-on-dec-4-to-oversee-covid-19-vaccine-production-distribution-plan/story-zCjQpHsLwEeClW60KeyUCN.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra in safe zone compared to other states for Covid-19, says state health minister||The state government on Tuesday said Maharashtra was in a “safe zone” compared to other states for Covid-19 cases, even as talks of a potential lockdown and stricter curbs have gained ground over the past week. State health minister Rajesh Tope said there has been no decision taken on imposing another lockdown and the number of cases in Maharashtra has reduced over the past few weeks compared to other states. “The growth rate of cases and number of infections in state have reduced in comparison to Delhi, Goa and Kerala over the past few weeks. Our growth rate is 0.2% against the national rate of 0.4%,” said Tope. “Daily testing during Diwali did drop to 25,000 from 90,000, but we have again increased it over the past few days. As a result, cases have increased a bit. Honourable Prime Minister has asked us to increase per million testing rate, and to do that, we have, for the first time, given targets to district collectors,” said the minister.Also read: Formed task force for timely distribution of Covid-19 vaccine: Thackeray to ModiThe state’s per million testing rate is 74,207, with only six districts above the state average. While Mumbai and Pune test 1.31 lakh a million and Nagpur tests 1.25 lakh a million (as on November 19), Parbhani, Dhule, Hingoli, Buldhana and Nandurbar test less than 30,000 samples per million of population.After reporting an average of 4,200 cases daily in the first 17 days of November, Maharashtra reported more than 5,000 daily cases for five consecutive days till Sunday, before the number slightly dipped on Monday owing to reduced testing over the weekend. The trend continued on Tuesday as the state recorded 5,439 new cases, taking its tally to 1,789,800.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 30 deaths, the same as on Monday, the lowest fatalities since May 3, pushing up the state’s death toll to 46,683. Officials from the health department, however, said deaths have been low for past two days as many districts have failed to update their records for fatalities.Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 939 new Covid-19 infections and 19 deaths, taking the city’s tally to 277,453 and toll to 10,708.Significantly, a state appointed task force of health experts has warned of a spike in Covid-19 cases in December-January. “Although there are differences, a majority of the 11-member task force of doctors feel another peak of cases would be between December 25 and January 26. They fear the period may see more cases than during the peak in the first two weeks of September, when the daily caseload was more than 20,000. We have asked district authorities to ramp up health infrastructure to manage 10% more cases than their highest active cases reported during the September peak,” said a senior health department official, on condition of anonymity.Also read: Screening of passengers from Covid hotspots begins Wednesday in Mumbai, details are hereDeputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday had said the state government will take stock of the situation after 8-10 days before deciding about another lockdown. Tope on Monday hinted at stricter curbs on some activities to restrain people from crowding at the public places. The state government has also made RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests mandatory for air and train passengers coming from Delhi-NCR, Gujarat, Goa and Rajasthan. All road travellers from these areas will be screened at border check posts. Tope on Tuesday said potential super-spreaders such as vegetable vendors, those working in essential services and people with symptoms are being targeted for testing. “Around 75% of tests will be RT-PCR, which is the gold standard of Covid-19 detection, while remaining 25% will be rapid antigen tests. Although there is no discussion on a potential lockdown, the state government is all prepared to handle a surge in cases,” said Tope.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-in-safe-zone-compared-to-other-states-for-covid-19-says-state-health-minister/story-1H31TnoXndL1dEtpnWbLgJ.html
25-11-2020||Gurugram||Farmers from Punjab, Haryana to march to Capital against farm bills||Farmers in Haryana will gather at four different places in the state on November 26 and march towards Delhi to participate in the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest on November 26 and 27 against the three farm bills of the Central government. Yogendra Yadav, convenor, Swaraj India, who has been touring different agricultural markets in south Haryana said on Tuesday that farmers in large numbers from Haryana and across the country were gearing to participate in the Dilli Chalo protest. He also said, while addressing a press conference in Gurugram, that the state government should not be wary of this protest and refrain from detaining farmer leaders in the state. Yadav said that protest by farmers will continue indefinitely if the Central government does not accede to their demands. “The main demands include a repeal of the three Central farm acts and as these are anti-farmer and anti-people. The government need not take repressive measures as this movement is peaceful. Wherever the police stops them at a barricade, they, insteading of opposing, will sit down on the road in protest,” said Yadav. The Swaraj India leader said that farmers will gather at Panchgaon, Sampla, Kundli, and Sector 12, Faridabad, on November 26 from where they will March towards Delhi. “Lakhs of farmers from Punjab are preparing to reach Delhi and they will join their counterparts in Haryana. We are apprehending that authorities will prevent the movement of peaceful protesters,” said Yadav, one of the organisers. The protest by farmers is being held under the aegis of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). The AIKSCC in a separate statement issued on Tuesday said that the three farm acts and Electricity Bill, 2020 will ruin entire generations of Indian farmers by handing over control over farming, marketing and food supply chains to agri-business corporations.The Haryana government, meanwhile, has issued a travel advisory, stating that commuters may face traffic blockages on roads at entry points from Punjab into Haryana on November 25 and November 26 and on the entry points from Haryana into Delhi on November 26 and November 27.A spokesperson of the Haryana Police said that in view of the Dilli Chalo protest, arrangements have been made by the civil and police administrations to maintain law and order, ensure smooth traffic movement and security.The Union home ministry on Tuesday evening deputed three companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) in Haryana for handling the law and order situation. Following a video conference with the Union home secretary on Tuesday evening, an official said that the state government asked for five RAF companies from the ministry but got three initially. One RAF company will be deployed tonight with Ambala police range while two companies will be deployed with Hisar police range by Wednesday. If the Centre agrees to deployment of two additional RAF companies, one each will be deployed in Ambala police range and Sonepat district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-from-punjab-haryana-to-march-to-capital-against-farm-bills/story-3iuKnLGH9ouXigoACFGSyN.html
25-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to seal its borders to stop farmers marching towards Delhi||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday said that the state government has decided to seal the Haryana-Punjab border from November 25 to 27 in view of the proposed call of ‘Delhi Chalo’ given by the farmers.RAF deployedLater in the evening, the Union home ministry also deputed three companies of Rapid Action Force (RAF) in the state to handle the law-and-order situation. While one RAF company will be deployed with Ambala police range, two companies will be deployed with the Hisar police range by Wednesday.As per information, the state government had asked for five RAF companies but got only three. If the Centre agrees to deployment of two additional RAF companies, one each will be deployed in Ambala police range and Sonepat district, said an official.Traffic diversionsThe Haryana Police has also put in place traffic diversions on four major national highways leading to the national capital. Additional director general of police (ADGP), law and order, Navdeep Singh Virk said that traffic will be diverted or road blockages put up on Ambala-Delhi, Hisar-Delhi, Rewari-Delhi and Palwal-Delhi national highways on November 25, 26 and 27. Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, who presided over a review meeting with divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners and superintendents of police of Ambala, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Panchkula, directed the officials to set up multi-layer barricading on highways leading to Haryana. Vardhan said videography of farmer groups gathered at any place should also be done. He urged the common man to avoid travelling on November 25 and 26 so that they do not have to face any inconvenience.Virk said a large number of protesters are likely to enter Haryana from Punjab through border entry points for onward journey towards Delhi. Apart from this, the focus points of the protesters originating from within Haryana shall be the four major highways leading to Delhi.A call has been given by protesting organisations to gather at Shambhu border in Ambala, Mundhal Chowk in Bhiwani, Anaj Mandi at Gharaunda in Karnal, Tikri border in Jhajjar and Rajiv Gandhi Education City at Rai in Sonepat, where diversions and blockage will be set up, he said.The chief secretary said since more farmers from Punjab were expected to travel towards Delhi, special monitoring should be conducted on Shambhu Border. He also ordered that police patrolling be increased on the five national highways across the state connecting Delhi so as to maintain supplies of essential commodities without any obstruction. In the eventuality of protesters succeeding in blocking roads, traffic should be directed to alternative roads, thus minimising inconvenience to commuters, he added.Diverted routes As per the alternate routes, commuters going towards Chandigarh can take Naraingarh road from Ambala City and reach the destination via Handesra and Barwala. For traffic going towards Patiala and beyond, the route Hissar road-Jamitagrh mod-Ghanour has been decided, Ambala superintendent of police Rajesh Kalia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-delhi-chalo-march-haryana-police-to-put-up-diversions-on-highways-from-nov-25-27/story-ZgMCnMkY1AxEBKpVGjUSnI.html
25-11-2020||Mumbai||Starting today, outstation travellers to be screened by Mumbai civic body||After the Maharashtra government’s decision to mandatorily test passengers coming from Delhi, the National Capital Region (NCR), Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which handles the city’s public health, will start screening outstation train passengers by spot testing for Covid-19 symptoms at major railway stations from Wednesday.Those showing symptoms will be tested using rapid antigen kits.Passengers travelling on trains from these destinations by trains will have to produce a negative report, obtained 96 hours prior to journey on arrival. In case a passengers does not have a test report, they will be screened and tested using antigen kits, if found to be symptomatic.If found positive, the travellers will be admitted to a Covid Care Centre but will have to bear the cost of treatment themselves.BMC officials have informed all the wards to be on alert at major stations such as Borivli, Andheri, Bandra Terminus, Dadar, Mumbai Central, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT and Kurla where inbound outstation trains arrive.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We already have screening camps at the airport and the train stations. We will also arrange for antigen kits testing at railway stations. However, passengers will also be referred to laboratories, in case of crowding at railway stations.”Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based general physician, said, “Screening all passengers will be a difficult task at railway stations, but I feel instead of going ahead with the antigen kits, we should aim for RT-PCR testing. As the chances of positivity are higher for RT-PCR, we will be able to detect maximum cases.”In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Monday also announced certain restrictions and guidelines for all the citizens to follow. As per the guidelines, passengers travelling on flights from Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat will have to produce a negative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) report on landing at airports in Maharashtra. The test should have been done 72 hours prior to the scheduled journey.Meanwhile, BMC on Monday also wrote to Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) requesting it to follow the protocols issued by the state government. The guidelines issued by state government on air travel include a person having a negative RT-PCR test result in the last 72 hours. If travellers do not have report, they can also opt for spot testing.Further, people travelling by road to Maharashtra will have to undergo screening at the check posts on borders. Those found with symptoms will have to undergo an antigen test.Meanwhile on Tuesday, the city reported 939 cases, taking its tally to 277,453. The toll has reached 10,708 after by 19 deaths were reported in Mumbai on Tuesday . A total of 252,688 patients have been discharged after Covid-19 treatment in the city, taking the recovery rate to 91.07%. There are 13,265 active cases in Mumbai and the fatality rate is 3.85%. One hot spot that has shown signs of drastic improvement – Dharavi – recorded only two Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, after which its tally reached 3,656. Of these, 3,331 people have been discharged.Mumbai has so far conducted 17.85 lakh tests and has a positivity rate of 15.44%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bmc-to-screen-passengers-arriving-in-mumbai/story-PNZIhkoWojGQFhCJNDUBRJ.html
