26-11-2020||Chandigarh||27 Panjab University teachers feature in list of top 2% scientists for 2019||As many as 27 faculty scientists of Panjab University have featured in the world ranking of top 2% scientists in India in 2019, the varsity stated in a release on Thursday.The analysis was conducted by a team of scientists at Stanford University, USA, assessing scientists for citation impact during the calendar year 2019 and the database was published in a journal on October 16. Total 1,61,441 scientists from the whole world have been placed among top 2% ranking for the year 2019.Among the 27 scientists who featured on the list, 11 are those who have already featured in the top 2% scientists for scientific research throughout their career.From the University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), professor Om Prakash Katare, Dr Anurad Kuhad and professor Renu Chadha featured in the list.From the department of chemistry, Surinder Kumar Mehta, professor Sonal Singhal and professor Navneet Kaur have also made it to the list. Dr Sumar Mor of the department of environment studies, professor Surya Kant Tripathi from the department of Physics are also on the list, besides Dr Vishal Gupta of the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and professor Daizy Rani Batish of the department of Botany.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/27-panjab-university-teachers-feature-in-list-of-top-2-scientists-for-2019/story-pVRvIGrodoGb3xKWNHAeUN.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cop in dock for trying to extort ₹2.5 lakh from liquor contractor||Inspector Ranjit Singh, in-charge, operations cell, was transferred to the Police Lines on Thursday, and also faces a departmental inquiry, after a liquor contractor accused him of extortion. “Inspector Ranjit was transferred to the Police Lines after preliminary inquiry,” said Vineet Kumar, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated, he said.According to sources, the inspector last week recovered 300 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor illegally being transported to Himachal Pradesh along with a consignment of fish in a refrigerated van near Kishangarh. The driver, who was arrested, had revealed some names.It was during the investigation that Ranjit Singh allegedly sought ₹2.5 lakh from a liquor contractor in Sector 21 for not registering a case against him. The contractor approached senior police officials, following which a preliminary inquiry was conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cop-in-dock-for-trying-to-extort-2-5-lakh-from-liquor-contractor/story-9eGCDkly1Er1NheEnTgaNP.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Powermen’s strike leaves parts of Chandigarh powerless for up to 14 hours||Chandigarh residents faced the brunt of the one-day strike called by the electricity department employees as major power supply disruptions were reported from across the city on Thursday. The administration’s Tuesday warning to employees against going on strike went largely unheeded with department officials stating that more than 90% of the field staff didn’t report for duty. Unions claimed nearly 100% employees took part in the strike from 11pm on Wednesday to 11pm on Thursday. Employees are up in arms against the administration’s decision to privatise power distribution in the city. Already, nine companies have expressed interest in participating in the bidding process. Employees contend that the department is in profit and should not be privatised.“In the absence of field staff, we faced severe problem in rectifying even routine issues in the power distribution system,” said an electricity department official, requesting anonymity. The department received more than 400 complaints of supply disruption from across the city. “Though the exact number is still to be calculated, it was between 400 and 500, which is multiple times complaints received on a normal day,” said the official. Major disruptions to supplyAreas that reported major disruptions to power supply were Sectors 8, 9, 18, 21, 28, 37, 38, 39, 43 and 45 besides the Industrial Area and Manimajra. In some areas, power cuts lasted for up to 14 hours. Kuldeep Singh Gill, president, Sector 21B Resident Welfare Association (RWA), said power in the sector went around midnight and didn’t come back till 1pm. “Power boxes and transformers of the electricity department aren’t guarded. Any of the powermen on strike could have sabotaged the units. Also if powermen were on strike, couldn’t junior engineers or subdivisional engineers repair the fault?” he said.In Sector 39, electricity remained suspended in many areas for more than nine hours. Devinder Singh Benipal, general secretary, Sector 39D RWA, said: “Power went around 11am, and till 8 in the evening, there was no respite. When we complained to the electricity department, we were told that the problem can’t get fixed till the strike gets over around midnight.” Business owners also faced problems in the city. Hot Millions proprietor Captain Mohanbir Singh said: “At our Sector-17 eatery, there was no power since 10am. Businesses are already struggling due to the pandemic. If powermen were on strike, alternative arrangements should have been made.”Admn’s warning goes unheededThe Chandigarh administration had on Tuesday warned the employees of strict disciplinary action if they join the strike. It had also said that the principle of ‘no work no pay’ will be implemented against the erring employees. UT adviser Manoj Parida reiterated on Thursday that no pay will be given for the day in cases where employees abstained from work. On the allegations of possible sabotage, he said: “If such cases are detected, strict action will be taken.” However, denying the role of union members in large-scale power disruptions in the city, Gopal Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said: “Overnight rains led to faults at several places. With our members on strike from 11pm on Wednesday, these faults couldn’t be rectified. Hence, power supply was affected in many places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/powermen-s-strike-leaves-parts-of-chandigarh-powerless-for-up-to-14-hours/story-9krrjIsmTHyEoB6vPykQ8I.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Now, pay up ₹1,000 for not wearing mask in Chandigarh||Not wearing a face mask in public places in Chandigarh will now invite a fine of ₹1,000. Even as the UT administration on Thursday ruled out night curfew in the city and decided against rolling back relaxations announced recently, it doubled the fine for not wearing mask from ₹500. The decision was taken in the Covid-19 review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. Even the Punjab government on Wednesday had increased the fine to ₹1,000, while in the neighbouring Panchkula, it is still ₹500. “In our city, Covid-19 is thankfully under control. We do not want to disrupt normal life unless it becomes unavoidable. The economy too needs to be brought back on track. Our decision is dynamic. We take timely decisions depending on developments,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, even as the city has witnessed a spike in cases in the last couple of weeks. Coaching institutes to open from December 1While in the neighbouring states of Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, schools have been shut after reopening to prevent the spread of coronavirus, the administration on Thursday decided to even allow the opening of coaching institutes. Closed since March, they can resume classes and even open their hostels from December 1, subject to strict observance of Covid protocols. However, they have been directed to concentrate on online teaching instead of physical classes. GMCH to resume classes from December 1Classroom teaching at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will also resume from December 1.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, officiating director-cum-principal, GMCH, confirmed it. According to a recent directive from the Centre, states and UTs were asked to begin classes based on the advice of the National Medical Commission, which suggested that from the point of view of standardisation, all medical colleges should reopen at the same time across the country. Review of closing time of eateries on cardsIn contrast to the Punjab government’s decision to impose night curfew in the state from December 1, the UT administration instead has decided to review just the closing time of restaurants, bars and nightclubs in the next meeting, in case there is a surge in Covid cases.Currently, these establishments close at 1am. The administration had allowed restaurants and hotels to reopen in June, while serving of liquor was allowed from September 1. Badnore stresses on strict implementation of normsThe administrator directed officials to ensure that Covid protocols are followed in public gatherings, such as weddings and social events, and go for stricter enforcement in places where crowding takes place, including the Sector-26 mandi and other markers, ISBT, railway station, parks, Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden. Violations of preventive norms, such as social distancing and wearing of masks, have been rampant in these places. Badnore also directed health officials to intensify mobile Covid testing at such places, while appealing to the citizens to follow norms and take precautions. Badnore also directed officials to be ready for storage, transportation, distribution and planned vaccination of people, once the corona vaccine is made available. The Centre on November 24 directed the administration to augment the cold chain and transport mechanism for the Covid vaccine. The UT adviser will chair a meeting on the issue on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-pay-up-1-000-for-not-wearing-mask-in-chandigarh/story-pE6YBDIvZTTY8acKuTf1eJ.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CBI files applications in two more cases on stay for 6 months||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed applications seeking start of trial in two more cases, which have been on stay for over six months, following the orders of the high court (HC).The CBI court has issued notices seeking a reply from the accused.One of the cases involves the then joint director of Himachal Pradesh industries department, Tilak Raj Sharma, who was arrested by the CBI on May 29, 2017, along with a conduit, a Baddi-based businessman, Ashok Kumar Rana, of Sector 8, along with ₹5 lakh cash outside a salon.The two were arrested on the complaint of Chartered Accountant Chander Shekhar, who alleged that for processing the file of the company regarding claim of subsidy of Rs 50 lakhs, Tilak Raj Sharma demanded Rs 10 lakh bribe.The CBI had filed a charge-sheet on July 28, 2017, but charges are yet to be framed.As per a court official: “Sharma moved the HC seeking discharge of allegations as sanction for prosecution from the concerned authority had been declined and on May 14, 2018, he got stay from HC.”The other case involves Ramesh Chand Diwan, the then executive engineer of Chandigarh municipal corporation, who from 2006-2014 committed misconduct, while allotting two work orders to M/s Selvel Media Services Pvt Ltd for the work of operation, running and maintenance of already renovated public toilet blocks and connecting passages in markets.The FIR was registered in December 2014 and charge-sheet in October 2016 against six accused. The case is on stay from the HC since December 6, 2016.There are at least nine cases in the CBI court, which are on stay for over six months following the HC’s order. To date, the CBI has filed applications in six such cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cbi-files-applications-in-two-more-cases-on-stay-for-6-months/story-V3XVljimbw3pvx5Wx39P8M.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Parents of Saupin’s students ask CCPCR to resolve fee dispute||A number of parents whose children study at Saupin’s School in Sector 32 appealed to the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) on Wednesday to resolve a dispute with the school authorities over fees, but no solutions were worked out.Nitin Goyal , president of the Chandigarh Parents Association, who represented the parents, said the matter regarding payment of fees was before the court, but “the parents allege that the school is threatening to remove the students from online classes. They have held back the results of the affected children and are also not giving them books for the second term, which the parents have already paid for at the beginning of the academic session.” Meanwhile, the director principal of Saupin’s School, ABS Sidhu said, “We are only asking them to pay the tuition fees as per last year as allowed by the UT administration. If we are in the wrong in any way we will accept the decision of the committee.”Officials of CCPCR said that as a compromise between both parties couldn’t be reached, their statements were taken, and a decision on the matter was awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/parents-of-saupin-s-students-ask-ccpcr-to-resolve-fee-dispute/story-RoyQ9JNXg1ams36HHIXRhI.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Happy to have met Navjot Singh Sidhu, says Amarinder Singh after luncheon||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said he and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had some “simple talks”, a day after both leaders met over lunch. Singh on Wednesday met Sidhu at the former’s residence, triggering speculation that the cricketer-turned-politician may be re-inducted into the state cabinet. The chief minister on Thursday expressed hope that he and Sidhu will continue to have cordial meetings like the one they had on Wednesday, where they spoke a lot about cricket, apart from a host of other things. Both were in a good mood during the one-hour luncheon, to which Singh had invited the former cricketer after he expressed an interest in meeting him, Singh said in a statement here. “I was satisfied and happy with the meeting, and so was Sidhu,” he said. “We did not make any plans for Punjab or India or the world. We just had some simple talks, during which Sidhu shared a lot of his cricketing experience,” Singh said, adding that unfortunately, the media was making a mountain out of a molehill. Taking a dig at the Shiromani Akali Dal’s remark on him hosting a banquet for Sidhu, the chief minister said that his former cabinet colleague had boiled vegetables, while he himself partook a ‘missi roti with dahi’ during the lunch. “Does that look like a banquet to the Akalis,” he asked. SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema on Wednesday had said that farmers were facing water cannons on their way to Delhi but the chief minister was holding a “royal banquet” for Sidhu.  Sidhu and Singh have not been on best of terms since May last year when the chief minister accused the former cricketer of the “inept handling” of the Local Government Department, claiming it resulted in “poor performance” of the Congress in urban areas during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Sidhu was stripped of key portfolios in a cabinet reshuffle, after which he resigned from the state cabinet and stayed away from all Congress activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/happy-to-have-met-navjot-singh-sidhu-says-amarinder-singh-after-luncheon/story-LbHDqe8alXz92HwTh3TauI.html
26-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal Guv hits back after TMC MP accuses him of trying to influence police investigation||Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee accused West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar of trying to influence and obstruct the investigation of a case in which an IRS officer’s name has cropped up, who has connections with top BJP leaders.“Tweeting is not a statutory function of the Governor but he has tweeted in a bid to influence and obstruct police investigation. He is trying to save the accused persons and speaking on their behalf,” said Banerjee while requesting the police to prosecute Dhankhar.Dhankhar, however, hit back saying that he would continue to discharge his constitutional obligations as he cannot fiddle in Raj Bhavan when political violence is going on in the state. “My assurance to the people of the state is that in the coming days there would be more such packing of vilification campaign so that there may be a diversion from the burning issues,” the Governor said in a statement issued by Raj Bhavan. Also read: ‘Remember what you taught us’ - Bhupesh Baghel politely stings Sibal, AzadThe Kolkata Police, while investigating a case dating back to 2017 had arrested an accounting firm owner. The name of some chartered accountants and an IRS officer had also surfaced during probe. “There is another IRS officer. He is a relative of many high-ranking BJP men,” he said without divulging further. A day after Kolkata Police arrested financial consultant Govind Agarwal, Dhankhar on November 22 tweeted alleging that the arrests were politically motivated. He tweeted for the second time on November 25 “Alarmingly worrisome inputs from CA fraternity-politically inspired operation overzealousy afoot @KolkataPolice headed #DD targets CAs-strategy-fishing for material to handicap team members that raided mafia #coal #cattle. Why forget ‘Be ye never so high, the law is above you’,” Dhankhar had tweeted on November 22. The MP accused the Governor of having links with BJP-backed goons and alleged that Dhankar was targeting the chief minister. The MP said that he would shed more light in another press conference later. “I as Constitutional head cannot countenance public servants acting as political workers. This is too serious to be ignored. This would be dangerous to democracy,” the Governor was quoted in the Raj Bhavan statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-governor-hits-back-after-tmc-mp-accuses-him-of-trying-to-influence-police-investigation/story-lIn3e1xKbWKsZHSMtwJUAK.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||High court notice to Haryana on plea challenging bond policy for MBBS students||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday put Haryana government on notice on a plea seeking quashing of bond policy notified on November 6 by the state government for MBBS students.The petitioner, Harlove Singh Rajput, sought reconsideration of policy by the state or stay on the same, pending petition in high court. Besides, seeking quashing of the policy. The state’s response has been sought by February 11.The fee in public medical colleges has been raised to ₹10 lakh per year from around ₹50,000 per year. With this, a student seeking admission in an MBBS course will have to pay ₹40 lakh for the four-year course. In order to incentivise doctors to opt for Haryana government medical service, the state government on November 6 came out with a policy which states that candidates selected for MBBS degree course in government medical colleges need to execute an annual bond for ₹10 lakh minus the fee at the start of every academic year. The candidate can pay the entire bond amount without recourse to the loan or the state government will facilitate them for availing an education loan for this amount. As per the policy, the government will repay annual installments of the loan if the candidate obtains employment with the state government. The public interest litigation says the policy is not in commensurate with the spirit of the constitution.It was argued that that state says it would not be under obligation to provide employment. The policy has neglected the objective of providing subsidized education to meritorious students whereby money is being preferred over merit. By this way, the noble profession will be available only for the rich and irrespective of the merit/ rank / score secured by a candidate in NEET, it was argued. It says the government will not be able to provide employment to all the doctors. Hence, it is clear that the burden of ₹36 lakh along with its 5 year interest will be imposed over the shoulders of MBBS graduate, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/high-court-notice-to-haryana-on-plea-challenging-bond-policy-for-mbbs-students/story-BsQKao3NiPn6WnGXozSjbL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Hooch deaths: High court seeks reply on plea from Haryana, Punjab, CBI||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday asked Punjab, Haryana and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond to a plea by an NGO seeking probe in deaths due to consumption of illicit liquor in both the states. The petition has been filed by a Haryana-based NGO Sabka Mangal Ho. The high court bench of justice SN Satyanarayana and justice Archna Puri has sought a response by January 10. The petitioner has also demanded a probe by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The petition mainly talks about instances of alleged illicit liquor business in Haryana but says it has inter-state ramifications. The Haryana government had assured a probe by the State Vigilance Bureau in each district on the basis of recommendations given by a Special Enquiry Team (SET). However, not even a single FIR has been registered, the court was told. “The offences of institutionalised form of corruption and money laundering have inter-state ramifications. Repeated complaints and reminders to the ED and Vigilance Bureau but no action was taken,” their counsel Pardeep Rapria said, adding that the SET probe had raised several questions on the conduct of officials of the excise department as well as police officers.The plea claims the SET report said “huge unauthorised movement of liquor stocks across the state during Covid-19 lockdown period”. “Recently, several people had died in Sonepat and Panipat. Failure of the state government to take criminal action on SET Report encouraged anti-social elements to supply illicit liquor resulting into more than 30 deaths recently,” Rapria had alleged before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hooch-deaths-high-court-seeks-reply-on-plea-from-haryana-punjab-cbi/story-TH9uDaRiQpsWzmLQa4qW4I.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||MHA to decide on UT employees’ housing plan, refunds: Admn to HC||The Chandigarh administration has told the Punjab and Haryana high court that as government employees have rejected its proposal on the 2008 housing scheme, a final call on the project will be taken by the home affairs ministry (MHA).“ Since the Chandigarh administration is not competent to modify/ fix prices of land already decided by the Union cabinet it will take up the matter with the ministry of home affairs... to decide the final option including the option of returning the deposited amount to the applicants,” Uma Shankar Gupta, additional secretary, estates, told the court.Gupta gave the information to the court as hearing resumed on the plea on Thursday by UT employees seeking early construction of houses. On November 24, the employees in a letter to the UT adviser rejected the two fresh proposals of the administration for two housing proposals – a seven-storey project and another seven and 11-storey project – which were discussed in a meeting chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida with employees’ representatives on November 17. Around 4,000 flats were to be built in Sectors 52, 53 and 56 by the Chandigarh Housing Board for government employees as part of a scheme launched in 2008. The project comprised 252 three BHK apartments with servant quarters, 168 two BHK with servant quarters, 3,066 oneBHK and 444 single-room flats. A draw of lots was held in 2010, in which 3,930 employees among 7,827 applicants were selected. They had then deposited around ₹57 crore with the Chandigarh Housing Board under the scheme. However, the project ran into rough weather as UT could not make available requisite land for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mha-to-decide-on-ut-employees-housing-plan-giving-refund-admn-to-hc/story-5ganLbOViLTfJmI2B1bmrN.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Police handled situation with great restraint: Haryana DGP||Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava on Thursday said farmers marching towards the Capital had resorted to stone pelting, damaged private and police vehicles and injured several police personnel.Yadava said field units had tried to prevent farmers coming from Punjab from entering Haryana in a restrained manner at the district border points and had set up barriers to stop movement. However, the agitating farmers damaged the police barricades and proceeded ahead. “Acting with restraint, the police did not use force on the agitating farmers. On the contrary, the farmers took an aggressive stand and tried to disturb the law and order by pelting stones at the police in many places. Not only were a number of police personnel injured but police and private vehicles were also damaged,” he said. In view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march call by the farmers’ organisations, Haryana Police advised citizens to avoid travelling to Delhi on National Highway No 10 (Hisar-Rohtak-Delhi) and National Highway 44 (Ambala-Panipat-Delhi). The DGP said that the general public will be inconvenienced on the routes leading to Delhi, especially between Panipat-Karnal, Karnal-Kurukshetra and Kurukshetra-Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/police-handled-situation-with-great-restraint-haryana-dgp/story-P1PfjRlo7jfCjDd2534yvN.html
26-11-2020||City||Illegal construction: No notices issued against over 15,000 buildings, admit Ludhiana MC ATPs||At the time of uproar over illegal constructions in the city by councillors and other individuals, Ludhiana municipal corporation’s (MC’s) assistant town planners (ATPs) have admitted that there are 15,000 to 16,000 buildings in the city to which, the inspectors have failed to issue notices. This revelation came to the fore during the ongoing inquiry marked by the municipal commissioner to MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh into the illegal buildings. In the month of July, Punjab local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra had directed the authorities to conduct a comparative inquiry to find out the illegal constructions by comparing the new connections issued by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and the building plans sanctioned by the civic body during the period between 2016 and 2019.The inquiry was marked following a complaint submitted by RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal. Sabharal had alleged that the MC suffered a revenue loss of around ₹50 crore due to its failure to take against the illegal constructions. The building branch of the civic body has now submitted a report with Rishipal Singh wherein ATPs of all the four zones of MC have stated that there are at least 15,000 structures in the city against which, no notices have been issued by the building inspectors. A list of building inspectors who failed to perform their duty has also been attached.One of the officials, on the condition of anonymity, said there might be a bigger number of buildings with compoundable violations (which can be regularised). “But the MC still needs to issue notices/challans against them to recover composition fee,” he added. Municipal town planner Surinder Singh Bindra said, “The ATPs have mentioned that there are 15,000 to 16,000 buildings against which no notices/challans have been issued in the past. The report has now been sent to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and additional commissioner Rishipal Singh for further action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/illegal-construction-no-notices-issued-against-over-15-000-buildings-admit-ludhiana-mc-atps/story-FZsT6Kww0fFOPeFAVJZKGL.html
26-11-2020||City||Passengers bear the brunt of suspended bus services||As the Punjab Roadways and PRTC employees’ union went on a strike to extend their support to the farmers and trade unions, passengers at city’s Amar Shaheed Sukhdev Interstate Bus Terminal were left a harried lot on Thursday. While the bus stand wore a deserted look as it was closed by the protesting union members, chaos prevailed outside the ISBT from where private bus operators picked passengers. As per officials, at least 1,200 interstate and inter-district buses depart from the Ludhiana bus stand on a daily basis, of which more than 700 belong to PRTC and Punjab Roadways. Only eight PRTC and roadways buses departed from the stand on Thursday before the protest started at 9am. Many private bus operators also suspended the services due to low footfall in comparison to normal days as many people were aware of the strike by the roadways employees. A resident of Sirhind, Sunita, who had come to meet her relatives in Ludhiana on Wednesday, was stuck at the bus stand with her son as she could not find any bus for her journey back home. “We were not aware of the strike and reached the bus stand around noon. The staff here told us about the strike and asked us to board a private bus from outside. It has been two hours, but we have yet to find any bus for Sirhind. A private operator asked us to wait for another half an hour at the stand and here we are,” she added. A labourer from Pathankot, Harinder, said, “On our way to Bihar, I, along with my two brothers, reached here last evening and thought that we will get a bus in the morning. However, the union announced a strike. Private buses are also not available. We have been told that the bus services will start from Friday morning, so we are stuck at the bus stand.” ISBT supervisor Jasvir Singh Sahota said, “Only eight buses could depart from the bus stand on Thursday due to the strike. The roadways suffered a loss of around ₹8 lakh due to the strike. But the situation will return to normal Friday onwards.” Meanwhile, union members said the strike was part of the statewide protest in support of farmers and trade unions. District president of Punbus Contractual Employees’ Union, Shamsher Singh, said, “Apart from the strike which was observed on Thursday, the union will also launch an agitation against the private transport mafia on December 2 at the bus stand. A protest march will be held against the state government, transport mafia and corrupt officials of transport department.” Bikers extend support to farmers in Mandi AhmedgarhA group of 20 Ludhiana-based bikers also extended support to the protesting farmers by participating in their protest at Lehra toll Plaza in Mandi Ahmedgarh.One of the bikers, Sukhkaran Gill, said, “Our aim was to apprise the farmers that urban population of the state is standing by their side in this agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-bear-the-brunt-of-suspended-bus-services/story-3cjsSqGglj2Rqs7UohDCtN.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi man escapes ‘scolding’ of wife to work elsewhere as driver for 19 months||Afraid of his wife who often scolded him for drinking, a 35-year-old Delhi man left his job with a private firm and began working as a driver in Haryana’s Mewat at a much lesser salary for 19 months -- a period in which his wife knocked on the court’s doors and his friend was subjected to a polygraph test to know if he had anything to do with the disappearance.On Tuesday, the man who was reluctant to return home, was reunited with his wife by Delhi Police’s crime branch, which traced him. “Thursday happened to be his 10th marriage anniversary,” said Monika Bhardwaj, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch). “We have got the man and his wife counselled so that he doesn’t run away from home again,” Bhardwaj added. Until April last year, the man lived with his wife and a son who was eight months back then. He worked for a paint firm and drew a salary of Rs 25,000.On the morning of April 12 last year, he left his home for work in Noida but did not return. A missing complaint was filed in Noida, but no headway was made. The DCP said that the man’s wife suspected his close friend was behind his disappearance. As it turned out, one of the last calls made by the missing man was to this friend, asking him to hand over R10,000 to one of his relatives. “He had told the friend that he would return the money if he remained alive,” said the DCP. In any case, the missing man remained untraced and his wife knocked the doors of the Delhi High Court earlier this year. “She filed a writ petition to seek a habeas corpus for production of her husband,” the DCP said. On October 15, the court asked the Delhi Police’s crime branch to submit a status report on the investigation carried out so far. The police registered a first information report of kidnapping and then focused their attention to his friend who was accused of having a hand in his disappearance. “The friend was subjected to a polygraph test, which revealed he had nothing to do with the disappearance,” the DCP said. The police questioned his parents, relatives and friends and took their call detail records (CDRs) for an analysis. The missing man’s CDR too was collected, but the call records for the relevant time frame couldn’t be collected since more than a year had passed. “But Noida Police had taken out his CDR back then. We used that to make a shortlist and identify one person to whom he had made a call using his number,” said the DCP. Soon, the police team landed at a construction site in Mewat where the missing man was learnt to be working as a labourer. “It turned out that the man was mainly employed as a driver at the construction site, albeit at much lower pay. He just wanted to be away from his wife,” said the DCP. It took the Delhi Police a lot of convincing to bring him back to Delhi. “We have done our to ensure he doesn’t run away again,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-man-escapes-scolding-of-wife-to-work-elsewhere-as-driver-for-19-months/story-1YfHMAZWi3EG8BB9wbpw8O.html
26-11-2020||City||Vendor arrested for raping 14-year-old in Ludhiana||A roadside burger seller was arrested for raping and threatening a 14-year-old girl, police said on Thursday. According to the victim, cousin of the accused had videotaped the entire act using his smartphone. The family came to know about the incident when the victim was taken to a hospital to avail the treatment for nausea. After the victim narrated the entire episode to her parents, they lodged an FIR against the accused at the PAU police station. The accused has been identified as Shiv Shankar of Barewal Awana. He used to park his cart near South City Canal bridge. The victim’s father, a factory worker who lives in Ayali Khurd, said his wife sells and deliver vegetables. His two daughters, aged 14 and 10, studied in school, he added. He said his elder daughter was feeling sick for the past few days. “On November 24, we took her to a private hospital for treatment, where doctors said she was pregnant. On enquiring, my daughter told us about the accused, from whom she used to buy burgers. She said in October, the accused had taken her to a vacant plot and raped her,” the father told the police. The accused also threatened her that he would kill her family members if she shared her ordeal with anyone. Sub-inspector Manjinder Kaur, who is investigating the case, said the first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian penal Code (IPC) and Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act against the accused. The police had arrested the accused on Wednesday night, she added. She said the cops were also investigating the role of the accused’s cousin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/vendor-arrested-for-raping-14-year-old-in-ludhiana/story-fwVv53LrJjU1Qd8qEEa8FM.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmer unions indulging in criminal activities, had to arrest leaders: Haryana to high court||The Haryana government has admitted to detention/ arrest of 24 farmer leaders in the state and has told Punjab and Haryana high court that they were arrested as the organisations they belonged to were indulging in criminal activities.A status report filed by Rakesh Kumar Arya, deputy inspector general of police (law and order), Haryana, says, “ these organisations have history of indulging in criminal activities, creating law and order problem and disturbing public peace and order.” Upon a call given to hold a protest in Delhi on November 26 and November 27, there were inputs that farmers have made elaborate arrangements to halt and block important highways/ roads in the state, the report says adding that hence, arrests were effected. The information was submitted in a petition filed on Wednesday by Haryana Progressive Farmers Union, a protesters body, alleging illegal detention of its 100 leaders who had to go to Delhi to participate in protests. It had supplied a list of 30 leaders too.Defending its move, the government has told the court that on September 10 a protest was held in Ambala and a serious law and order problem arose for which four FIRs were registered for causing damage to public property and under various other sections. Four more FIRs were registered in Kurukshetra on September 10 and September 11 for similar incidents of violence . An agitation was held on October 25 too in Kurukshetra in which miscreants indulged in criminal activities and a case had to be registered, the government has told the court.It said, upon intelligence inputs, all field units were instructed to ensure criminal activities do not take place. Hence, officers in the field have taken measures in their respective districts and done preventive arrests. As many as 24 leaders have been detained or arrested out of 30, whose list was supplied by the union to the high court. They have been arrested/detained to prevent breach of peace and maintain public order and tranquilly and to avoid commissions of criminal acts. All of those arrested have been produced before the magistrates and sent to judicial custody by the magistrates, the government has told court.Meanwhile, a plea filed by a Chandigarh resident praying for the court to allow farmers to go to Delhi for the proposed protest also came up for hearing on Thursday. The plea challenges advisories and prohibitory orders put out by Haryana on movement towards Delhi. The plea was later withdrawn from the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmer-unions-indulging-in-criminal-activities-had-to-arrest-leaders-haryana-to-high-court/story-ZEUzrylOHHMysFFJ7LyC8L.html
26-11-2020||City||BKU leader Charuni, others booked for attempt to murder, rioting in Ambala||A day after several farmers and activists from Haryana began their march towards Delhi from Ambala, police on Thursday booked Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) state president Gurnam Singh Charuni and others under charges of attempt to murder, rioting and violating Covid-19 norms. The case was registered under Sections 147, 149, 186, 269, 270, 279, 307 and 332 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Parao police station in Ambala. The complainant police officer Pardeep Kumar from Mohra police post said, “Police had erected barricades near Pharoli village to stop the farmers and we were performing our duties. Senior police officials had tried to convince them to go back but Gurnam Singh Charuni, Amarjeet, Jai Singh and his son, Rakesh, Navdeep and their companions obstructed government duties. They tried to run-over the police personnel with their high-speed tractor-trollies as we saved our lives.”“Charuni and others have also broken the government protocols regarding Covid-19. They encouraged the spread of infection by not wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bku-leader-charuni-others-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-rioting-in-ambala/story-lKE1cot3mBMiL7IPSb66JP.html
26-11-2020||City||Punjab DGP reviews Covid-19 situation in Ludhiana||Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Thursday, reviewed the law and order and Covid-19 situation in the city at Police Lines here in Ludhiana.Gupta reviewed all undetected murder cases and directed the commissioner of police to make efforts to trace them. He directed a special drive to be launched to arrest proclaimed offenders and also to unearth illegal weapons that were being used for the commission of crime.DGP Gupta accompanied by Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal and inspector general of police (IGP) Naunihal Singh was here to hold a review meeting with senior officials of the district. While addressing the meeting, DGP Dinkar Gupta appreciated the drive of Ludhiana Police to auction off unclaimed old vehicles to free the space in police stations and also lauded the efforts to make the city beggar free. He said that the police commissioner did a commendable job to combat the Covid-19 situation in the city and directed to be even more vigilant in the coming days in the wake of the second wave. He asked police officials to strictly enforce the wearing of masks by the public.He also directed the police commissioner to deploy more police personnel in the traffic wing so that the traffic remains smooth in the city. Meanwhile, he woman, who had filed a complaint against Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, tried to meet DGP Dinkar Gupta during his visit to the city. Cops asked her to wait as DGP was convening a meeting with officers. After waiting for at least an hour, she left the place.6 die, 111 test positive for Covid in LudhianaThe number of coronavirus cases in Ludhiana is rising with each passing day. As many as six deaths and 111 infections due to the disease were reported on Thursday. The November 26 deaths were the maximum fatalities reported on a single day since October 5.The six deceased included three men and as many women, all aged above 50. Among them were a 82-year-old woman of Brown Road, a 79-year-old man from Rani Jhansi Road, a 71-year-old woman of Mohalla Bazaar, a 77-year-old man of Shivpuri’s Basant Nagar, a 70-year-old man from Moti Nagar, and a 56-year-old woman of Prabhat Nagar.The latest figures have pushed the district’s death toll to 894 and total caseload to 22,457.Of the total patients, 874 are still infected (active cases), while 20,686 have recovered, taking Ludhiana’s recovery rate to 92.42%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/punjab-dgp-reviews-covid-19-situation-in-ludhiana/story-Vuy9kBzjKHY0QP0y4nLkDI.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel summons EDMC commissioner over Ghazipur landfill fire||A day after a major fire at Ghazipur landfill site in east Delhi raged for over 17 hours, the Delhi assembly’s environment committee summoned East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) commissioner to appear before it on Friday in order to ascertain the reasons for the “poor waste management by the EDMC; the continued garbage dumping at the landfill; and the cause of the fire”. The fire at Ghazipur landfill started around 9.55pm on Tuesday and raged for over 17 hours till the firefighters managed to douse the high-leaping flames completely.The committee, headed by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi, will hold a meeting on Friday to deliberate over the issue, followed by a visit to the landfill site to take stock of the situation. “The air quality in Delhi has improved over the past five or six days -- mainly because farm fires have reduced in neighbouring states. However, a dreadful fire broke out at the garbage mountain in Ghazipur, due to which the entire east Delhi and nearby places were engulfed in smoke,” Atishi said. She added, “The meeting on November 27, Friday, has been called to know the reason behind the poor waste management of the EDMC, why garbage continues to be dumped at the landfill site, and to ascertain the person(s) responsible for the fire at the site.” “It is important to answer these questions and stringent action must be taken against the authorities responsible,” Atishi said.  With adverse weather conditions -- low wind speed and falling temperature -- already at play, Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday plummeted to severe category once again on Thursday. The Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) was 413, on a scale of 0 to 500, on Thursday. Any reading between 400 and 500 is considered “severe” and such air is harmful to humans.Meanwhile, the AAP on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led EDMC of mismanagement of the Ghazipur landfill and demanded a probe by lieutenant-governor (L-G) Anil Baijal into the fire incident. The BJP termed the accusations “frivolous”. “CM Arvind Kejriwal’s government and the AAP together are standing with the people of Delhi in reducing pollution, but the BJP is troubling residents by causing pollution. The BJP is responsible for the fire at Ghazipur landfill. A high-level investigation should be ordered and the municipal commissioner should elaborate on the cause of the fire. The AAP wants the L-G to intervene and order a probe,” said AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Thursday. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “Fire at landfill sites is common and AAP is levelling frivolous charges. Ghazipur landfill site workers and the fire brigade worked hard to control the fire within two hours. Yesterday’s pollution in Delhi is the result of the overall poor performance of the Kejriwal government in controlling pollution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-assembly-panel-summons-edmc-commissioner-over-ghazipur-landfill-fire/story-tAv6famA2gsUCCqiQjeQvI.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Noida authority sets up night shelter with fewer beds to prevent spread of Covid-19||With the winter season setting in, the Noida authority has set up a night shelter at the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A. This time, however, the authority is taking extra precautions, keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols. Due to the pandemic, the holding capacity of the shelter has been reduced from 70 in 2019 to 37 this year in a bid to ensure social distancing among the inmates of the shelter, said officials. Every year, the solitary night shelter of the city is set up near gate number five of the Noida Stadium. Active from 7pm to 7am every day, and being operational for the past two days, the shelter will have all the usual facilities such as bedding, blankets, toilets and a fire, along with arrangements to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “There are 37 bedding facilities, separate for men and women, with separate toilets. What’s different this year is that the health department teams will sanitise the facility twice a day, including the blankets. Further, prior to the entrance, temperature will be checked and their hands and feet of those who seek shelter will be sanitised,” said Rahul Sharma, senior manager, Noida authority. He added that only a few occupants, all men, have started seeking shelter at the facility, since it opened in November 22. “There are a fewer number of occupants for night shelters in Noida this year. However, their numbers might increase as the winter progresses. Last year too, the average maximum capacity of the shelter reached nearly 18 inmates. The number would increase as the winter peaks or during fog. In many cases, the occupants are drunkards or addicts, who are picked up and dropped off by the police at the shelter,” said Sharma. According to the officials, the authority also sets up a small timber fire at the shelter every year to keep the inates warm. “Right now, we have not started the campfire here, but it will be started soon as the temperature drops,” added Sharma. According to the shelter’s entry register, only three people stayed at the camp on the first day of the opening of the shelter on November 22. This has increased to eight people by November 25. One such inmate named Muhammad Talib shared his experience. He said that many labourers are getting to know about the shelter from word-of-mouth publicity. “The stay was fine and social distancing protocols were followed. The caretaker of the shelter took our temperature using a thermal scanner and asked us to sanitise our hands. I have been staying at the facility for the past three days and have informed some of my friends, who joined me today,” said Muhammad Talib, a labourer from Hapur district. “The number of people have increased a little, but there is still ample space in the camp. So I am not worried to lose my spot at night, at least for now,” said Tarun Kumar, another labourer from Hapur. Asked what if the number of people who need shelter increases with a further drop in temperature, officials said that they have made alternate arrangements. “Another night shelter is being set up in Sector 135 and it will stay on the stand-by till required. It will be used in case the number of people increases. Social distancing will be maintained and clean blankets and bedding will be provided,” said a senior official, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-sets-up-night-shelter-with-fewer-beds-to-prevent-spread-of-covid-19/story-PK4Oa2XSN7a9jcpzqGrivO.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Vehicles queue up as Mohali borders close for farmers’ rally||There were traffic jams and diversions on Thursday as entry points at highways approaching Chandigarh were sealed for around 10 hours by the Mohali administration due to the farmers’ rally in protest of the laws cleared by the Centre for agricultural reforms. As borders at Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru were sealed to prevent farmers from marching to Delhi to rally against the laws, long queues of vehicles stretched out for miles till late at night.Sealed at 9.30 am by Mohali police, the Zirakpur border had not opened till the filing of this report at night, with no vehicles going towards Ambala.Incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Dera Bassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. Similarly, outgoing traffic from Airport Road at the Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur and from there towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala on to the Yamunanagar Expressway to reach Ambala and Delhi “It took me nearly one hour to reach my office in Chandigarh, said Dhakoli resident Shivani Sharma.Kamalpreet Singh Turka of Ambala, on his way to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research for a checkup, was stuck in traffic for nearly 50 minutes as “the situation was very bad from the Panchkula side.” Commuters asked to use alternate routesMeanwhile, the Mohali and Panchkula police departments issued traffic advisories asking commuters to take alternate routes to travel to Delhi. Issuing prohibitory orders against the assembly of five or more persons besides a travel advisory, Panchkula police on Wednesday appealed to people to avoid movement towards Delhi and other cities, especially via NH-44, till Friday. Chandigarh Transport Undertaking also suspended its interstate bus service on routes passing through Haryana till Friday, asking people to make enquiries before planning travel to Punjab and Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/vehicles-queue-up-as-chandigarh-borders-close-for-farmers-rally/story-90JWVxYYoFo3i2R4oCwIVP.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Resident of Sector 100 booked for assaulting 10-month-old Labrador puppy||A resident of a high-rise in Sector 100 was booked by the Noida Police for allegedly assaulting his 10-month-old Labrador puppy, who is currently undergoing treatment.The incident was reported from Lotus Boulevard society, where the suspect, a software engineer, lives with his wife. According to neighbours, the puppy was gifted to him by his wife almost six months back. The complaint was made by a resident of the adjacent society.“A neighbour of the family contacted me through social media about the brutality towards the canine. He was being kept in the balcony for weeks and was often hit, sometimes with a belt as well. Yesterday morning, the assault was really terrible and the pup had been crying horribly. After this, neighbours reached out to other residents. That is how we got to know about the incident,” said Vibha Chugh, a resident of Lotus Espacia, an adjacent society.Videos of the man hitting the animal made by neighbours are making the rounds on social media.Chugh alerted the police after coming to know about the assault. Chugh, along with a neighbour and a police officer, went to the house to rescue the animal.“It took us over an hour to get inside. The owner would not let us take the animal for treatment. The puppy had broken legs and several belt marks on its body. There was damage to his genitals as well. He needs surgery. The canine is severly traumatised,” said Chugh.She alleged that it took her more than 14 hours to get a case registered against the owner, who was later booked under Section 428 (animal cruelty) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station. The police officials said due procedure was followed while filing a complaint against the owner.“The dog was rescued and rushed for treatment. Meanwhile, a probe in the matter is underway and necessary action is being taken,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer(SHO), Sector 39 police station.The owner could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/resident-of-sector-100-booked-for-assaulting-10-month-old-labrador-puppy/story-bqDLPNpqF9kFnpGF8unlTM.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Barricades, additional checks make traffic crawl in border areas||Commuters to and from Noida had to patiently wait for long, as traffic slowed to a trickle across border areas amid heightened police presence in light of farmers movement to Delhi on Thursday for a proposed rally.Several farmer organizations had called for a ‘Delhi Chalo’ movement on November 26 and 27, prompting security and police personnel across Delhi-NCR to go on a high alert.Barricades were set up by both Delhi and Noida police, with vehicles crossing the border checked thoroughly till late in the afternoon.“The traffic movement was very slow today. It took me half an hour to cross the Chilla (Noida-Mayur Vihar) border. There were barricades set up on both Delhi and Noida side and there was a lot of policemen on the ground checking vehicles,” said Sadhna Gupta, a Noida resident, who was going to Mayur Vihar phase 3 for work around 11am.Noida police said they had also deployed PAC forces at border areas of DND and Chilla.“There wasn’t any major farmer movement in our district. However, we were on high alert and additional police force had been deployed at the border areas till evening as a precautionary measure. The traffic was slow due to vehicular checking, but there were no law and order concerns as such,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.A group of nearly 30 farmers from the Bhartiya Kisan Union was stopped at Pari Chowk, while they were trying to get to Delhi.“We assembled at the zero point and before we could start moving to Delhi, we were detained and taken to the DCP’s office. We were told that we will not be allowed to proceed and were asked to give a memorandum of our demands to the officials,” said Rajkumar Roopwas, tehsil president, BKU.Police personnel said that the farmers were not booked.“We did not permit the group to go to Delhi and police was on high alert during the day. We will also stay vigilant tomorrow,” said additional DCP, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.In additional to the farmer movement, a nationwide general strike had also been called for on Thursday by trade unions. Banks in the district remained closed but there were no rallies or unlawful gatherings in the city.“It was peaceful. A group of nearly 20-25 people came to the sector 6 office to hand over a memorandum of demands. But there were no protests or rallies leading to any law and order situation. There was extensive patrolling throughout the day and police teams remained on alert,” said Rajesh S.In Ghaziabad, the police had made elaborate arrangement and there was heavy presence of personnel and administration officers at UP-Gate border with Delhi, where commuters faced traffic snarls from about 11am till the traffic situation eased back to normal around 2.30pm. Commuters said that traffic police had allowed movement of vehicles through the Hindon river canal overbridge at NH-9, but no traffic was allowed to descend to the surface road below the UP-Gate area. “Many commuters used the overbridge to move to Delhi and similar traffic snarls were witnessed on the other side of the border due to barricading by the Delhi traffic police. Below the UP-Gate flyover, the Ghaziabad traffic police had put up barricades for checks, which resulted in delay of about 25-30 minutes ,” said Kuldeep Saxena, resident of Shakti Khand, Indirapuram. A group of about 25-30 farmers in the afternoon tried to move to UP Gate but were stopped by police at Mohan Nagar. The traffic police officials said that checking points were also setup on the Hindon elevated road to scan vehicles for movement of farmers. “There was no movement of farmers at UP Gate and proper checks and barricading were put in place. No traffic was allowed to come down below the UPGate flyover where barricading was put up. So, it resulted in traffic snarls. But traffic was regularised by 2.30pm. There was no untoward incidents reported,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/barricades-additional-checks-make-traffic-crawl-in-border-areas/story-H8dP21lu0Fg88iYELAYWgK.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Winds improve air quality, mercury set to fall in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida, Ghaziabad managed to get out of ‘severe’ category of air, as winds picked up from Thursday afternoon and improved the air quality by dispersing much of the local pollutants. According to weather analysts, while the wind directions changed from easterly to north-westerly on Thursday, the air quality is expected to improve as instances of stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana had dropped. According to the IMD, the change in the winds direction will however lead to drop in temperature in the next two days. On Thursday, the air quality of Noida was ‘very poor’, while that of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida was poor. “The wind speed on Thursday increased a little and reached 10 kmph throughout the day. Since the number of stubble burning incidents have almost stopped in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, the winds are no longer carrying any pollutants along and the speed is enough to ventilate local emissions,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. He added that north-westerly winds, entering the region via Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, will however pull the mercury down by two to three degrees Celsius over the next two days. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Thursday was 301 against 414 a day earlier and 301 on Monday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 296 against 394 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 289 against 444 on Wednesday. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered ‘poor’, that between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and anything above 400 is considered ‘severe’. The major pollutant PM2.5 also dropped drastically. PM2.5 level for past 24-hours in Noida was recorded at 170.20 microgrammes per cubic metre, against 243.94 microgrammes per cubic metre a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 164.01 microgrammes per cubic metre against 250.9 microgrammes per cubic metre a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 178.85 microgrammes per cubic metre against 331.23 microgrammes per cubic metre a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 microgrammes per cubic metre. According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to improve in coming days. “Winds are forecasted to pick up and improve the ventilation condition for the next two days. The AQI is forecasted to improve,” SAFAR said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/winds-improve-air-quality-mercury-set-to-fall-in-noida-ghaziabad/story-nCqOJnUCBdyJe6K4tijGVL.html
26-11-2020||Noida||About 22.1% found positive for antibodies in UP’s sero survey||Ghaziabad: Around 22.1% of the 16,000-odd people tested in 11 districts of the state during September’s serological survey showed prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 virus, UP government officials said on Thursday. The 11 districts where the survey was conducted included Ghaziabad, from where blood samples of about 1,440 persons was taken. The five-day drive to collect the blood samples as part of the sero survey was initiated on September 4 and samples from 45 different areas was collected in Ghaziabad. The samples were sent to Lucknow for testing. “The survey in 11 districts of the state was carried out and about 16,000 samples were taken and tested at King George’s Medical University for detection of antibodies. These were the districts that had a high number of cases. The results revealed that about 22.1% of the samples were having presence of antibodies,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). The officials, however, did not reveal the district-wise percentage.This was the first sero survey in Ghaziabad, which has an officially estimated population of about 44 lakh. A serological survey checks for an immune response against the coronavirus in the form of antibodies in the blood of a random sample of the population. It can help establish how far the disease had spread and how many people fought the virus without showing symptoms. District health department officials said if the results are extrapolated over a population of about 44 lakh, it would mean that about 972,400 persons were exposed to Covid-19 infection in Ghaziabad. “If the 22.1% results are extrapolated over the entire population of the district, the results would mean about every fifth person got exposed to infection some way or the other and remained asymptomatic. Besides, they got recovered on their own and were not aware of the infection,” said an officer from the district health department. The experts said the results would mean that the remaining 77.9% of the sample size is yet to be exposed to the virus. “The 22.1% positive rate of the sample would mean that the rest of the persons are still not exposed. In case of any second wave, it would mean that the rest can still contract infection. So, utmost precautions are needed. If for instance, we assume that 22.1% of population got exposed, then we arrive at a figure of 9.72 lakh (in case of Ghaziabad). If the total present cases are less than this figure, it would mean that the remaining are still not under the net,” said Dr Lalit Kant, the former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Dr VB Jindal, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter, said if a large number of people are still not under the net of testing, it is time that utmost precaution is observed. “If the total testing is about 5.3 lakh at present, and the district has about 22,000 cases so far, the sero survey results would indicate that we have large number of people who remained asymptomatic and are yet to be tested. It is a good sign. But such people can pass on the infection to others. So, it is of utmost importance that all precautions are strictly observed,” he, added. Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, the state surveillance officer, said they would not extrapolate the result over the entire population of the state as people only in 11 districts were sampled. “These 11 districts were those which had a high rate of infection. So, the results of the sero survey are on expected lines and only indicative. The results are an indication of the prevalence of antibodies but it is good sign that it has not spread largely. Also, we have not seen any indication of a second wave so far in the state as our daily cases are still in range of about 2,000-3,000 per day and testing has not gone down,” he, said. “We were expecting a surge in cases during the festival season but at present we do not have large clusters where infection is prevalent. We conducted targeted sampling before and after festivals but the positivity is very less. However, we are mapping localities that have high number of cases and targeted sampling will be taken up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/about-22-1-found-positive-for-antibodies-in-up-s-sero-survey/story-pirjTbKgKYyI65hRon3Y5K.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation chalks 10 revised routes for e-bus project||The Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has finalised 10 new routes for the intracity travel as part of its e-bus project, under which the city has been approved a fleet of 50 low-floor and air-conditioned electric buses. The officials said that the new routes will also connect the neighbouring city of Noida and will prove to be beneficial for the commuters of Ghaziabad and its neighbourhood. The proposal for the new routes has now been sent to the traffic police department for feedback. The officials privy to the matter said the suggestions forwarded by the traffic police will be incorporated and the proposal will be sent to the state government for approval. The e-bus project was given clearance by the UP state cabinet in October last year. At that time, the state cabinet approved the operation of about 700 e-buses in 14 cities, including Ghaziabad. “We have finalised 10 new routes and the proposal for the same will be forwarded to the traffic police for inputs. Once their inputs are incorporated, we will send the proposal to the state officials. The earlier routes had connecting points to Dadri and Pilkhuwa, which we have not been included now, as we want to cater to as many routes in the city as possible,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The corporation in December last year chalked out six new routes, which have now been revised to 10 new routes. “We have already provided land for the depot. Once the routes are finalised, we will chalk out the points for charging stations. These will be allotted at the roadside while keeping in mind that regular traffic is not hampered. One e-bus has the capacity to travel about 200 kilometres once fully charged,” he added. The proposal includes routes from Surya Nagar to Indirapuram and further to Noida City Centre, Govindpuram to UP-Gate on NH-9, Shalimar Garden to Ghaziabad Railway Station, Vijay Nagar to Noida City Centre, Anand Vihar border to Mohan Nagar and further up to ALT Centre, Raj Nagar and Dilshad Garden to Mohan Nagar and further to Old Bus Stand and Govindpuram, and Mohan Nagar to Raj Nagar Extension, which will extend to NH-9. The maintenance depot for the e-bus project is proposed to be developed over an area of about 25,000 square metres for which land has been provided in Akbarpur-Behrampur located near the Ghaziabad-Greater Noida Link Road. “The depot is scheduled for completion by March 31. We issued a tender but only one bidder responded. So, we are in process of issuing fresh tenders. Once the bids arrive, our headquarters will take a call,” said Umesh Shukla, project manager from the Construction & Design Services, a unit of UP Jal Nigam, which has been given the task to develop the depot. The entire project of the construction of the charging station/maintenance depot is estimated at ₹10 crore. The project was scheduled to be completed by October but got delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier in August 2019, the department of heavy industries had sanctioned 5,595 e-buses across 64 cities while 600 of these were approved for 11 cities of Uttar Pradesh, including 50 buses for Ghaziabad. The approval was made under the Phase 2 of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India scheme in order to push for cleaner mobility in public transportation. The buses have been proposed to ply for about 4 billion kilometres during their contract period and are expected to cumulatively save about 1.2 billion litres of fuel over the contract period, which will, in turn, save approximately 2.6 million tonnes of CO2 (carbon dioxide) emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-chalks-10-revised-routes-for-e-bus-project/story-jZeEWVyjMfBtzCpS4pEWsO.html
26-11-2020||Noida||IKEA may soon start work on Noida project as land issues resolved||NOIDA: Swedish home furnishing retailer IKEA may soon start work on its Noida project as the authority has assured to resolve issues related to the penalty imposed for delay in payment, officials said.The authority’s assurances came during a meeting that took place in Lucknow in the presence of Uttar Pradesh industry minister Satish Mahana. Noida chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari, who was present in the meeting, assured the company of taking up all these issues in its upcoming board meeting to find out a solution so that IKEA can start work on the project that is expected to attract total investment of Rs 5,000 crore. The project is planned to be set up in Sector 51 along the Aqua Line and Delhi Metro’s Blue Line. The authority had in October, 2019, allotted 40,000 square metres of commercial land at a cost of Rs 700 crore.“IKEA paid Rs 350 crore land cost so far and delayed the remaining payment, inviting a penalty of at least Rs 30 crore as per rules. The IKEA put forth their issues during the meeting in Lucknow and we assured them of addressing their grievances. We will take up the matter in our upcoming board meeting and do the needful as per rules,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.According to the authority, IKEA had stopped the remaining payment because a 300-metre walkway connecting Delhi Metro’s Blue Line with Noida Metro’s Aqua Line’s sector 51 Metro station was constructed on parts of the land allotted for its project. Now the authority has agreed to shift the walkway and provide the entire land to IKEA. After allotment, the authority and IKEA did not execute the sub-lease deed of the land. The land is located at the Sector 71/51 Metro interchange along the 30km Noida-Greater Noida Metro link. “Now after the board meeting, the authority will ask IKEA to start payment and get the lease-deed done to start work at the site. IKEA will invest Rs 5,000 crore in this project and generate jobs. Therefore, the authority will help them as per rules,” Maheshwari said. IKEA, a Swedish company founded in 1943, is a global design and lifestyle brand leader with a secretive business model that could transform India’s home décor market with its contemporary product lineup.“IKEA has long term commitment for India. Delhi/NCR is one of our biggest and most important markets. We are in talks with the government and relevant authorities for purchasing land in Noida. It is a big project with large investments, and we are still in the process to resolve all aspects to conclude the transaction. As a responsible company, it is important for us to do things the right way for which we are prepared to invest more time if required,” said IKEA’s spokesperson.He added, “It is IKEA’s vision to meet 100 million people in India in the coming years. We are entering the markets with an omnichannel approach to be more affordable, accessible and sustainable for the many customers. As a modern home furnishings retailer, IKEA will bring best practices from our 75+ years of experience, create employment opportunities, provide skill & competence and increase manufacturing, thereby creating a positive impact on the State, society and the many people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ikea-may-soon-start-work-on-noida-project-as-land-issues-resolved/story-9vBfYB62MUKE0vdIgFlLLM.html
26-11-2020||Noida||‘Wanted’ man held after brief chase, shoot-out in Sector 24||A 22-year-old man,wanted in several criminal cases, was nabbed by Noida police on Wednesday night following a brief chase and shoot-out . A stolen motorcycle was recovered from the suspect’s possession.The arrested man — identified as Shivam, a Khoda resident — was involved in running an inter-state snatching gang for the past couple of years, police said.“He was carrying a reward of Rs 10,000 for a loot in sector 24 police station. Apart from this he was wanted in at least a dozen cases of theft, robbery, arms act and NDPS in Noida and Ghaziabad,” said Kumar Ranvijar Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the suspect, Shivam, and an accomplice were stopped during checking near Sector 23.“They tried to flee and were intercepted on the service road between sector 31 and 25, after which they fired at the police team chasing them. Shivam was injured in retaliatory firing, while his accomplice managed to escape. A search has been launched and we are combing nearby areas in looking for him,” said Singh.The suspect, police said, was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment.Police officials later recovered a stolen motorcycle, which did not have a license plate, from the suspect along with a countrymade pistol. According to investigators, Shivam has been running a snatching gang in NCR for the past couple of years, which was also involved in several theft and robbery cases in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad.The suspect was produced before a magistrate and sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/wanted-man-held-after-brief-chase-shoot-out-in-sector-24/story-PSMofGOVSSVkpI6suxi9SI.html
26-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Anganwadi workers launch Jail Bharo Andolan to protest pre-primary classes in govt schools||Up in arms against pre-primary classes started in state-run schools, over 250 Anganwadi workers and helpers from different blocks of the district staged a Jail Bharo Andolan outside the mini secretariat on Thursday to register their strong protest against the Centre.The members of the Anganwadi Mulazam Union (CITU), marched towards the deputy commissioner’s office at 1.30 pm and sloganeered against the Centre.Workers have been demanding that the government should start pre-primary classes in anganwadis as there is already an existing setup there.The workers raised slogans against the government by holding placards and demanded to stop enrolling children in pre-primary classes in government schools.While the cops refused to arrest them and asked the protesters to lift the protest, to which the workers moved towards Bharat Nagar chowk to join the ongoing agitation by the trade unions.Punjab Anganwadi Mulazam Union general secretary Subhash Rani said, “Our main demand is that the children between 3-6 years should be sent to Anganwadi centers and not to government schools for pre-primary classes. The workers and helpers can take better care of these children.” Cornering the state government, Rani alleged that it has not included its 40% share in the wages which were to be increased as per the announcement made by the Centre in September 2018. The union members also demanded that a helper be deployed to support the worker deployed at every mini-Anganwadi centre. In 2018, the central government had announced to increase Rs 1,500, Rs 1,250 and Rs 750 in the salaries of workers, mini workers, and helpers, respectively. The wages were increased from October 2018 with 60:40 share of the central and the state government in the hike, she said. “But the notification that we received stated that the state government has increased only Rs 900 for workers by not contributing its share. The mini workers and helpers are also getting lesser money compared to the amount announced by the Centre,” she said, adding that there are 54,000 Anganwadi workers in the state and all of them are staging protests in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-anganwadi-workers-launch-jail-bharo-andolan-to-protest-pre-primary-classes-in-govt-schools/story-HPSLmulA6V5h4Zudk6POtK.html
26-11-2020||Noida||Shahberi land case: Allahabad high court directs state government to refund stamp duty paid by developer||After the quashing of land acquisition of Shahberi and the adjoining villages, the Allahabad high court has now directed the state government to refund the stamp duty money paid by the builder, instead of asking it to approach the Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) for the same. Earlier, although the state government had accepted the request to refund stamp duty, it had directed the builder to approach GNIDA for the refund. The high court has directed the state government to reconsider its order as the stamp duty money was deposited in the government’s account and not that of the authority. The petitioner, SJP Infracon Limited, was allotted a plot in Sector 16B in Greater Noida West, measuring 1.98 lakh square metres. A registered lease deed was executed and the stamp duty amounting to ₹12.70 crore was paid on the registration of the lease deed.On May 12, 2011, the Allahabad high court quashed the land acquisition proceedings with respect to village Shahberi and other adjoining areas.The petitioner relinquished that portion of plot, which stood reverted to the tenure holders.Thereafter the petitioner requested the authorities to return such stamp duty, which was paid by it for the execution of lease of the land.On February 28, 2019, state government accepted petitioner’s claim for a refund of stamp duty after a deduction of 10%. On May 28, 201, the petitioner was directed to approach GNIDA for a refund of the amount.The counsel for the petitioner stated the stamp duty was paid to the state government and, once the authorities have accepted the petitioner’s claim for a refund under the Indian Stamp Act, the consequential action of the refund of the stamp duty would be warranted at the level of the state government and not at the level of the Greater Noida Authority.The high court observed that the amount received against stamp duty has been credited to the account of state and the claim for a refund of the same would, therefore, be required to be addressed by the state and not by the development authority. The order of the state government directing the petitioner to approach Greater Noida Development Authority is prima facie not found to be in accordance with law.“The Allahabad High Court bench comprising justice Ashwani Kumar Mishra has directed the principal secretary of the stamps and registration department concerned to revisit the issue in light of the above observation and to file his personal affidavit justifying his order. The order was passed a fortnight ago,” advocate for the petitioner RA Aggarwal said on Thursday. Dr SK Tripathi, assistant inspector general (stamps),said, “The order of the high court order will be implemented, and a decision will be taken at the state level.” He admitted that amount is paid in state government’s account. He also said as per registration act, stamp duty once paid cannot be refunded. The state government can take a policy decision for refund on an individual case-to-case basis. The state government has to decide from where refund amount has to be given.Greater Nodia authority official, on condition of anonymity, said that the stamp duty amount was deposited to the state government’s account and authority has no role in this matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/shahberi-land-case-allahabad-high-court-directs-state-government-to-refund-stamp-duty-paid-by-developer/story-plxL2veU7gKdrKtZ81TTcJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||High ammonia content in Yamuna; water supply likely to be hit in Delhi||The water supply in parts of Delhi is likely to be hit because of high ammonia concentration in the Yamuna, the Delhi Jal Board said on Thursday. It said the high ammonia level in the raw water sourced from the Yamuna affected the operations at the Chandrawal, Wazirabad and Okhla water treatment plants. “Water may be available at low pressure till the ammonia level in the river reduces to a treatable limit,” it said in a statement.The areas likely to be affected are Civil Lines, Hindu Rao Hospital and adjoining areas such as Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bagh, Pahar Ganj and NDMC areas like Old and New Rajinder Nagar, Patel Nagar, Inderpuri, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Amar Colony, Tugalkabad, Sangam Vihar and Ambedkar Nagar. Water supply issues will also prevail at Delhi Gate, Subhash Park, Model Town, Gulabi Bagh, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Burari, parts of Cantonment areas and South Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-ammonia-content-in-yamuna-water-supply-likely-to-be-hit-in-delhi/story-nBbrYskypp1M01LVWloeSM.html
26-11-2020||City||As trains resume, 243 migrant workers leave Jalandhar to meet kin||The resumption of passenger trains has brought cheers to migrant workers hailing from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh as around 243 left Jalandhar to attend social events and meet their families in their ancestral villages and towns. As per the officials of the city railway station, around 243 migrants left the city on Thursday in Amritsar-Jaynagar Express, known as Shaheed Express at 3.30 pm. On Wednesday, around 112 passengers had boarded the train for Bihar and other parts of Uttar Pradesh from the city station. Neha, who along with her family was going to attend the marriage function of her cousin in Gorakhpur, said that due to farmers’ agitation, she had cancelled her plan to attend the event. However, with trains resuming after nearly two months, she would be able to attend the event on November 30. Sanjeev Kumar, 38, from Chappra in Bihar, who works as a construction contractor here, said that his family in Bihar is organising a religious event and he was not sure whether he would be able to attend it. He said that he could not visit his hometown Sapra during the Chhath festival on November 20. While Arvind Mishra, 40, a factory worker, who was going to Bihar’s Samastipur to meet his ailing mother, said that he had not visited his town for the last eight months and was eagerly waiting for the restoration of train services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/as-trains-resume-243-migrant-workers-leave-jalandhar-to-meet-kin/story-NslyMgUgGFNWAsesBl2o1M.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||City air improves marginally thanks to westerly winds||The air quality in the city marginally improved on Thursday, recording 286 (poor) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin. This was down from Wednesday’s reading of 299, which was just short of “very poor” air quality. While wind speeds throughout the day remained slow, the direction of the wind was favourable in preventing pollutants from accumulating. The reduction in farm fires in Punjab and Haryana, too, have helped keeping pollution levels down, experts said. “On Thursday afternoon, we were receiving westerly winds with speeds of about 8kmph. There had been some accumulation of pollutants during the night and morning. However, they were dispersed again by the afternoon. The number of farm fires has also reduced considerably this past week and the amount of smog being blown into Delhi-NCR from the west has reduced, helping the situation,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist.Officials also attributed the improvement in air quality to a reduction in farm fires. “There have been hardly any images of stubble burning detected over the past day. The impact is quite noticeable. In fact, across other cities, the improvement in air quality has been even clearer as they are more impacted by the wind direction,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, pointing out that air quality in neighbouring Delhi improved from 413 (severe) to 302 (very poor) on Thursday. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “The air quality is likely to remain in the poor category on 27.11.2020... The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from Northwest direction of Delhi with wind speed up to 08-14 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning.” The minimum temperature of Gurugram settled at 11 degrees Celsius on Thursday — same as the previous day. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 24 degrees Celsius on Thursday, two degrees higher than Wednesday’s reading. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 24 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 13 degrees on Friday. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/city-air-improves-marginally-thanks-to-westerly-winds/story-1rrqfpvevtZkMc2QU8diTO.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Residents of 14 villages petition NHAI for access to Delhi-Vadodara expressway||Residents of nearly 14 villages from Palwal, Nuh and Sohna have petitioned the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), requesting the authority to grant them access to the DND-Delhi Vadodara Expressway (NH148NA) through the creation of a cloverleaf interchange.Local residents said, despite over 3,00,000 people living in the vicinity, they have not been given any access to the under-construction DND-Delhi Vadodara Exressway. Residents allege that the access will give them an easy access to commute easily towards Delhi and Jaipur and will boost the economic activity of the region, thereby generating employment. Sarpanches of around 14 villages, including Hajipur, Manuwad, Dehlaka, Bilhaka, Johlaka, Paroli, Kiranki Khedli, Khuntpuri, Chandpur and Dilani, said that they have written to union transport ministry and the NHAI, for giving them access to the expressway. Prem Mohan Gaur, a resident of village Hajipur, who is spearheading the demand for the interchange, said that access to highway will help the farmers commute easily and also help them to take their produce to different markets in the neighbouring states. “The people can go to urban areas for jobs. It is a travesty that on a highway, which is built on their land, the farmers don’t have access. We have approached the ministry, local leaders and apprised them of the issue,” said Gaur, adding that they are planning to file a writ petition in the Supreme Court to get relief in the matter. Locals also said that they will launch a protest movement and hold demonstrations and, if the need arises, hold sit-ins at the site if the interchange was not created to give access to locals. Villagers also pointed out that a railway station is also coming up at Silani as per the orbital railway plan of the Haryana government and the interchange at the highway will boost access to both road and rail infrastructure. “Although the government talks of multimodal transport but when things happen on the ground, the plans are never implemented,” said a local resident on the condition of anonymity. NHAI officials said that work on this stretch has already been awarded and work shall start from March. Manoj Bansal, project director, Faridabad, said that the decision to provide an interchange has to be taken by the headquarters. “The proposal will be considered on the basis of cost, technical feasibility, and the decision has to be taken by NHAI headquarters. The cost of the interchange would be minimum ₹20 to ₹25 crore,” said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/residents-of-14-villages-petition-nhai-for-access-to-delhi-vadodara-expressway/story-ZxVokessohjag171e5XLqN.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Biodiversity registers to be completed by March 2021||Delayed on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the finalisation of the people’s biodiversity registers (PBRs) in Haryana is now expected to be completed by March next year, officials said on Thursday. While initial drafts of at least 6,400 registers — at a panchayat, zila parishad and municipal corporation levels — have already been prepared, the drafts lacked quality and will need to be improved through more fieldwork, current and former officials of the Haryana State Biodiversity Board said.PBRs are techno-legal documents that will serve as a repository of information on plants, animals and crops, along with traditional knowledge of their place in local ecosystems. Earlier this year, prior to the coronavirus outbreak, Gurugram had constituted an expert committee to oversee the creation of PBRs across the district, in compliance with the Biodiversity Act, 2002. This committee was to train and supervise the work of 203 biodiversity management committees (BMCs) that have been formed at the panchayat level, as well as one that has been constituted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG). A total of 6,437 such BMCs have been formed across various urban local bodies in Haryana.“All the BMCs, including those in Gurugram, have submitted preliminary drafts of their PBRs. However, we found that the information contained in most of these registers is what was already in the public domain. Our technical support groups, which include NGOs and advocacy organisations who have been engaged to assist local bodies, were unable to properly train the local BMCs or do any extensive fieldwork due to the Covid-19 lockdown,” said Gulshan Ahuja, former chairman of the state biodiversity board.Corroborating this development, VS Tanwar, secretary, Haryana State Biodiversity Board, said, “Covid has made it hard for the TSGs to really do their work on ground, so naturally, the preliminary drafts of the biodiversity registers are also lacking in quality and rigour. The state biodiversity board has also undergone an administrative reshuffling in June, in light of Covid, and work had been halted. But we have now taken up the work again earlier this month and the TSGs and BMCs are expected to finalise their PBRs within the ongoing financial year.” PRBs are meant to rely on field inspections, as well as secondary data to be obtained from ‘line departments’, including the forest and wildlife, agriculture, fisheries, horticulture and animal husbandry departments.A forest department official, who was involved in the creation of Gururgam’s PBR, said on the condition of anonymity, “The draft PBR mainly consisted of data from earlier wildlife and cattle censuses, forest surveys and so on. But the main goal of the PBR is to work with locals and understand their relationship with their biodiversity. Those surveys are yet to be completed. A third-party has been tasked with conducting the research, which will be taken up this winter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/biodiversity-registers-to-be-completed-by-march-2021/story-15A1Nrbo6usGBxAGbKqByO.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Health department banking on mass testing to contain Covid-19 spread||The district health department, in an effort to bring down the positivity rate and flatten the curve, has planned to conduct more than 10,000 tests on Saturday. Complying with the Haryana health department directive to conduct mass testing across the state, to control the active transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus, health officials have decided to go for aggressive-targeted testing in hot spots having a test positivity rate between 6% and 10% or higher. The plan is to hold about 50 testing camps in a single day across the district, health department officials said. On November 21, the department had administered 10,200 Covid-19 tests, the highest number of tests done in a single day so far. Considering the district’s capacity to test 16,000 samples in a day, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that testing will be more than 10,000 this time. The department is likely to hold a meeting with private labs and hospitals on Friday.The state health department on Wednesday announced that more than 50,000 samples will be collected across 22 districts, almost 30% more than their daily sample collection, on November 28. Districts have been told to coordinate with the state health authorities and private labs to conduct mass testing, which will comprise 80% of Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, to gauge the exact prevalence of infection. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, state health department, on Wednesday said that sampling would be targeted as well as random to detect new cases, while ensuring their timely isolation. HOT SPOTS WITH HIGH TEST POSITIVITY RATEFor targeted testing, the Gurugram health department has identified some of the critical areas having test positivity rate — total positives out of the samples collected — higher than 10%. This includes five urban areas – Patel Nagar, Laxman Vihar, Om Nagar, Feroz Gandhi Colony and two rural blocks — Sohna and Daulatabad. The ideal positivity rate should be less than 5%, as per the World Health Organisation guidelines.“About 50 testing camps are likely to take place on Saturday, including over 15 routine camps that are conducted every day under different UPHCs. On the mass testing day, camps will be held in all 33 UPHCs and rural PHCs along with 16 additional camps in critical areas,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Other areas having heavy footfall, like Sadar Bazar and wholesale grain and vegetable market at Khandsa will also be covered. In these areas, the test positivity rate is higher than 6%, with high chances of having super-spreaders of the virus. Yadav, on Thursday, held a meeting with the Gurugram Police, seeking assistance to carry out Covid-19 tests at Khandsa and the entry/exit points of Sadar Bazar. Testing in these areas will start from 6am. A senior official of the Gurugram Police, who attended the meeting, said, “The department has directed local teams to encourage shopkeepers in every nook and corner of the market to get tested. With the help of the market association and councillors, we have floated the idea that if all shopkeepers get tested, the market can claim to establish a benchmark in Covid-19 testing.” USE OF DRONESOfficials are also planning to use drones to create awareness about the testing camps and to keep an eye on the congested lanes. The plan is, however, yet to be approved by the Gurugram Police, said Yadav. Random testing will also be held at border areas, keeping in mind farmers’ movement.Officials are, however, still working on the availability of manpower and the timely delivery of test results to make mass testing a fruitful exercise in controlling the transmission. Mass testing is helpful if test results are delivered within 48-72 hours to control the spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/health-department-banking-on-mass-testing-to-contain-covid-19-spread/story-H6Cm0F4EwwJdvO7aQnS4uN.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Activists stopped from entering city, protests low key||The protest against farm laws remained low-key in the district in comparison to areas bordering Punjab, as a majority of the protesters mobilised by farmers’ unions in south Haryana were prevented from reaching Panchgaon and Gurugram by the police. Activists, including Swaraj India conveyor Yogendra Yadav, and farm leaders were detained at Panchgaon, Nuh and Palwal by the police on Thursday morning, while they tried to move towards Delhi to participate in the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. The protesters are demanding that the Central government revert the implementation of three agriculture sector laws, which, they allege, will harm the interests of farmers across the country. Around 800 police personnel were deployed by the district police to keep the protest under control and prevent any untoward incident. Yadav, who has been spearheading the farmers’ movement in south Haryana, was detained along with 20 persons, including farm leaders and protesters at Rathiwas village — about 40 kilometres from Delhi-Gurugram border on the expressway — where the protesters were slated to gather for their march to the capital. Yadav said farmers were stopped from moving at Kapriwas, Panchgaon, Sohna, Sirhaul, Bargujar and Iffco Chowk. Addressing the media at Rathiwas, Yadav said that it was ironic that farmers in the country were being stopped from going to Delhi on Constitution Day to protest against the farm laws brought in by the Central government. “Farmers across the country are united and they stand with protesters from Punjab who are spearheading the movement to save agriculture. Repressive measures are being taken in Punjab, Uttarakhand and particularly Haryana to deprive farmers of their constitutional rights,” said Yadav. Yadav also alleged that many farm leaders and protesters who were on their way to Delhi from Rewari, Narnaul, Mewat and Rajasthan were prevented from entering the district.Meanwhile, in Gurugram, a large number of trade unions and worker organisations carried out a protest march in support of farmers. The workers gathered at Civil Lines in the morning and marched up to Mahavir Chowk, near Sadar Bazar. Trade union leaders have alleged that the farm laws passed by government are “anti-farmer” and demanded that they be rolled back. They also said that it was imperative for the government to stop privatisation of public sector units, ensure minimum wages are given to workers and relief is given to construction workers. The union leaders said that preventing farmers from reaching Delhi was wrong on the part of the government and they should have been allowed to protest peacefully. Apart from trade unions of private companies, several organisations of government employees, including the Haryana Karamchari Mahasangh and Haryana PWD mechanical workers’ union, carried out a symbolic protest in support of farmers and workers. Raj Singh Baghel, a union leader, said that farm laws and those pertaining to labour passed by Central government were against the interest of the public and would harm them in future as they were pro-business. Most of the stakeholders and farm leaders said that they would continue the protest till these laws are rolled back. “These protests can continue indefinitely if the Central government does not relent,” said Yadav. Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram Police, said that situation remained peaceful across the district and police was deployed at all borders to maintain normalcy. “The situation was normal and few persons including Yogendra Yadav were detained for sometime and released later,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/activists-stopped-from-entering-city-protests-low-key/story-TEgoy3wIfwTvuRGs1EGgHN.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Border sealing rumours cause border rush, jam||Rumours that the borders with Delhi are set to be sealed off caused a traffic jam at the Delhi-Gurugram border on the expressway around 2pm on Thursday, as Delhi residents working in the city rushed to their residences. Heavy barricading by the Delhi Police to check entry of visitors led to a long wait for commuters, with traffic remaining stuck for over an hour and a half.Heavy police deployment was visible in Gurugram along the highway, up to Bilaspur and at all border points, and major crossings in the city. Traffic movement was slowed down across the city due to checks and barricades set up at major points places. The traffic situation is likely to remain the same on Friday as police officials said that deployment and barricading at the border will continue.Jayant Baruah, who works in Gurugram, said that he rushed back after hearing news reports that borders of Delhi with other states will be sealed in the afternoon. “Not only me, but many colleagues also rushed back, but were caught at the Sirhaul toll plaza due to traffic jam. I spent around an hour to enter Delhi as a barricade set up on Delhi side held up vehicular movement,” said Baruah.Due to the traffic jam at the border point, many commuters decided to turn back near Udyog Vihar and exit the highway, but this compounded the problems on arterial roads and several vehicles got stuck. The situation eased only around 5pm, said police.Dipen Sharma, a commuter travelling to Delhi, said that the police should have a look at the vehicles at Sirhaul border and also use CCTV cameras to verify if they were local commuters or protesters. “The police officials just have to walk through the traffic to know that there are no protesters,” said Sharma.Traffic flow was at Sirhaul toll plaza was affected earlier in the day, especially on the carriageway leading to Delhi, as Delhi Police carried out a strict checking to prevent movement of farmers, who are protesting against the three farm laws passed by Central government.Traffic movement remained slow in other parts of the city as well due to barricading and checks set up by Gurugram police.A senior police official said that four deputy commissioners of police, nine assistant commissioners of police and 18 inspectors were deployed along with 800 police personnel at Kapriwas, Panchgaon, Sirhaul, Sohna, Bargujar, KMP Expressway and other strategic points to ensure normalcy in the city. “The deployment will remain the same on Friday to keep the situation under control. Congestion at Sirhaul toll plaza was witnessed for some time due to checking at border, but the situation became normal after some time,” said Subash Boken, public relations officer, Gurugram Police.Boken said that commuters should plan their travel as per the advisory issued by the district administration to ensure they do not face problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/border-sealing-rumours-cause-border-rush-jam/story-VN25sWFsR2dVdjmHSYxThJ.html
26-11-2020||City||Pune min temp second lowest in state at 13.3 degrees Celsius||Pune: After a spell of rise in minimum temperature for 10 days, Pune on Thursday morning recorded 13.3 degrees Celsius. Gondia saw mercury fall to 13.2 degrees Celsius with Pune being the second lowest in the state at 13.3 degrees Celsius. Amravati recorded 13.3 degrees Celsius. The fall in temperature was noticed in cities that fall in central Maharashtra and Vidarbha region. “With clear sky, temperature is falling and currently there is a northerly wind pattern, but it will soon change to easterly wind. So, for the next few days we can also see a little rise in minimum temperature. There will be a different wind pattern from November 29,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather department, India Meteorological Department, Pune. The maximum temperature in Pune for the day was 30.7 degrees Celsius. Slight chill in the air was noticed throughout the day, according to the weather department. Alibag recorded the state’s maximum temperature at 35 degrees Celsius. Weather check City: minimum temperature Gondia: 13.2 degrees Celsius Pune: 13.3 degrees Celsius Amravati: 13.3 degrees Celsius Washim: 13.8 degrees Celsius Mahabaleshwar: 13.9 degrees Celsius||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-min-temp-second-lowest-in-state-at-13-3-degrees-celsius/story-br5aZLE75i4sKQuMPf8A7I.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Woman accidentally shot in foot by beat constable intervening in parking dispute||A woman was shot in her foot when a beat constable, trying to settle a parking dispute in outer Delhi’s Rohini, fired four rounds to the ground, one of which ricochetted off and hit her.Police said the constable had fired under duress as he was being manhandled by the family that was involved in a parking dispute with an elderly couple late Wednesday. The woman got hit in her toe and had to undergo a surgery, but she is out of danger, said PK Mishra, deputy commissioner of police (Rohini). “The injured woman was one of the persons who had attacked the policeman,” said the DCP. Mishra said it all began around 11.45pm on Wednesday when the daughter of a senior citizen couple -- a 73-year-old advocate and his 70-year-old wife -- made a distress call to the police control room as well as to the local beat constable, Punit Sharma, saying her parents’ neighbours were threatening them over a parking dispute. “Their daughter told us that the neighbour had parked his motorcycle in front of their house because of which they could not open their gate. She alleged that the other family was threatening her parents when they were asked to remove the motorcycle,” the DCP said.When Sharma reached the spot, the other family began arguing with him, accused him of being drunk and manhandled him, Mishra said. “They slapped him, caught him by his collar, and tried to snatch his service revolver, mobile phone and car key,” he said. A partial video clip of the incident, recorded by the accused family, purportedly showed them in a heated argument with the policeman and them accusing him of being drunk. The policeman can be seen and heard telling them that he was not drunk and was ready to undergo a medical examination. The video further showed him getting into his car and the family accusing him of pointing a loaded pistol at them -- they can be heard challenging him to shoot.The DCP said when the family continued to manhandle him, he took out his service revolver, kept his hand behind his back and fired four rounds into the ground. “One bullet ricochetted and hit the women in her foot,” Mishra said. The officer said that the woman was rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and later to RML Hospital for a surgery. “We have registered a case against the attackers under Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to assault on a public servant, preventing a public servant from performing his duty, causing hurt, theft (of the pistol and other items) and causing hurt during theft,” Mishra said. No case has been registered against the police constable for opening fire. “He was responding to a distress call by senior citizens and was only performing his duty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/woman-accidentally-shot-in-foot-by-beat-constable-intervening-in-parking-dispute/story-NWK8QZToK1VxoCoPfSFYYN.html
26-11-2020||City||Trade unions’ protest makes Bharat Nagar Chowk out of bounds for commuters||As a part of the nationwide strike announced against the BJP-led central government, various trade unions organised a protest march outside the mini secretariat on Thursday and blocked the Bharat Nagar Chowk — one of the prime intersections of the city — for over two hours. Heavy police force was deployed at the spot.Traffic jams were witnessed on Ferozepur Road, bus stand road and adjoining areas despite diversion of vehicles through internal lanes. Raising slogans in support of farmers and labourers, the protesters slammed the central government for “moving against the constitution by bringing in anti-farmer and anti-labour laws”. Union leaders said they stood united with farmers in this fight against the Centre and would continue the agitation till the time the central government does not roll back the “anti-labour and anti-farmer laws”.Swaran Singh from INTUC, Ramesh Ratan from AITUC, Paramjeet Singh from CTU, and Sukhwinder Singh Lotey from CITU said that government was working to benefit the corporate houses. In that course, they said, “anti-farmer and anti-labour bills” have been approved in the parliament without any debate. Their other demands included cash transfer of ₹7,500 to all non-income tax paying families, 10kg free ration per person per month to all needy people, expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act to provide 200 days of work in a year in rural areas at enhanced wages, withdrawal of the “draconian circular” on “forced” premature retirement of government and PSU employees and provision of pension to all. The protesters rued that the BJP-ruled states, including UP, Karnataka and Gujarat, have made “draconian” changes in the labour laws which will make the workers “slaves”.Members of different labour unions also held a protest at Samrala chowk. Commuters a harried lotThough the police channelised the traffic movement from Bharat Nagar Chowk through slip roads, big rush was witnessed on Ferozepur Road, bus stand road, Fountain Chowk, railway station road and areas in and around.Commuters raised hue and cry over the traffic jams and lamented the detours they had to take for reaching their destination. One such commuter, Girish Verma, said, “I was on my way to Jawahar Nagar camp from Mall Road, but the police stopped me at the Bharat Nagar Chowk due to the protest. I had to take a detour to reach at bus stand road and it took me 20 minutes to reach the other side of Bharat Nagar Chowk. The protesters should not block the roads as it results in public harassment. The protests should be done in a peaceful manner.”Another commuter, Harpreet Singh, said, “These protesters enjoy the support of the state government, but the public is bearing the brunt of their actions. Blocking the movement of traffic is not a solution for any problem and the protesters should understand this. It is always the public which suffers in the end.” Members of Punjab Bank Employees’ Federation also observed a strike and staged a protest against the Centre.They stated that all public-sector banks were closed on Thursday and banking transactions of around ₹500 crore were hit in Ludhiana only.Federation’s Ludhiana secretary Naresh Gaur said that the Union government was working to privatise the public banks and they will not allow this. “Any process of merger, consolidation or amalgamation results in reduction of staff. In fact, it is one of the purpose of mergers to ensure a lean organisation and achieve reduction in labour cost to show more profit,” he claimed. Some of their major demands included strict action against loan defaulters and recovery of NPAs.“We are also against the anti-labour and anti-farmer laws passed by the Union government,” Gaur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/trade-unions-protest-makes-bharat-nagar-chowk-out-of-bounds-for-commuters/story-jKrS6ktXf402uvuFJVlRqN.html
26-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC ranks institutions, offices, hospitals, hotels on cleanliness||To improve the ranking of the city in Swachh Survekshan 2021, the municipal corporation (MC) on Thursday announced swachhta rankings for schools, hotels, resident welfare associations (RWA), government departments and hospitals.The MC had received 72 applications under different categories and the results were announced on the basis of different parameters set by the civic body under the competition.As many as 22 educational institutions, 15 hospitals, 11 government offices, 12 resident welfare associations and 12 hotels situated at different parts of the city participated in the competition.The parameters of the competition include waste segregation at source, installation of dustbins on the premises, any campaign taken up to promote cleanliness, condition of toilets, and innovation, among others.Under the category of educational institutes, Sacred Heart Convent School, Sarabha Nagar was ranked first while Sat Paul Mittal School and BCM Senior Secondary School in Sector 32, Chandigarh road, bagged the second and third position respectively.Among hospitals, CMC hospital bagged the first position, while Fortis Hospital and Civil Hospital were ranked at second and third position respectively.In the government offices category, the office of District Defence Welfare was ranked first, Central Post Office stood at second and Employee Provident Fund Organisation third.Manav Jeewan Adarsh Sewa Society was ranked first in the resident welfare associations category, while Guru Ramdas Co Society and Silver Kunj Development Society have been ranked second and third respectively.Park Plaza won the first prize in the hotels’ category, while Hotel Regal Blu and Hotel Maharaja Regency bagged second and third positions respectively.MC Community Development Officer, Maheshwar Singh said, “Certificates and awards will be provided to the management of respective organisations/management in the coming days.”MC officials said the competitions carried 70 marks under the yearly Swachh Survekshan.Ludhiana was ranked 34th among 47 cities with a population of over 10 lakh in the Swachh Survekshan 2020. However, it bagged the “best big city in innovation and best practices” award. MC fails to scoreWhile the civic body is taking up Swachh Bharat Mission activities in the city, the civic body has failed to bag any award in the competition among the government offices. The office of District Defence welfare has bagged the first prize under this category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-ranks-institutions-offices-hospitals-hotels-on-cleanliness/story-jLdHJt0vlqheXp5cxmz0bM.html
26-11-2020||City||ETT recruitment exam: Over 3,618 candidates to appear at 11 centres in Ludhiana||With many schools grappling with a shortage of teachers, the state government has decided to take the examination for recruitment of ETT (Elementary Teacher Training) teachers on November 29, to enroll 2,364 teachers.In Ludhiana, over 3,618 candidates are expected to take the examination at 11 centres amid precautions. The examination will be conducted from 10 am to 11.40 am. To maintain social distance, candidates will be accommodated in a room at a distance of 2m. The candidate will be allowed to enter the examination hall at 9.15 am and they must reach the exam centre by 8.30 am. Those reaching the examination hall after 10.30 am will not be allowed to take the exam.The candidate must undergo thermal screening at the entry gate and sanitise their hands. The schools have been asked to get their premises sanitised by Friday. District education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur conducted a virtual meeting with the centre controller and superintendents to brief them regarding their duties. She said, “School principals have been asked to make the necessary arrangements and were told to depute their own school staff to conduct the examination. While 22 superintendents and deputy superintendents will be deputed by our department.” Government Senior Secondary School, Sekhewal will accommodate 300 candidates, Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, (350), NM Jain Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar (400), Residential Senior Secondary School for Meritorious (300), Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, PAU (450), Shaheed-E-Azam Sukhdev Thapar Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharata Nagar (400), Government Senior Secondary School, Haibowal Khurd (300), Government Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar Boys (300), Baba Mukand Singh Senior Secondary School, Daba (450), RS Model Senior Secondary School (300), Ramgarhia Senior Secondary School, Boys, Millerganj (68).Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, Navdeep Romana said, “We have made all necessary arrangements and candidates will be accommodated in classrooms by following the directions of the education department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ett-recruitment-exam-over-3-618-candidates-to-appear-at-11-centres-in-ludhiana/story-hkGZbFTDLOwwzHsY7aTWxL.html
26-11-2020||City||Team led by dean of GADVASU’s animal biotechnology college gets patent for invention on bovine rotavirus diagnosis||A team of investigators at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), led by Yashpal Singh Malik, has been granted a patent by the Indian government for an invention on bovine rotavirus diagnosis. Malik is currently serving as dean, College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), Ludhiana. The research work was initiated at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, UP, to come up with effective diagnostics against rotavirus infection in bovines. The team has identified certain synthetic multiple antigenic peptides that can be used to detect the rotavirus infection that causes diarrhoea in newborn and young calves. It is an economically significant disease and has been reported worldwide. Timely diagnosis of this infectious disease can help prevent it and save farmers from further economic losses. GADVASU vice-chancellor Inderjeet Singh congratulated Malik for his contribution to the research work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/team-led-by-dean-of-gadvasu-s-animal-biotechnology-college-gets-patent-for-invention-on-bovine-rotavirus-diagnosis/story-3VreguU4p9XmbDpKCmYIBJ.html
26-11-2020||City||Principal of Christian Medical College, Ludhiana, gets global stroke services award||Jeyaraj D Pandian, principal, Christian Medical College, was conferred with the global stroke services award by the World Stroke Organisation (WSO) for his contribution to the development of stroke care services in India and other developing countries. He is the first Asian to receive this award at the recently concluded joint virtual World Stroke Congress and European Stroke Organisation Conference held in Vienna, Austria. Dr Pandian is also the current vice-president of the WSO. He had chaired the international working group of the world stroke campaign and is a member of several committees in WSO. Dr Pandian developed the Ludhiana urban population-based stroke registry in the year 2013 and, with the department of community medicine at CMC, completed the rural population-based stroke registry two years ago. Dr William Bhatti, director, CMC, said that it was a matter of great honour for CMC, Ludhiana, and the state of Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/principal-of-christian-medical-college-ludhiana-gets-global-stroke-services-award/story-3L6wenUUqZiuJbODUYWzpM.html
26-11-2020||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan man buys, worships banned notes to improve luck on tantric’s advice’: Police||A man arrested by Rajasthan’s Nagaur police with demonetised currency notes revealed during interrogation that a tantric had told him that his financial condition will improve if he worships the banned notes before selling them, officials said on Thursday. Hanuman Singh, 35, was arrested with demonetised notes of Rs 5.20 lakh under section 151 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), said Devi Lal Bishnoi, station house officer of Kuchera police station in Nagaur. “Acting on a tip-off, Singh, a native of Huanumagarh district, was arrested with banned notes of Rs 5.20 lakh, all with face value of Rs 500, on Tuesday night. During questioning, Singh confessed that he had purchased the old currency from a man, Nain Singh Rajpurohit, on Tuesday morning by paying him Rs 1 lakh,” said a police official from Nagaur who didn’t want to be named. The accused told the police that Rajpurohit was also under financial crisis since the demonetisation announced in 2016. “Prima facie investigation reveals that the banned currency was unaccounted that’s why Rajpuorhit had possessed them. After buying the banned notes, the accused was planning to sell them to his relatives in Punjab at Rs 1.50 lakh,” the official said. “Before selling them to relatives at Rs 1.50 lakh, Singh, on the advice of a tantric, was supposed to worship the old notes, so that his financial condition improves. For that Singh had come to a holy place in Nagaur,” the police official added. Also read: Pakistan tries to brush off IOC snub on not discussing KashmirThe tantric had duped Singh worth thousands by telling him that his planetary movements will only change if he worships the banned currencies. “We have informed the Reserve Bank of India, income tax department and other agencies about the recovery of old notes. They have started a probe,” Bishnoi said. The central government had rendered Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes invalid on the midnight of November 8-9 in 2016. The government called the decision a crackdown on black money, terror financing and counterfeit currency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-man-buys-worships-banned-notes-to-improve-luck-on-tantric-s-advice-police/story-j7z8CuNNDmq0qQ7je1XTbI.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||PU to admit NET, JRF, SLET and GATE qualified candidates for MPhil, PhD||With the scrapping of the entrance examination for MPhil and PhD admissions this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University (PU) will only enrol those candidates who have cleared the UGC National Eligibility Test (NET) including the Junior Research Fellowship (JRF), State Level Eligibility Test (SLET) and the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE).Besides this, candidates qualifying other recognised tests for national level scholarship or fellowship conducted at all India level on behalf of national institutions will also be considered. As no entrance exam was conducted this year, the recommendation for PhD enrolments was made by the committee of MPhil and PhD guidelines constituted by PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar.This information was recently communicated by the dean university instructions (DUI) RK Singla to the deans of faculties and heads of teaching departments after the V-C’s approval.Besides this, candidates whose PU-PhD scores are valid will also be admitted for PhD.According to a university official, PU has received over 3,000 applications for PhD admissions this year as against 1,800 applications in 2019.PU has also scrapped the PU-CET (PG) and PU-CET (PG) entrance exams and admitted students on merit. Interestingly, according to University Grants Commission (UGC) recommendations, institutes have to conduct the entrance exam to admit students for the MPhil and PhD programme.UGC’s minimum standards and procedure for award of MPhil and PhD degrees require universities and deemed to be universities to admit MPhil/PhD students through an entrance test conducted at the level of an individual university or an institution deemed to be a university.Parveen Goyal, a member of PU’s PhD guidelines committee, said, “I had suggested that the university should conduct the entrance test in phased manner. Conducting the entrance test would have benefited both teachers and students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pu-to-admit-net-jrf-slet-and-gate-qualified-candidates-for-mphil-phd/story-Js4bWpamDdR1gm8nSgcCfP.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||58-year-old ‘drug queen’ held with 104 vials of banned drugs||A 58-year-old woman from Sector 38, who was arrested on Wednesday with vials of banned drugs, had taken to a path of crime with petty thefts and later came to be known as ‘the drug queen’. Bala was arrested after a complaint by a Chandigarh police patrolling party that she tried to dispose of a polythene bag when stopped for questioning near the Ziri Mandi Chowk close to the Sector 39-D slip road. The bag had 104 vials, including 60 of 2 ml each with Buprenorphine, used for treating drug addiction and 44 injections of 10 ml each with Pheniramine maleate, an antihistaminic agent with moderate sedative properties. Both are combined for use and are banned in the retail market A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against her at the Sector 39 police station. Bala, according to police records, faced 52 cases, of which she has been convicted in 22. A habitual offender, she was involved in burglary, thefts and NDPS cases. She was produced before the court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday. “Bala is one of the biggest drug suppliers in the city, trading in banned substances for more than two decades and is referred to as the drug queen . Every small supplier arrested in city used to get their supplies from her,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP), south. From thief to drug supplierPart of the Sansi community, Bala, who was illiterate, was a mother of four. The first case registered against her was that of burglary in 1992. Involved in residential break-ins till 2004, she was caught with drugs in 2006, police sources say.Bala was introduced to the world of crime by Kamala, a close associate and drug peddler, and the two started committing petty thefts. In 1999 Bala started supplying smack. Though physically challenged, Kamala successfully ran a drug trade which Bala subsequently took over. Sources in the police as well as local courts claimed that she had links with drug dealers in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab, and her family members were involved in the illegal trade too.All deals were reportedly struck over the phone. Bala had established connections in the city’s discotheques and had upmarket clients who remained in constant touch with her on the phone. Over the years, she had hired youngsters to act as her couriers, paying them regular salaries, even getting them motorcycles for travel. With her associates in UP, Bala could arrange for drugs such as heroin, cocaine, opium and smack, police sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/58-year-old-drug-queen-held-with-104-vials-of-banned-drugs/story-HhNYeTyK3azZ5505bq4AiJ.html
26-11-2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC directs state govt to file affidavit on Covid-19 preparedness for Mahakumbh 2021||With a large number of pilgrims expected to participate in Mahakumbh 2021, Uttarakhand High Court has directed the state government to file an affidavit before it by December 2 regarding preparations and additional measures taken to check Covid-19 spread during Mahakumbh. The court in its order stated, “In view of the Kumbh mela scheduled to be held on January 21, 2021, it is imperative that additional measures be strictly adopted by the state for the said purpose (checking spread of Covid-19). Hence, in this regard also, the state is directed to file an affidavit to inform the court as to the various measures that have been adopted, especially, for the purposes of the Kumbha mela, scheduled to be held in the year 2021”. The court gave these directions while hearing a bunch of PILs on Wednesday. A copy of the order was made available on Thursday. The PILs have been filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. The HC hears these PILs related to the Covid-19 situation in the state on every Wednesday. Before the epidemic, over 12 crore pilgrims were expected to participate in the four-month-long Mahakumbh mela. However, given the epidemic is still on, authorities are not clear regarding the number of pilgrims who would turn up for the mega congregation now. Also read: India making all effort to resolve border issue with China - Rajnath SinghUttarakhand has so far reported over 72,000 Covid-19 cases while the death toll stands at 1,185. Haridwar district, where the Kumbh is scheduled, has so far reported the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state (11,914). On September 23, the High Court had directed the state government to appoint monitoring committees in all 13 districts of the state to check the condition of treatment facilities for Covid-19 patients in the hospitals, quarantine centres and COVID care centres. The court had directed that these monitoring committees to apprise it about the situation in the state every week. The HC had given these directions while responding to the issue raised by advocate Shiv Bhatt, counsel of Sachdanand Dabral. The schedule for various ritualistic events during Mahakumbh was released a few days ago. Officially, Mahakumbh will begin from January 1 and conclude on April 28. The first Shahi Snaan (royal dip) of Mahakumbh will be held on March 11 (Shivratri), second on April 12 (Somwati Amavasya) and the third on April 14 (Baisakhi Mesh Poornima). On November 24, amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Uttarakhand government stated that it was planning to allow pilgrims to attend Mahakumbh only after undergoing a Covid-19 test. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, while reviewing the Mahakumbh preparations, said, “It is our responsibility to ensure that pilgrims are able to take holy bath safely amid this pandemic. For that, a mechanism should be made to allow only those pilgrims who have undergone a Covid-19 test and test negative”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/uttarakhand-hc-directs-state-govt-to-file-affidavit-on-covid-19-preparedness-for-mahakumbh-2021/story-3DSwGVSHybWtZ5FoQuYv3H.html
26-11-2020||City||Pune district reports 978 positive cases, 9 deaths on Thursday||Pune: Pune district reported 978 positive cases and nine deaths on Thursday due to Covid-19, as per the state health department. The number takes the progressive positive count to 349,792. Of these total cases, 323,559 have recovered, 7,346 were declared dead and 18,887 are active cases. While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 443 fresh positives taking the total Covid count to 178,979, and three deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the death toll to 4,174. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 227 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 88,118 and three deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening which took the death tally to 1,248. Pune rural reported 308 fresh positives taking the total Covid cases to 82,695 and three deaths in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening. The death toll is 1,891. Pune district virus cases Covid-19 cases: 349,792 Recovered patients: 323.559 Deaths: 7,346 Active cases: 18,887 New cases: 978 New deaths: 9||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-district-reports-978-positive-cases-9-deaths-on-thursday/story-Fq2Ai7y6FaUSPlEjCDJIGJ.html
26-11-2020||City||Fire in Delhi slums, no one hurt||New Delhi: A fire broke out at a slum cluster in Kirti Nagar early Thursday, gutting as many as 50 hutments and leaving hundreds of occupants homeless. Firefighters said while no one was injured in the incident, multiple cooking gas cylinder explosions made firefighting a tough task.According to Delhi Fire Service (DFS) offers, the fire was reported at about 12.45 am. Atul Garg, director, DFS, said initially eight fire tenders were sent but as the blaze grew, four more were sent to contain it.“The occupants managed to escape to a safer place. It took us at least two hours to control the blaze while cooling operations continued till morning. There were at least 5-6 explosions in LPG cylinders being used by the residents. This made our job riskier but no one was hurt,” Garg said.While the exact cause of the fire remained unknown, a senior official said it probably started from a heater or a brazier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fire-in-delhi-slums-no-one-hurt/story-tg3QaDRt4ACAWPS4TiaW8H.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi’s daily Covid toll continues to remain below 100; 5,475 new cases logged||Delhi on Thursday registered 5,475 new coronavirus (Covid-19) infections and 91 related deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state’s health department bulletin. The total 551,262 cases include 38,734 active cases, over 500,000 recoveries and 8,811 deaths, it added. This is the second consecutive day the daily fatalities due to Covid-19 remained below the 100-mark. On Wednesday, Delhi had logged 99 deaths which had pushed the overall toll to over 8,700. The coronavirus positivity rate went up to 8.65 per cent on Thursday from 8.49 per cent on Wednesday. Official data stated the national capital saw 2,364 deaths since October 28, when daily cases crossed 5,000 for the first time. Experts attributed this spike in deaths due to late hospital admissions leading to cases turning critical, shortage of ICU beds and unfavourable weather and rising pollution levels.  Delhi reported 5,475 new #COVID19 cases, 4,937 recoveries, and 91 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to Delhi Health DepartmentTotal cases: 5,51,262Total recoveries: 5,03,717Active cases: 38,734Death toll: 8,811 pic.twitter.com/sxJMIsBPEGState health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said Delhi reported the ‘least fatality per million’ population among all four metro cities in India. Meanwhile, a total of 63,266 tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours which comprised 28,897 RT-PCR tests and 34,369 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin showed. Also Read: Covid-19 situation in Capital alarming, says Delhi high courtJain on Thursday pointed out the testing capacity had reached the saturation level adding that laboratories were finding it tough to release results of all RT-PCR tests within a day’s time. “The testing has reached the saturation level… Many people now say they were tested just two to three days ago,” Jain told news agency PTI.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-s-daily-covid-toll-continues-to-remain-below-100-5-475-new-cases-logged/story-LB4M11q9BnMNEcIX4SJipL.html
26-11-2020||Bhopal||‘Love jihad’ funded by foreign nations, conspiracy against India: MP Minister||Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh) [India], November 26 (ANI): Amid the uproar over ‘love jihad’, Madhya Pradesh cabinet minister Arvind Bhadoria on Thursday said love jihad and religious conversions were being funded by foreign countries and termed it a conspiracy against India.“Love-Jihad and religious conversions are being funded by foreign countries. It’s a big conspiracy against India. Targets are given saying they will give money to marry Hindu girls. There should be a detailed probe by Home Ministry into such funding and action should be taken against culprits,” Arvind Bhadoria told ANI. “Madhya Pradesh government is bringing a strict law on ‘Love Jihad’. The women who were exploited in the garb of it and abandoned later should be rehabilitated. Unless strong laws are not brought the menace of Love Jihad will continue,” he added.Madhya Pradesh government has proposed a maximum punishment of 10 years for so-called ‘Love Jihad’-related offences, in its new ordinance. With this, the state government has doubled the jail term in its proposed Freedom of Religion Bill 2020. It had earlier proposed a five-year jail term.Under this new proposed ordinance, there will be a provision of punishment of up to 5 years for the religious leaders, Qazi or Maulvi who have preformed religious conversion before submitting the application. The complaint of conversion and forced marriage can be made by the victim, parents, family or guardian.While addressing a public rally in Umaria district on Wednesday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had said: I will not allow ‘Love-Jihad’ on the soil of Madhya Pradesh at any cost.A day earlier, Yogi Adityanath Cabinet cleared the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, proposing a maximum punishment of 10 years for ‘love jihad’-related offences.The Union Home Ministry on February 4 this year clarified that the term ‘love jihad’ is not defined under the existing laws and no such case has been reported so far. No such case was reported by any of the central agencies yet.However, two cases from Kerala involving inter-faith marriages have been investigated by the National Investigation Agency, according to the Home Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/love-jihad-funded-by-foreign-nations-conspiracy-against-india-mp-minister/story-tQNBwKIHcLtYa8KbJXGQ1N.html
26-11-2020||City||SPPU affiliated colleges to reopen in January first week||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and its affiliated colleges are making preparations to resume classes. The Pune varsity administration held a meeting with college principals, department heads and institute owners recently. All agreed to strictly follow Covid protocols. The administration will seek the say of parents and students before taking a decision to reopen colleges. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said that classes may resume from January first week next year. The University Grants Commission (UGC) on November 5 issued guidelines regarding restarting of colleges under universities. SPPU organised a two-day interaction programme with principals of various affiliated colleges from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts recently to chalk out future plans. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar attended the event. “In the first session, principals of colleges running professional courses were called for interaction and those teaching non-professional courses were covered in the second session. We discussed many issues, including the dates to restart colleges, safety of students and how to take classroom lectures. All agreed to resume classes by following all necessary Covid safety precautions,” said Prof Karmalkar. According to SPPU V-C, closing down of colleges due to Covid pandemic have affected those pursuing professional courses like engineering, pharmacy, architecture and MBA as it requires practical classes. Keeping institutes closed for extended period may cause these students to lose an academic year. “We will need to teach in both online and offline modes to cover the subjects. Suggestions from parents and students regarding restarting of colleges will be sought through Google forms,” Karmalkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sppu-affiliated-colleges-to-reopen-in-january-first-week/story-RYi2nHG1TkKfcpRpuvEifI.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Skeleton of elephant, unidentified animal found at metro construction site near Mandai||The skeleton of an elephant, estimated to be around 200-300 years old as per officials, and an unidentified animal has been found at the metro construction site near Mandai.The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation (Maha-Metro) is carrying out the construction work for a metro station near Mahatma Phule Mandai. During digging, labourers found the skeletons on Wednesday. Maharashtra Metro Rail public relations officer Hemant Sonawane, said, “We have requested the archaeology department and Deccan College officials to visit the site. We have even given in principle approval to take these skeletons for further study.”Sachin Joshi, a researcher at Deccan College from the archaeology department, said, “I visited the spot on Thursday afternoon. Earlier, we were briefed that the skeletons were found at a depth of 10 metres, but it was around three metres deep. So, it might be around 200-300 years old. The fossil had not formed yet which means that they are around 300 years old and might be from the Peshwa era.”Joshi added, “Hatti Mahal is located near Subhansa Durga which is very close to this place. Elephants use to stay there. One skeleton is of an elephant. We have requested the metro authority to handover these skeletons to the Deccan College for further study and they have given their approval for it.”“One of our senior scientists said that fifty years ago, the skeleton of an elephant was found near Aryaneshwar. The Deccan College had been invited to study the skeletons that time as well,” Joshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/skeleton-of-elephant-unidentified-animal-found-at-metro-construction-site-near-mandai/story-rRmB17shQ0SyRjQUsWQsuO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Farmer’s agitation: Delhi Metro services from neighbouring cities to remain suspended on Friday||Officials on Thursday said that the Delhi Metro services from neighbouring cities to the state would remain suspended on Friday due to the ‘Delhi Chalo’ protest march organised by farmers against the central government’s farm laws, according to news agency PTI. They however pointed out that metro would be available from Delhi towards the National Capital Region (NCR) sections. “Update for tomorrow (Friday). As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice.” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted. Earlier, restrictions from metro coaches going from Delhi to NCR were lifted after 2pm while incoming trains remained suspended. Also Read: Farmers on Delhi Chalo march face water cannons, push through Haryana barricadesThousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana continued to head towards Delhi to protest against the new agricultural reforms introduced by the Centre in September. Heavy security was deployed at the Rohtak-Jhajjar border, Singhu border and several areas. Earlier, police officials used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse the protesting farmers as they tried to break through the barricades at Sadopur border in Ambala. Similar situation was witnessed at the Shambhu border between Punjab and Haryana. Update for tomorrow (27.11.2020)As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice.Meanwhile, long traffic jams were seen at the Singhu border, Delhi-Gurugram and Kalindi Kunj near Delhi-Noida border due to the security checks as protests took a violent turn. Also Read| Farmers don’t want to begin campaign under any political flag: SAD chiefGaurav Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North), Delhi told news agency ANI that no farmer groups were moving towards Delhi at present adding that the staff was placed on high alert and all vehicles were being checked to ensure no farmer enters the national capital. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmer-s-agitation-delhi-metro-services-from-neighbouring-cities-to-remain-suspended-on-friday/story-VqCmANq72JuDwHtDl27rYK.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||HP police collect ₹1.19 crore in fines for Covid safety violations||Shimla  Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March till November, when a fresh spurt has been reported, the Himachal Pradesh police have collected ₹1.19 crore in fines from people not wearing masks or disregarding social distancing rules in public places. A decision to double the fines from ₹500 to ₹1,000 was taken at a cabinet meeting on November 12.About 30,340 people were fined for not following safety norms and spitting in public places, most of them in marketplaces or travelling in cars without wearing masks. Kullu leads, with ₹28. 37 lakh collectedKullu police collected the maximum amount of ₹28. 37 lakh, followed by Una with ₹19.10 lakh and Chamba with ₹11.74 lakh. The “maximum number of violators were locals, followed by tourists, who did not wear masks while travelling,” said Kullu superintendent of police Gaurav Singh .A strict watch was being maintained on tourists as their numbers were increasing during the festive season, he said. Kangra police collected₹11.31 lakh while in other districts the amount was below ₹10 lakh. Una, which shared a border with Punjab, had maximum violations, with more than 7,758 persons fined for not wearing masks, most of them industrial labourers, truck drivers and interstate travellers. On renewed efforts to combat the Covid-19 surge, director general of police Sanjay Kundu said, “Police is always at its best role. We will again put our best step forward in the fight against the pandemic.” People were not just fined, but masks were also distributed for their safety, he added.1,200 police personnel tested positive Even as policemen were struggling to enforce standard operating procedures strictly, 1,200 of them in frontline duty were infected. Most of the personnel were from the third battalion, with 108 cases and the Police Training Centre in Kangra with 18 affected. Shimla district, with 109 cases, was among the fourth worst affected districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hp-police-collect-1-19-crore-in-fines-for-covid-safety-violations/story-tE3BSDZPnQl7R1amc2wHDM.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cong slams CM for using water cannons, tear gas to stop farmers march||Haryana Congress leaders on Thursday slammed the Manohar Lal Khattar government for using water cannons and tear gas on farmers moving towards Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws, saying the BJP-led dispensation should exercise restraint and hold talks with the protesters.Senior Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the farmers have the right to protest peacefully and by using water cannons and tear gas to stop their march, the state government is trying to muzzle their voice. Speaking to reporters in Rohtak, Hooda said the government should not try to suppress the voice of the farmers. “Water cannons were used against the farmers... The government should exercise restraint and hold talks with the agitating farmers and try to find a solution,” Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, said. When the three farm laws were being framed, I had said that the Centre should bring a fourth law making it a punishable offence if anyone makes a crop purchase below the Minimum Support Price (MSP), he said. Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja alleged that the Centre has tried to break the backbone of the farmers by enacting the three “anti-agriculture black laws”. “Now, when the farmers are peacefully protesting against these laws, they are not being allowed to do that either. The government has always tricked the farmers and today the government is not even giving them a chance to speak,” she said. “On the contrary, they are putting them in jails, using water cannons and tear gas on them,” she added. In a statement, Selja, a former Union Minister, also said the government should rollback the “black farm laws” and frame a law guaranteeing MSP for farmers. Congress chief spokesperson and former Haryana Minister Randeep Singh Surjewala said the farmers had “full support” of the party. Earlier, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had lashed out at the BJP-led government in Haryana, saying the use of “brute force” against the farmers is “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”.Haryana had earlier announced to completely seal its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state for their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march against the Centre’s farm laws on November 26-27. The Haryana Police on Thursday used water cannons and tear gas to disperse farmers from Punjab at the Shambhu inter-state border who allegedly broke through police barricades to enter Haryana. Protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for dismantling of the MSP, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates. The government has maintained that farm laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-cong-slams-cm-for-using-water-cannons-tear-gas-to-stop-farmers-march/story-NwF563r6cV1CH5GeMpUfkO.html
26-11-2020||Dehradun||Over 100 guests to be tested after Uttarakhand groom tests positive for Covid-19||A newly married couple in Chera village of Uttarakhand was isolated by Pithoragarh district administration late on Wednesday night as the groom learnt he was Covid-19 positive in the middle of his wedding ceremony. Pankaj Chandola, Pithoragarh tehsildar said that the groom had returned from Delhi four days ago to attend his wedding and gave his samples for testing in Champawat district before going to his village. “By the time we got his Covid-19 report, the wedding ceremony had already started. We immediately reached the spot with the report and isolated the bride and groom along with other relatives. Both of them are asymptomatic as of now but if they develop symptoms then they will be moved to the district Covid hospital,” said Chandola. Also read: Metro services from NCR to Delhi suspended till further orders - DMRCMeanwhile, the district administration is now conducting tests for all those who attended the wedding as a precautionary measure and the guests have also been isolated. Around a hundred people attended the wedding. In a similar case, on Monday, a 26-year-old man in Bageshwar district was hospitalised just before leaving for bride’s home to tie the knot as he tested positive for Covid-19. The 26-year-old from Garur village in Bageshwar district had returned from Mumbai last Thursday and was scheduled to get married on Monday. Uttarakhand has so far reported over 72,000 Covid-19 cases with over 66,000 patients recovering successfully. With the onset of winter, the state government is working on increasing testing to curb the spread of the Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/over-100-guests-to-be-tested-after-uttarakhand-groom-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-xYwBcavVZXW1QuiMePNlsK.html
26-11-2020||Patna||Bihar Assembly Speaker can now nominate members to senates of state universities||The Bihar Legislative Assembly on Thursday empowered the Speaker to nominate members to the senate of the state universities, including agriculture universities, Bihar state homoeopathic board, state council for Ayurvedic and Unani medicine, Bihar land commission, Bihar state madrasa shiksha board and Bihar state Sanskrit shiksha board.Parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary moved the resolution in the House, which was passed. Of the 10 senate members to be nominated from the Vidhan Sabha to the senate of each state university, one each will be from the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe, while three will be from the other backward classes.In the state agriculture universities, seven members each will be nominated, while two members will be nominated to the homoeopathic board and three to the council for Ayurvedic and Unani medicine. There will be five members nominated to the land commission.Also read: Metro services from NCR to Delhi suspended till further orders - DMRCBesides, there will be two members each nominated to the Bihar state madrasa shiksha board and Bihar state Sanskrit shiksha board. Two members will be nominated to the state level coordination committee under the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection and Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995.In the universities, the Governor, as well as the state government, also nominate members to the senate, the key body for governance of the institutions. It also includes formers vice-chancellors and former principals. Another important body in the state universities is the syndicate, which includes vice-chancellor, pro-vice-chancellor, representatives of the chancellor and the government, elected representatives from the senate, besides two principals and head of the departments each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/bihar-assembly-speaker-can-now-nominate-members-to-senates-of-state-universities/story-ZcuOZiCHPYitxVUE7sY7EJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi-NCR commuters bear brunt of suspended Metro services||Metro commuters travelling across border, from or to Delhi, faced problems on Thursday morning with the Delhi Metro restricting its routes that lead to the neighbouring states in the wake of the farmers calling for a “Dilli Chalo” march. The two-day protest is against the Centre’s recently passed farm bills. The restriction on trains going from Delhi towards National Capital Region (NCR) were lifted after 2pm while incoming trains remained suspended till further orders, officials said.Delhi Metro also operates in parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh that share border with the Capital. On Wednesday, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) decided to stop regular services between several stations on seven of its corridors during the first half of Thursday due to the farmers’ rally. This was done on the request of the Delhi Police to avoid overcrowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | Farmers’ protest: Police use water cannon, tear gas on protesters near Delhi-Haryana borderThe move left a number of passengers stranded, forcing them to either book a cab, take e-rickshaw or a three wheeler for their onward journey.Greater Noida resident Vivek Rana, who stays in GTB Nagar and is preparing for civil services, said he was stranded at Mayur Vihar Extension Metro station as there was no service beyond New Ashok Vihar for those wanting to go to Noida.“I had to book a bike ride because cabs were costly. Had I been aware that the situation is so bad, I wouldn’t have come. Even cab drivers are apprehensive in crossing the border because of the heavy police presence,” he said.Likewise, Sanjeev Kumar Jha, 49, a visiting faculty and industrial consultant, who travels everyday for work from Dwarka, Sector 9, to Noida, Sector 15, by Delhi Metro, said, “Today, I had to get down at New Ashok Nagar and then take an e-rickshaw to reach my office in Sector 5. Initially, when we boarded the train, it was supposed to go till Noida, Sector 16, but on the way, the operators announced that it will terminate at New Ashok Nagar only.”Another passenger who had to reach Noida, Sector 168, said when he got off at Mayur Vihar Extension Metro station, he booked two cabs but both cancelled the rides as no one wanted to cross border. “It was only after being stranded for almost an hour that I managed to persuade a cab driver to drop me,” said the commuter who said he works at the UNICEF, but did not wish to be named.E-rickshaw drivers and auto drivers plying near Metro stations, however, got lucky as they had plenty of passengers willing to go to Noida, many of these getting off at New Ashok Nagar and Mayur Vihar Metro stations. Ratan Singh , a 40-year-old auto driver, said the first drop he got in the morning was at Noida, Sector 18. “We don’t get such passengers because Metro has direct connectivity. Some even got far off drops. There’s a lot of police at the border. They stop us, look inside before letting us go. Some vehicles are stopped to enquire where they’re going and who are they ferrying,” Singh added.“From 2 pm onwards, Metro services were available from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from NCR sections to Delhi still continue to remain suspended due to security reasons till further notice,” read the statement issued by the DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-ncr-commuters-bear-brunt-of-suspended-metro-services/story-tIvglJzNaWK8oqZObWshxK.html
26-11-2020||Pune||MSTB acts against private buses charging exorbitant fares||The Maharashtra State Transport Board has taken strict action against as many as 69 private bus players for overcharging and fleecing passengers during the Diwali festival. The action against illegal transport and overcharging was undertaken since November 13 wherein 2,195 buses were checked among which 375 were found guilty of violations. The transport department collected Rs 5.69 lakh as aggregate fine. Transport commissioner Avinash Dakanethe had ordered the crackdown. Dakanethe said, “The action has been taken as the transport department had received several complaints against overcharging and harassment of passengers by private players. Actions like these send a strong message to the wrong doers.” Transport activist Shashidhar Ghule believes actions like this need to be taken regularly as private profiteering has been happening all through the year. “The violators do not fear the law and have become emboldened over the years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/mstb-acts-against-private-buses-charging-exorbitant-fares/story-poRORwXVQu4Uyme4pxIamJ.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Indapur police arrest seven for illegal fishing in Ujani dam waters||In a major crackdown on illegal fishing in Ujani dam backwaters, the Indapur police arrested seven persons and seized 48 sacks of dry fish from their possession. Public Works Department (PWD) sub-divisional officer Sanjay Narayan Mete lodged an official complaint in this regard. The accused arrested have been identified as Naryan Asaram Banare (43), Rohidas Daule Banare (21), Akash Naryan Banare (20), Laxman Naryan Banare (23), Vilas Narayan Banare (19), Vitthal Kantilal Gavhane (23), Balasaheb Vasant Chitare (38), Eknath Baliram Vichare (32). All the seven accused are Indapur-based residents. The total seizure of fish is estimated to be worth Rs 6.02 lakh, according to police. Indapur police station in-charge Naryan Sarangkar said that they intercepted a jeep at around 3pm near Akluj bypass near Saraswati nagar based on a tip-off from an informer and sought documents like a license to sell fish from them. “The accused were evasive and were immediately taken into custody. During their custodial interrogation, they said they were fishing in the dam waters. Our investigation revealed that fishing is banned in the area and it was a cognisable offence,” Sarangkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/indapur-police-arrest-seven-for-illegal-fishing-in-ujani-dam-waters/story-br4dAAKesEbbeEzqhXTDXP.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Kidnapped child returned to parents in Hadapsar||A one-year-old child, who was kidnapped by two women on Monday morning, was returned to her mother on Wednesday morning. The child had been kidnapped from a makeshift home belonging to a roadside toyseller residing under the Gadital flyover in Hadapsar.The child’s mother Sharmili Kale (22) had lodged a complaint with the Hadapsar police stating that some unidentified persons entered her house at 5am on Monday and took the child, while all the family members were asleep. The police had been searching for the missing child and special teams were formed to nab the suspects.The police scanned the close circuit television (CCTV) footage at the location, but to no avail. They had also received some information that two women were seen with the child in the area by some informers. Police inspector Balkrushna Kadam said that the parents informed the police that their some unidentified persons came to their residence on Wednesday morning, left the child in the house and fled. “We are looking for the suspects and they will be arrested soon. The woman had telephoned the police that the child was returned during the wee hours by the kidnappers ,” he said.In a similar incident, on November 18, a four-month-old baby girl was kidnapped in Hadapar after which the police had launched a manhunt and arrested a woman in the case. The child’s mother Manju Devidas More (22), a resident of Loni in Ahmednagar, had been involved in a quarrel with her husband and subsequently lodged a complaint against him with Loni police. She later decided to go to her native place in Satara and boarded a state transport bus from Ahmednagar to Satara. During the trip, Manju met a woman.Manju informed her that she had quarrel with her husband and when they reached Swargate Bus Stand, the woman requested Manju to come to her house. The two women then went to a local hotel for snacks in Hadapsar. Manju handed over her baby to the woman and asked her to hold it for sometime. Taking advantage of her absence, the woman fled with the baby .Manju on her return found the baby missing and lodged a police complaint with the Pune police. The detection branch found the woman with the kidnapped baby in Manjri area. The accused arrested has been identified as Aruna Rajendra Pawar (36), who is a resident of Mundhwa. Considering such cases, the Hadapsar police have tightened their surveillance in the area and requested parents to exercise extreme caution while dealing with strangers and also be vigilant about their children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/kidnapped-child-returned-to-parents-in-hadapsar/story-dfDwYuEekG4D5lK1w1DBHP.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Number of prisoners released on parole in Maha falls, furlough figure rises||The latest Maharashtra state prisons department annual report shows that that the number of convicts let off on parole has gone down by almost half the number released in 2016-2017. In 2018-2019, only 520 inmates were released on parole compared to 719 in 2017-2018 and 1,028 in 2018-2019. The Yerawada Central Jail houses 5,563 prisoners, the highest number of inmates in state prisons. The occupancy rate in state prisons has surged to 148% as compared to previous year. The jail report states that the number of prisoners released on parole has dived post strengthening of rules. It states that 20 prisoners released on furlough have not returned during the past one year. The convicts are given two types of leaves — parole and furlough. Furlough is a right of the prisoner. On completion of a requisite tenure in the jail, a prisoner is entitled to be released on furlough subject to condition of demonstrated good behaviour before the prison authorities. However, granting parole is within the powers of the divisional commissioner of the region where the jail is located. During the last three years, the number of prisoners released on parole has dwindled. During 2015-2016, 1,502 convicts were granted parole while in 2018-2019, only 502 prisoners were released on parole. During the current year, five prisoners released on parole escaped, while in 2015, the figure was 84. Out of 1,757 prisoners released on furlough during 2017-2018, 21 escaped. During 2018-2019, 2,707 prisoners were released on furlough and 15 of them had escaped. The observation of director general (prisons department) mentioned in the report states: “The prisons and corrections department is playing an important role in rehabilitation of a convict by inculcating good habits through corrective measures. The department through its officers is taking collective efforts in ensuring that a conducive environment for the welfare and growth of prisoners is created inside the prisons across the state. At the same time, professional work is being done to main the highest jail standards as mandated by the government”. Cases behind bars Of the 135 prisoner deaths in the state in 2018-19 due to diseases, 16 were reported in Yerawada jail and 24 in Nashik prison Year Parole Furlough 2018-2019 520 2,207 2017-2018 719 1,757 2016-2017 1,028 2,100||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/number-of-prisoners-released-on-parole-in-maha-falls-furlough-figure-rises/story-hwuqk8MoOXHaEkkFJ21ZqN.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Central and state properties in city owe Rs 91 crore in taxes to Pune civic body||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) which has been under severe cash crunch due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is now urging citizens to pay up their pending property tax. The civic body has also offered lucrative schemes of up to 80 per cent off on the penalty on pending property tax under the ‘Abhay Yojana’. However, this scheme is not applicable to government institutes which owe about Rs 91 crore in property tax to the civic body. As per the PMC’s property tax department, the central government has about 92 properties in the city for which it pays taxes to the civic body and these properties owe about 23.85 crore. Of these for the current year 2020-2021, the PMC received about 2.44 crore from 47 properties while about 60 properties still owe Rs 21.41 crore in property tax to the civic body. However, the state government owes Rs 76.32 crores in property tax from its 330 properties. Of them, only 180 properties have paid a total of Rs 6 crore in taxes and Rs 70.32 crore is pending from over 200 properties for the ongoing year. According to Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner in charge of the department, the PMC property tax department has been asked to take action even against government departments who have defaulted on the property tax. “We have even asked them to take action including sealing the properties but only depending on the department. However, due to ongoing elections we will be taking decisions based on the department for example if it is a law enforcement department then we would probably give more extension,” Khemnar said. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC is considering the situation of the finances of a department and then taking necessary action. “Similarly ,for private properties too if a firm has been a regular tax payer but could not pay taxes this year due to the pandmice then we would be considerate about that too,” Khemnar said. The civic body has sealed about 55 properties for defaulting property tax payment as the due tax amount surpassed more than Rs 50 lakh. Most of the properties sealed are commercial properties from across the city. The PMC collected Rs 1077.82 crore in property tax from over 6.70 lakh taxpayers in Pune from April 1, 2020. Last year, the PMC managed to collect only Rs 976 crore in the same duration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/central-and-state-properties-in-city-owe-rs-91-crore-in-taxes-to-pune-civic-body/story-ZWoEfpTNoKWp3QmT7ivcEN.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers on Delhi Chalo march face water cannons, push through Haryana barricades||Haryana farmers removed barricades and made their way through trucks parked on the bridge near Karna Lake, 5km from Karnal town, to resume their Delhi Chalo march despite police using tear gas and water cannons to stall their progress on Thursday. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said another attempt to stop the farmers will be made at Gharaunda. Police used water cannons and tear gas shells to disperse protesting farmers headed to Delhi as they tried to break through barricades at Sadopur border in Ambala. The farmers were seen resisting the police, trying to break and drag the barricades at the Sadopur following which police had to use deterrent action to control the situation. Watch | Police use water cannon, tear gas on agitating farmers near Delhi-Haryana border Angry farmers threw stones at security forces deployed to control the crowd at the Shambhu border.  #WATCH Haryana: Police use water cannon & tear-gas shells in Karnal to disperse farmers from Punjab heading towards Delhi.Security increased further at Delhi-Karnal Highway as farmers intensify their protest by trying to break through barricades & move towards Delhi. pic.twitter.com/5xyCelzRWcJAMS LEAVE COMMUTERS HIGH AND DRY Thousands of vehicles, especially trucks and buses, remained stranded on National Highway-44 as the police blocked a stretch of 15km near Karnal and diverted traffic from the highway that connects Haryana, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir with the national capital. Traffic was diverted on the Ramba-Indri-Karnal link road. “We have been stuck for the past 15 hours and don’t know how long will it take for us to get moving,” said Satpal Singh, a truck driver headed for Ludhiana. Heavy vehicles, including army convoys, were stuck on the highway near Ambala Cantonment. The vehicles were seen lined up for several kilometres. Ambala superintendent of police Rajesh Kalia said that diversion of heavy vehicles could have led to traffic jams in towns, hence they were lined up along the highway. PROTEST COINCIDES WITH CONSTITUTION DAY Farmers have given the Delhi Chalo call to coincide with Constitution Day to protest the Centre’s new farm laws. While the government says the three laws will do away with middlemen, enabling farmers to sell their produce in the commercial markets, protesters fear that this could lead to the government not buying produce at guaranteed prices, thereby disrupting their timely payments. READ MORE Amarinder slams Khattar for using brute force against farmers marching towards Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-farmers-on-delhi-chalo-march-cross-karnal-hurdle/story-FuqtQ9YjF7nBeXuchSis4I.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Two injured as containers collide on Pune-Bengaluru highway||Two container vehicles coming from opposite directions collided on the Pune-Bengaluru highway near Swami Narayan temple at 3 am on Wednesday.According to police, two people have been injured in the accident and six cars have been damaged which piled up onto each other following the accident. No casualties were reported in the accident.The drivers of the containers have been identified as Dnyansagar Natarayan ( 35), a resident of Chennai and Dhanush Selvam ( 35), a resident of Tamil Nadu. Police have booked Selvam on charges of rash and negligent driving.The injured has been identified as car driver Gokarnlal Malik Ram ( 29), a resident of Wadgaonsheri and the second injured it yet to be identified, said police.Devidas Gheware, incharge, Sinhagad police station rushed to the spot and summoned the fire brigade officials to remove the victims who were stuck in the damaged vehicles.“The accident took place in quick succession before the respective vehicle drivers realised what was happening. We have booked the container driver for endangering lives of other commuters using the road,” he said.Prashant Ranpise, chief, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire brigade, said, “Two persons were stuck in the cars as the vehicles piled up in the accident. Our team rushed with the necessary equipment and gears and first aid was administered. No casualties were reported in the accident.”“Initially the mangled remains were removed from the spot and the highway was opened for traffic within thirty minutes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/two-injured-as-containers-collide-on-pune-bengaluru-highway/story-nqCGCdv1b1tV6Vxrx9EyZL.html
26-11-2020||City||Last rites of former Assam CM Tarun Gogoi conducted in Guwahati with state honours||The last rites of veteran Congress leader and former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi were conducted with full state honours on Thursday in Guwahati, three days after he passed away due to post-Covid-19 complications. Gogoi’s son, Gaurav Gogoi, a Congress MP from Assam, lit the funeral pyre at the Nabagraha crematorium in the presence of thousands of the late leader’s supporters, dignitaries and party workers with a 21 gun-salute. Gogoi’s wife Dolly Gogoi, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal, several senior ministers, senior bureaucrats, police officers and Congress in-charge for Assam Jitendra Singh were present on the occasion. The 84-year-old passed away on Monday at Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) after battling Covid-19 and complications related to the disease for nearly three months. Also Read: Tarun Gogoi: The man who brought peace and growth to AssamOn Thursday morning, Gogoi’s body was taken from Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra, where it was kept for the public to pay their respects, to his official residence for rituals associated with the last rites. From there it was taken in a procession to a church, a ‘naam-ghar’ (prayer house), a mosque and two temples before the cortege proceeded to the Nabagraha crematorium for the last rites. Gogoi’s mortal remains were placed in a flower-decked vehicle where his son, a few family members and senior leaders of Congress, including state unit president Ripun Bora, were present. Hundreds of people lined the streets along which the procession passed to bid a final adieu to Gogoi, an unprecedented sight in Guwahati. The Assam government had declared a half-day state holiday on Thursday as a mark of respect for Gogoi. A three-day state mourning had been declared on the day of his demise. Gogoi, who served as chief minister for three terms from 2001 to 2016 (Assam’s longest serving chief minister), is credited with ushering peace and stability to the state after two decades of insurgency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/last-rites-of-former-assam-cm-tarun-gogoi-conducted-in-guwahati-with-state-honours/story-7T3ZOe1kF7BmB8C5OfDnnO.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Bharat Bandh: Mumbai unaffected; protests in some parts of Maharashtra||Mumbai largely remained unaffected even as crores of workers supported a nationwide strike called by many organisations protesting against various policies of the BJP-led Central government. Transport and banking services continued smoothly, even as protests were held in some parts of Maharashtra.Vishawas Utagi, convenor of the Jan Andolanachi Sangharsh Samiti (JASS), which spearheaded the strike in Maharashtra, said that protests were held by workers in several parts of the state, with a 23-point demand charter, that includes social security for workers, a national policy for vendors, strengthening the public distribution system, withdrawal of the Central government’s proposed electricity bill and repealing the anti-farmer laws. Also Read: In pictures: Farmer groups vow to continue march towards DelhiOther organisations in the movement included the All India Kisa Sangharsh Samiti, Kamgar Sanghatana Sanyukt Kriti Samiti and Swaraj Abhiyan. Utagi said, “The need of the hour is to formulate policies to support workers at various levels and strengthen the economy.” Milind Sardeshmukh, working president of the state employee’s union, said that the state government employees also supported the movement. “However, owing to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, we asked all employees in the essential departments to continue their work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bharat-bandh-mumbai-unaffected-protests-in-some-parts-of-maharashtra/story-BMowiVRp7IXtUapY0x7lcO.html
26-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Three of a family die after stepbrother allegedly sets house on fire||A man, his wife and teenaged daughter burned to death, while his teenaged son was seriously injured, after the man’s stepbrother allegedly set their house on fire over a property dispute in Madhya Pradesh’s Anuppur district, 656km east of Bhopal, early Thursday, police said. After setting the house on fire, the stepbrother allegedly hanged himself in his room, said ML Solanki, superintendent of police, Anuppur. The injured teenager was rushed to a nearby hospital from where he was referred to the Shahdol district hospital, said the SP. Also Read: 1 dead, 45 injured as bus carrying marriage party overturns in Madhya Pradesh’s UmariaSolanki said the door to the house was found locked from the outside. The deceased man’s brother said, “Our stepbrother had been fighting with my brother over property for a long time. On Wednesday night too, they had a fight over some issue.” “According to villagers, the stepbrother poured kerosene oil on the house and set it on fire around 2am on Thursday. Later, he went to his house and killed himself. The villagers tried to douse the fire and some rushed to nab him, but he was found dead,” said Solanki. Police are investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-three-of-a-family-die-after-stepbrother-allegedly-sets-house-on-fire/story-zXPNf2UZZ7sfcphBici6ZL.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Metro services from NCR to Delhi suspended till further orders: DMRC||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on Thursday said that train services from the National Capital Region (NCR) to Delhi will remain suspended till further orders due to the farmers’ protest. The Metro resumed train services from Delhi to NCR sections after 2pm on Thursday. “From 2pm onwards Metro services are available from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from NCR sections to Delhi still continue to remain suspended due to security reasons till further notice,” read the statement issued by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).Also Read: In pictures: Farmer groups vow to continue march towards Delhi On Thursday, commuters from Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad had a tough time as train services between Delhi and NCR Metro stations on seven corridors were closed till 2pm due to the protest. A DMRC official said, “This has been done on the request of the Delhi Police to avoid overcrowding in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. From morning till 2pm, Metro services on various corridors will be regulated.”But train services between Delhi to NCR stations were resumed after 2pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-metro-services-from-ncr-to-delhi-suspended-till-further-orders-dmrc/story-jPLpsf9rLjmL0bBRVvCytO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes services on Delhi to NCR routes, reverse route yet to reopen||Metro trains services from Delhi to the National Capital Region (NCR), which were suspended till 2pm on Thursday in wake of the ‘Dill Chalo’ farmers’ rally against the new farm laws, have resumed, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said. Services on the reverse route from NCR toward Delhi are yet to resume.DMRC, in a tweet on Thursday, said that the services were suspended at the request of the police to avoid overcrowding. Delhi Police had said on Wednesday that it had rejected requests received from various farmer organisations to protest in the Capital the new farm laws on November 26 and 27.Metro trains did not ply on routes to Noida, Gurugram, Faridabad and Ghaziabad, ie between Delhi and NCR stations on seven corridors. No Metro services were available from Anand Vihar to Vaishali and New Ashok Nagar to Noida City Centre sections during the period. Services between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya Metro stations were also suspended. However, regular services remained available on the entire section of Airport and Rapid Metro Lines.Security at the Delhi-Haryana border was heightened to bar protesters from entering Delhi. Haryana sealed its border with Punjab as farmers from the adjoining state started assembling in big numbers as part of the Delhi Chalo march.The farmers were originally supposed to enter via five routes. However, on being stopped in Karnal, Punjab’s farmer unions changed their strategy of taking only the highways to Delhi. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union, BKU Kadian and Rajewal factions plan to assemble at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur and head towards the Shambhu border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-services-from-delhi-to-ncr-route-reverse-route-yet-to-reopen/story-ZbwtP3EFIJ1trTVErR5KSK.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||In pictures: Farmer groups vow to continue march towards Delhi||Farmers remained undeterred on Thursday and remained adamant that their march towards Delhi to protest the farm bills that were passed during the monsoon session in September. Haryana police officials are currently stationed at the Haryana-Punjab border to prevent farmers from entering Haryana for their Delhi Chalo protest. The interstate border at Shambhu and Karnal witnessed clashes between agitating farmers and Haryana police officials. At Shambhu, protesters and police officials clashed at a bridge over the Ghaggar river. Police officials lobbed tear gas shells and sprayed gusts of water at the protesting farmers. Punjab farmers despite the altercation were able to enter into Haryana through the Shambhu border. Farmers have also broken barricades at Jind and Karnal and have managed to enter Haryana. Police have detained several political leaders who were leading the protests. Haryana police has levelled an attempt to murder charge on Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni. Jhanda Singh Jethuke, vice president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, is holding a peaceful protest at Doomwali barrier on Bathinda-Sirsa amid heavy police presence. Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav was held by police officials at Mokalwas, near Gurugram. Leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have also been arrested by the Delhi Police. Senior SAD leader S. Parminder Singh Dhindsa along with S. Ranjit Singh Talwandi, S. Tejinder Pal Singh Sandhu, S. Amanvir Singh Cheri, S. Manpreet Singh Talwandi, S. Randhir Singh Samura, S. Satgur Singh Namol, S. Gogi Pannawalia and Paramjit Singh Pamma have been arrested by police while they were protesting at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi. SAD, a long-time ally of the BJP, quit the NDA over the passage of farm bills. Chief ministers of Punjab and Delhi have attacked the Centre and Haryana government over the heavy deployment of police officials at border checkpoints in Haryana-Punjab and Delhi-Haryana border. Heavy security has been deployed at Rohtak-Jhajjar border, Singhu border (Delhi-Haryana border), Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Jammu highway near Karna Lake in Karnal. Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singhon Thursday tweeted, “Why is @mlkhattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic & unconstitutional.”He further said, “Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?”Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal also criticised the Centre for not allowing farmers to participate in protests. He tweeted, “The three farm bills of the central government are anti-farmer. Instead of rolling back these bills, farmers are being stopped from staging peaceful protests. Water cannons are being used against them. This is injustice to the farmers. Peaceful protest is their constitutional right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/in-pictures-farmer-groups-vow-to-continue-march-towards-delhi/story-fzQM2gTKBM1Eib01mZzOvI.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Actively considering some kind of curfew, Delhi government tells high court||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that it is “actively considering” imposing some kind of curfew -- either a night curfew or on weekends. The state government was responding to the court which sought to know whether the national Capital is implementing any lockdown in order to check the surge in Covid-19 cases.Senior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the Delhi government, told a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad that even though a decision has not been taken on the imposition of the curfew, it is actively being considered.The court, while hearing a plea by the lawyer by Rakesh Malhotra seeking ramping up of tests in the city, also said that the Delhi government should consider setting up a portal where fines, collected for not adhering to social distancing norms, are deposited with little or no cash transaction.Also read | PM Modi to visit Serum Institute of India in Pune on November 28It said that the portal should have a fixed time frame where the offenders can deposit fine online. It also said that there should be enforcement in wedding parties to check whether the government order of limiting the number of attendees to 50 is being followed.The court said there should be SOPs for banquet halls, adding, “We cannot allow these wedding parties to become super spreaders because this is the season of weddings and similar functions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-actively-considering-some-kind-of-curfew-delhi-government-tells-high-court/story-VS817TR8usD3UOeOj6mION.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MNS launches state-wide protests against inflated bills||The Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) protested against inflated power bills in various parts of the state and at the office of the district collector at Bandra East in Mumbai on Thursday. Following the announcement by state energy minister Nitin Raut that the state will not be providing relief to consumers regarding the inflated bills they received during the lockdown, the MNS threatened to take an aggressive stand on the issue.Also Read: 120 passengers tested for Covid-19 at Mumbai Airport on Wednesday, all negative: OfficialSandeep Deshpande, a former corporator from Mumbai and MNS leader said, “We have made several requests to the government yet there is no respite for the common man. People have lost jobs owing to the pandemic and struggling with daily expenses. The state must provide relief to consumers.” Earlier MNS supremo Raj Thackeray had also met Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari demanding a waiver in the bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mns-launches-state-wide-protests-against-inflated-bills/story-l8bolZV2S9J4XPlvN88COL.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Seven found positive in Noida’s random Covid-19 testing at Delhi border||Seven people coming from Delhi to Noida were found positive for Covid-19 during random tests of 147 people at Gautam Buddh Nagar’s border with the national capital on Wednesday, officials said. The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration had on November 18 started random testing of people coming to Noida from Delhi in view of the spike in coronavirus cases in the national capital. “Health department officials randomly tested 147 people on Wednesday of which seven persons resulted positive for the infection. 57 people were tested at the DND border where three persons were found positive, while 90 people were tested at Hari Darshan border where four persons resulted positive,” according to an official statement.The positivity rate during the random tests in border areas stood at 4.76 per cent, according to the statistics.These random tests for coronavirus were done through the rapid antigen-based technique, officials said. The administration said such tests would continue in the coming days as well at areas bordering Delhi, they added.At the onset of the random sampling, District’s Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri had said if anyone is found positive during the test at the border, they will be sent back to Delhi while those who are Noida or Greater Noida residents coming from Delhi but result in positive will be contained in the district.“Only those testing negative are allowed to enter Noida,” Ohri had said, adding all facilities for test and logistics are available at the borders. According to District Magistrate Suhas L Y, the random testing is being done in order to assess the spread of infection and would help in issuing advisories to employers and organisations, where a large number of people work and commute between Gautam Buddh Nagar and adjacent areas, so that the spread of infection is contained to a large extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/seven-found-positive-in-noida-s-random-covid-19-testing-at-delhi-border/story-tVSmVbXfb4nTf3nnY6fbwO.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Uran fishermen allege indiscriminate destruction of mangroves, oppose JNPT’s park proposal||Alleging that the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) has been indiscriminately destroying mangroves and wetlands in Uran, traditional fishermen have opposed the proposed mangrove park by the country’s largest container port.JNPT last week announced that it had planned to build a 200-hectare (ha) mangrove (eco) park to protect dense mangrove patches and house visiting galleries, mangrove walkthroughs (boardwalks), a nature interpretation centre, and a nursery with rare mangrove species, at Belpada in Uran at a cost of Rs5 crore for the first phase.However, the Paramaparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti (Save Traditional Fishermen’s Action Committee) said the park was planned on buried mangrove forests and wetlands of Belpada. The group wrote to environment minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday, pointing out that the community had lost its age-old source of income due to projects by JNPT that had destroyed their livelihood.“Such plans cannot be tolerated,” said Dilip Koli, a fisherman leader, adding that they had been fishing in inter-tidal waters for decades but instead of protecting the community’s rights, state agencies such as JNPT had put a stop to fishing within their jurisdiction owing to reclamation of natural areas.Also Read: Maharashtra:131 bird nests removed before tree transplantation for Metro Line 4, 4A“This led to a substantial drop in even our fish catch, rendering many fishers penniless even during this difficult pandemic phase,” said Tukaram Koli, another fisher, calling it a violation of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution.In October 2013, fisherman Ramdas Koli had moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT), western bench, against development projects by JNPT that affected the livelihood of residents of Uran, Hanuman Koliwada, Gavhan, and Belpada, with 1,630 families in the area dependent on fishing. In March 2015, in a landmark order, NGT directed JNPT, City Industrial Development Corporation and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation to pay Rs95.19 crore to the 1,630 families within three months. However, the order was stayed by the Supreme Court after state agencies challenged it.“Even the National Human Rights Commission had ruled in our favour after NGT did, yet we continue to suffer,” said Koli.The memorandum to Thackeray further said that while farmers were given titles under 7/12 extract (land extract maintained by the revenue department), fishermen do not get any such title. “Thus we do not get any compensation and lose our source of income when the government acquires land,” said Koli.According to the Raigad district administration, several cases of mangrove destruction were reported between November 2019 and January 2020 from areas under JNPT’s jurisdiction. Around 7,000 mangrove trees (across a 6ha patch with approximately 5,500 trees and a 1.2ha patch with 1,500 trees) were found dried up and destroyed for JNPT’s 4th container terminal project. In November 2019, contractors appointed by JNPT paid a fine of Rs1 lakh to the district administration for destroying 4,550 mangrove trees across 4.5ha for the same project, followed by a case filed before the Panvel court. Subsequently, another 4,000-odd mangrove trees were found destroyed during the expansion of a road leading up to the terminal.Panvel district officer Dattatreya Navale said, “This year we have not received such serious complaints. Complaints received are either false or repetitive from previous years. The plan for the mangrove park is a welcome idea as it will provide security to eco-sensitive zones.”JNPT said they were not aware of the fishing community’s submissions. “The park is purely for the purpose of mangrove protection, safety, and citizen awareness. We remain a socially conscious organisation, committed to the environment, community, stakeholders, employees and the industry,” said a JNPT official, requesting anonymity.Environment group NatConnect Foundation, which had campaigned for the mangrove park, said restoration was key. “JNPT should open blockages, restore tidal water flow, and remove illegally dumped debris at natural areas. They must start respecting mangroves and wetlands and pay for losses so far,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation.“The mangrove park is reprehensible since it is planned on illegally landfilled coastal regulation zone (CRZ-I) areas,” said Nandkumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishthan, the environment group highlighting the fishing community’s demand. “The mangrove ecosystem is unique and it doesn’t require any human intervention. It can protect itself if just left alone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-uran-fishermen-allege-indiscriminate-destruction-of-mangroves-oppose-jnpt-s-park-proposal/story-bxwKyEpe0U4L9qyzKskSnO.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder slams Khattar for using brute force against farmers marching towards Delhi||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday lashed out at the BJP-led government in Haryana for stopping farmers from heading towards Delhi, saying the use of brute force against them is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional. Haryana has sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state for their Delhi Chalo march against the Centre’s farm laws. “Why is @mlkhattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic & unconstitutional,” said Singh in a tweet. He said farmers have been peacefully protesting in Punjab against the farm laws for two months. “Why is Haryana govt provoking them by resorting to force? Don’t the farmers have the right to pass peacefully through a public highway?” Singh asked. ALSO READ Will leave politics if there’s trouble on MSP’: Haryana CM KhattarThe Haryana Police on Thursday used water cannons and tear gas to disperse a group of farmers from Punjab who allegedly tried to jump police barricades to enter Haryana as part of their Delhi Chalo march. The Punjab chief minister said it was a sad irony that the constitutional right of farmers were being oppressed on Constitution Day. “It’s a sad irony that on #ConstitutionDay2020 the constitutional right of farmers is being oppressed in this manner. Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully,” Singh said. He appealed to the BJP to direct the Manohar Lal Khattar led government not to indulge in “strong arm tactics” against the farmers. “Urge @BJP4India to direct their state governments not to indulge in such strong-arm tactics against the farmers. The hands that feed the nation deserve to be held, not pushed aside,” he said. Protesting farmers have expressed fear that the Centre’s farm laws would pave the way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has maintained that farm laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-slams-khattar-for-using-brute-force-against-farmers-marching-towards-delhi/story-jD7MMv0gszcDTNg9HZ1T4I.html
26-11-2020||Bangalore||Cyclone Nivar: IMD issues yellow alert in Karnataka||The ‘very severe’ cyclonic storm Nivar, which is moving towards northwest direction is excepted to turn into a normal cyclonic storm in the South Interior districts of Karnataka, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru said here on Thursday.Bangalore city and neighbourhood are expected to receive light to moderate spells of rain with intermittent heavy spells of rainfall at a few places during the next 48 hours, informed IMD.Meanwhile, Bengaluru urban and rural parts, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Tumakuru, Mandya, and Ramanagara districts of Karnataka are likely to witness moderate spells of rain on November 26. IMD has issued a yellow alert in these areas. “These districts are very likely to experience isolated heavy rainfall on November 26 and November 27,” CS Patil, Director, IMD Bengaluru stated.The coastal areas of Karnataka will witness light to moderate cast of rainfall on November 27, he added.Meanwhile, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday held a meeting with Chief Ministers of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Edappadi Karuppa Palaniswami and V Narayanaswamy respectively and assured all possible help from Centre in the wake of the cyclone.“We are closely monitoring the situation in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry in the wake of Cyclone Nivar. Have spoken to CM Edappadi Karuppa Palaniswami and CM V Narayanaswamy and assured all possible help from the Centre. NDRF teams already on the ground to help people in need,” Amit Shah tweeted. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/cyclone-nivar-imd-issues-yellow-alert-in-karnataka/story-jpiEWBhRDwGHeern6x7v2I.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Police use tear gas, water cannons but fail to stop Punjab farmers from entering state||Punjab farmers braved tear gas and water cannons to break through multi-layered barricades put up by Haryana Police at Shambu barrier, bordering Ambala and Patiala districts, on Thursday afternoon and proceeded on their Delhi Chalo march to protest the Centre’s farm laws. The Haryana Police used water cannons to disperse the farmers, who had gathered in large numbers in tractor-trolleys, when they started removing the concrete barricades. But when that did not deter the defiant farmers, they used tear gas. Though it delayed the crossing over, the farmers were determined to continue their march to the national capital. Amid the tension on the inter-state border, the elderly farmers stayed put in the tractor-trolleys, while youngsters bore the brunt of the police action. HARYANA ACTING AT CENTRE’S BEHEST: FARMERS “We are going for a peaceful protest but the police are not allowing us to reach Delhi. The Haryana government must understand that this is not a protest against them but against the central government. The Haryana Government is stopping us at the behest of the Centre,” farmer leader Baldev Singh Nihalgarh said. “We are not opting for only the Shambu barrier, but are targeting all entry points. Some farmers have already entered Haryana by foot. Our aim is to reach Delhi,” he said. The Haryana Police sealed all entry points from Punjab to stop the entry of farmers, who have announced the protest march against the Centre on November 26 and 27. Earlier, farmers at Ajimgarh village on the Kaithal border broke the police barricading and managed to enter Haryana to reach Delhi. Police barricading was in place at Ramnagar on the Gulha-Cheeka border and on the Patiala-Pehowa road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-police-use-tear-gas-water-cannons-but-fail-to-stop-punjab-farmers-from-entering-state/story-5qDxkJ5U0NWZTFIUvX0UfO.html
26-11-2020||Bhopal||1 dead, 45 injured as bus carrying marriage party overturns in Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria||An elderly woman was killed and at least 45 others members of a marriage party were injured when their bus overturned in Madhya Pradesh’s Umaria district on Thursday morning, police said.The accident took place at Marhai turn under Amarpur police station limits, about 55 km from the district headquarters, when the victims, belonging to Shadhol, were returning along with the bride from Satna, they said.The driver of the speeding bus apparently lost control over the wheels following which it toppled, a police official said.At least 46 passengers were pulled out of the bus by locals and police and rushed to a primary health centre at Bargi where a 65-year-old woman, Ram Bai Gupta, succumbed to her injuries, he said.Among the 45 injured, 20 to 25 people received severe injuries and they were rushed to the nearby Katni district for better medical treatment, the official said.The bus driver fled after the accident and efforts were on to nab him, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/1-dead-45-injured-as-bus-carrying-marriage-party-overturns-in-madhya-pradesh-s-umaria/story-fVf7uy6dQJp6ukUgOTaMhJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||An adult woman can reside wherever and with whosoever she wishes: Delhi high court||The Delhi high court has said that an adult woman is “free to reside wherever she wishes and with whosoever she wishes.” The high court said this on Wednesday while hearing the habeas corpus plea of a woman filed by her brother who had alleged that his sister was kidnapped. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar, after interacting with the woman via video conferencing, said that the woman, Sulekha, could reside with one Babloo if she so wished. The two were identified by their first names in court records. Also Read: Rajasthan court pulls up cops who helped parents trying to coerce daughter to get married“The police authorities shall also counsel the petitioner (woman’s brother) and the parents of Sulekha not to take law into their hands or threaten either Sulekha or Babloo. The mobile phone number of the beat constable of the police station where Sulekha will reside with Babloo should be provided to both Sulekha and Babloo so that they may get in touch with police officials in case of need,” the bench said in its order.The court was hearing the brother Praveen’s plea , in which he said his sister Sulekha had gone missing on September 12. He had contended that he suspected Babloo and sought that his sister be produced before the court.Sulekha was and produced in the court via video conferencing where the judges interacted with her. She told the court that she left with and married Babloo of her own accord.Taking note of the fact that the woman was born in 2000 and was not a minor, the court allowed her to stay with Babloo whole also providing her with security.“Aforesaid being the position, Sulekha is free to reside wherever she wishes and with whosoever she wishes, she being a major,” the court said.The high court also ordered police to escort Sulekha to Babloo and ensure they were not harassed by their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/an-adult-woman-can-reside-wherever-and-with-whosoever-she-wishes-delhi-high-court/story-l4bBZrk6AVRK60wLLQLRlJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 situation in Capital alarming, says Delhi high court||Calling the surge in Covid-19 cases in the Capital alarming, the Delhi high court on Thursday said it would hear, on December 9, a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers challenging the state government’s decision of reserving 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19. Until Wednesday evening, Delhi had reported 545,787 cases and 8,720 deaths. Currently, there are 38,287 active cases. Justice Navin Chawla said, “The numbers are presently in alarming state. The matter should be heard after two weeks looking at the present situation.” Through an order on September 12, the Delhi government had asked 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the high court on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers.Also read | No schools will reopen till we’re assured Covid-19 is under control, says Delhi health ministerLater, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the apex court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The Supreme Court refused to interfere with the HC order, staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals.On November 12, a division bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of cases in the city. The court had also posted the matter for further hearing before a single bench for November 26.On Thursday, appearing for the Delhi government, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain said the situation was being reviewed periodically and review meetings were being conducted under the chairmanship of the Union home minister. Following this, the court posted the matter for further hearing on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-situation-in-capital-alarming-says-delhi-high-court/story-3pDfrPf3wWvbR7qPaXXoYO.html
26-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh child molester case: CBI gets 5-day custody of suspect||A local court on Wednesday granted Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) five-day custody of Ram Bhavan, the junior engineer with the state irrigation department accused of sexually abusing minor children and selling their videos over the dark web. The CBI will take him in custody on November 26 and bring him back to Banda jail, where he is currently lodged, on November 30, district government counsel Manoj Kumar said. Also Read: Uttar Pradesh child molester case: CBI suspects involvement of others in engineer’s networkWhile passing the order, additional district and sessions judge (V) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court Rizwan Ahmad said the CBI must follow all Covid-19 protocols. To be sure, Bhavan had tested positive for coronavirus disease on November 23, a day before the CBI bail plea for his remand was to be decided. Bhavan was arrested from Chitrakoot on November 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-child-molester-case-cbi-gets-5-day-custody-of-suspect/story-5cOUtNSAE781Y3SDN0H29O.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana forms 3-member committee to look into laws framed to tackle ‘love jihad’||Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that a three-member committee to draft an anti-conversion law has been formed by the state government. It comprises secretary, home-1, TL Satyaprakash, additional director general of police, law and order, Navdeep Virk and additional advocate general Deepak Manchanda. Vij said the committee will study the laws enacted by other states. The home minister termed the proposed legislation as a law against “love jihad”, a term coined by Hindutva groups for Hindu girls being allegedly forced to convert to Islam in the guise of marriage. Vij had, on November 6, told the state assembly that the government was deliberating enacting a law to check forced religious conversions. He was speaking on the murder of a young Faridabad woman, Nikita Tomar, by her alleged stalker, Tausif. Also Read: 10 years jail for inter-faith marriage in MP, priests to be penalised, says new draftVij had said the state government was also compiling information about instances where forced religious conversions took place resulting in an inter-faith wedding. Earlier in June, chief minister ML Khattar had said that the state government has decided that a Right to Freedom of Religion Bill will be passed to stop forced conversions. During an interview with HT in July, the chief minister had said that there were complaints regarding forced conversions and marriages from many districts. “People are free to adopt any religion in an informed manner but using coercion, allurement to force religious conversions is a matter of concern. Such incidents vitiate the atmosphere of society. We are studying similar laws enacted by other states and will accordingly take a call,” Khattar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-forms-committee-to-draft-anti-conversion-law/story-ZIA4IIs5MtlyPSteLZigbO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Wrong to prevent farmers from holding peaceful demonstrations: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday showed his support to the farmers who are protesting against the three farm laws passed in the Parliament in September, and said that they should be allowed to stage a peaceful protest.“The three farm bills of the central government are anti-farmer. Instead of rolling back these bills, farmers are being stopped from staging peaceful protests. Water cannons are being used against them. This is injustice to the farmers. Peaceful protest is their constitutional right,” said Kejriwal in a tweet on Thursday.केंद्र सरकार के तीनों खेती बिल किसान विरोधी हैं। ये बिल वापिस लेने की बजाय किसानों को शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन करने से रोका जा रहा है, उन पर वॉटर कैनन चलाई जा रही हैं। किसानों पर ये जुर्म बिलकुल ग़लत है। शांतिपूर्ण प्रदर्शन उनका संवैधानिक अधिकार है।The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had voted against the Bills in both Lok Sabha (where it has one MP) and Rajya Sabha (where it has three MPs).Thousands of farmers have been marching to Delhi from Punjab and Haryana protesting against the laws that liberalise the agriculture sector. While some groups were stopped in Haryana on Wednesday and water cannons used against them, several others continue to approach Delhi to stage a protest. The Delhi Police has issued a notice prohibiting any gathering in the Capital, citing Covid-19 regulations and the Delhi Metro has temporarily closed operation on certain routes.Also Read: Dilli Chalo: Tight security at Delhi’s borders after refusal of permission for marchThe three laws that have led to widespread protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/wrong-to-prevent-farmers-from-holding-peaceful-demonstrations-kejriwal/story-R8g2c3yRyM0LDAaFmA4LrO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai tests positive for Covid-19||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. Rai tweeted the announcement and has urged all those who came in contact with him to get tested as well. “After initial symptoms, I got myself tested and the report is positive. I urge all those who came in contact with me over the past few days to get the test done and take caution,” the 45-year-old minister tweeted in Hindi. However, details of the minister staying in home isolation or a hospital are yet to be decided, said officials in Rai’s office. Also Read: A doctor recounts a Covid encounter that was notDelhi, on Wednesday, reported fewer than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19, with over 50,000 tests being conducted for the first time since October-end. The city recorded 5,246 Covid-19 cases and 61,778 tests.On an average, Delhi has been conducting about 60,000 tests a day. Delhi also recorded an increase in the number of deaths over the fortnight, with 106 deaths reported each day on average. In comparison, 59 deaths were reported each day on average the fortnight before, data shared by the Delhi government showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-tests-positive-for-covid-19/story-bLBiFiM1LbXGk4SDmWq34H.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Wanton destruction 12 yrs ago will never be forgotten: Ratan Tata on Mumbai terror attacks||Ratan Tata, Tata Sons Chairman Emeritus and Chairman of Tata Trusts, recalled the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks on Thursday and said that the wanton destruction that took place 12 years ago today will never be forgotten. He, however, lauded people of Mumbai for casting aside all differences and coming together as one to vanquish the terrorism and destruction that day. “The wanton destruction that took place 12 years ago today will never be forgotten. But what is more memorable, is the way Mumbai as a diverse people came together, casting aside all differences, to vanquish the terrorism and destruction on that day. Today, we certainly can mourn the ones we lost and honour the sacrifice of the brave who helped conquer the enemy, but what we must applaud, is the unity and the acts of kindness and sensitivity which we should cherish, and which hopefully, will continue to shine in the years ahead,” he wrote in an Instagram post. The industrialist also shared a painting of Mumbai’s Taj Hotel with a caption written on the pink sky reading “we remember.”  A post shared by Ratan Tata (@ratantata)Several leaders paid floral tributes to the martyrs who laid down their lives while fighting terrorists who attacked Mumbai on November 26, 2008. “Their sacrifice will never be erased from the memory of time and history. Today, we pay tribute to our saviours #2611Attack #2611Martyrs,” Mumbai Police tweeted.Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, state home minister Anil Deshmukh and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray paid their respects at the newly-built memorial at the police headquarters in south Mumbai.Ten terrorists of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) carried out 12 coordinated shooting and bombing attacks lasting four days across Mumbai. At least 166 people, including six Americans and nine terrorists, were killed and over 300 others were injured in the attacks.The Taj Mahal hotel, the Oberoi hotel, the Leopold Cafe, the Nariman (Chabad) House and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus train station were some of the locations targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/wanton-destruction-12-yrs-ago-will-never-be-forgotten-ratan-tata-on-mumbai-terror-attacks/story-ryFqQi3wTJHaK9cO6evmeM.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||26/11 anniversary: Youngest survivor waits for state government to allot her a home||It’s been 12 years since the Mumbai terror attacks and Devika Rotawan, the youngest survivor and also a key witness who identified terrorist Mohammed Ajmal Kasab during the trial, is yet to find a home she can call her own. All she has got all these years are assurances from successive state governments.Rotawan, who has recently taken admission to BA in Chetana College, Bandra, and who wants to join the civil services eventually, was barely nine at the time of the attacks. During the attack at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, a bullet passed through her right thigh when two Laskar-e-Taiba operatives from Pakistan opened indiscriminate fire on passengers and also hurled grenades. Rotawan, who was to travel with her parents to Pune to see, fell unconscious shortly after receiving the gunshot. She was taken to Saint Georges Hospital where she was operated upon six times over one-and-half months, and was bed-ridden for about six months thereafter. She said several representatives of the central and state government have visited their room and have assured them of residential accommodation under economically weaker section quota but nothing came of it, forcing the now 21-year-old to move Bombay high court recently, stating that her family could no longer afford to pay rent of room in chawl at Subash Nagar in Bandra (East). In her petition, she claimed that government officials had also assured her financial assistance for her education and medical treatment. A division bench of the court directed the Maharashtra government to consider Rotawan’s plea for a home but the family is yet to hear from the government. “I am glad we won in the high court but it has been over one month and we have not heard from the government,” said Rotawan who was her way to her native place in Pune with her father and elder brother. “In the first hearing itself, the high court passed the order for a flat for Rotawan,” said Utsav Bains, Rotawan’s lawyer. According to Bains, after the order, they have sent the concerned documents to the office of chief secretary of Maharashtra, Sanjay Kumar however they are still waiting to hear from the government. When contacted Sanjay Kumar asked HT to contact the relief and rehabilitation department. Abhay Yawalkar, in-charge of relief and rehabilitation, did not respond to HT’s calls or messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/26-11-anniversary-youngest-survivor-witness-still-waits-for-government-to-allot-her-a-home/story-d2sFZ8wPLvOIsBFhIr0btN.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Glistening ‘blue tide’ along Mumbai, Sindhudurg coasts||The tide that produces a fluorescent blue hue—bioluminescence—made an appearance on Tuesday night on Juhu beach in Mumbai and Devgad beach in Sindhudurg along Maharashtra’s coastline. Bioluminescence has been an annual occurrence along the west coast since 2016 during the months of November and December. The natural phenomenon is characterised by the emission of light produced by phytoplanktons (microscopic marine plants), commonly known as dinoflagellates. The light is produced through a series of chemical reactions due to luciferase (oxidative enzymes) protein, according to E Vivekanandan, consultant and scientist, Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute. “This occurrence could be taking place along several areas on the west coast during this time of the year,” he said.Also Read: Maharashtra: Panje tidal water blockade lifted, strengthens demand for bird sanctuary Marine scientists said one of the main factors for its occurrence could be eutrophication – the reduction of oxygen in the water – which makes the phytoplanktons very dominant. Marine researcher Shaunak Modi, director, Coastal Conservation Foundation spotted the occurrence at 11.45pm Tuesday at Juhu Koliwada, where locals are known to describe the fluorescent occurrence as ‘neeli machli’ (blue fish). The occurrence was spotted off Devgad beach by one Sanit Acharekar. “This is a recurring phenomenon which is caused by a bioluminescent plankton called Noctiluca scintillans, commonly known as sea sparkle. While smaller blooms may be harmless, slow moving larger blooms may cause severe hypoxic conditions that result in fish die-offs in an area,” said Modi. Bioluminescence has been observed across India’s coast as well as the coastline of many beaches in the world such as Maldives, Vietnam, Indonesia, USA, Australia and many other countries. Similar to the blue tide, there exists another such phenomenon called red tide or harmful algal blooms that emits red light. It is rare occurrence caused when colonies of algae—simple plants that live in the sea and freshwater—grow out of control while producing toxic or harmful effects on people, fish, shellfish, marine mammals, and birds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-glistening-blue-tide-along-mumbai-sindhudurg-coasts/story-3FbyACRgFuLcsubcG1rkbI.html
26-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal govt makes attendance must in offices to oppose Bharat Bandh||The Mamata Banerjee administration in West Bengal has made it mandatory for government officials to attend office on Thursday to foil the Bharat Bandh called by trade unions. The government has warned that if any official is absent from office, it would be treated as dies non or break in service. This is, however, not the first time that the government has taken such a stand since the Trinamool Congress-led government came to power in 2011. The nationwide strike has been jointly called by various central unions protesting against various policies of the government. More than 250 million workers from across the country are expected to participate in the Bandh. Also Read: Bharat Bandh today: Transport, banking services likely to be affected“The Bengal government has its own views on some of the issues for which the strike has been called. The government is also against the Bandh culture. Hence it has been decided that all government offices will remain open and attendance of employees will be mandatory,” said a top official in the government. The strike began at 6am Thursday. Railway services in both Howrah and Sealdah divisions were disrupted as Bandh supporters blocked trains at multiple places and stations across the state. Banana leaves were hurled on overheard wires to disrupt power so that trains couldn’t operate. There were very few taxis at the pre-paid taxis stands and passengers had to wait to get one. In some places, such as Garia in south Kolkata, there were reports that protesters hurled bricks at government buses, breaking the windshields, in a bid to stop them. In some places, bus passengers were forced to get down by Bandh supporters. “The bus passengers were never forced. We urged them to get down. This is a people’s Bandh,” said a Bandh supporter, requesting anonymity. In the morning, Left and Congress supporters took to the streets in Kolkata to back the all-India strike call and blocked arterial roads and busy intersections. There was heavy police deployment to maintain law and order. Heated altercations also broke out between the police and Bandh supporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-government-makes-attendance-must-in-offices-to-oppose-bharat-bandh/story-rxGRt9OGoOYEtT79Lf7p7O.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Dilli Chalo: Tight security at Delhi’s borders after refusal of permission for march||Delhi’s borders continue to remain under tight security as farmers from Punjab and Haryana have called for a ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, a two-day protest over the central government’s new farm laws. While no untoward incident was reported on Thursday morning from any of the borders Delhi shares with Haryana or Uttar Pradesh, senior police officers and paramilitary forces continue to camp there to ensure stricter vigil.The deputy commissioner of police and Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said that so far the situation is normal and police forces along with anti-riot force and paramilitary personnel are deployed adequately at all border areas. “The farmers haven’t reached our borders yet. So far we haven’t heard of any clashes or violence from any part of the city,” he said.The officer added that all the vehicles passing through the borders are bring checked. People who are crossing the borders are being allowed to do so only after due verification and credential checks, he said.Also Read: On Delhi Chalo call, Haryana farmers set for faceoff with police at KarnalDelhi Police have also resorted to a new strategy to stop farmers in trucks and tractors from entering Delhi. A police officer said that dumpers loaded with mud and sand have been stationed at Singhu border along with barricades so that no vehicle can barge in forcefully. In September, a group of farmers had managed to reach India Gate with a tractor inside a truck, which they had set afire at Rajpath in protest.On Wednesday, the Delhi Police had turned down all requests by farmer groups and organisations to stage protests in Delhi against the central government’s new farm laws. Singhal had said on Wednesday that various farmer organisations had requested for permission to protest in Delhi on November 26 and 27. Singhal said they had conveyed to the farmers in writing and through various media that the protest is not permitted in view of the latest Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.“If despite our appeal they turn up in Delhi, then the required legal action will be taken against them,” the DCP said.Delhi Police even took to social media to make farmers aware of the restrictions and refusal to their requests.In a tweet, Delhi Police said, “Please co-operate with Delhi Police in ensuring no gathering in Delhi amid coronavirus, failing which legal action will be initiated as per law.”In the past, the police have registered hundreds of cases against protesters who took to the streets without permission during the pandemic. They were booked under the Indian Penal Code sections pertaining to disobedience of an order by a public servant, as well as under the Epidemic Diseases Act.Haryana has already sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent farmers from entering the state in response to the march against the centre’s new farm laws that liberalise the agriculture sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dilli-chalo-tight-security-at-delhi-s-borders-after-refusal-of-permission-for-march/story-HXc4Ugxf6MAG7zFLxCv1iK.html
26-11-2020||Education||LU’s centenary celebrations: New Bharat to be gyanwan, dhanwan, charitrawan, says Rajnath||The centennial celebrations of Lucknow University concluded with the Foundation Day event organised on Wednesday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath joined the programme virtually. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and minister of state for higher education Neelima Katiyar were the chief guest and the guest of honour respectively. In his speech, Rajnath Singh congratulated the University for completing 100 years, calling it a major landmark that only a few universities in India had achieved. The defence minister spoke about atmanirbhar Bharat and said this new Bharat would be “gyanwan, dhanwan and charitrawan (intelligent, prosperous and principled)”. Singh said the education sector, which was going to witness significant change with the new National Education Policy (NEP) which was the perfect blend of ancient and modern India. He said the NEP would teach students “how to think”.Some illustrious alumni of LU – singer Malini Awasthi, UP finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, scholar Prashant Mishra, Niti Aayog V-C Rajiv Kumar, cricketer Suresh Raina, and cardiologist Naresh Trehan were felicitated at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/lu-s-centenary-celebrations-new-bharat-to-be-gyanwan-dhanwan-charitrawan-says-rajnath/story-PZh9JWToRNBp6JkFeAvE9M.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||On Delhi Chalo call, Haryana farmers set for faceoff with police at Karnal||A day after breaking past police barricades in Ambala and Kurukshetra, Haryana farmers, led by state Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Gurnam Singh Charuni, will resume their Delhi Chalo march against the Centre’s farm laws after a night halt at Samana Bahu village, 25km from Karnal, on Thursday morning. “We will resume the march to Delhi around 10am after breakfast,” BKU media incharge Rakesh Bains said even as farmers geared up in tractor-trolleys and cars with arrangements for food and shelter. He said the farmers were getting support from villagers and nearby gurdwaras were serving langar (at the community kitchen). WILL NOT ALLOW FARMERS TO PROCEED: KARNAL SP The Haryana Police have put up barricades at Karan Lake, 5km from Karnal town, to stop the farmers from proceeding. Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said, “We have put up barricades and will ensure that the farmers don’t cross the barricades.” Police personnel from nearby districts have also been deployed at Karnal. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said that the farmers will not be allowed to cross the barricades. The farmer leader, however, expressed confidence that they will cross the barricades and reach Delhi. “We have already crossed two police barricades in Ambala and Kurukshetra districts. The police failed to stop us. We will reach Delhi,” said Charuni. TRAFFIC ON KARNAL-DELHI HIGHWAY DIVERTED Traffic on National Highway-44 was diverted from Nilokheri to Karnal even as thousands of vehicles were stuck in the jam for hours. “The traffic will remain diverted on Thursday to stop the movement of farmers,” the deputy commissioner said. READ MORE ‘Will leave politics if there’s trouble on MSP’: Haryana CM Khattar asks Punjab’s Amarinder Singh to ‘stop inciting farmers’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/on-delhi-chalo-call-haryana-farmers-set-for-faceoff-with-police-at-karnal/story-LjdSmcuNBhy2dbzc48R7qJ.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||12 years since 26/11: Indian Coast Guard set to become 200-vessel strong force||Twelve years since 26/11 terror attacks of 2008, Mumbai’s security apparatus has seen a sea change with Indian Coast Guard standing out as one of the key maritime security agencies. From a meagre 74 vessel to patrol the 7,500 kilometre coastline of India, the force is on its way to become a 200-vessel strong force. In 2017, the Centre approved a Rs31,748-crore, five-year programme to add to the Coast Guard’s resources. “This has seen the Coast Guard fleet of vessels grow 134 ships which are operational. Fifty seven ships are at various stages of construction at different Indian shipyards. The air wing too has increased from 44 aircraft in 2008 to 58,” said a spokesperson from Indian Coast Guard. It has also added another air station at Ratnagiri to effectively patrol the sea. “The air station at Ratnagiri is operational and is likely to be commissioned soon,” said the spokesperson. With a mandate to patrol the sea between 12 nautical miles and 22 nautical miles from the coast, the force has augmented its air and surface fleet to a large extent. From a small posse of 5,000-odd personnel, the strength of the force stands at 12,000 and it plans to add another 8,000 personnel. After 26/11, the Navy was made the nodal agency for 15 central, and state agencies to coordinate coastal security. Four joint operation centres were set up at Mumbai, Visakhapatnam, Kochi and Port Blair. The Navy now forms the first line of defence and is on constant alert monitoring the sea through aerial surveillance and patrol. Sagar Prahari Bal, an agency dedicated to coastal security, has been formed comprising personnel drawn from the Navy. The Sagar Prahari Bal and CISF personnel have undergone training at INS Chilka in Odisha, a premier establishment for the Indian Navy sailors. The Navy has commissioned an unmanned aerial vehicle squadron at Porbandar in Gujarat which monitors infiltration on the western coast. Apart from this, at least one aircraft at each of the Naval air stations remains on alert mode to take off within four minutes and at least one battleship is in alert mode, ready to respond to any situation within 30 minutes. Meanwhile, Mumbai’s internal security too has seen a much-needed upgrade in the form of hi-tech Close Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras being set up and the Mumbai Police getting a state-of-the-art control room. “The monitoring is either general or incident-based, depending on the type of activities. The network of CCTV cameras has also helped in bringing down petty crimes,” said a senior IPS officer. A proposal has also been mooted to set up special target rooms at 35 locations along the coast which will house specially trained marine paramilitary force personnel. “The force will be equipped with night vision, thermal cameras, satellite phones. Also, we have sought a hovercraft, a few rubberised boats for faster movement and additional boats,” said a police office, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/12-years-since-26-11-indian-coast-guard-set-to-become-200-vessel-strong-force/story-P5bASBse6f5trJlTpAhMqN.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers modify plan, to march to Delhi via alternative routes besides Haryana highways||After their Delhi Chalo march to protest the Centre’s farm laws came a cropper due to heavy barricading by Haryana Police on Wednesday, Punjab’s farmer unions have changed their strategy of taking only the highways to the national capital. They plan to enter Haryana through other routes on Thursday morning. While activists of the Bharti Kisan Union Ekta-Ugrahan and Sidhupur factions have been camping on the Punjab-Haryana border at Khanauri and Moonak, respectively, in Sangrur district since Wednesday evening, other farmer unions have changed their plans and decided to head for Delhi from other entry points. Members of the Kirti Kisan Union, BKU Kadian and Rajewal factions plan to assemble at Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur and head for Shambhu border at 11am. “Members of the BKU Ekta-Ugrahan and Sidhupur have already occupied borders in Sangrur so we have decided to march to the Shambhu border in neighbouring Patiala,” said Bhupinder Singh Longowal, a state committee member of the Kirti Kisan Union. Gurmeet Singh Bhattiwal, the district chief of BKU Dakaunda, said that their cadre and other farmer outfits will march to Haryana on the Samana-Chika route from Patiala district. Gobinder Singh, the Sangrur block chief of BKU Ugrahan, said 80 tractor-trailers and 10 buses will head for Khanauri border where farmers will make a determined bid to enter Haryana en route to the national capital. READ MORE Haryana farmers on Delhi Chalo march cross Karnal hurdle||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/punjab-s-farmers-modify-plan-to-march-to-delhi-via-alternative-routes-besides-haryana-highways/story-1Mvc7J5rdSdITvMtfBnUkK.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Money laundering case: ED arrests Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik’s close aide||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials late on Wednesday night arrested Amit Chandole, a relative and close business associate of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, in a money laundering case related to TOPSGRUP, a security service giant owned by Rahul Nanda. This is the first arrest in the case. While ED sources confirmed Chandole’s arrest, the charges on him are still not clear. He will be produced in court on Thursday so that the Central agency can seek his custody for further investigation. Sarnaik, whose promises were raided by the ED on Tuesday, is into real estate and hospitality businesses. ED officials from Delhi and Mumbai had also raided Chandole’s premises in Thane the same day. ED is also likely to question Sarnaik’s son Vihang for a second time on Thursday. Other people linked to Sarnaik’s businesses would also be soon asked to join the probe, ED sources said.Also read | ED raids Shiv Sena MLA’s properties, questions son in money-laundering probe against security firmED had interrogated Vihang for five hours on Tuesday. On Tuesday, Sarnaik had termed ED’s actions as vendetta politics. “The day I moved a privilege motion against Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami, and demanded reopening of the Anvay Naik case, I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far. Uddhavsaheb has made me the spokesperson to put forward the party’s views. Today, they told him [Vihang] your father speaks a lot on Kangana Ranaut and Arnab Goswami. I will continue to speak wherever Mumbai, Maharashtra or its police are maligned. I have done nothing wrong in my business,” he had said, while speaking to a news channel.The central agency suspects that the Sena MLA illegally pumped money into Nanda’s business ventures to move money abroad.TOPSGRUP group chairman and founder Rahul Nanda has denied the allegations and said, “Pratap is an old friend and has not invested a single penny in my business or company ever! He or Sena has nothing to do with Tops! This is absolutely absurd.”ED sources said they suspect there is an illegitimate flow of funds among the companies linked to Sarnaik, his family members and Nanda’s companies and that they want to investigate possible money laundering.ED sources said their probe is based on a complaint registered against TOPS Security, Rahul Nanda and family, at police station on court directions. Company’s former managing director Ramesh Ramkrishna Iyer had approached the court alleging Nanda’s involvement in unlawful activities, massive irregularities in the company, misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs175 crore and cheating company’s employees, share holders, other government and private organisations with forged documents. The case was recently transferred to the Mumbai police economic offences wing for further investigation.Iyer, who had been the managing director of TOPSGRUP since 2006, said he discovered diversion and misappropriation of funds by Nanda in 2009. Iyer alleged in the complaint (a copy of which is with HT) that in 2008, Nanda bought 51% of London-based The Shield Guarding Company Limited’s shares, for around Rs130 crore. This amount was allegedly taken from ICICI Ventures Limited and private share investors of Everstone Capital. Nanda allegedly inflated the total worth of his net assets since funds worth four times the value of one’s net assets may be sent abroad legally. “The investment companies, despite knowing this, invested in TOPSGRUP,” said Iyer’s complaint, adding that Nanda diverted funds from The Shield and bought properties in London.Iyer also alleged Nanda took loans against subsidiary companies of TOPSGRUP— including Tops Securities UK Limited and Topsgrup Holding BV in the Netherlands — and used the money to buy property in London, which is in violation of loan statutory rules. Nanda did not show the income earned from these properties in his income tax returns in India, said Iyer in his complaint.Iyer also alleged that while providing state government agency MMRDA security services, Nanda cheated the department by not providing them security personnel as decided in the contract, but charging them the full amount. ED suspects that Nanda had political help in grabbing the contract from MMRDA.Another allegation is that Nanda made a bogus balance sheet for the financial year of 2018-19 to use overdraft and cash credit facilities from Allahabad Bank (Prabhadevi branch) and Corporate Bank (Kalina branch). For this, he allegedly changed the statutory auditors, without the approval of shareholders.Iyer also alleged that in 2017, Nanda and his family transferred 66% of their shares in TOPSGRUP to a Mauritius-based Nanda family trust, which is in violation of the Private Securities Agencies (Regulations) Act.Commenting on the ED’s action and the allegations levelled against him Nanda said, “The ED had questioned us about our UK acquisition in 2009 and we have given them proof that everything was done 100% legally. They also questioned me about our trust in Mauritius which again we have answered and told them that this was created legally by lawyers and that there is zero money that is in the Mauritius trust. This was all the mischief played by Ramesh (Iyer), Amar (both top executives of his companies) and the coterie, who complained to the ED and have sent them on a wild goose chase.”Iyer denied Nanda’s counter allegations by saying that his complaint was registered after due verification of facts. Nanda too has made a police complaint against Iyer at the Khar police station some months back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/money-laundering-case-ed-arrests-shiv-sena-mla-pratap-sarnaik-s-close-aide/story-Pd1MgsbhRtzUENbTPFt7WI.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI improves marginally, reaches very poor zone||Delhi’s overall air quality improved to reach the very poor zone on Thursday morning, after it plunged into the severe category a day ago. The air quality index at 6am was 384, in the very poor category. As per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Wednesday, the average air quality index (AQI) stood at 413. It was 379 on Tuesday, 302 on Monday, 274 on Sunday, 251 on Saturday, 296 on Friday and 283 on Thursday — numbers that show a gradual rise since Saturday. The last time that the national capital’s AQI was in severe category was on November 15, a day after Diwali. Also read | Delhi NCR in a chokehold of its own emissionsV K Soni of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD’s) environment monitoring research centre said low wind speed and high moisture content in the air had resulted in the emergency levels of pollution on Wednesday.However, Soni said that an improvement is likely in air quality from Thursday onwards, as very light rainfall/drizzle is expected in Delhi. Also, the wind speed is likely to pick up to 10-12kmph. “The air quality is expected to improve tomorrow onwards. Also, no major deterioration is likely till November 30. It will remain in the lower end of very poor to poor zone,” he said.Scientists said that from this week end temperatures will start decreasing again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-improves-marginally-reaches-very-poor-zone/story-56FGYp97tbqKnzQX0SjjVI.html
26-11-2020||Kolkata||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh’s convoy attacked in Murshidabad||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s convoy was attacked in Kandi area of Murshidabad district on Wednesday evening, party sources said.Ghosh was on his way to Baharampur to attend a party meeting when stones were pelted at his convoy by “miscreants of the TMC”, district BJP leaders claimed.Although the state BJP chief was unhurt, windshields of cars in his convoy were damaged, the sources said. The saffron party later filed a police complaint.The ruling Trinamool Congress has denied the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/bengal-bjp-chief-dilip-ghosh-s-convoy-attacked-in-murshidabad/story-3Bt2oWn7geCnY2jXzoaYKL.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Simran, the female flâneur||This is how it is. Simran feels most alive when she’s walking on the streets, perhaps somewhere around the historic Jama Masjid in Old Delhi, with her hefty DSLR camera hanging around her neck. There, she looks out for sights that will touch her heart so intensely that she’ll immediately want to capture them in her lens. Very often, clicking is not enough, and she also types down raw thoughts on her phone’s notes. And then she moves on, prepared to embrace more sights, containing more wonders.Simran is a flâneur. And if a female flâneur — a flâneuse, the French say — is not something unusual to come across in the alleys of New York or Paris, this gender specification makes a big difference in a place as hostile to women as Delhi.“The fact that Delhi is unsafe for girls does pop up in my head, but once I’m transported to a place the thought disappears,” says the 20-year old fashion technology student. She’s chatting on WhatsApp video from west Delhi’s Janakpuri, where she lives with her sister and parents. Confined these days mostly within the walls of the apartment, Simran hasn’t been able to hit the streets since the first coronavirus-triggered lockdown began in late March. Until then, she had regularly been going for explorations—sometimes with heritage groups or friends, but mostly alone. Indeed, like most flâneurs, Simran wants the street she is walking to be her only friend as she walks it. When she is by herself, strolling in — say — Matia Mahal Bazar, “I like to click pictures of the place and immediately write what I feel about its vibes, before the moment goes.” Her current camera was a gift to herself, from savings she made on the pocket money her parents would give her. It wasn’t a vanity purchase—the camera is necessary to her, she insists. “The moments I encounter might never have existed before, and the places I capture might not always stay the same.”Simran has been maintaining an Instagram account in which she puts up these pictures, but is reluctant to share it with readers “because I haven’t told Mummy Papa yet of the work I do.” (Oops, by now they will get some idea of their daughter’s pursuits!)Simran’s Janakpuri is far from the Delhi places she loves the most, but “free rides for women in the DTC buses are a perk.”Alas, all that travelling seems like another life. Hopefully, one day soon, the pandemic will fade away and Simran will again be sighted sauntering about the streets of her city, holding her camera. Meanwhile, she agrees to pose with it in her home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-simran-the-female-flaneur/story-tAqvu6YKEnkFcZavBoq7VL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Boost for DSP as CAT directs Chandigarh admn to consider his case for promotion||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT)’s Chandigarh bench has directed the UT administration to consider DSP Ram Gopal’s case and promote him to a higher post, if found fit.The petitioner, who is currently posted as the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) in the CID wing at Sector 17, had sought promotion to the post of superintendent of police.In the petition, he had prayed for the quashing of the order, dated September 16, 2017, issued by the director general of police (DGP) to the UT Home secretary. It had been stated in the order that there was no vacancy in the rank of SP (non-IPS) in Chandigarh police, meant for promotion from the rank of DSP, and relevant Punjab police rules governing promotion from rank of DSP to SP are pending for adoption.He prayed that he should be promoted from post of DSP to SP against the existing vacancy in the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB).Ram Gopal’s counsel argued that he is the seniormost DSP in the cadre and being eligible in terms of 1959 Rules as SP/Deputy Commandant in IRB, Chandigarh, has a right of consideration for such promotion from due date and denial of such right is illegal, arbitrary, discriminatory and cannot be sustained in the eyes of law.However, in its reply the UT administration argued that Ram Gopal does not even fulfill all the conditions for promotion. It was submitted that the post of deputy commandant in IRB is not governed by Rules of 1959 as no decision in that connection has yet been taken and the matter is pending for consideration with the competent authority. The applicant has no right of promotion but only consideration if he is eligible therefore.After hearing the arguments, the Tribunal ordered: “This original application merits acceptance and as such is allowed. The impugned order is quashed and set aside.”The Tribunal directed the respondents to consider the applicant’s case for promotion to the higher post in terms of above observations and “if found fit, promote him from due date with all the consequential benefits of arrears of pay and allowance and seniority, within a period of two months from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order,” the order mentioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/boost-for-dsp-as-cat-directs-chandigarh-admn-to-consider-his-case-for-promotion/story-jA4ZbmbGxYzBJc2tLbGwCJ.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||J&K logs 12 fatalities, 489 new virus cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 12 deaths and 489 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,07,819 and the death toll to 1,663.Officials said 225 more people tested positive in Kashmir and 264 in Jammu division. Six persons each succumbed to the disease in both the divisions. Also, 1,00,892 people have recovered in the UT so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.57%, the highest till date. The active cases stand at 5,264. A total of 1,091 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 572 in Jammu. With 13,029 cases, November, so far, has recorded an average of 521 daily infections against an average of 632 daily cases in October and 1,245 cases in September. The total number of tests conducted in the UT has also crossed 28.85 lakh.In Kashmir, the highest jump in fresh cases was witnessed in Srinagar where 85 more people tested positive followed by 39 in Baramulla.In Jammu division, the highest number of cases was recorded in Jammu district at 126 followed by 46 in Udhampur.Till date, 7.75 lakh people have been enlisted for observation – 19,500 in home quarantine, 5,264 in isolation, and 47,700 under home surveillance. Besides, 7.01 lakh people have completed their surveillance period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/j-k-logs-12-fatalities-489-new-virus-cases/story-PXP0ih1lnocWKzxuUCaxdO.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC mulls generating funds on its own for renovation of public toilets||The Chandigarh municipal corporation’s ambitious plans of constructing new public toilets and renovating the old ones have hit a roadblock with the UT administration turning down its request for additional dedicated funds.The municipal corporation (MC) is now mulling over generating its own funds for the project, which is estimated to cost the civic body around ₹19.18 crore. This even as it is already struggling to pay the salaries of its employees. In the General House meeting held in June 2019, the MC had decided to construct 27 new public toilets and renovate 236 existing ones. The new toilets are to cost around ₹2 crore, while the cost of renovation of the existing ones is estimated to be around ₹17 crore. Along with providing better utilities to the public, the aim of the project is to create maximum advertisement area on the existing renovated toilets and the new ones so that maximum revenue can be generated. The architectural plans are to be formulated in consultation with the UT urban planning department.“The matter of releasing dedicated funds was taken up with the Chandigarh administration as per the decision of the House but the administration refused, stating paucity of funds,” said an MC official. In a letter to the MC on the issue, the finance and planning officer of the UT administration responded, “The finance department is not in a position to provide additional funds to the tune of ₹19.18 crore for construction of 29 toilets in green belts and renovation of existing 236 toilets in various markets due to the ceiling fixed by the Government of India vide letter dated April 8, 2020.” Now, the MC has mooted the proposal to generate finance required for the project from the municipal funds in place of arranging additional dedicated funds from Chandigarh. The MC General House meet, scheduled for November 27, will take a call on the proposal. Tapping SHGs in villages for running public toiletsFor better operation and maintenance of public toilets in villages, the MC will be roping in self-help groups (SHG) after nod from the MC General House.“Public toilet blocks exist in villages and colonies but these are not being properly maintained. This is due to the reason that the operation, running, and maintenance of existing public toilets in villages and some colonies are not covered under any contractual agreement with any association or SHG. This is resulting in public facing inconvenience,” said a MC official. As per the policy decision in the General House meet of June 2019, the operation and maintenance of public toilet blocks in markets are entrusted with the market welfare associations (MWA) while in green belts, the responsibility lies with the resident welfare associations (RWA). “As in villages and colonies, there are no MWA or RWA, therefore to avoid any further deterioration of public toilets, these will be given to the SHG registered by the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM) for operation and maintenance. The terms and conditions will be the same as approved for MWA,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-mulls-generating-funds-on-its-own-for-renovation-of-public-toilets/story-tdOoYqWE1sbPR7TvLi6YHJ.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Snow, rainfall likely in isolated places in Valley: MeT dept||Weather in the Valley is likely to improve with light snow and rainfall in isolated places, predicted the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials said that it was raining and snowing lightly at most places in J&K, Drass Zojila axis and the sky was overcast in the rest of Ladakh.“As expected, there’s gradual decrease in rain and snow since morning. We expect a significant improvement in weather in the UTs,” said a senior IMD officer.He said the weather will most likely remain dry till December 3. “Isolated light rain and snow cannot be ruled out. No significant weather change is expected in the next week.”The IMD officer said that people, especially those living in snow-bound areas, should remain alert to the possibility of avalanche as there is a lot of snow accumulation on the hills.Despite snowfall, the traffic on Srinagar-Jammu national highway is plying. The alternate Mughal Road is closed for traffic.Srinagar recorded 5.6°C maximum and 1.6°C minimum temperature on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/snow-rainfall-likely-in-isolated-places-in-valley-met-dept/story-BngxAqPWaU2JbBS3Kn8snJ.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Manimajra cylinder blast: Injured infant’s father lodges negligence case against neighbour||Two days after a seven-month-old girl sustained 50% burn injuries in a fire that broke out due to an LPG cylinder leak at Govindpura in Manimajra, a neighbour has been booked. The girl’s father, Raja, told the police that the neighbour, Mohd Anees, had negligently placed the leaking gas cylinder in the common area outside the house, when the infant was lying on a cot kept close-by.The infant is currently undergoing treatment at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research and is said to be stable. Anees had himself sustained burns in the incident along with two other occupants of the house -- Harun and Salman. All of them live in a house where multiple families stay on rent in adjoining rooms.Police said the leak took place when Anees, a vegetable seller, was trying to fix the regulator of the LPG cylinder. As the safety valve was damaged, he kept the cylinder in the verandah. Fire erupted as tea was being prepared on a stove nearby. A case under Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC was registered in police station Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/manimajra-cylinder-blast-injured-infant-s-father-lodges-negligence-case-against-neighbour/story-JtXoGa1zLljDAaqFihgehL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||294 medical posts to be filled on outsource basis: Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that in view of the spread of Covid-19 and to cope with the pandemic, the state government will allow six government medical colleges, zonal hospitals in Shimla and Dharamshala and civil hospitals in Rohru and Rampur to hire manpower temporarily on outsource basis through authorised service provider agencies till March 31, 2021.He was presiding over a meeting with senior officers of the health department through video-conferencing from Pathankot.Thakur said that principals of medical colleges and controlling officers of hospitals have been directed to take necessary action immediately and send compliance report to the state government within three days.He said that the decision was taken to ensure adequate manpower to effectively handle the Covid situation.The CM said 130 nurses, 75 lab technicians, 79 Class-4 employees and 10 data-entry operators will be temporarily recruited on outsource basis.Taking into consideration the excess number of doctors than the prescribed norms at a particular station the state had deployed five medical officers each on temporary-basis at Deen Dayal Upadhayay, Zonal Hospital, Shimla; Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Medical College, Mandi at Ner Chowk; Zonal Hospital Dharamshala; and Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College, Chamba to handle the Covid situation more effectively.Secretary Health Amitabh Awasthi assured the CM that all recruitments will be done within three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/294-medical-posts-to-be-filled-on-outsource-basis-jai-ram/story-TgaCgKe9xx1eBNV6cOWLyL.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Court grants bail to accused held in drugs case||The special court under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Wednesday granted bail to an alleged drug peddler Karamjeet Singh Anand arrested in connection with a drug case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Anand was released on the bail on the grounds of the recent Supreme Court verdict which said that the statement of co-accused is not substantial evidence against the other person in absence of other cogent evidence. Anand was arrested on September 12 along with other peddlers during a raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in Goa and Mumbai. The agency had seized fours grams of hashish and 17 grams of marijuana and ₹5.50 lakh cash from Anand who is allegedly known as KJ in the drug syndicate. The agency claimed that Anand is a key person and had a network through which he supplied narcotics substance in the film industry. Apart from the seized contraband, NCB had relied on the statement of other accused who confessed that contraband came through Anand. The court, after considering all the aspects, granted bail to Anand on Wednesday. The special court had on Tuesday granted bail to two peddlers Ankush Arneja and Suryadeep Malhotra, who are alleged to be part of the syndicate and are also peddlers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sushant-singh-rajput-death-case-court-grants-bail-to-accused-held-in-drugs-case/story-tDtaGMr7rChae1eFcjqwXL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||No assurance from Panjab University V-C over senate polls, say former student leaders||A delegation of former student leaders of Panjab University, who met vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday, said that the latter did not give them any assurance regarding the conduct of senate polls. Congress leader and former student leader, Kuljit Nagra, who was part of the delegation, said, “The V-C has given us no assurance regarding the senate polls. We will now hold a joint meeting of all the stakeholders of the University, including political parties, PU teachers and syndicate members, in the first week of December to decide the future course of action.”Malwinder Kang, former PUCSC president, who also attended the meeting said that V-C failed to address their concerns.Last week, the leaders had organised a protest march demanding the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-assurance-from-panjab-university-v-c-over-senate-polls-say-former-student-leaders/story-34PTCRY96FIzEjYObEOmqK.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Kotkhai custodial killing: HC grants bail to 6 accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted bail to six accused in the 2017 Kotkhai custodial killing case.The custodial killing case is an offshoot of the rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district. Initially, the Himachal Police arrested six men in the case, one of whom was later found dead at the Kotkhai Police Station in July 2017. Subsequently, a case of custodial killing was lodged against the cops.After widespread criticism of the police’s handling of the case, it was handed over to the CBI and transferred to Chandigarh in May 2019.Those granted bail are former Kotkhai station house officer (SHO) Rajinder Singh and other former cops Surat Singh, Mohan Lal, Rafiq Ali, Ranjit Streta and Deep Chand. They all are lodged in Model Jail, Chandigarh.They had sought bail on grounds that they had been in custody for more than three years and they were in no position to influence witnesses.It was also argued that then Shimla SSP DW Negi and then DSP Manoj Joshi were already on bail. Former inspector general of police ZH Zaidi was granted bail by the Supreme Court in April 2019. However, the trial court had cancelled the bail in January 2020 after prosecution witness and SP-rank officer Soumya Sambasivan’s statement that she had been pressured by the accused in an attempt to influence the trial.CBI had opposed the bail plea claiming that witness examination was pending and the cops could influence the trial. However, the bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh on Wednesday decided to grant all six persons bail.“The six persons have been given bail by the high court. Certain conditions have been imposed on them so that they are not able to influence the witnesses. Detailed order is awaited,” said CBI’s counsel Sumeet Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/kotkhai-custodial-killing-hc-grants-bail-to-6-accused/story-FgiayvP7CMMVZOsoIJDFxJ.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ₹2,350-crore GST frauds unearthed, three arrested||The Directorate General of Goods and Services Tax Intelligence (DGGSTI) in three separate operations unearthed fake input tax credit (ITC) frauds amounting to around ₹2,350 crore and arrested three businessmen.ITC is an option that allows taxpayers to claim credit for taxes paid on purchases. Issuance of an invoice without supply of goods or services and wrongfully availing or utilising ITC on a bill/invoice without any supply of goods or services are cognizable and non-bailable offences. A senior DGGSTI official confirmed that the accused were involved in wrongfully availing and utilising, as well as passing on, ITC based on bogus invoices. All three were arrested on Wednesday and have been sent to judicial custody by a city court.In the first operation, GST department officials arrested Sachin Bhoruka, director several firms such as Erman Metals Pvt Ltd, Pioneer Trading Co, Marshal Multiventures (I) Pvt Ltd, Aikya Infraprojects Pvt Ltd, Sanmukh Fab Industries Pvt Ltd and Flyhigh Infraprojects Pvt Ltd. He allegedly availed and utilised bogus ITC amounting to around ₹485 crore as well as having passed on fake ITC amounting to ₹485 Crore.In a parallel investigation, Mahesh Kinger, who is authorised signatory of Blue Sea Commodities Pvt Ltd (now Curzen Infraprojects Pvt Ltd), Blue Sea Commodities and director of Theme Lights Pvt Ltd, was also found to be involved in the fraudulent practice. These firms had availed ineligible ITC amounting to ₹580 crore and had passed on ineligible ITC amounting to ₹579 Crore.In the third operation, officials arrested Deepak Kumar Prajapati, director of Udyog Kiran Ltd. He allegedly had setup an intricate web of over 22 firms that indulged in circular trading for the purpose of artificially inflating their turnover to avail higher bank loans and credit facilities. Probe has revealed that the firms operated by Prajapati have passed on bogus ITC amounting to around ₹126 crore and availed ITC amounting to ₹94 crore, a statement released by DGGSTI stated.Advocate Ravi Hirani, who represented accused Bhoruka and Kinger, said his clients have been made director on paper on remuneration of ₹20,000 per month. “They had no knowledge about availing ITC as it was done by others on their name. They have been used by people for their own gain. They are poor people and are cooperating with the officers by disclosing all facts known to them,” Hirani said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-350-crore-gst-frauds-unearthed-three-arrested/story-XiQT5d8aaoW3yM0qQZLeZM.html
26-11-2020||City||Haryana Aids society counsellor booked for sexual assault on IAF officer’s wife||A counsellor posted with Haryana State AIDS Control Society has been booked for sexual assault on the wife of an Indian Air Force officer.The complaint was forwarded to the Panchkula police by the Haryana State Commission for Women chairperson, following which a case was registered in Chandimandir last week.The woman was undergoing medical treatment at the Command Hospital in Chandimandir and was to take an HIV test before operation, for which she had to attend counselling on February 7 this year. The counsellor allegedly asked vulgar questions about her marital life, showed her pornographic pictures on his mobile phone and suggested to touch her private parts.The next day, her husband lodged a written complaint at the Command Hospital, following which the counsellor was reverted to his parent organisation in Panchkula.On March 24, the IAF officer forwarded the complaint to the director, Haryana State AIDS Control Society. The couple was reportedly told that they would have to make frequent visits to take part in the inquiry proceedings. However, the woman said it was not convenient as her husband is a serving armed force personnel and has to take prior permission and follow defence norms to take part in such proceedings.Hence, she requested the women’s commission to initiate punitive proceedings against the counsellor.A case has been registered under Sections 294 (obscenity), 354A (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (intending to insult the modesty of any woman, utters any word, makes any sound or gesture) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-aids-society-counsellor-booked-for-sexual-assault-on-iaf-officer-s-wife/story-9jrrMlph5GpYEquCxQgk7N.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University syndics write to chancellor, seek immediate senate polls||Members of the Panjab University syndicate have written to Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of the university, urging him to direct the vice-chancellor (V-C) to conduct the senate polls without further delay.They said that the university has been functioning without its supreme governing body since October 31 when the senate’s four-year term ended. The V-C had postponed the polls for the second time on October 15 in view of the pandemic.In their letter to the Chancellor, the syndicate members stated that the last meeting of PU senate was held in December 2019 after which no meeting was called. Even the syndicate has not met after July, they added. “Both the governing bodies have been rendered dysfunctional by the V-C, who has refused to relent despite repeated requests of the fellows and syndics,” the letter states.PU senate is a 91-member supreme governing body of the university, in which 36 members are nominated by the chancellor.The letter also states that while the whole country has opened up in the unlock process declared by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the V-C again postponed the election under the garb of Covid-19, although various other elections have been held throughout the country. “You are requested to direct the V-C to immediately hold the senate polls,” the members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-syndics-write-to-chancellor-seek-immediate-senate-polls/story-xxbgL6csIFGxDLoK9nNsiO.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Shimla tightens Covid norms amid spurt in infections||In the wake of the spurt in Covid infections, the Shimla district administration has introduced more curbs to contain the contagion. Decisions regarding the same were taken during a Cabinet meet on November 23. Shimla additional deputy commissioner Apoorv Devgan on Wednesday ordered a weekly closing day for all markets and shops barring grocery stores, shops selling milk, bread, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish and other uncooked food items, chemists, hotels and newspaper vendors.People will no longer be able to eat outside restaurants. Only take-aways will be allowed. The district administration has curbed the number of people allowed to assemble for social gatherings outside containment zones from 200 to 50. Only 50% people will be allowed as per hall capacity. “If the gathering is both indoor and outdoor, at most 200 people will be allowed,” said the order. It will now be mandatory for community kitchens and caterers to serve food in disposable cutlery. “The highest levels of personnel and environmental hygiene shall be maintained and the catering staff will undergo tests through rapid antigen test kits not earlier than 96 hours before the event,” said Devgan Those planning to organise a social gathering will have to seek permission one week prior from the sub-divisional magistrate. The organiser shall identify spatial boundaries and prepare a detailed site plan, which would facilitate compliance with thermal screening, physical distancing and sanitisation. The organiser shall submit an undertaking regarding testing of catering staff. It will be mandatory for everyone to wear face masks properly and details of guests have to be maintained. In case of marriages, it will be mandatory to inform the tehsildar and SHO concerned who will visit the venue to check if all instructions are being complied with, says the order. Shimla is among the four worst affected districts .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shimla-tightens-covid-norms-amid-spurt-in-infections/story-31W3J20vveuWJm8YYGk1MK.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||In the biggest seizure at Mumbai airport this year, DRI nabs foreigner with ₹18-crore cocaine||In the biggest seizure of cocaine this year at the city airport, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials have arrested Republic of Guinea national at Mumbai airport while he was smuggling in cocaine worth around ₹18 crore. The accused had concealed the drugs in a false cavity made in the trolley bag. The arrested accused has been identified as Moussa Camara, 34. According to DRI officials, they had received specific intelligence about Camara, who was travelling from Addis Ababa to Mumbai via Dubai, smuggling drugs into the country. Acting on the information, Camara was detained at the airport on Tuesday afternoon when he arrived at the airport.He was frisked and his luggage was examined. While checking his trolley bag, officials discovered a false cavity at the bottom where a packet containing around 3kg white powder was found. With the help of field test kit, DRI officials ascertained that the substance is cocaine. The same was seized and Camara was placed under arrest under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Sustained interrogation of the accused revealed that he belongs to a poor family and has six brothers. A DRI official said Camara used to drive a taxi in his country, but as he was suffering from a medical condition he was in need of money. A local point person of the racket offered him job as a drug mule in exchange for taking care of his medical expenses and his family.“It becomes easy for drug rackets to use people looking for medical tourism as mules as the chances of them getting caught are lesser because of their genuine medical history,” a DRI officer said.Analysis of previous seizures of cocaine and arrests of foreigners have revealed that in Mumbai cocaine is ferried mostly by the persons of African origin who are hired by Colombian and other South American drug cartels. Most cocaine peddlers and smugglers who have been arrested in Mumbai by anti-drug agencies belong to African countries, especially Nigeria which known to be a key transit point for Colombian drug cartels, said a senior police officer. DRI officials said drug traffickers have changed their modus operandi. Earlier, drug mules would conceal the drugs in their body. Last year dozens of foreigners were arrested by agencies at the airport while smuggling drugs in capsules inside their body. Now rackets are concealing drugs in cavities made in bags or trolleys, DRI officials said. Tuesday’s seizure is the second cocaine seizure carried out by DRI within two days. On Monday, DRI arrested a national of Malawi, an east African country, while she was smuggling in cocaine worth ₹6 crore via a similar air route — from Addis Ababa to Mumbai via Dubai.Last week, DRI had arrested four people, including two Nigerian nationals, in a case involving seizure of 502 gram cocaine. The total quantity of cocaine seized by DRI in the past 10 days is around 4.5 kg worth around ₹27 crore.The frequent seizures of cocaine in Mumbai are indicative of a high demand of the substance even though it is one of the expensive narcotic drugs, DRI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-the-biggest-seizure-at-mumbai-airport-this-year-dri-nabs-foreigner-with-18-crore-cocaine/story-VpmiiQjniEOrPkdUb6wnDN.html
26-11-2020||City||Three held for stabbing salon owner in Panchkula||Two days after a salon owner was left injured on being attacked with a knife by half a dozen youths at his shop in Panchkula, police on Wednesday arrested three suspects. Identified as Kartik, Navratan and Pradyuman, they are residents of Indira Colony. While the first two have got one-day police remand, Pradyuman has been sent to judicial custody.Jameel Ahmad, aka Chand, 42, who lives in Baltana and owns Chand Hair Salon in Sector 15, was hospitalised after being attacked on Monday.According to police, a woman employee wanted to leave early to attend a wedding, but Jameel stopped her. Later, she had an argument with another employee, and called her brother Rahul.The brother reached there with his friends and allegedly attacked Jameel with a knife. A case was registered under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon),149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-held-for-stabbing-salon-owner-in-panchkula/story-Xs5XaNeNHBa6FSc0c1z8eO.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||283 people test Covid +ve, six succumb in Chandigarh tricity||As many as 283 people tested positive for Covid-19 while six succumbed in the tricity on Wednesday.Mohali district recorded 138 cases and four deaths. Its infection tally has gone up to 14,772 and toll to 273. While 12,898 patients have recovered, 1,601 cases remain active.A 57- year-old man from Sector 19 was the lone casualty in Chandigarh, which also reported 87 new cases. Of 16,925 people tested positive so far, 15,532 have recovered and 266 have died.Panchkula, too, recorded one casualty while 58 people tested positive, including three health workers. The district’s toll rose to 125 after a 72-year-old man from Sector 15 succumbed. Of 8,454 cases so far, 508 remain active while 7,821 patients have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/283-people-test-covid-ve-six-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity/story-bat8tNY3NqPgtSFpDvCh8M.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Night curfew not likely in Chandigarh||Even as the Chandigarh administration is planning to roll back some of the relaxations allowed in Covid-19 restrictions recently, it is unlikely to impose night curfew in the city. The administration on Wednesday adopted the fresh guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs (MHA). To come into force from December 1, it empowers the administration to impose local restrictions after assessing the situation. These include imposition of night curfew, though for wider lockdown restrictions the administration will have to take the Centre’s prior approval. Stating that the Covid-19 situation in the city, at present, doesn’t warrant a night curfew, UT adviser Manoj Parida, who issued the orders adopting the MHA guidelines, said: “UT administrator VP Singh Badnore will take a final call on the issue in the review meeting scheduled on Thursday.” In the meeting, officials will also consider an increase in fine for not wearing mask or flouting social distancing norms. Also on agenda will be the review of the decisions to open schools, coaching centres and public places, such as Rock Garden and Sukhna Lake.While neighbouring states of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have shut down schools after opening them, parents’ associations in Chandigarh are also demanding the same in view of the rise in infection.The MHA guidelines put stress on effective enforcement of social distancing in offices. If the weekly positivity rate is more than 10%, the administration can implement staggered office timings. Meanwhile, under the guidelines, no restriction can be imposed on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/night-curfew-not-likely-in-chandigarh/story-7SLZx7liVOTtrVf68ks1nI.html
26-11-2020||City||Want to get land registered, take driving test in Mohali? Get sampled for Covid first||Fearing a second surge of Covid-19, the Mohali district administration is leaving no stone unturned. A day after deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan laid emphasis on doubling the number of people being sampled for the disease, the authorities on Wednesday started testing citizens who want to get their land registered in any of the tehsil offices or appear for driving tests in the district. “We want to take no chances, and have asked officials involved in public dealing to ensure those visiting the offices, be it for land registry or driving test, get themselves tested,” said Dayalan. The civil surgeon has been asked to ensure round-the-clock availability of the sampling team at the district hospital with two dedicated mobile sampling teams for the needy, he said, adding that the control room would also be strengthened with requisite staff round-the-clock to sort out grievances of the callers.Sangeeta Jain, senior medical officer, Dera Bassi, said: “We started Covid test at the tehsil office on Wednesday, and around 100 people who came for land registry were sampled.”This month, the district has recorded 2,321 cases, with Mohali city accounting for 75% of them. Even the recovery rate has declined to 87% from 93.7% in October. Civil surgeon Dr GB Singh said: “The number of cases has gone up as people are not exercising social distancing or taking precautions. In the city, most of them have stopped wearing masks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/want-to-get-land-registered-take-driving-test-in-mohali-get-sampled-for-covid-first/story-RNrJFSVsIKxObE2b99yCaM.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Himachal-origin New Zealand MP takes oath in Sanskrit||Dr Gaurav Sharma, one of the youngest and newly-elected MPs in New Zealand, on Wednesday took oath in Sanskrit in the country’s Parliament.Sharma, 33, hailing from Himachal Pradesh’s Hamirpur, was recently elected as the Member of Parliament from the Labour Party for Hamilton West in New Zealand.India’s High Commissioner to New Zealand and Samoa, Muktesh Pardeshi said on Twitter that Sharma took oath first in “New Zealand’s indigenous Maori language, followed by India’s classical language - Sanskrit, showing deep respect for cultural traditions of both India and New Zealand.” Sharma, who did his MBBS from Auckland and MBA from Washington, is working as a General Practitioner (GP) in Nawton, Hamilton. He has previously been involved in public health, policy, medicine and consulting in New Zealand, Spain, the US, Nepal, Vietnam, Mongolia, Switzerland and India.Replying to a Twitter user who asked why he didn’t take oath in Hindi, Sharma said it is hard to keep everyone happy so he decided Sanskrit as it pays homage to all the Indian languages.“To be honest I did think of that, but then there was the question of doing it in Pahari (my first language) or Punjabi. Hard to keep everyone happy. Sanskrit made sense as it pays homage to all the Indian languages (including the many I can’t speak),” he said in a tweet.Sharma, who had unsuccessfully fought elections in 2017, defeated Tim Macindoe of the National Party this year.Earlier this month, Priyanca Radhakrishnan became New Zealand’s first-ever Indian-origin minister after Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern inducted five new ministers into her executive. Born in India, Radhakrishnan, 41, went to school in Singapore before moving to New Zealand to further her education. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/himachal-origin-mp-in-new-zealand-takes-oath-in-sanskrit/story-9MmgmbzrGY4WvVdLVZfDMM.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board’s Affordable Rental Housing Complex Scheme: Second draw for 448 flats held||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) on Wednesday held the second computerised draw for allotment of 448 flats at Maloya-I under the Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) scheme.Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB, said the UT administration had decided to relocate the residents of prefab shelters in Sectors 52 and 56 to EWS flats at Maloya-I. under the ARHC scheme of the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Of the total applicants, 380 were from prefab shelters in Sector 52 and, the remaining 68 occupants were from Sector 56. There were 15 applicants with disabilities who have been allotted flats on the ground floor. Garg said the allotment letters and possession slips would be issued to the allottees on Friday. The physical possession of the flats at Maloya-I would be handed over from December 1 in a staggered manner to avoid the rush and to ensure compliance with the social distancing norms, Garg said. The water and electricity connections will be released on the day of physical possession itself, he added.The draw was streamed live on YouTube from the site of prefab shelters through a display van.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-housing-board-s-affordable-rental-housing-complex-scheme-second-draw-for-448-flats-held/story-FQqcRcVze6VD3A1qi0uTgJ.html
26-11-2020||City||Panchkula woman killed, husband injured in road accident||An elderly woman died while her husband sustained injuries when a speeding trolley hit their scooter near the Chandimandir light point on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as Parmeshwari Devi of Amravati enclave.Her husband Om Prakash Rathi, 70, in his complaint to the police, stated that at around 9 am, he along with his wife was going to Satsang Ghar in Saket when a speeding trolley hit their scooter near the Chandimandir light point, following which he sustained injuries and his wife died on the spot. Upon getting information, their children reached the spot and took them to the hospital.The unidentified driver managed to flee. An FIR against the unidentified accused has been registered under sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Chandimandir police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/panchkula-woman-killed-husband-injured-in-road-accident/story-35C4BXEfeLsZ377NcYPq4K.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||UGC’s reply to PU on governance reforms brings another twist to senate issue||With the University Grants Commission (UGC) informing Panjab University (PU) that it may initiate governance reforms in accordance with its existing provisions and regulations, the matter has become even more complicated for the varsity. The UGC’s response had come on November 10 after the varsity wrote to the statutory body seeking a plan on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020). As no fresh elections to the PU senate have been held so far, the former senators were apprehensive that the governing structure of the university may change due to the NEP-2020, which has recommended that a Board of Governors (BoG) be appointed as the governing body in higher educational institutions. Now after the UGC’s reply, many senators and syndics are of the view that as per the regulations of the University, PU has to elect a senate to be able to modify or amend the regulations of the University. The elections to the PU senate, which is the supreme governing body of the University, were postponed by the vice-chancellor for the second time on October 15, citing the pandemic. The polls were earlier scheduled to start from August 24.Syndicate member Ashok Goyal said, “The reply from UGC clearly states that the University has to act in accordance with the statutes of the University calendar. The reforms have to be done by the governing body, so the first step is to bring in the governing body of PU.”As per the PU calendar, the framing and amending of regulations of the University has to be done by the regulations committee. Section 24 of Volume I, Chapter II (A) of PU Calendar states that in making Regulations under Section 31 of the Panjab University Act, 1947, the Syndicate shall consider all amendments and draft regulations as recommended by the Regulations committee and after making such alterations as it considers fit, shall submit the same to the Senate. It further states that the decision of the Senate along with the proposed amendments and regulations shall be forwarded to the government for sanction.However, the Act can be amended in the Parliament too. Former V-C Arun Kumar Grover said, “In 2018, I had placed the reports of the committees for governance reforms of the University in syndicate but that was not considered.”Ever since the PU senate elections have been postponed, there have been a series of protests on the campus demanding immediate polls. Besides syndicate members, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Sukhbir Singh Badal have also written to the Vice-President of India, Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Chancellor of PU, asking him to direct the varsity to conduct senate polls immediately.PU’s registrar, Vikram Nayyar, said, “We will proceed under the provisions of the PU act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ugc-letter-adds-another-twist-to-pu-senate-issue/story-dz1UKJDeg4ACDRZzCKa6zL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Nayagaon SHO, two others on contempt plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday issued a notice to Nayagaon station house officer Jagjeet Singh and two other cops on a contempt plea alleging custodial torture. Two other cops named are Sudagar Din, an ASI, and Ajay Kumar, a constable. The high court acted on the plea of Dev Raj, who had approached the court on Wednesday. The response has been sought by December 16. The court was told that the petitioner, on October 22 evening, was on his way to Nayagaon riding his two-wheeler when he was stopped at a naka and asked by the cops to show his driving licence and registration certificate. Later, the cops abused him and, when he confronted them, he was beaten and taken to the local police station. He was beaten mercilessly by five-seven cops including, the three, and was also slapped with an FIR for obstructing the duty of government employees, the court was told.When the petitioner was produced before a magistrate, the officer found that he had been given a beating therefore, he ordered a medical examination. His counsel Mohinder Singh told the court that a medical examination report proves the extent of beatings, and a video shot at the naka shows how he was abused by the police. It was further stated that the petitioner met the senior superintendent of police on October 27 to complain against the cops but no action was taken against them. The court was told that there are clear directions from the high court to cops to ensure that no third-degree methods are adopted in the police custody. The apex court has directed all the states to ensure that detainees are not tortured as well. But these cops acted in violation of court orders. Hence, contempt of court proceedings should be initiated against them..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-nayagaon-sho-two-others-on-contempt-plea/story-fTRcaygXg7ZwnFLk1nMUuI.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Covid fatalities dip even as cases rise in Chandigarh||Even though the weekly number of coronavirus cases have seen nearly a twofold rise since mid-October, the number of fatalities reported in Chandigarh has seen a marginal dip. The average number of deaths reported every two days in October was four, which has dropped below three in November. However, the cumulative fatality rate has been fluctuating between 1.5% and 1.6%.Professor Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said the number of fatalities depends on the profile of patients and the degree of severity among the reported cases.“In September, when Covid cases were rising exponentially, the severity of the disease was also alarming. It is not the case this time,” he said. “Similarly, the impact of the huge number of positive cases on deaths in September may have lingered on to October, but the number decreased in November. The impact of the recent increase in cases, if the situation remains the same, can be expected hereafter, but it won’t be that big.”Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, UT health department, said it has been observed across the globe that the number of fatalities in the second surge has decreased after reaching a peak once. “The number of fatalities is stable even though the number of cases has increased in Chandigarh. This could be due to better management of severe cases, more evidence-based drugs being administered and awareness regarding reporting to hospitals even when minor symptoms are felt,” she said. Locally, the department has laid emphasis on the vulnerable sections and strengthened home isolation management of positive cases, said Dr Kaur.Throwing more light on it, joint director Dr VK Nagpal said: “Doctors and staff posted in dispensaries have been tasked with looking after patients in home isolation under their zones. They have to contact the patients regularly and keep a track of their vitals. Oximeters are provided to patients having underlying diseases, which makes a difference by preventing their condition from worsening during home isolation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/covid-fatalities-dip-even-as-cases-rise-in-chandigarh/story-fucLTJmENm3FjXUYlyBlXP.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra grants exemption to cabin, cockpit crew from mandatory Covid-19 test||The Maharashtra government has granted special exemption to cabin and cockpit crew of all airlines at all airports in the state from undergoing the mandatory reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for Covid-19 detection. The decision comes after national carrier Air India wrote to the state government seeking exemption from the tests as they operate daily passenger and cargo flights to and from the state. Air India spokesperson confirmed that the airline had requested Maharashtra government to exempt their crew members from RT-PCR tests. The notice issued to all the municipal collectors by the state government on Wednesday read, “The state government has received requests from Air India stating that it is operating Vande Bharat flights and various cargo flights in and out of Maharashtra on daily basis.”The state government observed that RT-PCR test, which has been made compulsory for all persons arriving at the airports, leads to delay in scheduling of flights. The government, hence, decided to exempt all the crew from this test. The national carrier is currently operating around 42 daily flights to and from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA).“All on-duty cockpit and cabin crew of all the airlines carrying valid identity cards be exempted from RT-PCR test at all airports in Maharashtra subject to following of all necessary Covid-related protocols by the respective airlines in the said regard,” read the government’s notice. Passengers arriving in to Mumbai and other cities in the state, however, were confused about the new state norms on RT-PCR tests. Twitter was flooded with passengers’ doubts to CSMIA officials and airlines. While some enquired if the test could be done on arrival at Mumbai, others asked if passengers booked on connecting flights from Mumbai also needed to undergo the Covid-19 test.Airport sources said that few arriving passengers faced issues after landing in Mumbai. However, despite repeated attempts, CSMIA officials did not gave details of number of passengers screened or the issues faced by them during the RT-PCR process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-grants-exemption-to-cabin-cockpit-crew-from-mandatory-covid-19-test/story-vioM8mLx9LXiQprOvjuIAM.html
26-11-2020||City||Gang busted: Conmen targeted banks, travel & food delivery chains, say Ludhiana police||With the arrest of seven persons, Ludhiana police on Wednesday claimed to have busted a pan-India network of cyber criminals, who had been fleecing corporate houses, financial institutions, online travel and food-delivery chains besides poor individuals. The gang was committing crime on the lines of the notorious Jamtara gang of Jharkhand. As per police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, the gang was in touch with other white-collar criminals operating in different parts of the country. “They had supplied bank accounts to fraudsters in West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh (UP),” he added.The accused have been identified as Vijay Kumar alias Bittu, Anshuman Singh alias Anshu, Sushil Kumar Patel, Suraj Kumar, Sanjay Kumar, Rohit and Ram Narain alias Dablu, all residents of Uttar Pradesh.“Interestingly, no one has studied beyond high school but they could put a tech graduate or a banker to shame when it comes to fudging with records,” said one of the officials probing the case.Vijay Kumar is the kingpin of the gang. According to the police, he was working for a cellular company and used to collect Aadhaar and PAN cards of customers. Later, he learnt how to use the crucial documents for committing cyber frauds.“They were doing petty cyber crimes for the past five years, but their activities intensified during the Covid-induced lockdown when most of the businesses shifted online,” commissioner Agrawal said. The gang was operating from a small house in Giaspura area. The police commissioner has not ruled out the involvement of more people, including women, in the gang.The accused were using fake identity proofs such as Aadhaar and PAN cards for creating instant bank accounts, mostly of ICICI Bank, the police said.They were selling these bank account details for about ₹1,500 to ₹3,000 besides selling debit cards to other fraudsters for ₹3,000 to ₹4,000. On the basis of bank accounts, the gang operating in other parts of the country were applying for loan and after availing it, they would withdraw the amount using a debit card. “We have also arrested Rohit, an employee of a courier company, who was actively involved with the gang and provided fake bank account details to Vijay and his accomplices,” the police chief said. They also used to procure SIM cards on the basis of fake documents and sell them for ₹200 to ₹400.“They made full use of these fake documents and availed online loan from mobile apps like Dhani and Red Carpet and then transfer the amount to their personal bank accounts via online wallets. The accused, who were arrested on Tuesday, have confessed to committing a fraud of ₹25 lakh with Dhani and Red Carpet apps,” said Agarwal.They also duped OLA cab drivers by getting IDs and OTPs in the name of verification by posing as company employees and then opened online bank accounts on the credentials of drivers. Then they would sell these accounts on Whatsapp/FB groups to the avail the refunds disbursed by the company, the police said. “Not only this, they took refund from food delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy in the name and bank details of innocent people and used the refund coupons for online shopping,” Agarwal added. The commissioner said that ₹5.45 lakh, 11 mobiles, three credit cards, 17 SIM cards, two laptops, a scanner, a coloured printer, 45 PAN cards, six memory cards and 11 ATM cards have been recovered from the possession of the accused.How to avoid falling prey to cyber fraudstersPublic– Must not share Aadhaar/Pan card images on Whatsapp and/or Facebook or with unauthorised individuals– Must not share OTP and bank account details with anyone– Must only get Aadhaar card made only from authorised shops/individualsCourier companies– Should ensure that delivery person delivers the debit/credit card to the actual account holder after checking necessary ID proofs– Should ensure debit/credit card is delivered at the exact mentioned address. Can use GPS to get exact coordinates of the delivery site– Should sensitise and create awareness among delivery boys to identify and report suspicious addresses where multiple credit/debit cards are being deliveredBanks– Should conduct physical KYC verification of new accounts within 1 month from account opening date– Should ensure communication address in KYC forms is precise and detailedTelecom companies– Should obtain complete address and clear identity proofs while issuing new SIM cards– Should flag individuals collecting multiple SIM cards on same address and ID proofs Cab aggregators– Should motivate drivers against sharing Aadhaar/Pan card details or OTP with any caller||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gang-busted-conmen-targeted-banks-travel-food-delivery-chains-say-ludhiana-police/story-vf0JZZD557kSiEG00eq3qL.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Chandigarh Transport Undertaking suspends bus service in Haryana till Nov 27||In the wake of the farmers’ agitation, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking has suspended its interstate bus service on routes passing through Haryana for three days. Farmers from the region are moving towards Delhi to join a national protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws.The Chandigarh administration, in a press release, stated that due to the farmers’ march from November 25 to 27, “all CTU operation in/through Haryana area will remain suspended”. The release stated that CTU operations in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh may also get affected, and those planning their journey should make enquiries at 0172-2700006 (ISBT-17), 0172-2624403 and 0172-2624413 (ISBT-43). P’kula police issue prohibitory orders, travel advisoryMeanwhile, Panchkula deputy commissioner of police Mohit Handa on Wednesday issued prohibitory orders against “unlawful activities, blocking of road, passages, railway tracks, water channel, power houses by agitators and assembly of five or more persons, carrying of any weapon likely to cause obstruction in the maintenance of peace and tranquillity”. This order issued under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not apply to police force and other public servants on duty and will remain into effect till November 27 unless withdrawn earlier, stated a release.The district police also issued a travel advisory, appealing people to avoid movement towards Delhi and other cities, especially via NH-44, for the next two days, as farmers’ protest is likely to cause traffic chaos. It was stated that police are on alert, and the DCP has ensured that passage will be provided to emergency vehicles, but other travellers should avoid the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-protest-chandigarh-transport-undertaking-suspends-bus-service-in-haryana-till-nov-27/story-xfGcQGHS7e9KAL5nhGIKyK.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Fire safety norms flouted, BMC standing committee raps Mumbai Fire Brigade||After the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) sent notices to 29 malls in Mumbai in the past one month for non-compliance of fire safety norms, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) standing committee on Wednesday questioned as to why these malls are still open to public despite show-cause notices from MFB. The committee also raised questions about corruption in MFB.The committee demanded that malls, which received MFB notice, be shut for the period granted by MFB to ensure compliance to the norms. If a fire incident takes place during this time, the officer signing off on the notice should be charged for culpable homicide under section 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code, the committee demanded. This comes in the aftermath of the massive fire that gutted City Centre mall on October 22. MFB took more than 56 hours to douse the fire after it was declared a brigade call (highest level of fire according to the fire brigade’s standard operating procedure). Subsequently, the standing committee had alleged irregularities in the mall. While BMC’s approved plan showed only 344 shops in the mall, the fire brigade’s preliminary report on the fire had recorded 1,344 shops. MFB then sent notices to 29 other malls over the past month and the list was submitted by the fire brigade to the standing committee on Wednesday. Leader of the opposition Ravi Raja said, “If a notice has been served to a mall, it means the mall is fire non-compliant. During this time, the fire brigade should ensure the mall remains closed to public.”The committee also alleged corruption in MFB for using its authority to vacate tenants of buildings (citing fire non-compliance) for the benefit of private builders. Standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav, corporator from Byculla, said, “On Tuesday midnight, I received a call from tenants of a private building in my area that MFB, the Mumbai Police and BEST employees were forcefully vacating the building citing non-compliance to fire safety norms and that the building was dilapidated. When I asked for papers, it turned out that these reasons were not true.” He added, “BMC machinery is being used to suit the whims of private builders who want the building to be vacated. I have directed the fire brigade to inquire against the officer present during this incident and submit a report in two days.”When HT spoke to chief fire officer (CFO) Shashikant Kale on Wednesday evening, he did not give a comment on these issues.BMC demotes CFO Shashikant KaleBMC on Wednesday demoted CFO Shashikant Kale to the position of deputy CFO, and set up an inquiry against him for concealing information in an application for Presidential medal for firemen. Deputy CFO KV Hivrale has been given the charge of CFO until the inquiry against Kale is completed. Confirming the update, a senior civic official said, “It came to light that during Kale’s tenure as DCFO in MFB, he was awarded a punishment. He concealed this information while making his application for the Presidential medal last week. The CFO charge has been taken away from him temporarily until the inquiry into this incident is complete.” Kale was suspended from the MFB in 2014 regarding issuance of a no-objection certificate for a new construction project, and an inquiry was set up against him. After serving four years in Thane Fire Brigade, Kale was made CFO of MFB in August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/fire-safety-norms-flouted-bmc-standing-committee-raps-mumbai-fire-brigade/story-XyGAURotariy4s0bf1P4iK.html
26-11-2020||Pune||PMC forms 15 teams to check Covid violations at hotels, bars and malls||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed 15 inspection teams, along with the police, to check hotels and bars violating the Covid prevention norms in the city. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal formed the 15 ward level teams. With a central team that visited Pune last month warning of a possible second wave of the deadly virus in December-January, PMC has taken various measures to control the spread of Covid. The civic administration received complaints of bars and hotels not adhering to the Covid guildelines with many running on full capacity and customers not wearing mask and following social distancing norms. Agrawal said, “The police is requested to provide cover when the teams visit hotels and bars to do inspection. These teams would enforce fines on violators.” The teams will also visit other commercial establishments and malls in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pmc-forms-15-teams-to-check-covid-violations-at-hotels-bars-and-malls/story-Vq1bU4mSuDprb1Tw1j9CWN.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Despite thin traffic during lockdown, fatalities on Pune-Mumbai e-way close to last year||Pune: Travelling on the Pune-Mumbai expressway has been risky this year as per the accidents data shared by the state highway police as empty road during lockdown prompted motorists to cross the speed limit. At least 58 persons have lost their lives on the e-way between January and October this year as compared to 65 deaths during the same period last year. Despite lockdown for around four months and less number of vehicles on the e-way, fatal accidents on the stretch are close to the last year’s figure. In 2019, between January and October, 56 fatal accidents claimed 65 lives while this year during the same time span, 53 fatal accidents happened with 58 deaths on the e-way. While the total number of accidents is comparatively less than last year — in 2019, 255 accidents happened from January to October and 121 accidents happened on the e-way in 2020 during the same period. The number of fatal deaths on the e-way despite the lockdown is attributed to behavioural change in drivers. “It was expected that there would be less number of fatal accidents and even deaths on the e-way this year. But, the data shows a rise, and the major reason behind it is behavioural change among drivers. Many motorists tend to speeding when they find the e-way empty or with less traffic during the lockdown period. As there was a lockdown in the country for almost four months and only emergency vehicles were allowed to travel, still accident figure did not reduce,” said Tanmay Pendse, an activist working for the safety of motorists using the expressway. “It is necessary to follow all the rules and regulations while travelling on the expressway. The tendency to speeding on empty roads or highways is very risky for drivers and co-passengers. It has caused fatalities on the e-way. I appeal to drivers using the e-way to strictly follow the speed limits and other rules.” he said. Talking about the accidents on the e-way, Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, state highway police (HSP), Pune said, “We have worked on several things to improve the vehicular movement and safety on the e-way. Our highway police team is continuously taking action on speeding vehicles, placing reflectors and, during the lockdown period, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) carried out several infrastructure works. And as there was fewer numbers of vehicles on the e-way during the lockdown months, there was some behavioural change noticed amongst drivers, including speeding. So, we mainly focused on our speed gun and seat belt action on the e-way to curb accidents. Also, the response time of our team to reach the accident spot has increased during this period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/despite-thin-traffic-fatalities-on-e-way-close-to-last-year-as-empty-roads-often-prompted-motorists-to-cross-speed-limit/story-jjImjiyMvIoUJ2JugMRIUO.html
26-11-2020||Pune||Covid test: Confusion at Pune rly station and airport on first day||Pune: Passengers coming to the Pune railway station on Wednesday from state of Rajasthan and Delhi were worried and confused, as they were demanded to produce Covid “negative” certificate by the state health department officials. Only two trains came to Pune railway station from the listed states, one from Ajmer (Rajasthan) and another from Hazrat Nizamuddin (Delhi). As it was the first day of the rule to be implemented, most of the passengers travelling from railway and airways were unaware about the rule to show Covid negative report. “We were prepared for checking of the passengers who arrived at Pune railway station from Delhi and Rajasthan today. Our RPF policemen along with other railway officials and state health officials were checking each and every passenger arrived from this train. Their Covid reports were checked and also thermal scanning was done. But as it was the first day most of them were unaware about this decision and no one was found Covid positive today,” said Subhash Kamble, RPF police inspector at Pune railway station. On Monday the state government issued a circular regarding travelling of people to Maharashtra state from these four states, it is now compulsory to do Covid test before entering Maharashtra by any modes of travel – road, railways or airways. As the number of Covid positive patients is increasing in these states as a precautionary measure this decision has been taken. Explaining the process for testing, Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “Our team in Airports Authority of India (AAI) will contact the passenger who will be taken to the sample collection centre if they do not have a Covid report. There they have to register themselves by filling up blank handout form and make the required payment. The sample will be collected by the lab technician.” Following the process, the passenger can leave for their homes and the report will be delivered by email. If positive, the passenger will be reported to PMC for further action Shravan Mutha, Covid-19 manager at the airport kiosk of Krsnaa Diagnostic said, “We took about 100 samples from flight passengers who did not have the mandatory RT-PCR (reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction) report, the gold standard for diagnosing Covid-19, along with them. Out of that 60 are under process as they were sent before 4 pm, rest were sent later. Today was the first day of testing for passengers coming from Delhi, Rajasthan and Goa. Most of the passengers did carry a report while others who did not were asked to undergo the test. However, we did see a few people resisting the test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/passengers-coming-from-railway-and-airport-checked-for-covid-in-pune/story-LrUP3u2dzxFOtlNq2dY8OO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: 0.24% of 5.73 million screened during survey had Covid-19 symptoms||A total of 13,516 persons (0.24%) of the 5.73 million screened as part of the Delhi government’s ongoing door-to-door survey, were found to have symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till Tuesday, while 1,178 persons have tested positive for the disease. The survey was launched on November 20 and will likely conclude on Thursday.Around 6.42% -- both symptomatic persons and contacts of Covid-19 patients in high-risk areas who have undergone tests under the survey till Tuesday -- have tested positive for the virus, according to the government data accessed by HT.The survey, which was launched on the directions of Union home minister Amit Shah in light of the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the national capital, was supposed to cover around 5.8 million people – more than one-fourth of Delhi’s total population of around 20 million – mainly residing in the over 4,500 containment zones and other areas assessed as hot spots in the 11 revenue districts.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageAccording to the data compiled till Tuesday night, the government had surveyed 5.73 million individuals (residing in 1.35 million households) in certain identified areas. Of the 5.73 million, 13,516 (0.24%) were found symptomatic of the disease. Of these 13, 516 symptomatic individuals, the data shows that 11,790 were sent for testing. Similarly, of the 8,413 persons who were identified as contacts of Covid-19 cases, 6,546 were sent for testing.Of the total 18,336 people tested, 1,178 persons came positive for Covid-19 -- a positivity rate of around 6.42%. Around 9,000 teams of three people each – comprising government officials and employees with the civic agencies – were engaged in the survey that covered all 11 revenue districts of the city.“Once the final report is prepared, we shall analyse trends and ensure that they help in strengthening the strategy to fight Covid-19,” said Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot.Of the 11 revenue districts in Delhi, the central district reported the highest positivity rate of 37.26% -- of the 773 symptomatic individuals and contacts of Covid-19 patients who were tested, 288 had Covid-19.Shahdara district had zero positivity rate, as none of the 901 persons who were tested had Covid-19. A senior official with the revenue department, on condition of anonymity, said the test results are awaited in most other districts.Also Read | In fresh Covid-19 guidelines, home ministry empowers states to impose local restrictions like night curfewAmong the 11 revenue districts, the maximum number of people -- 1,046,727 -- were surveyed in south-west district of whom 3,796 were found to be symptomatic of Covid-19.The highest number of Covid-19 patient contacts --2,475 -- were identified and tested in the west district.A second senior official of the revenue department, which is heading the survey, said all symptomatic people and contacts of Covid-19 patients were tested with RT-PCR kits, which are considered to be more accurate compared to rapid antigen tests that, though quicker, often throw up false negatives. The survey would most likely be completed by Thursday morning, the official said, requesting anonymity.“The scale of the exercise was huge, so we needed a lot of people. Each team was given thermal scanners and oximeters to screen residents,” said the second official.The official continued, “Those who have tested positive have been isolated and are under treatment. These symptomatic people were otherwise not getting tested. This exercise has also helped us in creating awareness about the disease and telling people that they should not take Covid/flu symptoms lightly. It is important to get tested if you have any symptoms.”Dr Jugal Kishore, head of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital, said the number of symptomatic patients identified during the survey is very less, especially during this time of the year. “Cough, cold and other influenza-like symptoms are very common during winter. Usually, there is a spike in such cases. With Covid-19, the numbers should have been much more.”Analysing the government data, Dr Kishore said, “The fact that 6.42% symptomatic individuals and patient contacts have tested positive shows that a large number of people in these surveyed areas have been exposed to the virus.” Dr Jacob John, former head of clinical virology, Christian Medical College in Vellore, Tamil Nadu, said, “The survey was necessary in Delhi in light of the severe spike in Covid-19 cases of late. Even though the survey has identified only around 13,500 symptomatic people, about 8,500 patient contacts and about 1,200 Covid-19 positive individuals so far, despite covering a significant chunk of the population, the exercise has helped in assessing the scenario in the city. The government should isolate all these identified persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/13-516-of-5-73-million-screened-in-door-to-door-survey-had-covid-symptoms-1-178-positive/story-v7XbYqL4mGwtVfuDWNwSZK.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19 positivity rate dips below 10% for first time in November in Delhi||The daily positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among those tested –dipped below 10% for the first time in November on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the positivity rate stood at 8.49%, lowest since October 27 when the positivity rate stood at 8.48%. Experts said that the spread of the infection can be deemed to be in control, if the positivity rate remains dips to 5% or lower for around two weeks. Delhi on Wednesday also reported fewer than 6,000 new cases of Covid-19 , with more than 50,000 tests being conducted, for the first time since October-end. On Wednesday, the city saw 5,246 Covid-19 cases with 61,778 tests having been done in the city. Also Read | Hospitalisation delays, pollution fuelling Covid deaths in Delhi, say doctorsThere had been dips in the number of cases during Diwali, Bhai Duj, Chatt, and the weekends when fewer tests had been conducted. On average, Delhi has been conducting about 60,000 tests a day. The Delhi government is currently working on increasing the number of tests to between 100,000 to 120,000 a day. Delhi had also seen an increase in the number of deaths over the fortnight, with 106 deaths reported each day on average. In comparison, 59 deaths had been reported each day on average the fortnight before, data shared by the Delhi government showed. Dr Vivek Nangia, head of the department of pulmonology at Max hospital, Saket said, “People have started taking Covid-19 very lightly, they have let their guards down because of which we are seeing higher number of cases. This is usually the time when people get common cold and seasonal flu as well so they are ignoring the symptoms. Everyone must get tested two to three days after they see any symptom. And, they should rush to a hospital if their oxygen saturation drops, they feel breathless, have fingers turning blue, or are disoriented.” He suggested that those diagnosed with Covid-19 regularly check their oxygen saturation before and after walking for 6 minutes and rush to a hospital if the saturation dips below 95%. The normal oxygen saturation is between 95 and 100%. “Another major problem is that people are returning to the circulation too soon. They should remain in isolation ideally for 21 days, and not 14 days, to ensure that there is no chance of infecting others,” he said. Meanwhile, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain visited the Covid-19 wards in the newly constructed Burari hospital, which was made operational to treat patients with the viral infection. The hospital, which so far had only 20 non-ventilator ICU beds, added 20 ventilator beds on Wednesday, with 30 more to be added by Saturday. In the four months since its operationalization, the hospital has treated 1,000 Covid-19 patients, according to the health minister. Jain on Wednesdayalso inaugurated the biomedical waste disposal unit at the hospital. “Ventilator is an important facility, as patients feel that ventilator is a prerequisite, if need be. Burari Hospital is now fully equipped to treat patients. There will not be a need to shift patients and neither will patients have to look for other options for treatment,” Jain said at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/positivity-rate-dips-below-10-for-first-time-in-november-in-delhi/story-9ws8REpDlcho6kBrYXHoNP.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Hospitalisation delays, pollution fuelling Covid-19 deaths in Delhi, say doctors||Delay in admissions, pollution-induced respiratory illnesses, and a surge in number of cases of Covid-19 — coupled with the pressure on hospitals — has led to a higher number of deaths that the capital has been reporting currently, city doctors said. Delhi has reported over 100 deaths a day for the last five days due to the viral infection, increasing the seven-day average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive — to 1.7% from 0.8% at the beginning of November. On an average, 115 people died each day in the last seven days as compared to just over 95 the week before, and 70 patients the week before that. People delaying hospital visits has also added to the current increase in mortality.  “The problem is that people have started taking the disease lightly. This is also the time when they have common cold, flare-ups of allergies, and seasonal flu. People attribute their symptoms to these conditions and do not get tested till late. Covid-19 being a viral illness, early treatment is of utmost importance,” said Dr Vivek Nangia, head of the department of pulmonary medicine at Max hospital, Saket. He says that some patients have bought oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators and use them at home to ease symptoms and report to hospitals only when the disease becomes severe. “So, they come in late; about 10 to 15% of the patients are now reaching hospitals when their oxygen saturation has already dropped quite a lot. These measures should be a stop-gap till they get a hospital bed and not be used as a therapy that can be continued at home,” said Dr Nangia. Even people in their 30s and 40s without comorbidities are getting the disease, the doctor cautioned. “We have seen a very high number of Covid-19 cases from September through November and the number of deaths reflect that. The number of deaths are likely to remain high for a couple of weeks because there is always a lag in the increase in cases and the increase in deaths – patients go to the hospitals, remain under treatment for weeks, and then succumb. The high number of cases is also the reason that hospitals are seeing an increase in the serious patients who are more likely to die,” said Dr Naresh Gupta, professor of medicine at Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi’s biggest Covid-19 treatment facility. The hospital has also seen an increase in the number of patients coming in with very low oxygen saturation during the November surge in cases, according to another doctor at the hospital. “We get about 60 new admissions a day, of which around 15 to 20 patients come in a severe condition. These patients are often those who have been referred from private hospitals in the city,” the doctor said. Patients referred from other states have also contributed to the number of severe cases in government hospitals. “It is difficult to say what percentage, but we certainly get many Covid-19 patients from other states coming to Delhi for treatment. And, these patients are usually in a critical condition by the time they reach our hospital,” said Dr BK Tripathi, professor of medicine at Safdarjung hospital. In a recent interview, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan pointed out that the Centre had to intervene twice in Delhi as Covid-19 situation was going out of hand. “Delhi is paying the price of casual behaviour of people as you find a majority of them not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour especially at crowded public spaces. Testing is being doubled in Delhi, and mobile labs are being launched that would go to different locations to collect samples. Contact tracing is another key area. Also, pollution ails Delhi NCR around October, November and December, in turn aggravating the Covid-19 situation,” he added. The levels of pollution leads to more serious cases and higher number of deaths, doctors said. “The number of serious cases has increased of the total number of cases in Delhi. This is not unexpected because the respiratory infections become severe during winter season, when the air quality is poor. There is evidence from across the world – from Italy, US, and Germany -- that shows severity of Covid-19 cases goes up with increase in pollution levels. In addition, pollution regulates a person’s immune system making them more susceptible to the virus,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). “There is also a shortage of beds in Delhi, which means people go from hospital to hospital in search of beds, which delays their treatment and adds to the Covid-19 morbidity and mortality,” he said. The Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday had said that Delhi had one of the lowest case fatality ratios among India’s major cities. “Delhi has least fatality ratio amongst all major cities in India. Rapid addition of ICU beds and other medical facilities have helped us achieve this. We are doing our best to save each and every life,” he said in a tweet. The data attached in the tweet mentions that Delhi’s case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – stood at 1.6%, comparing it to states with the highest CFR -- Ahmedabad’s 4.2%, Ludhiana’s 4%, Mumbai’s 3.9%. As per the data shared by the minister, Delhi was on the 15th place in the list of the cities with highest mortality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/hospitalisation-delays-pollution-fuelling-covid-deaths-in-delhi-say-doctors/story-xgXSeBIrOpyJ0bVau3irIO.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Two brothers held for killing scrap dealer, son; police claim business rivalry led to the double murder||Police on Wednesday said they had arrested two brothers and claimed to have cracked the double murders of a scrap dealer and his son, who were killed while returning from a mosque in north-east Delhi earlier this week.Police claimed that the scrap dealer Zulfiqar Qureshi — who was also a member of the BJP’s local unit — and his son Janbaz were killed over a business rivalry.Though investigators had to conduct multiple raids before they could nab the suspects, identified as Khalid and Tariq Ali, they had received crucial leads from 20-year-old Janbaz, who had named the assailants before succumbing to his injuries.Armed with the identities of the suspects, the police had analysed their phone call records and location before arresting them from Nand Nagri on Tuesday evening. Janbaz’s father, Zulfiqar, was a scrap dealer who was an active member of the BJP and also ran an NGO, besides filing right to information (RTI) applications against businesses and builders in and around his neighbourhood. According to the police, Zulfiqar had a host of criminal cases registered against him, even though he had been staying clean for the last few years. His slain son too had criminal cases, including one arrest in a motor theft case just two months ago, said Ved Prakash Surya, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).Surya said that the arrested suspects had so far told their interrogators that they had murdered the father-son duo as they were “fed up” of Zulfiqar’s habit of filing “fake complaints” against them and harming their businesses.This is contrary to the claims of the Qureshi family which insisted that Zulfiqar’s activism was against scrap dealers involved in sale and purchase of stolen vehicles.Zulfiqar was shot dead by four men on Monday morning, as he was stepping out of a mosque near his home after offering morning prayers. Janbaz had tried to save him, but he too was stabbed.The DCP said that Janbaz had named four suspects— which included another scrap dealer Naasir, who is the brother of the arrested men, Khalid and Tariq Ali.“Their father, Rasheed, owns a scrap shop right next to Zulfiqar’s shop. They had a business rivalry. Zulfiqar would file false complaints against Rasheed, which would force him to shut his shop for prolonged periods,” said the DCP.“Rasheed and his family tried to resolve the matter with Zulfiqar on a couple of occasions, but to no avail. Fed up with his attitude, Rasheed’s three sons and an aide carried out the double murders,” said the DCP.While Naasir remains on the run, the police refused to identify the fourth suspect, who too is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/two-brothers-held-for-killing-scrap-dealer-son-police-claim-business-rivalry-led-to-the-double-murder/story-pgpGKk6oLXgoGo35Ez3zHI.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi riots planners ran a well-oiled, sustained campaign: Police||The Delhi Police have alleged that the conspirators in the north east Delhi communal riots ran a “sustained and well-oiled” campaign to create an acute sense of fear and insecurity in the minds of the minority community and while they remained safe in their homes, the brunt of their actions were borne by those who have to struggle daily for their sustenance.In the supplementary charge sheet filed in the conspiracy leading to the riots in February, the special cell of the Delhi Police have detailed the role of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and Faizan Khan. The charge sheet was filed on Sunday and the court took cognizance on Tuesday. Earlier, in the main charge sheet filed in September, the police had named 15 accused, including former councillors Tahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and student-activists such as Asif Iqbal Tanha and Gulfisha Khatoon among others.As many as 53 people were killed and over 400 others injured in the riots that took place between February 23 and 26 in different parts of north east Delhi. The police claims that the accused had conspired with each other to orchestrate riots during the visit of the US President Donald Trump in protest against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).The police alleged that the offences committed by Khalid and Imam were “extremely brutal”, “grotesque”, and were a “crime against humanity”.The police said that Khalid did not take the personal security officers, who were assigned to him after an attack at the Constitution Club in 2018, to the conspiratorial meetings, which according to the charge sheet shows “a totally depraved, brutal and scheming mind”.Umar Khalid’ counsel Trideep Pais had earlier said that though his client was against the idea of the new Citizenship law; and that he (Khalid) was not ashamed of it, Khalid was not involved in any violence of the conspiracy of the riots. Ahmad Ibrahim, Sharjeel’s lawyer, said even before the counsels have not got the charge sheet and would be supplied on December 2, it’s already out in the media. He said that he is yet to read the charge sheet and would be able to comment on the allegations only when he has read the document. “Innocent victims and helpless were targeted of this ghastly, horrendous and horrifying crime. Precious lives were lost. Accused persons are charge-sheeted for commission of grave, serious and heinous offences,” the charge sheet read.“It is pertinent to mention here that their acts and commissions have shocked the collective conscience of the society,” it read. Faizan Khan has been accused of supplying SIM card to co-accused Asif Iqbal Tanha. The police have said that the same SIM was later used by student activist Safoora Zargar.“Accused Faizan Khan and Asif Iqbal Tanha were actively involved in executing the preparatory work for commission of the unlawful and terrorist act executed by co-accused persons,” the police claimed. The court will hear the case next on December 22 after the trial in the case was stayed by the Delhi high court on an appeal by the police challenging an earlier order of the trial court directing them to supply physical copies of the charge sheet. The police alleged that Imam was “baptized” a day before the preparatory meeting which laid the foundation of Delhi Protest Support Group (DPSG). The charge sheet says that Imam then embarked on a journey across states and subsequently six FIRs were registered against him, primarily for sedition and inciting communal hatred.The charge sheet stated all efforts of the conspirators were geared towards giving the anti-CAA/NRC protests a profound communal colour.It further said that the criminal conspiracy was continuing and has suffered setbacks with the exposure and arrest of the accused persons but it was neither aborted nor abandoned. Highlighting the role of Jamia Millia Islamia student and co-accused Meeran Haider, the police said that he was one of the top conspirators and created a ruse to malign Sharjeel Imam so as to convey that DPSG had parted ways with the “rabid, communal Sharjeel Imam”.“Haider, as the faithful deputy of Umar Khalid, knew very well in his heart that Sharjeel Imam was nowhere returning to Shaheen Bagh and was faithfully executing his task and role in the conspiracy as assigned by the principal conspirators.However, as soon as the news of the arrest of Imam became public, the key conspirators returned to their true colours and started “massive mobilisation to press for his release”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-riots-planners-ran-a-well-oiled-sustained-campaign-police/story-31ESFJL5NomiirtAcjTdsM.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Ensure timely hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients in home isolation: L-G||Delhi lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday directed Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) officials to ensure timely hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients in home isolation in case of emergency to reduce the mortality rate in the city, which recorded more than 100 daily deaths in seven of the last 14 days, a senior official said.In a DDMA meeting on Wednesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requested for a team of experts to audit recent cases of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi and suggest measures that could help reduce fatalities, the official said.The DDMA is chaired by Baijal and its vice-chairperson is Kejriwal.Delhi, on Wednesday, recorded 5,246 new Covid-19 cases and 99 more deaths, taking the death toll to 8,720. The positivity rate was recorded at 8.49%, the government’s health bulletin said.So far, the highest number of deaths in a single day was recorded at 131 on November 18.“Reviewed Covid-19 situation and implementation status of decisions taken during the meeting held under the Union Home Minister on 15 Nov, 2020, with special reference to scaling up testing, augmenting hospital capacities, conduct of house-to-house survey & review of home care. Emphasised enhanced IEC outreach, strict enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and continued and coordinated action to contain positivity and mortality,” Baijal said in a series of tweets after the meeting.The chief minister’s office did not comment on the developments in the meeting.A senior government official privy to the developments said Kejriwal urged the L-G to help assess the steep rise in deaths, which Delhi has witnessed in November, and suggest ways to reduce them.An expert committee the L-G had set up to advise DDMA on Covid-19 include Dr V K Paul, member of the NITI Aayog, and Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS. The committee helps DDMA in all aspects of Covid-19 management, but for death audits on a routine basis, a separate committee was set up by the Delhi government.The death audit committee would continue to function, the official said.The CM’s request for an audit by experts comes against the backdrop of the civic agencies, which are entrusted with cremations and burials, alleging discrepancies in data related to Covid-19 deaths.In Wednesday’s DDMA meeting, another senior official said, the L-G reviewed the ICU bed shortage in Delhi. The CM told the L-G that the Delhi government recently added 232 ICU beds in GTB Hospital and 200 in Lok Nayak, and that he is personally monitoring the progress on a round-the-clock basis, the official said.The official said DDMA was supposed to discuss strategies for vaccine distribution but that did not happen on Wednesday. Last week, in an interview to HT, Kejriwal had said calls on vaccine distribution would be taken by the central government and the state government’s role would come only after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ensure-timely-hospitalisation-of-covid-19-patients-in-home-isolation-l-g/story-VcvmGp7RuS0vygkUBRHAMJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Working on long-term solution to stubble burning: Air commission||Instead of a piecemeal approach, the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) is consulting north-western states to find out a workable, long-term solution to the problem of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and other places, which leads to an air emergency in Delhi-NCR every year, MM Kutty, chairperson of the newly formed body has said.A combination of extremely high number of stubble fires in Punjab, low to calm winds in the region and subsidence of air had led to Delhi recording “severe” air quality for six days consecutively since November 5 this month. At present, the contribution of stubble fires to Delhi’s PM 2.5 load is negligible but the commission has started preparing for next year, which is also a pre-election year for Punjab.“We have a forward-looking approach. We are working on identifying long-term solutions to this problem (stubble burning). A workable solution will be attempted by the commission in consultation with all stakeholders so that the problem does not arise in future,” Kutty said. “Now, stubble burning is over but a mechanism is needed to ensure it doesn’t happen next year. We are also trying to establish the wherewithal to implement various measures to control the spike in winter pollution. CPCB (Central Pollution Control Board) should continue to do its job,” he said.Kutty said the commission will try to avoid temporary fixes and presently does not have the staff and infrastructure to do large scale monitoring, which is being worked on. The commission has recently got an office in Yusuf Sarai from where its four full-time members are working.Stubble fires in Punjab increased by 46.5% this year compared to last year while they reduced by 28.6% in Haryana, according to an assessment note released by CPCB on Tuesday.In Punjab, the total count of active fire events reported in the year 2020 was 76,537 while in 2019, it was 52,225 (September 21 to November 22). Sangrur, Bathinda and Firozpur continued to record the highest fire counts and reported an increase of 45.7%, 35% and 40.5% respectively, compared to last year. Moga, Amritsar, Fazilka, Ludhiana have shown more than 75% increase in fire counts in comparison to 2019.In 2020, all the districts of Punjab, except SBS Nagar, have shown an upward trend in fire counts and have witnessed the lack of ground level implementation of the centrally supported in-situ mechanisation scheme for crop stubble management. The average contribution of stubble burning to PM 2.5 load in Delhi has increased from 10% (October 11 – December 10, 2019) to 15.63% (October 10 – November 22, 2020). In 2020, Delhi’s PM2.5 load was more than 10% on 26 days between October 10 and November 22 and on 21 days in the same period in 2019.In Haryana, the total fire counts this year was 4,675 compared to 6,551 last year (September 25 - November 22). Fatehabad, Kaithal and Karnal continued to record highest fire counts but recorded a reduction by 40% compared to last year. Fire counts in Palwal and Kurushetra reduced by 50-60%.“This year, fires have been higher than last year because farmers haven’t used the straw management machinery subsidised by the Centre. They were protesting against three farm bills. Many of the fires were to register their protest. Large-scale protests are still underway. Lakhs of farmers are demanding withdrawal of the laws. Harvest of paddy and fires are now over,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/working-on-long-term-solution-to-stubble-burning-air-commission/story-bbCiKWOowzN3pikP5e6YzL.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Eight JNU professors write to President, allege “misconduct” in faculty appointments||Eight professors from Jawaharlal Nehru University’s (JNU) School of Physical Sciences have written to the President of India flagging “malfeasance” in recent faculty appointments in their school. They urged the President to intervene, in his capacity as visitor of the University, and keep all appointments in question in “abeyance”.In their letter dated November 23, addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind — which was also marked to JNU vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar— the eight faculty members said, “We bring to your kind attention the gross violation of ethics and procedures that have occurred during the recent round of recruitments related to the School of Physical Sciences, JNU, New Delhi.”In their letter, the professors have listed several violations in recruitments done by the university earlier this month. For instance, a candidate selected for the position of professor does not have the required experience, they alleged. In another case, a person selected for the position of the associate professor was not short-listed by the selection committee. Requesting the President to intervene, the professors said, “We pray that the appointments mentioned be kept in abeyance until all aspects of the conduct and outcome of the selection process (Including whether the best available candidates were selected and whether the external subject experts on the selection committee were qualified to meaningfully judge the quality of research in the relevant areas of specialisation) are scrutinised by a committee of leading physicists and astrophysicists...”The letter was sent ahead of the university’s 290th Executive Council (EC) meeting held on Wednesday. One of the signatory professors, who wished not to be named, said, “Some of the recent recruitments are former JNU students who support a certain ideology and have affiliation to some organisations. They do not have the required experience and proper research work on the subject.”Contacted, JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said, “The faculty members have sent the letter to the visitor. We will look into this, if the visitor asks us to. We have nothing to say about it.” JNU V-C did not respond to calls and texts sent seeking comments on the issue. Earlier in September, HT had reported that an inquiry committee had been set up to review the four appointments of faculty members, after several members of the EC — the highest decision-making body — objected to their candidatures and alleged discrepancies in the recruitment process. Moushumi Basu, secretary of JNU teachers Association (JNUTA), said, “The allegations reiterate the long-standing demand for a public inquiry into all the appointments made by the current vice chancellor so far.”Meanwhile, the JNU administration also issued a statement saying that it has decided to celebrate Swami Vivekanada youth festival every year. The decision was taken during the EC meeting. The EC also passed a resolution to constitute a committee to develop academic/research programmes on Swami Vivekananda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-jnu-professors-write-to-president-allege-misconduct-in-faculty-appointments/story-p4FA11WYOEJSXD8ZWzBjGJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Fire erupts at Ghazipur landfill||Even as the national capital gasped for breath, with its overall air quality slipping into the severe category, a fire broke out at Delhi’s largest landfill at Ghazipur on Tuesday. According to fire officials, efforts to completely douse the blaze were on till late evening. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) officials said the fire was reported at 9.56pm on Tuesday, but because of the intensity and the large area it took longer for the firemen to douse the blaze. “Initially, nine fire tenders were pressed into action, but by afternoon, two more tenders were sent. Unlike a regular blaze, fires in garbage piles react in a different way because of the variety of waste dumped there. The chemicals that are released by the decomposition of garbage also aggravate the blaze,” a senior fire official said. The official said that by 3pm, the fire was contained but smoke continued rise from the landfill. DFS teams were present at the landfill site till at least 7pm to check if the fire begins again and to initiate the cooling process. An East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) spokesperson said that the fire broke out from the outer edge of the landfill, where fresh garbage was being dumped on the Tuesday night. “Soon the fire spread towards the outer periphery of the garbage, in front of waste-to-energy plant. All EDMC field officials are present at site and trying to control the situation. The fire has been controlled with the help of available machines and fire tenders. However, smoke is still rising at site and small fires are erupting. We are keeping an eye on that,” said the spokesperson. Meanwhile the Aam Aadmi Party alleged that the BJP-ruled EDMC had started the fire deliberately to malign the party’s government in Delhi. AAP in-charge of the municipal corporations, Durgesh Pathak on Wednesday alleged that “the BJP had lighted a fire on the Ghazipur landfill to defame Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal”. “People and choking on the smoke from the fire and the BJP leaders are playing with the lives of people by burning the garbage mountain. AAP demands a fair investigation into the incident and strict action should be taken against the culprits,” Pathak said. Responding to Pathak’s allegations, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that AAP leaders are known for the “politics of accusations”. “The Aam Aadmi Party leaders cannot tolerate the well being of Delhiites, so the party has set fire to the Ghazipur landfill and put the lives of people at risk, nothing can be more shameful than this. In the last six years, CM (Arvind) Kejriwal has not visited Ghazipur landfill even once and when BJP MP Gautam Gambhir is working on the ground, Kejriwal and his ministers are doing nothing more than creating chaos and fear among the public,” Gupta alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/fire-erupts-at-ghazipur-landfill/story-l8RPfWRWKmM2U1nmYSPMUM.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Brace for cold wave conditions from Saturday, warns IMD||If you thought it was unusually chilly in Delhi already, wait till the weekend. The temperature is likely to dip further from Saturday, says the India Meteorological Department (IMD), and the city would most likely experience cold-wave like conditions. On Wednesday, owing to the impact of a western disturbance over the western Himalayan region, the minimum temperature in Delhi was 10.4 degrees Celsius. While this was one degree lower than the season’s normal, it was a considerable increase from Tuesday, when the minimum temperature was 6.7 degrees Celsius. On Monday, it was 6.3 degrees Celsius, the lowest November temperature in Delhi since 2003. A cold wave occurs in plains when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and/or is 4.5 notches lesser than the season’s normal for two consecutive days. For smaller states such as Delhi, however, a cold wave can be declared in case the criterion is met even for a day.“Due to the likely fall in minimum temperature over north-west India, cold wave conditions are expected to prevail in isolated places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, north Rajasthan and west Uttar Pradesh between November 27 and November 29,” the IMD said. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said under the influence of the western disturbance, the temperatures mostly tend to spike. However, in this instance, the wind direction will change from easterly to north-westerly from Thursday, bringing in cold winds from the hilly regions of Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh “ Due to the influence of a western disturbance over Afghanistan and neighbouring areas, fairly widespread rainfall, isolated heavy rainfall and snowfall, and isolated hailstorms are likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh from November 25, which will result in low temperatures in Delhi as well, he said. The IMD said the minimum temperature in Delhi is expected to remain between 6 and 7 degrees Celsius till November-end.“The skies will be clear again, and this will also cool the surface down faster and reduce the temperature by the end of the week,” Srivastava said. Delhi has been experiencing an unusually cold October and November this year. The month of October had recorded the lowest temperatures in 58 years, with the mean minimum temperature being just 17.2 degrees Celsius. This is the lowest since 1962 when it had been 16.2 degrees Celsius..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/brace-for-cold-wave-conditions-from-saturday/story-t6U2xg0oYRQgkTr3vSivUJ.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||AAP alleges corruption in hospital, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday alleged corruption in the construction of a hospital by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), a claim denied by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules the civic bodies . AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said an “extra payment” was made to the contractor by the civic authorities.Addressing a press conference, Bharadwaj said SDMC had issued a tender of Rs 9.88 crore in 2010 to build the Poornima Sethi Super-Speciality Hospital in Kalkaji but later changed the terms and gave a contract of Rs 30.96 crore to the same contractor.“This 100-bed hospital was supposed to become fully functional by 2012, but could not be built to date. SDMC did not impose a penalty against the contractor despite the delay in construction work. On the contrary, it paid the contractor over Rs 35 crore instead of the fixed cost of Rs 30.96 crore,” Bharadwaj alleged.Bharadwaj said when AAP asked the civic body, it falsely claimed it had paid Rs 28.53 crore against the fixed amount of Rs 30.95 crore. He said that an internal audit report of SDMC indicated the civic body had paid more than Rs 35 crore. He said SDMC did not give any answer to the auditor when asked about the delay in construction.Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said no extra payment had been made to contractor. “The work order cost was Rs 30.95 crore and the amount paid is little less than Rs 30 crore. The contractor is demanding additional Rs 2 crore and has gone to court. Had he been paid all the amount, why would he go to the court?” Kapoor asked.Kapoor said the delay in the hospital’s operation was due to SDMC’s financial crunch, caused by the non-release of municipal funds by the Delhi government for several years.He said Poornima Sethi Hospital was envisioned in 2005 with a cost approval of Rs 20.17 crore but due to financial crunch, a small work order of Rs 9.87 crore was issued in 2007. “Later in 2010, additional floors and construction of service flats were added as visioned under MPD 2021 and the cost was revised to Rs 30.95 crore. The hospital work stands almost complete and is awaiting fire clearance from the Delhi government,” he said.The BJP leader said the OPD is already working from the ground and first floors and a 50-bed Covid-19 isolation ward is completed and awaiting the Delhi government’s clearance.He said a dialysis centre will start working on the second floor, followed by a maternity centre on the third floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-alleges-corruption-in-hospital-bjp-hits-back/story-dcDtIvPC8H0OiPi60diAvK.html
26-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: No Metro service at some stations till 2pm||Metro train services on several corridors will be restricted till 2pm on Wednesday due to the farmers’ agitation against the new farm bills. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has decided to stop regular services between several stations on six of its corridors.A DMRC official said, “This has been done on the request of the Delhi Police to avoid crowding in view of the Covid pandemic. From morning till 2pm, Metro services on various corridors will be regulated.”On the Red line, no service will be available between Dilshad Garden and Major Mohit Sharma Rajender Nagar section.Similarly, on Yellow line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA city Centre) train service will not be available between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations.Trains will not run between Noida City Centre to New Ashok Nagar and Vaishali to Anand Vihar till 2pm.On the Inderlok to Mukdka corridor (Green line), services will not be available between Tikri Kalan to Brig. Hoshiar Singh section.Similarly, on the Violet line, there will be no trains between Badarpur Border to Mewala Maharajpur section. DMRC officials said that regular service will be available on Airport line and other corridors.Regular services will resume after 2pm. While trains will ply on all the corridors, boarding and deboarding will not be allowed on these stretches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-agitation-no-metro-service-at-some-stations-till-2pm/story-jgk3Xii50MFtecW90WiGUL.html
26-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 6,000 Covid-19 infections after a gap of 26 days||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported over 6,000 Covid-19 infections after a gap of 26 days (October 30) as 6,159 fresh cases pushed the tally to 1,795,959, amid an upward trend in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and Pune district’s share of active cases.The active caseload in the state stood at 84,464, of which 51,121 cases or 60.52% of the cases were from MMR and Pune district. An analysis of the week-on-week data from September 11, when Maharashtra achieved its peak with 24,886 cases in a day, showed that the share of active cases from these two regions dipped to 48.14% on September 25, but since then it has been on an upward trend even as the daily caseload stabilised.Maharashtra also reported 65 fatalities on Wednesday, of which nine occurred in the past week, to take the death toll to 46,748. Health department officials said Covid-19 had spread in the semi-urban and rural part of the state between June and September, which has gradually stabilised and tapered down in many districts.Also read: Mumbai mayor’s warning: ‘Follow Covid safety norms or we will have no choice but to impose lockdown’“Mumbai, its surrounding cities, and Pune district are densely populated areas. They would naturally have more cases and therefore active cases are higher. The testing in these areas is also higher given more population. Having said that, the festive season resulted in an increased movement of people, coupled with the careless behaviour of people not wearing masks, among others. The result is a gradual increase in cases from these areas,” a state health department official said, requesting anonymity.The state government and the administration have projected that cases would go up post-Diwali and the state would hit its second peak by December-end of in January-February 2021. Since November 16 (a day after Diwali weekend), Maharashtra has added 46,182 cases. Of these, 22,497 cases or 48.71% have come from MMR and Pune district.MMR and Pune district were one of the hotspots during the first peak in the state. Health department officials said that the two regions could become hotspots once again if Covid-appropriate behaviour is not followed by people.Dr Sanjay Pattiwar, public health expert, said, “People in the slum pockets of Mumbai have developed some antibodies, so people living in the buildings and high-rises are now more susceptible to catching the infection. Similarly for Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune district, these are densely populated areas. With increased movement of people, work-travel in public transport, cases are expected to rise.” He said that people need to take masking and hand sanitisation even more seriously if another surge in cases is to be prevented.Also read: Maharashtra in safe zone compared to other states for Covid-19, says state health ministerMeanwhile, Mumbai on Wednesday reported 1,144 fresh cases, taking the city’s tally to 278,597. The city reported 17 fatalities, pushing the toll to 10,725. The active cases in Mumbai stood at 13,734. Kalyan-Dombivli reported the highest cases in MMR with 215 fresh cases, followed by Navi Mumbai with 189 cases and Thane city with 186 cases.Pune city reported 418 fresh cases and two fatalities, while its rural areas reported 378 cases and three deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 229 new cases and one death. Nagpur city reported 235 cases and five deaths, while its rural areas saw 73 cases and two fatalities.On Wednesday, 4,844 patients were discharged, taking the total tally of recovered patients to 1,663,723. The recovery rate in the state is 92.64%. The state has so far tested 10,456,962 and has an overall positivity rate of 17.17%. In the past 24 hours, 90,383 samples were tested. Currently, 529,344 people are in home quarantine and 6,980 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-6-000-covid-19-infections-after-a-gap-of-26-days/story-hQj0xOtL436U4zJc4hxB9N.html
26-11-2020||Gurugram||Farm bill stir checks hold up traffic on Delhi to Gurugram stretch of expressway||Traffic movement into the city slowed down on the Delhi to Gurugram carriageway of the expressway on Wednesday evening, as the police intensified checking of commuters ahead of the ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest march call given by farmers for Thursday and Friday.The traffic jam started around 3.30pm and was resolved only around 6.30pm, said Gurugram police officers. Movement of vehicles at other borders points with Delhi, however, remained smooth.Ashtha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “There was a jam at the border on the Delhi to Gurugram side of the expressway and we coordinated with the Delhi Police to streamline vehicular movement.”Commuters travelling from Delhi to Gurugram on Wednesday evening also said that they faced a long wait to enter the city.Amitabh Singh, an executive working with a multinational electrical company, said it took him half an hour to travel from Mahipalpur in Delhi to Cyber City as he was stopped twice by the Delhi Police. “I had no idea that entering Gurugram is a problem. No advisory was issued on any social media platform. It was said that going to Delhi will be an issue,” he said. However, officials of the Delhi Police denied that there was a jam on the expressway.Ingit Pratap Singh, the deputy commissioner of police (south-west), Delhi Police, said that pickets have been set up on both carriageways at the Rajokri border, near the defunct Sirhaul toll plaza. “The checks were mainly of vehicles entering Delhi, to ensure that protesting farmers do not enter the capital. The picket on the carriageway leading to Gurugram was just set up to check criminal elements, but the checking was not as intense as on the other carriageway, where vehicles were entering Delhi.”Another deputy commissioner of Delhi Police, of a district that has a border in its jurisdiction, said that they are keeping a watch on large vehicles entering the city. “If people are coming in mass in a vehicle, they are being stopped and their identities ascertained. If they are not travelling with families, they are being stopped and checked,” said the DCP, who didn’t want to be identified. The Gurugram Police has deployed 900 personnel at the 13 borders connecting the city with Delhi, Rajasthan, Nuh, Rewari, Sohna and Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway. The police said they have set up 123 barricades in these locations and strict instructions have been given to check all the vehicles.The police said they would check all vehicles and commuters’ identity cards to ensure farmers don’t cross the border. Also, strict checking to ensure no one is moving without a face mask and are adhering to rules and regulation of Covid-19 guidelines will be in place, they said. If there is more than one person in a vehicle, a mask is be compulsory and police teams will fine violators on the spot, said officials. Modi said that the teams were deployed around 4pm at the Sirhaul border. “The traffic movement slowed down due to the checking and people should avoid travelling to Delhi unnecessarily on these two days,” she said. The state government had issued a comprehensive travel advisory on Tuesday that mentioned that commuters are likely to face congestion on the borders connecting to Delhi. Police teams have been instructed not to allow any tractor-trolley or heavy vehicles ferrying farmers. The police said that all large vehicles will be checked on Thursday and Friday. However, farmers marching to Delhi to press the Central government to scrap the farm laws alleged that they would block the roads leading to Delhi if they are not allowed to enter the capital. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that the primary objective of the arrangements is to maintain law and order to prevent any violence. The instructions in force due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation have also been kept in mind. “We have received secret information that a large number of protesters are likely to enter Gurugram from different stretches, including KMP Expressway, to reach Delhi. We have intensified night patrolling in all the suspected areas,” she said. Gehlot said they have prepared a strategy to divert traffic if congestion is reported on Thursday and Friday. “During checking on Wednesday, it was observed that people were moving in groups, just to check the ground situation after hearing of strict checking at the borders. We have informed people through social media and other media about these arrangements in advance so that they can plan and modify their journey accordingly, to avoid any inconvenience,” she said. (with inputs from Shiv Sunny)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farm-bill-stir-checks-hold-up-traffic-on-delhi-to-gurugram-stretch-of-expressway/story-94Qo9LXIEQB0fgOqHHexAJ.html
26-11-2020||Chandigarh||Police avert NC-BJYM clash outside Farooq’s Jammu residence||A day after former chief minister Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were listed as encroachers of state land in Sunjwan, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) workers staged a protest outside his Bhatindi residence on Wednesday. Within no time nearly 500 National Conference (NC) workers and locals assembled there and started marching towards the BJYM workers. However, a strong posse of police personnel averted the possible clash and cane-charged the NC workers, who outnumbered the BJYM workers. Some BJYM workers ran to safety and hid themselves in some houses while others were taken away by the police. Later, some BJYM workers also alleged that their vehicles were damaged by the NC workers and locals. The NC workers also resorted to intense sloganeering. A NC worker requested lieutenant governer Manoj Sinha and Jammu SSP Shridhar Patil to ensure law and order in Jammu and check divisive forces. “The BJP has failed on all fronts and hence has been raking up such issues. BJYM workers could have staged the protest somewhere else. Why did they chose to protest outside our houses in Bhatindi. I appeal the Jammu deputy commissioner to take cognizance of it. This could have led to communal tension,” he said. Bhatindi under village Sunjwan is a Muslim-dominated area. Another NC worker said that it was a deliberate attempt to create communal tension and vitiate atmosphere ahead of the district development council (DDC) polls. Another NC worker said, “How could the protesters reach outside Farooq’s residence? The administration is hand in glove with the BJP. Nationalism is not the prerogative of BJP alone. The Tricolour is in our hearts but the BJP is hell-bent on vitiating communal harmony ahead of the polls.” Under encroached state land (physically encroached but not shown in revenue record)-other than Roshni, figured names of Farooq and Omar wherein it has been mentioned that under Khasra number 4,5 and 6 in Bahu Tehsil, Village Sunjwan, they have encroached upon seven Kanals and seven marlas of state land (once a forest land). Similarly, figured name of prominent Kashmir hotelier Mushtaq Chaya under Bahu Tehsil, Village Sunjwan in Khasra number 16 with one kanal and five marlas and of Ashraf Mir under Khasra number 17 with one kanal of land under their illegal occupation. However, Farooq called it a political vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/roshni-land-scam-police-avert-nc-bjym-clash-outside-farooq-s-jammu-residence/story-1mpobgSIxnvJv9vBBp1aGM.html
