27-11-2020||Other||Remembering the first Indian-origin Congressman Dalip Singh Saund||As the world sits back and takes note of Kamala Harris, who has become the first Indian-origin vice-president-elect of the United States of America, it is time to remember another Punjab-origin trailblazer who paved the way for Indians to enter the US Congress.Like Harris, Congressman Dalip Singh Saund, who immigrated to the US from Chhajulwadi in Amritsar, broke many a glass-ceiling when he became the first Asian-American, the first Indian-American, and the first Sikh to be elected to the US Congress in 1956.The journey was all the more remarkable as Saund had to first fight for Hindus’ (all South Asian communities were clubbed under the category at the time) right to become citizens. Saund was re-elected to the US Congress twice - in 1958 and again in 1960.Meanwhile, a Chandigarh-based family is basking in the quiet glory of its ancestor’s connection to the US Congress. Saund’s grand-nephew Gurpreet Singh who is president of the Institute of Sikh Studies, Chandigarh, and the Global Sikh Council, grew up hearing about him.It’s no wonder that Gurpreet lent support to the Biden-Harris campaign. He says, “I am a democrat by conviction. It’s a part of our DNA as we are inclusive people.”“When Taya Dalip went to the US, Indians had no voting rights. They could not even lease land. He had to wait for seven years to enter the Congress after getting citizenship and when he did, he won against the formidable Republican candidate Jacqueline Cochran, who was a decorated pilot during the World War-2,” he says.“Taya Dalip campaigned vigorously for the Blacks the right to vote. When he stood for Congress, he did not seek the help of bigwigs in Washington as he did not want to lose his autonomy. He was a hands-on fellow. He would fly back to California over the weekend, tour his constituency, meet the constituents and tell them what had happened in the Congress and what he thought about it and what was his stand,” he adds.On Harris’ victory, he says, “Nowadays, the world has become a village but there are so many divisions. I hope she takes up minority-rights and humanitarian issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/punjab/remembering-the-first-indian-origin-congressman-dalip-singh-saund/story-rlCCCQx2SxgCibuDJ9qngN.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||SAFEMA freezes properties of accused held by Maharashtra ATS for running mephedrone lab||For the first time, properties of accused arrested in a Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) case have been frozen by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS). ATS, which wrote to SAFEMA (Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators) authority, seized ₹1.55 crore, three vehicles, flats and open plots among others of 13 accused who were arrested for running a lab which produced the drug mephedrone, also known as MD and meow-meow. ATS seized 146kg of the drug worth ₹58 crore. An ATS officer said that maximum properties seized belonged to Mohammad Tanvir Abdul Aziz Paryani, a man with links to gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s gang.In September 2019, the Vikroli unit arrested two accused on the eastern express highway with 9kg of mephedrone. After interrogating them, ATS busted a factory in Panvel which was being used as a lab to manufacture MD. Officers learnt that the drug was being supplied to Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and neighbouring districts. A total of 13 accused – Abdul Razzak Kadar Shaikh, Irfan Badar Shaikh, Suleman Badar Shaikh, Jitendra Sharad Parmar alias Asif, Naresh Madan Mhaskar, Sardar Uttam Patil, Juber Lalmohammed Momin, Mohd Salim Abdul Hamid Memon, Kais Kuresh Sidhiqui alias Kaisuddin, Avesh Akbar Khan, Mohammed Tanvir Abdul Aziz Paryani, Mohammad Wasim Abdul Latif Shaikh, and Mustafa Zulfikar Charaniya alias Guddu – were arrested in the case.A financial investigation was conducted, which revealed that the accused had purchased several properties with money from the sale of drugs. ATS seized ₹1.55 crore after conducting searches at the residences and offices of all the accused. Officers also seized three vehicles and cash deposits in 15 bank accounts in the names of the accused. A plot at Shirala in Sangli district was found in the name of Sardar Uttam Patil.Additionally, a flat in Panvel worth ₹35 lakh, an open plot at Apate, Panvel worth ₹12.72 lakh and another plot worth ₹32.93 lakh in the name of accused Kais Kuresh Siddiqui. ATS also seized 1,132.476 gram of gold ornaments and 71.700 gram of silver ornaments, worth a total of ₹41.32 lakh. Seven foreign-made watches worth ₹3.20 lakh, ₹217,180, in foreign currency (410 UAE Dirham and 20 US Dollars) were recovered from the accused Paryani.After the legal proceeding of SAFEMA, all the properties of the accused were frozen by a confirmation order. “This is the first case by ATS, Maharashtra, in which they seized a huge amount of properties and also confirmed that properties were obtained by the accused from drug trafficking,” said an ATS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/safema-freezes-properties-of-accused-held-by-maharashtra-ats-for-running-mephedrone-lab/story-Jip0q7r4AklIpo9J3yOuSM.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Dadar, Prabhadevi, Mahim, Lower Parel to face water cuts on Wednesday, Thursday as BMC to repair British-era pipeline||Parts of Dadar, Prabhadevi, Lower Parel, and Mahim will get no water supply or low-pressure supply for a few hours on Wednesday and Thursday next week, as Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is fixing leakages in a British-era 1,450mm Tansa water main at Gawde Chowk on Senapati Bapat Road. According to BMC, between 3.30pm and 7pm on Wednesday, NM Joshi Road, BDD Chawl Prabhadevi, Janata Vasahat in Adarsh Nagar, will get no water supply. Between 4pm and 10pm on Wednesday, Kaka Saheb Gadgil Road in Lower Parel, Gokhale Road, Veer Savarkar Road, LJ Road, Sayani Road, Sena Bhavan Complex and Mori Road will not get water supply. Between 4.30am and 7am on Thursday, BDD Chawl on NM Joshi Road and Sakharam Bala Pawar Road will not get water supply. On Thursday, between 4 am and 7am, Dhobi Ghaat and Saat Rasta will have low-pressure water supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-dadar-prabhadevi-mahim-lower-parel-to-face-water-cuts-on-wednesday-thursday-as-bmc-to-repair-british-era-pipeline/story-PZvG6MwXK7r4W3qnuGpsXJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s air quality improves on Friday but continues to remain in ‘poor’ category||The city recorded a marginal improvement in air quality on Friday owing to an increase in wind speed, but the pollutant-measuring indicator was still in the ‘poor’ category at 218. On Thursday, Mumbai had recorded an AQI of 252 (poor). On Friday, Mumbai had the worst AQI among four cities – Delhi, Ahmedabad, and Pune – where the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) monitors air quality. The high speed winds had helped in improving Delhi’s air quality to the satisfactory category. Borivali and Mazagaon recorded very poor AQI at 328 and 307, respectively. Chembur (286), Malad (283), Bandra-Kurla Complex (273), and Colaba (201) were in the ‘poor’ air quality category. While the remaining locations recorded moderate air, Navi Mumbai had the cleanest air with the AQI at 80 (satisfactory). AQI levels are categorised from 0-50 as good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor, and above 401 is severe. “The wind direction was northerly, and slightly speedy winds were witnessed between Thursday night and Friday morning, leading to ventilation. The winds, which were calmer, shifted to northeasterly to easterly during the day, allowing air mass to get accumulated close to the surface again,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. SAFAR has predicted an AQI of 208 (poor) for Saturday. The concentration of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 was 96 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Friday against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3, while the PM10 levels were 172 µg/m3 against the safe limit of 100 µg/m3. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 182 (moderate), which was an average reading of 16 locations. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in the suburbs was 34.2 degrees Celsius and in south Mumbai was 33.8 degrees Celsius, both a degree Celsius above normal. The minimum temperature was close to the normal mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-s-air-quality-improves-on-friday-but-continues-to-remain-in-poor-category/story-HCwdTsW0vlWjsFLyV6lsKP.html
27-11-2020||Dehradun||28 4G mobile towers to rise in Uttarakhand’s border areas to boost connectivity||To boost mobile connectivity in remote border areas of Uttarakhand, the state government would install 28 4G mobile towers, said Union minister of state for electronics and information technology, Sanjay Dhorte in Dehradun on Friday. Dhotre informed the same during a meeting with the officials of state-owned BSNL and other telecom department officials. “The 4G mobile towers would be installed in border areas along the Nepal and China border in Chamoli, Champawat, Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi districts,” informed Dhotre. “Out of the 28, sites for 22 mobile towers have already been acquired while the installation of mobile towers at 11 sites is already on,” he said. The minister said that the mobile towers once installed, “will help the para-military forces posted in those border areas to be in touch with their family members.” “It would also help the people of those areas to get services like telemedicine and tele-education. It will also help in promoting tourism in those areas,” said Dhotre. Also read: IndiGo asks passengers to carry RT-PCR report to fly to MaharashtraHe also directed the authorities to improve the mobile connectivity on the Char Dham route. The development of installing mobile towers has come amid reports of villagers of border areas, especially near the Nepal border, using Nepalese SIM cards for mobile connectivity due to poor or absolutely no service of the Indian service providers. Later in the day, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced setting up of a robotics centre in Dehradun for the development of robotics and to attract youth. The announcement was made during the foundation laying event of Software Technology Parks of India’s (STPI) Dehradun incubation centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/28-4g-mobile-towers-to-rise-in-uttarakhand-s-border-areas-to-boost-connectivity/story-npfNAhTzfMGcBRkQ1tjlhO.html
27-11-2020||City||Nothing concrete done to control Buddha Nullah pollution, finds NGT team||Finding no progress in the upgrade of sewer treatment plants (STPs) that are meant to reduce pollution in the Buddha Nullah, the monitoring committee of National Green Tribunal (NGT) warned the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) of a higher penalty if corrective steps are not taken.The committee, during its visit to the city on Friday, told MC that if it fails to stop the flow of sewer water into Buddha Nullah by March 2021, it may have to pay ₹10 lakh for each drain every month as penalty. At least 16 drains converge into the highly polluted Buddha Nullah from different parts of the city. In all, the MC may end up paying ₹3 crore a month, they warned.The six-member NGT committee was led by chairman Justice Jasbir Singh (retd) and Justice Pritam Pal (retd). Former Punjab chief secretary SC Agrawal, former Haryana chief secretary Urvashi Gulati, environmentalist Sant Balbir Singh Seechewal, and technical expert Dr Babu Ram, who is also a former member secretary of Punjab Pollution Control Board, are part of the committee.The committee members raised doubts over the working of the real-time monitoring system installed in Jainpur village to check the pollution in Buddha Nullah. Committee member Babu Ram said that against an suspected BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) of 250, the system showed a reading of 40. The committee collected samples from the site to cross check the facts. Other projects inspectedThe team inspected different ongoing projects, including the Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETP) for dyeing industry on Bahadurke Road, carcass utilisation plant, modern slaughterhouse and micro-forests being set up on the banks of Buddha Nullah. They also directed the SPVs of the Focal Point and Tajpur Road dyeing cluster to commission their CETPs by December-end. The committee praised MC chief Pardeep Sabharwal and the additional commissioner (income tax) Rohit Mehra for the 10 micro forests being set up on the banks of the Nullah. The authorities said they have planned 300 such forests for the city.Committee chairman Justice Jasvir Singh (retd) said, “It is good that the MC is working on the construction of a carcass plant and slaughterhouse. However, nothing concrete has been done to reduce the pollution of Buddha Nullah. If the MC fails to stop flow of sewage from 16 points, it will have to pay ₹10 lakh a month for each drain, as the NGT’s past orders.”‘₹15 crore wasted’Justice Jasbir Singh further said that five green bridges were established with the help of central pollution control board (CPCB) at a cost of ₹15 crore for bioremediation of polluted water in the Nullah in the past. But the bridges are now lying defunct as the MC failed to maintain them. ‘Nullah cannot be covered’Slamming the proposals being submitted by different industrial organisations, seeking the covering of the nullah for construction of buildings on the same, Justice Jabir Singh said, “Buddha Nullah cannot be covered and NGT will not allow the same. We should rather work to reduce pollution in the nullah.” ‘Establish carcass plant by Feb or face ₹1 lakh per month penalty’Ludhiana: With the MC delaying the competition of carcass utilisation plant being established at the cost of ₹7.98 crore in Noorpur bet area, the monitoring committee directed it to complete the project by February 2021 or pay ₹1 lakh a month as penalty till the project is complete. The project was to be complete by August this year but the deadline was extended to December due to the lockdown. The plant is being establish so that the ‘Hadda-Rodi’ being run on the banks of Sutlej can be closed. The skinners dump the waste in the river which adds to the pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nothing-concrete-done-to-control-buddha-nullah-pollution-finds-ngt-team/story-REMgteImqEawhrfXcgsPOL.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman drugged, gang-raped in Udyog Vihar hotel, four suspects on run||A 27-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men in a prominent hotel in Udyog Vihar after she was given a drink laced with sedatives on November 24, police said. The victim, a resident of Delhi, complained to the women police station, on November 25 following which a case was registered against the four suspects. Police said they were yet to arrest anyone in the case. Panhkuri Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (crime against women - west), said that the victim has an event management company and was invited for a birthday party by a group of friends. “The victim has alleged that she met the suspects in one of her events and they had befriended each other and were in touch for the past many days,” she said. Police said the suspects invited her for a birthday party and offered her drinks, following which she fell unconscious and she was taken to a room and raped. “She has alleged that when she tried to resist, they threatened her and assaulted her when she tried to flee after gaining consciousness. The victim in her statement said the men even tried to console her the next morning when she raised an alarm. They later threatened her of dire consequences if she narrated her ordeal to anyone,” said Yadav. A case under sections 376 D (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 323 (assault) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Women west police station. Police said a team has been formed and raids were being conducted at suspected locations to arrest the suspects.The victim’s statement under section 164 was recorded in Gurugram’s court on Thursday, where she did not mention incident of rape, instead she merely said she was called for a family birthday party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-drugged-gang-raped-in-udyog-vihar-hotel-four-suspects-on-run/story-t1W835To3xNsYjrkKoBNOO.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality back in moderate, Manesar sees satisfactory air for first time this month||The air quality in the city improved significantly on Friday and entered into the moderate category of the air quality index, for the first time in seven days week. On Friday, Gurugram’s air recorded 107 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily AQI bulletin. This is down from 276 (indicating poor air) the previous day. Gurugram on Friday remained the least polluted among major NCR cities, although significant improvements in air quality were seen across the region, with Delhi, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida all recording moderate air as well. The neighbouring township of Manesar, on the other hand, saw satisfactory air for the first time this month, recording 79 on the CPCB’s AQI bulletin. Experts and officials said this was due to strong winds blowing from north and north-west of Delhi, which touched up to 16kmph in some parts on Thursday afternoon. “Manesar, which lies west of Gurugram, has seen favourable influence of winds. If you look at cities to the east, they would have been less influenced by these winds. Like Ghaziabad, which recorded the highest AQI of 166,” said Sachin Panwar, a city-based air quality scientist. Delhi meanwhile, recorded 137 on the AQI, while Noida was at 125 and Faridabad at 134. As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality improved significantly owing to strong winds during both day and night. The strong winds — highly favourable for dispersion of pollutants — will continue. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from north-west with wind speed touching up to 18 kmph in the afternoon/evening and mainly clear sky on November 27.” Official forecasts peg Gurugram’s AQI for Saturday at 226, in the poor category.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, HSPCB, said that cleaner winds are now blowing into the NCR region from the north and north-west, especially since farm fire counts have significantly shrunk this week. “Stubble burning season is now behind us. If farm fires were still ongoing, we would have far worse pollution levels,” Singh said, adding that air quality is likely to deteriorate further by early next week, with wind speeds expected to drop to about 6kmph per hour. The minimum temperature of Gurugram settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius on Friday, lower than the previous day’s reading of 11 degrees Celsius. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 25 degrees Celsius on Thursday, more than 24 degrees Celsius the day prior. Increased penetration of sunlight and clear skies helped push up the daytime temperature, with dispersal of pollutants occurring through the afternoon, as evidenced by data from the city’s official air quality monitors. At Vikas Sadan, for example, the concentration of PM2.5 pollutants was at 167ug/m3 at 10am, but had cleared up to 48ug/m3 by 4pm. At the official monitor in Sector 51, which typically records higher pollution levels than any other monitor in Gurugram, the concentration of PM2.5 fell from 138ug/m3 at 11am to 56ug/m3 at 5pm, with this specific monitor recording an average AQI of 92 for the day (in the satisfactory category of the AQI). As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 25 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 10 degrees in Gurugram, throughout the next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-back-in-moderate-manesar-sees-satisfactory-air-for-first-time-this-month/story-HA7PXNtUGR8XL8L4HkqrnI.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||Police remove barricades on Gurugram-Delhi Expressway after reports of congestion||Gururgam and Delhi police on Friday eased checking of vehicles at the Sirhaul border on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway to prevent traffic congestion after more than two kilometres of traffic jam was reported from both sides of the carriageway, said the police. The barricades were removed during the peak hours in the morning on Friday after vehicles started piling up on the stretches due to the security checks in view of farmers’ Delhi Chalo protest march. A 2km-long traffic jam was witnessed on both sides of the expressway, following which senior officers visited the spot and directed the police personnel to remove the barricades. Traffic snarls were also reported from borders connecting Delhi with Kapashera, Sirhaul, Aya Nagar and Mandi in the morning. The police said the traffic flow eased after the barricades were removed. The borders connecting Palwal, Nuh, Rewari and Rajasthan reported a smoother flow of traffic as the vehicular movement was low as compared to other days, said the police. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “There was a jam at the border on both sides on Friday morning, after which we spoke with Delhi Police and decided to remove the barricades. “The commuters had to face inconvenience during the morning hours, but experienced a smooth drive in the evening. The police teams continued to periodically check vehicles throughout the day,” she said. According to the police, no violence was reported from any of the 13 borders of the state connecting either the national Capital or Rajasthan. Nishant Kapoor, a daily commuter to Gurugram, said, “The police should have checked only the suspected people or vehicles carrying more than two people. They were checking the identity of all commuters and, therefore, it took more than five minutes to check each vehicle, due to which the traffic piled up on the stretch.” Another daily commuter to Delhi, said that the traffic congestion at the Sirhaul border is a daily affair. “The stretch witnesses congestion, weather or not there is barricading. This stretch is one of the most congested for daily commuters,” said Ankita Singh. The police said no tractor trolley or a large groups of people were seen crossing the border. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that they had deployed extra forces on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway as they were suspecting framers to take that route. However, no protestors were seen on the stretch.“We had removed all the barricades by 4pm and the extra force was sent back. There were no trenches dug by the Gurugram Police at any borders unlike other districts to control farmers from entering the national Capital,” she said. The police said they had deployed 928 personnel at 123 checkpoints across the city connecting the nearby districts with the state and national capitals. The Gurugram Police regularly coordinated with the Delhi Police to streamline vehicular movement throughout the day. Meanwhile, traffic crawled in many parts of Delhi on Friday after Delhi Police closed several border points with Haryana in view of the protest march. The Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan borders, which connect Haryana, were closed for traffic movement due to the demonstration and commuters were asked to take alternative routes, said Delhi traffic police officials. Vehicles were also diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal Road. Taj Hassan, special CP (traffic), said the traffic situation was chaotic on the highways passing through Singhu and Tikri borders. “These two are main arterial roads, so the traffic was bound to be impacted,” Hassan said. In contrast, border routes connecting Delhi and UP were less affected. “Since there was checking at all border points, traffic movement remained slow throughout the day,” said Hassan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/police-remove-barricades-on-gurugram-delhi-expressway-after-reports-of-congestion/story-1RGgMlsYPASPndzvR6iVpL.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||District gears up for massive testing drive, focus will be on providing timely results, says CMO||Gurugram district administration stares at the mammoth task of conducting at least 10,000 tests this Saturday — as part of a mass testing drive for Covid-19 — with officials anxiously waiting to take on the challenge of having to deliver the result of all such tests in 48 hours in order for the drive to be effective.The drive, officials said, was aimed at timely identification of suspected cases, which in turn would help in flattening the new infection curve.As per the district health bulletin, with 698 new infection reported on Friday, the count of active cases reached an all-time high of 6,463. The addition of four new deaths also took the Covid-19 toll to 278. Of the active cases, 455 are admitted in hospitals, while 5,996 are home isolated. The total tally of Covid-19 cases by Friday had touched 47,951, beyond the state projection of 43,000 for November. Considering this unprecedented surge in number of cases and to break the transmission chain, the district health department has decided to hold a mass testing drive on Saturday. The department will target high-risk areas — with test positivity rates between six and 10 percent, such as Patel Nagar, Laxman Vihar, Om Nagar, Feroze Gandhi colony and Gandhi Nagar. It will also cover Sadar market and wholesale market in Khandsa. The department will also hold camps in the community centre in these areas where everyone can get tested. Camps will also be held at 33 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) and PHCs in rural areas.Following the state health department’s directive, the department will administer 80% tests through gold frontline Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR), while the remaining will be through rapid antigen tests. RT-PCR test results are to be delivered in 24-48 hours. Timely test results play a critical role if excessive volume of samples are collected in a day. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of the district, held a meeting on Friday with private diagnostic labs that would run the tests for samples beyond the capacity of the government lab. “Almost 2000 RT-PCR tests can be run at the government lab if machines are operational 24x7. We have decided to run two RT-PCR machines 24x7, for the next two days for testing 4,000 samples, while the remaining 6000 or more samples will be given to four labs, who have signed MoUs with the state health department on testing the samples at Rs 900 each,” said Yadav. The government lab in Civil Hospital, sector 10 will be running tests 24x7 on Saturday and Sunday to deliver timely test results, added Yadav.The big private labs, on the other hand, have also made strategic changes to handle the volume of samples coming from Gurugram and other districts. Dr Rishabh Rajput, director -Covid-19 lab, Modern Diagnostics, said that they are expecting more than 10,000 samples from Gurugram and other districts. “The teams have been told to work in double shifts for the next two days. We already have a staff of 150 people. Lab technicians will be incentivised for double shifts. Additional manpower has also been outsourced to assist in testing and making entries of positive cases in the Indian Council of Medical Research portal. The target is to give test results in 48 hours,” said Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/district-gears-up-for-massive-testing-drive-focus-will-be-on-providing-timely-results-says-cmo/story-pU4rEKVTO79KC4ZHKcbtvO.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||HSVP executive engineer suspended after inspection of Country Club||An executive engineer of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) was suspended on Thursday evening following an inspection of the HSVP Country Club being developed by the authority in sector 56. Apurva Kumar Singh, principal secretary, town and country planning department, who conducted the inspection on Thursday with senior HSVP officials, issued the order to suspend Bhoop Singh, executive engineer, after finding that the work on the project was running way behind schedule. Last week, a Gurugram court had directed the city police to register a case against HSVP officials for making inflated payments to the contractor in the matter. Bhoop Singh was in-charge of the work on this site, the order issued by Singh said. In 2014, the state government had announced the construction of Country Club for residents in sector 56 and HSVP had given the contract to a private firm for Rs 11.88 crore. The deadline to complete the project was 15 months but the deadline was extended repeatedly and the project remained incomplete despite inflated payment to the tune of Rs 19.60 crore, officials claimed. The suspension order (a copy of which HT has seen) issued by the principal secretary observed that it was shocking to see that there was no noticeable physical progress on site in the work for over one year since December 2019, when the undersigned (principal secretary) visited the site. Even after Unlock five, the executive engineer has failed to take interest in his work and had become complacent and uncaring towards his duties, it said. “The executive engineer, HSVP, will be placed under suspension with immediate effect,” the order stated, adding that a special audit will be conducted of the works under the charge of the executive engineer concerned, with regard to release of funds, utilization reports, and physical progress reports of all major works (above Rs 2 crore each) be audited for last two years. Bhoop Singh was also transferred to Rohtak. Jitender Yadav, administrator, Gurugram, HSVP, when asked about the matter, confirmed the development but did not comment on the matter. “Action has been taken against the official concerned,” he said. Bhoop Singh, executive engineer, HSVP, did not reply to calls and messages by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/hsvp-executive-engineer-suspended-after-inspection-of-country-club/story-brrzb0Sg1OL5GnZZxwOusM.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||Nearly 25,000 frontline workers identified for priority Covid vaccine shots||Gurugram health department has identified at least 24,971 frontline health care workers in the district for priority vaccination against Covid-19, officials said on Friday. Of these, 4,623 individuals work across 56 health care facilities in the district — including at 19 primary health care centres, the civil surgeon’s office, polyclinics, dispensaries and warehouses. About 20,328 others work at various privately-run hospitals and clinics in Gurugram, as per data provided by the health department.With vaccine delivery expected to commence early next year, officials said they are preparing for a scenario in which demand outstrips supply. “We have to prioritise who gets the vaccine. Both central and state governments have clarified that frontline health and sanitation workers will be the first beneficiaries. All districts in the state are in the process of identifying them, so sufficient availability of doses can be secured for the first phase of this campaign,” said Naresh Garg, district immunization officer, Gurugram. Of the 25,000 odd workers already identified, the health department will further prioritise those over the age of 60 or have co-morbidities. “The most vulnerable workers will be the first to receive the vaccine,” said Garg. Across the state, a total of 97,000 workers in the public sector, and another 170,000 in the private sector have been identified as of November 27, data with the health department stated. The second phase of immunization may cover other vulnerable groups such as policemen and the elderly, department officials said.However, officials said, a significant portion of private facilities in Gurugram are yet to submit details of their staff. As per official data, there are at least 325 registered private health care facilities in Gurugram, including 87 general hospitals, 132 clinics, 130 multi-specialty hospitals and six super-specialty hospitals, in addition to several smaller practices. “But we have received details from only 260 facilities so far. Gurugram is a hub of private health care, so the number of frontline workers in the private sector is expected to be much higher, possibly the highest for any district in the state,” said a health department official, preferring anonymity.Confirming this, Garg said that the department is making efforts to reach out to more private facilities through organisations such as the Indian Medical Association and other professional bodies. “We can’t force anyone to send us their details. It is entirely voluntary, but it is definitely recommended that all facilities provide us with their staff numbers. Everyone is eligible to receive the vaccine, from doctors to sanitation workers, nurses, ambulance drivers and so on. We are also reaching out to proprietors of radiology clinics, skin clinics and other private practices through the appropriate professional associations,” Garg added. Other preparations for vaccine delivery that are in progress include augmentation of cold-chain points and vaccine delivery infrastructure. The health department had, in October, started taking stock of available cold chain equipment (CCE), such as walk-in freezers, walk-in coolers, ice-lined refrigerators and temperature-monitoring devices, which are used in the storage and transportation of vaccines. Though officials did not provide numbers from their assessment, they clarified that a report had been sent to the state government with details. Gurugram is one of four proposed regional vaccine stores in Haryana, which also supplies doses to Faridabad, Mewat, Palwal and Jhajjar. In order to accommodate doses of the vaccine as they make their way to other districts, health department officials said they would need to increase the number of cold-chain points, where vaccines can be stored at required temperatures, to maintain their integrity. There are 33 such points in the district (out of 659 in Haryana), of which 19 are in urban areas and 14 in rural areas. “The state government has received allocation for additional cold-chain equipment and will further distribute it among the districts. We are in the process of exploring locations which can be turned into cold-chain points, but it is a bit early to comment on where they will be created. We will definitely try to augment storage capacities at our existing primary health care centres, which are cold-chain points themselves,” Garg said.A district task force on Covid vaccine delivery is expected to meet on December 1, under the aegis of the deputy commissioner, Gurugram, to plan the next course of action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/nearly-25-000-frontline-workers-identified-for-priority-covid-vaccine-shots/story-ftlOw5jD7l3P8lOlK18GhN.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Delhi’s greatest qawwal||This winter marks the fifth death anniversary of Meraj Ahmed Nizami, the great qawwal of the sufi shrine of Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya.The news of Meraj’s passing had gone completely unrecorded. Now, in this season of losses, one may as well commemorate the loss of one of the most accomplished, if little-known, figures of contemporary Delhi.As the elderly patriarch of Nizami Khusro Bandhu family, Meraj was among a very few classical qawwals left in India. He rendered Persian sufi verses most fluently in the old tarz, or melodies. This frail erudite supremely elegant man lived most modestly, in a one-room house near the aforementioned 14th century shrine.Meraj’s grandfather’s grandfather was the “shahi gawayya (royal singer)” in the court of Bahadur Shah Zafar, the last Mughal. Ustad Tanras Khan, founder of the Delhi Gharana, taught music to Zafar. His lineage is traced to Mian Samad bin Ibrahim, the leader of the Qawwal Bachche, a group formed by Amir Khusrau that is believed to comprise the world’s first qawwals.Khusrau, a court poet to Delhi Sultanate kings, was closely associated with the evolution of Hindustani classical music. A disciple of Hazrat Nizamuddin, he is buried close to his tomb. The two graves are separated by a marble courtyard, the venue where Mian Samad’s descendants have been offering qawwalis throughout centuries, right down to Meraj, and now his sons, among other qawwal families. Maintaining a steady intimacy with the classics, Meraj had a personal repertoire of poetry that came down to him from his ancestors. He used to sing Rumi’s Masnavi fluently, in its original Persian version, a rare feat among qawwals. Like sufi singer Abida Parveen, his ability to add girah was legendary. Girah is a special aspect where verses from various poems are seamlessly woven into one single qawwali. For instance, if Meraj sang a Khusrau poem, which has lines in Persian and Purabiya, he would manipulate the composition by bringing in Kabir Das or Bedam Shah Warsi in the Purabiya portion, and Rumi or Jami in the Persian segment. It was Meraj who introduced Kabir Das’s dohas, Meera’s bhajans and Bulleh Shah’s kafis in the sufi dargahs.Always dressed in pyjamas, achkan and topi, Meraj was, artistically, a snob and a qawwal had to be truly skilled to earn his respect. Professionally, he didn’t care for money, more focused on keeping his form’s purity.He might not have been a popular name among the masses, but it is said that every time a scholar from the West landed in India to research on qawwali, he/she headed straight to Meraj. The structure of Regula Burckhardt Qureshi’s seminal book on qawwali, “Sufi Music of India and Pakistan”, is entirely presented through Meraj’s repertoire and performances.Meraj lies buried in the Panj Peeran Qabristan, walking distance from his home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-delhi-s-greatest-qawwal/story-5UaKb13LKV73JEuqouE8wK.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Corruption charges: Five Ludhiana police personnel dismissed||Five police officers who were facing corruption charges, including four assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) and a constable, were dismissed from service on Friday.They were arrested by the vigilance bureau in separate cases. The dismissed cops are ASIs Subegh Singh, Mahinder Singh, Sarbjit Singh and Rajinder Singh and constable Sarbjit Singh.Sarbjit was arrested on September 13, 2019, for accepting Rs 10,000 bribe from a jeweller after threatening to implicate him in a false theft case. He was deputed at Humbran police station.Mahinder was arrested on January 29, 2019, for accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 from a hosiery owner to help him recover his payments from business associates. He was deputed in the economic offence wing.Subegh was arrested in 2018, while Sarbjit and Rajinder were held in 2017.Higher-rung officials of Ludhiana police confirmed the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/corruption-charges-five-ludhiana-police-personnel-dismissed/story-dghNZia7k6u0Fihr0V5CuN.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Can’t assume cop will favour ‘friend’ in probe: HC to doctor booked for cheating||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that it cannot be assumed that public servants will manoeuvre a crime investigation in favour of people in their social circle.The high court bench of justice Sant Parkash made the observation while dismissing a plea with allegations against former Chandigarh director general of police (DGP) TS Luthra and former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special director Rakesh Asthana by a city-based doctor, Mohit Dhawan.Dhawan had sought transfer of a probe into a cheating case registered against him on September 21 to outside the Chandigarh Police’s jurisdiction or any other agency. He was booked in two cheating cases, one in 2018 on the complaint of Gertrude D’Souza, a US citizen, who had got a dental implant procedure done at his clinic in 2017, and another in September this year on the complaint of another woman, Enid Nayabundi, from Nairobi, Kenya.Dhawan alleged that he was a victim of malice, vendetta and extortion, unleashed by Asthana, who was known to D’Souza, while Nayabundi was instigated by D’Souza into lodging another complaint.The court observed that allegations of close proximity of former CBI special director with D’Souza were mere assumptions and not substantiated by any material on record.The high ranking police officer was never posted in Chandigarh. Him only having graduated with D’Souza’s husband from same university/college in 1982 will not necessarily lead to any inference that he was instrumental in getting the investigation conducted in a biased manner, the bench added. Besides, the complaints being sent to the officials on their personal email IDs or the two parties being friends on social media websites did not give rise to any presumption of mala fide, the court said.As of Luthra, the court said, he was transferred out of Chandigarh way back in 2018. HC also dismissed claims of the doctor that the second complaint was manipulated by D’Souza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/can-t-assume-cop-will-favour-friend-in-probe-hc-to-doctor-booked-for-cheating/story-tntXpBiATsMD3FIPIeWdvO.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gives tax relief for commercial vehicles||In a major relief to the transport sector, the UT administration on Friday waived the motor vehicle tax in respect of commercial vehicles from March 23 to May 19, 2020. These include trucks, buses, mini-buses, cabs and three-wheelers.A notification issued by Mandip Singh Brar, secretary, transport, stated the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in non-plying of public service vehicles and also restricted the movement of goods vehicles, thereby adversely affecting the income of the transport sector. The administration has also exempted all vehicles of municipal corporation from paying road tax with immediate effect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-gives-tax-relief-for-commercial-vehicles/story-P2YFXUtYF2CAitPa4lAFCI.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: SCERT to conduct exams for Classes 1 to 12 in December||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) will hold the examinations for students of Classes 1 to 12 in December. For Classes 1 to 8, the exams will be conducted online. Students of Classes 9 to 12 students will appear for the examination at their respective schools. The exams will begin from December 7 and the council will provide question papers to the schools a day before the exam.Principals of several school are in a fix as they have a large number of students in Classes 9 to 12 as accommodating them in classrooms while maintaining social distancing and following Covid safety guidelines might be an issue. After receiving the letter from the council on Thursday, principals of many schools held a meeting with staff members on Friday, and asked them to make necessary arrangements to conduct the exam.Earlier, students of different classes used to sit together on dual benches. But, due to the pandemic, school authorities have to accommodate students according to the size of the room by maintaining a distance of two metres. School principals also said that only 10% students attend classes daily and most are opting to attend online classes.A principal, requesting anonymity, said, “We have over 1,400 students in Class 11 and 50 classrooms. We can accommodate a maximum of 15 to 20 students in one room and need more space to conduct the exams. We have only dual benches and will face shortage of furniture. We also need extra staff for examination duty. We will inform the district education officer so that teachers of other schools can be deputed.”Navdeep Romana, principal of government senior secondary school, multipurpose, held a meeting with staff members on Friday to prepare a seating plan to conduct the exam. “We have around 3,300 students in Classes 9 to 12, of which 1,200 are in Class 12. It will be a major problem to accommodate students in classrooms while maintaining social distancing. We have only around 40 classrooms and need more space. We will also require more teachers to conduct the exam,” Romana said. SCERT director Jagtar Singh Kulria, said, “We have received requests from parents to conduct the exams for Classes 9 to 12. Proper guidelines have been issued to district education officers, secondary and elementary, and school principals to conduct the exam while adhering to Covid safety norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-scert-to-conduct-exams-for-classes-1-to-12/story-NwTmKxKDVDfHl10nEr2yiJ.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Kidnapped siblings found in Gorakhpur||Two siblings who were kidnapped by a woman who was taking shelter at their home were found in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, by Sahnewal police on Thursday. The police team will reach Ludhiana with the children, Sunny, 6, and Jasmin, 3, on Saturday. They were in custody of an NGO, Asian Sehyogi Sanstha, who found them abandoned at Gorakhpur bus stand on November 13.However the accused woman is yet to be traced.Inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer at Sahnewal police station, said that while kidnapping the children on November 11, the woman had also stolen the mobile phone of their father, Ramesh Singh. Police tracked the location of the mobile phone and reached Gorakhpur on November 22, following which they initiated a search operation with local police. Meanwhile, the police found out that a local NGO had rescued two children from the bus stand on November 13.Ramesh had accompanied the police team and identified the children.The SHO added that after kidnapping children, the woman had reached Gorakhpur by bus. But, on seeing that police was searching for her, she abandoned the kids.“The reason behind the kidnapping will be ascertained after the arrest of the woman. Police have released her pictures in Uttar Pradesh as well,” the SHO said .Baby Rai, the mother of the children, had found the accused woman in a miserable condition at Jugiana village of Sahnewal on November 6. Accompanied by two children, aged five and six, she said she had no place to live and nothing to eat. Rai had taken the woman to her home and provided her food and shelter for six days.On November 11, the woman kidnapped her two kids. Following this, a kidnapping case was registered against the unidentified woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-kidnapped-siblings-found-in-gorakhpur/story-90ndceJlqu51zncGye5IhI.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University slips in QS Asian university rankings||Panjab University has slipped in QS Asian university rankings 2021 to 301-350 slab from 290-300 slab in last year’s ranking.The university scored 14.89 in academic reputation, 36.41 in citation per paper and 47.14 in the criteria of international research network. Last year, the university had scored 16.4 in academic reputation, 55.7 in citation per paper and 66.9 in international research network.Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) is an independent and prestigious global ranking organisation for educational institutions and its Asia rankings were declared at an online function.Shoolini University of Biotechnology and Management Sciences, Himachal Pradesh, has topped India in the 2021 QS rankings for citation index, and is ranked 14 across Asia in the same field.No university, however, has made it to the top 10 rank in the overall rankings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/panjab-university-slips-in-qs-asian-university-rankings/story-FyE1CJ3cyh9MLcOPy9JljL.html
27-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Three, including teen, killed in separate road mishaps||Three persons, including a teenager, lost their lives in separate road mishaps in the city. In the first incident, a 16-year-old lost his life after an unidentified vehicle hit him near Jodhewal while he was crossing the road. The victim, identified as Sonu, of Nalanda in Bihar, had come to the city a week ago in search of work.Basti Jodhewal police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified driver. The FIR has been lodged following the statement of Vikram Kumar of Kailash Nagar, who is the brother-in-law of the accused. In another incident, a 26-year-old man was hit by a truck near Nirmal Palace. The driver of the truck managed to escape. Division Number 6 police have lodged an FIR against an unidentified person and initiated an investigation.The victim has been identified as Karamjit Singh, of Satguru Nagar. He was working at an automobile agency. The victim’s father Baljit Singh said that his son was going to the office when the incident took place. The incident was captured in the CCTVs installed in the area.In the third incident, a man was killed, while three others were injured after a truck hit a car which they were travelling in near Ladhowal Railway overbridge at national highway.The victim has been identified as Gagan, 21, of Shivaji Nagar. The injured are Paras, 22, of Gopal Nagar, his sister Priyanka, 25, and brother-in-law Sunil Kumar, 27.Paras said that they were returning home after attending a marriage in Shimlapuri. Salem Tabri Police have lodged an FIR against the unidentified truck driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-three-including-teen-killed-in-separate-road-mishaps/story-bb1g8oLPpomYtF69UsmTjO.html
27-11-2020||City||Graffiti project: Ludhiana MC invites residents to display creativity on city walls||With the municipal corporation (MC) working to promote graffiti art in the city ahead of Swachh Survekshan-2021, it has now invited residents to come forward and display their creativity on city walls.Residents can submit their self-created graffiti designs on paper in the form of scanned copies online at graffitiludhiana@gmail.com and the graffiti can be made after the design is approved by the civic body. Residents will have to paint and maintain the graffiti for two years or else the maintenance will be handed over to someone else. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the graffiti can be made on the theme of sports, health, Punjab culture, industry, Make in India, Make in Ludhiana, environment and social issues. He said that under this drive, residents including children and artists will be allowed to paint on city walls.A minimum penalty of Rs 10,000 will be imposed on anyone damaging graffiti with posters or any other way. Also, the repair cost will be recovered from the violator.The MC’s and Smart City Logo will be placed on the graffiti and a similar space will also be allotted for the sponsors’ logo. Ahead of Swachh Survekshan 2021, the civic body has decided to revive the graffiti project in the city for which NGOs are also being roped in.Earlier, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the MC officials and members of a few NGOs in this regardThe graffiti project initially started in 2016 by the then MC commissioner Ghanshyam Thori but it was put to a halt in 2017. Graffiti was painted in different parts of the city but most of them are in bad shape due to defacement and open urination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/graffiti-project-ludhiana-mc-invites-residents-to-display-creativity-on-city-walls/story-BXG4cbFyBnc0Xp7MrfocCM.html
27-11-2020||City||Partial closure of Khanna bridge causes trouble to commuters||As the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) along with a private firm began the repair work of the bridge at the Panipat-Jalandhar National Highway (NH-44) in Khanna, commuters were in for a tough time with many forced to drive on an uneven road and some taking alternative routes. One side of the bridge (Ludhiana to Delhi in Khanna) will be closed for traffic for nearly two months due to soil settlement. The sudden bend in the road was posing a threat to commuters after some complained of losing balance over the wheels, due to an uneven road. According to the NHAI project director Virender Kumar, the excavation work is on to find out the possible cause of the damage. “We cannot comment on the reasons behind the settlement (road bending). The exact cause would be ascertained only after digging of the earth during repair work,” said Kumar.Divulging the details, the company’s site in-charge Hitesh Dhawan said that the bridge has been closed due to settlement (caused sudden road bending). We have closed one side of the bridge for repair work and soon it be completely closed for traffic. “The repair work will take at least one-and-a-half month,” said Dhawan.He blamed the dumping of garbage underneath the bridge and the resultant mice menace to be the reason behind the settlement. “For the past one year we have been writing letters to the Khanna Nagar Council to remove the garbage dump, but no action has been taken so far. The mice have led to the disturbing of soil which is suspected to have led to the settlement (caused a bend) in the bridge,” said Dhawan.On the other hand, the council of engineers has condemned the constriction company for poor workmanship. Er, Kapil Arora, president of the council of engineers said, “The entire stretch and other flyovers located at Samrala Chowk in Ludhiana as well as Sirhind are also in poor condition.” Meanwhile, Khanna Nagar Council’s executive officer Charanjit Singh said, “We have a dump underneath the bridge at Samrala Road. But we do not have any dump at the present site where the repair is taking place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/partial-closure-of-khanna-bridge-causes-trouble-to-commuters/story-3cHmMh0O8GtWkCWMb1v4oJ.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||‘Very unfortunate’: AAP hits back at Centre over ‘rise in Covid-19 cases’ charge||The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday hit back at the central government’s allegation that there was a rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Delhi, saying the charge was “very unfortunate”. The Union home ministry had earlier in the day blamed the Delhi government for the increase in Covid-19 cases, adding that despite ‘repeated exhortations’, it did not take any steps to enhance testing capacity, specifically for RT-PCR tests which have remained static at around 20,000 tests.In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, the ministry added, “While there were regular advertisements on achievements of Delhi Government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on Covid appropriate behaviour were to be seen. The people, at large, were also not apprised about this through regular outreach measures.”Also Read: Delhi is conducting more Covid-19 tests compared to rest of India, says JainThe AAP said in a statement said it is extremely unfortunate that the Centre has decided to play dirty politics in this critical hour. “The affidavit seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson rather than by the Union government which is meant to work in collaboration with the states at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect,” it said.The Arvind Kejriwal-led party reiterated Union home minister Amit Shah’s promise to provide 750 intensive care unit (ICU) beds within 72 hours during a meeting held on November 15 by pointing out that only 200 beds were provided till date. “The central government has deprived Delhi of all funds, provided to other state governments during this epidemic, on the flimsy premise that Delhi is a UT. Therefore, we hope that the central government will do something concrete for Delhiites rather than play the blame game,” AAP added.Click here for complete coverage of the Covid-19 pandemicDelhi for the past few weeks has once again emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in the country. A total of 551,262 cases have been registered till now of 8,811 people have succumbed to the disease and over 500,000 have recovered. More than six million tests have been conducted in the national capital till now with health minister Satyendar Jain adding that authorities are testing three times more than the rest of the country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/very-unfortunate-aap-hits-back-at-centre-over-rise-in-covid-19-cases-charge/story-t22MG73EiVwtBWSOFXQLkI.html
27-11-2020||City||Flesh trade racket busted in Mohali, nine arrested||The Sohana police claim to have busted a flesh trade racket in Sector 82 with the arrest of nine people, including seven women, on Thursday night.The racket was being run from “Brown Spa Centre”, owned by one Sanjay Saini, the police said.Saini, a resident of Baltana, and his aide, Rajdheer, of Sector 45, Chandigarh, were among those arrested. “The arrests came following a tip-off. The accused were produced before a local court on Friday and sent to judicial custody,” said inspector Daljit Singh, station house officer, Sohana police station.A case under Sections 3 and 4 of the Immortal Traffic (Prevention) Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/flesh-trade-racket-busted-in-mohali-nine-arrested/story-XG8gZ2VS3ogHqzDPQSh43I.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Streets for people challenge: Chandigarh Smart City Limited to host idea competition at Sector-17 underpass today||Chandigarh Smart City Limited will be holding an idea competition on November 28 at the Rose Garden-Sector 17 underpass regarding the “Streets for people challenge”, which is being organised in 113 cities across India.The Challenge is an initiative of the Smart Cities Mission, ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), Government of India. Cities will be required to reimagine their streets as public spaces through the lens of economic regeneration, safety, and child-friendly interventions, in order to ensure a green recovery from Covid-19.The Streets for People Challenge, which started in September 2020, was open to all cities under the Smart Cities Mission, capital cities of states/UTs and cities with a population of over 5 lakh.Convener of City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations Vinod Vashisht said, “As per the protocol of this challenge, citizen collaboration will play a crucial role as a metric in evaluating proposals submitted by the cities. We have spread the word to more than 100 RWAs of the city for collaboration. All interested to support can register by visiting the Smart Cities Mission portal.”Shortlisted cities will be announced by the MoHUA on February 25, 2021, and an announcement for the best performing cities will be made on July 21, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/streets-for-people-challenge-chandigarh-smart-city-limited-to-host-idea-competition-at-sector-17-underpass-today/story-xEiBuY1jgdqMD6rEJqfA2H.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Asked to deposit heavy sureties for release of leaders: Farmers body to HC||The Haryana Progressive Farmers Union on Friday alleged before the Punjab and Haryana high court that heavy amount of personal surety is being sought for the release of farmer leaders arrested by Haryana Police. Their counsel Pardeep Rapria told court that the farmers who were to be released on Friday were asked to deposit ₹50,000 and ₹1 lakh as personal surety by the executive magistrates concerned to secure the release. Such big amounts are not even sought from those booked for serious crimes, he had told court adding that from where would farmers secure this amount for their release. Acting on the same, the high court bench of justice JS Puri has deferred the hearing till December 1, asking additional advocate general Deepak Sabharwal to check on the same and apprise the court on next date of hearing. The farmers’ counsel, though, could not give any document substantiating his claims before the court. The court was hearing a plea alleging illegal detention of 100 leaders who had to go to Delhi to participate in protests. It had supplied a list of 30 leaders too. The Haryana government has admitted to detention/ arrest of 24 farmer leaders and has told court that they were arrested as the organisations they belonged to were indulging in criminal activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asked-to-deposit-heavy-sureties-for-release-of-leaders-farmers-body-to-hc/story-HqOelAHgwNZkozPKRL0ljP.html
27-11-2020||City||Pune reports 897 new Covid cases, 9 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: The state health department reported over 897 Covid-19 cases on Friday and nine deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.50 lakh Covid cases of which 3.23 lakh have recovered, 7,356 have been reported dead and 19,379 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune city reported 406 new cases taking the total count to 179,385 and two deaths taking the death toll to 4,176, while PCMC reported 229 new cases taking the final count to 88,347 and one death with 1,249 as death toll. Pune rural reported 262 new cases taking the final count to 82,957 and six deaths taking the death toll to 1,897, according to the state health department. The state health department reported that 4,089 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the final count to over 16.72 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 92.64%. Also, 6,185 new cases in the state were reported on Monday taking the total to over 18.08 lakh. In addition, 85 Covid deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 47,954. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.59%. Out of 10,635,600 laboratory samples, 1,808,550 have been tested positive (17%) for Covid-19 until Friday. Currently, 528,395 people are in home quarantine and 7,248 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-897-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-24-hours/story-lopgWLyBMi7iMf0AasybkJ.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||50 FPOs from Haryana get Centre’s support under new scheme||As many as 50 farmer producer organisations (FPOs) from Haryana have got the central government’s support under the new FPO scheme. “However, if Haryana government pitches for promoting beekeeping and do the handholding for FPOs, then the Centre will support the initiative under the beekeeping and mission and FPO scheme,” a top agriculture ministry official said after the inauguration. The honey FPO programme of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) was inaugurated by Union minister of agriculture NS Tomar on Thursday. The federation has initiated the formation and promotion of FPOs of beekeepers and honey collectors in five states of West Bengal, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The official said beekeepers of Haryana had formed a FPO in December, 2007 under the overall supervision of National Bee Board and Haryana horticulture department. The FPO having about 2,250 members has an annual average honey production of 7,000 metric tonnes. Under the new FPO scheme, the national level project management advisory and fund sanctioning committee had allocated 2,200 FPO clusters, including 50 for Haryana, for 2020-21. FPOs formed under the small farmers agri-business consortiums aim at increasing incomes of small and marginal farmers through aggregation and development of agri-business. While speaking at the inauguration, Tomar said beekeeping is highly predominant in the unorganised sector comprising mainly of the rural population. “Despite having a huge potential of honey production in the country, the beekeeping industry is still underdeveloped. The adoption level of beekeeping is also quite less due to various constraints like technical, institutional, trade, seasonality, quality, operational, quality, etc. NAFED will address these issues by acting as an intermediary and filling up the gaps between the elements of the beekeeping supply chain and also ensure price remuneration to farmers,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/50-fpos-from-haryana-get-centre-s-support-for-beekeeping/story-Ha05ll2uTkZwj8m8h54bxH.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Search on for fishing trawler that went missing off Mumbai with 4 crew onboard||A search for a fishing trawler that went missing off the Mumbai coast with four crew members on board on Thursday is on, officials said on Friday.The engine of the boat from Maharashtra’s Satpati stopped due to a diesel crisis mid-sea, Satpati coastal police informed the Coast Guard at Worli, Gujarat police and Maharashtra Maritime Board on Friday. Due to the winds, the boat may be drifting towards Mumbai, it added.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/search-on-for-fishing-trawler-that-went-missing-off-mumbai-with-4-crew-onboard-on-thursday/story-DfhKS137pej6uWSaNQg9yM.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Existing lockdown restrictions extended till Dec 31||The Maharashtra government on Friday extended the lockdown on account of coronavirus in the state till the midnight of December 31, 2020, an official release said.In the last couple of months, the government has eased several lockdown restrictions.Revised guidelines have been issued from time to time by, allowing resumption of various activities as part of the “Mission Begin Again”, the release said.Earlier this week, the government allowed reopening of places of worship. Schools for students from Std 9th to 12th have also reopened in some parts of the state this week.Hotels and bars have been already allowed to reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-existing-lockdown-restrictions-extended-till-dec-31/story-Bk0WScocAc3RN2ANYEe1wL.html
27-11-2020||India||Centre in SC blames Delhi govt for rise in Covid cases, says no steps taken despite exhortations||The Centre on Friday blamed Delhi government for rising Covid-19 cases in the national capital and said that despite “repeated exhortations” it did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 tests for a long time. The Centre said that Delhi government was well aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases and this foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and Information, Education and Communication (IEC) measures being instituted well in time but this was not done. In its affidavit, filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home affairs (MHA), said “while there were regular advertisements on achievements of Delhi Government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on Covid appropriate behaviour were to be seen. The people, at large, were also not apprised about this through regular outreach measures”. It said, “That despite repeated exhortations in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Government did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 RTPCR tests for a long time”. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah took the Centre’s affidavit on record and observed that “Things are going from bad to worse but no concrete steps are being taken. States will have to rise above the politics. All states will have to rise to the occasion,” the bench said while posting the matter for further hearing on December 1. The Centre said that despite issuing several elaborate and exhaustive guidelines for containment and prevention of the infection and for ensuring proper treatment of Covid patients, Delhi government saw its first wave of Coronavirus infection in the month of June-July and the union government immediately had to take pro-active and pre-emptive steps to control further spread of Covid-19. The Centre pointed out that to deal with the shortcomings, which lead to a massive increase in the Covid infection and the increasing strain on the capacity of medical infrastructure in the hospitals of Delhi, the Union Home Minister Amit Shah was constrained to call another meeting on November 15 to review the situation in the national capital. It said that even now, “after it was committed that GNCTD would increase ICU (non-ventilator) beds by around 2,680, the Chief Minister, vide its letter dated November 19, 2020 addressed to the Union Home Minister, has expressed his inability to enhance ICU beds in the Delhi (State Government and private) hospitals by more than around 912, and has asked the Central Government to create the additional 1,700 ICU beds”. It said that several meetings were held by cabinet secretary, union home secretary and health secretary with all concerned officials of Delhi government, municipal bodies and others to review the status of Covid-19 management and it was emphasised that all steps be taken to contain the situation in Delhi.The Centre pointed out that despite constant monitoring by the MHA about scrupulous compliance of the directions by Delhi government various short-comings, going into the root of the matter, were noticed in the implementation of the program. It said that thereafter a series of review meetings chaired by the Union Health Secretary were held from July 8 to November 13 and several issues were regularly emphasized to the Delhi government. The affidavit highlighted the shortcomings which include conversion of more beds into oxygenated/ventilator supported beds, strict perimeter control of containment zones, and more testing and especially through the RT-PCR method, to ensure that COVID positive persons are detected early and medical response can be given. The Centre said that several other issues which were flagged in the review meetings include that Delhi must monitor requirement of ambulances and other infrastructure so that no patient remains untreated and responded to and in view of the approaching festival period, marriage season and winter climatic conditions, GNCTD shall act proactively and thoroughly act according to the guidelines. “In addition, Cabinet Secretary also reviewed the Covid situation in 08 States/UTs including NCT of Delhi which constitute of 62 per cent of the nationwide active cases and 61 per cent of the total deaths, through Video conference on November 11”, it said, adding that it was emphasized on strict implementation of guidelines for COVID and rigor of containment measures. Detailing the shortcomings found on the part of Delhi government, the Centre said that no effective preventive steps to contain the infection were taken despite the recommendation of high power committee headed by Dr V K Paul, member NITI Ayog, which said that Delhi should plan for a surge of around 15,000 cases per day and accordingly provide for about 6,500 ICU beds. It said that the Delhi government did not take any timely measures to increase the ICU beds from the present level of around 3,500, thus causing a sudden pressure to come on the health and medical infrastructure in Delhi. The Centre said that even patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced and/or their contacts were also not traced effectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/coronavirus-crisis/centre-in-sc-blames-delhi-govt-for-rise-in-covid-cases-says-no-steps-taken-despite-exhortations/story-5KBKGKyZeap54C2p8w8gUJ.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Delhi metro services resume on all lines||Delhi metro services resumed on all lines on Friday evening after they were interrupted for few hours at several locations due to the ongoing ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest march by farmers. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) added that services will be regular on all lines on Saturday. “Public Service Announcement. Services normal at all corridors from 5:35 pm onwards. Tomorrow regular services on all Lines as of now” the DMRC tweeted. It had earlier said that all stations near the Delhi-Haryana border would remained closed due to protests adding services from neighbouring cities would also remain suspended.  Public Service AnnouncementServices normal at all corridors from 5:35 pm onwards.Tomorrow regular services on all Lines as of now.On Friday morning entry and exit gates at six metro stations on the Green Line -(Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra) were closed due to security reasons, the DMRC had announced. Meanwhile, thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana who have been heading to Delhi since Thursday to protest against the three farm laws passed by the Centre were finally allowed to enter the national capital by the Delhi Police. Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava appealed to the agitating farmers to demonstrate peacefully and maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-agitation-delhi-metro-services-resume-on-all-lines/story-9eUlLrqEbmZAaFPVDweYTL.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Vistara to operate Mumbai-London flights thrice a week from Jan 16||Vistara on Friday said it will operate flights on the Mumbai-London route thrice a week from January 16 onward using its new Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner aircraft.Currently, the full-service carrier is operating flights on the Delhi-London route thrice a week.All UK flights are being operated from India under the bilateral air bubble arrangement between the two countries.Leslie Thng, Chief Executive Officer, Vistara, said, “We are delighted at the very positive response to our service between Delhi and London Heathrow which has encouraged us to further strengthen the network by adding connectivity from Mumbai as we see considerable demand between the two countries, and remain optimistic about the future.” The airline’s statement said it will operate flights on the Mumbai-London route thrice a week on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.However, Indian airlines have been permitted to operate special international flights under the Vande Bharat Mission since May this year and under the bilateral air bubble pacts since July. The Indian carriers have laid off employees, cut salaries and posted significant losses during the last few quarters as coronavirus-induced travel restrictions have drastically impacted the aviation sector. Countries across the world should not wait for the majority of people to be vaccinated against coronavirus and need to open their borders by implementing systematic pre-departure testing, IATA Director General Alexandre de Juniac said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vistara-to-operate-mumbai-london-flights-thrice-a-week-from-jan-16/story-7LXZku4zheeCD1rXDIFgbM.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||AAP supports, stands with farmers; ‘dark’ farm laws must be withdrawn: Party MLAs||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators on Friday extended their support to farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws and said these “dark laws” must be withdrawn.They also said that the farmers, mainly from Punjab, reached Delhi after “much struggle”, facing teargas shells, water canons and lathicharge by police at various border points along their way to the national capital.The farmers, who tried to enter the city as part of their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march, clashed with police at the Delhi-Haryana Singhu border earlier in the day, prompting the force to use teargas to disperse them. It was later that the farmers were allowed by authorities to enter Delhi and hold peaceful protests at the Nirankari ground in Burari.On Thursday, farmers faced water canons and broke police barriers at Punjab’s border with Haryana to push towards the national capital.The AAP stands in support of the farmers’ demands, the party’s Punjab in-charge and Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh said.“Till these three dark laws are not rolled back, the farmers will continue their protest, and the AAP stands in support with them,” he said.The farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, which came into effect from September 27 after President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.Though the central government has maintained that the laws will bring better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture, farmers have expressed apprehension that the legislations will pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporates.AAP Burari MLA Sanjeev Jha, who along with party volunteers has gone to the Singhu border to receive farmers, earlier in the day met Delhi Police officials and asked them to ensure farmers do not face any hardships during their demonstration at the Nirankari ground in his constituency.Jha said that he also met farmers’ representatives and assured them that he will try his best to ensure farmers do not face any kind of problems.AAP spokesperson and Rajinder Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha welcomed the farmers and said the party will take care of all necessary arrangements.“We welcome farmers to Delhi. We will take care of all the farmers and make necessary arrangements for them. Farmers you fearlessly raise your voice, we stand with you,” Chadha said.Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh also extended his support to the farmers. “The farmers have been allowed to protest in Delhi after so much struggle. They were lathi-charged, teargas was used on them and when all means of the government failed then they were given permission. Why has the government pushed the meeting date till December 3, the farmers are struggling now why wait till then,” he said.AAP MLA from Rithala Mohinder Goyal said a kitchen has been started in his constituency to provide food to farmers. “From tomorrow morning, the Rithala Vidhan Sabha will make arrangements for food for 1 lakh farmer friends,” Goyal tweeted, posting pictures of the community kitchen. AAP members led by MLA Jarnail Singh also staged a protest near the prime minister’s residence at Lok Kalyan Marg. They claimed that they were briefly detained by police.The party’s Chandni Chowk MLA Parlad Singh Sawhney tweeted that the AAP welcomes farmers in Delhi and “we will take full care of the farmers and make all necessary arrangements for them”. “We stand with them in this battle,” Sawhney, who is a prominent Sikh leader of the AAP, said.The Delhi Police has said that after holding discussions with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers were permitted to enter Delhi to hold peaceful protest at the Nirankari Ground in Burari.“We appeal to all farmers to maintain peace,” Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/aap-supports-stands-with-farmers-dark-farm-laws-must-be-withdrawn-party-mlas/story-npduegUlURdAKfZnEIFM6K.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||All courts, except those in Pune, to reopen in Maharashtra||All courts in Maharashtra except for courts in Pune will resume their regular functions from the next months in two shifts as per the new Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) released on Friday. The Bombay High Court on Friday released new SOP for all the courts except for the courts in Pune judicial district, whereby it is said that all the courts shall start regular functioning with effect from December 1 in two shifts, which would be of two and a half hours - from 11.00 am to 1.30 pm and from 2.00 pm to 4.30 pm. “In the first shift, preferably, the cases which are fixed for evidence and in the second shift, preferably, the cases which are fixed for judgment, order or hearing of arguments may be taken up,” the new SOP stated. Further, as per the new SOP, the respective principle judges are asked to appoint an officer for inspection of the court premises to oversee the arrangements vis-à-vis adherence of the safety norms. Also read: Farmers enter Delhi via Tikri border, told to demonstrate at Burari groundWith the new SOP, the court library would now reopen along with bar rooms for the lawyers. However, the respective Bar Associations are asked to observe all the safety norms and ensure sanitisation. The courts in the state have been taking up only urgent matters since the lockdown was announced in March this year. The courts were asked to only take up matters of urgent hearing which are bails, anticipatory bails or remand application. The civil courts too had almost stopped functioning since the lockdown and were open for urgent reliefs only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/all-courts-except-those-in-pune-to-reopen-in-maharashtra/story-VIXbYEBfdLYrjTgBfKSZbP.html
27-11-2020||City||Odisha man slaps daughter to death, arrested||A 30-year-old tribal man from Koraput district who slapped his six-year-old daughter to death and then buried her body was arrested on Friday, a week after the incident took place, police said.Police in Koraput said the man had slapped his daughter on the evening of November 21 while teaching her.“He was trying to teach his daughter schoolwork; when she didn’t understand, he slapped her. The girl collapsed and died,” said inspector Bijay Majhi of Pottangi police station.The girl was a Class 1 student. Also Read: ‘Biggest ever catch’: Odisha IFS officer in vigilance net for ‘unaccounted riches’The same evening, he called his friend and together they buried the body 5km away along a road.“He pretended to search for her on November 22 and told the villagers about her disappearance only in the evening. On November 24, he lodged a missing person’s report,” said the inspector.As there were a lot of incongruities in his statements, police detained him and kept interrogating him. On Friday morning, he finally confessed to his crime after which he was arrested under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. A police team later visited the place where he had buried his daughter and exhumed the body for an autopsy. The friend who helped bury the body was also arrested for destruction of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-man-slaps-daughter-to-death-arrested/story-BChljCisu2CmTjptIefnRM.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Stan Swamy case: ‘Never recovered straw, sipper or sought 20 days’ says NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday disparaged reports claiming that it sought 20 days’ time from the court to respond to Father Stan Swamy’s plea to allow him a straw and sipper in Taloja Central Jail as he cannot hold a glass because he has Parkinson’s disease. The agency also said that it never recovered any straw and sipper from him, so there was no question of the agency holding onto it. It termed all such claims as “false, incorrect and mischievous”. In an official response, the NIA spokesperson said, “Accused Stan Swamy filed an application on November 6 in the NIA court at Mumbai to get back his straw and sipper which he alleged had been kept by NIA. The court asked the agency to file its reply on the next date, which was scheduled on November 26 (Thursday). NIA never sought any time as such, and to say that NIA sought 20 days time is false, incorrect and mischievous.” Also Read: Bhima-Koregaon case: Father Stan Swamy files plea for woollens, sipper, strawThe agency added, “NIA duly filed its reply in the court on Thursday stating therein that NIA had searched Stan Swamy’s in the presence of independent witnesses and no such straw and sipper were found.” “The court rejected Swamy’s application and ordered the jail authorities to provide him a straw and sipper,” the spokesperson said. Swamy, 83, was arrested in the first week of October by the agency in the Bhima-Koregaon conspiracy case of 2018.The central anti-terror probe agency has claimed in its charge sheet, filed last month itself, that Swamy had received “Rs8 lakh from one comrade Mohan to spread the activities of the Communist Party of India (Maoist)”. Several documents recovered from his place, which have been added to the NIA charge sheet, include “an underground handbook, letters between cadres, a mini-manual of urban guerilla warfare, the constitution of CPI (Maoist), documents related to the status of People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army, documents on strategy and tactics”. One of the letters seized from him stated that Maoists were keeping an eye on the strategy of the Ministry of Home Affairs pertaining to operations against them, according to the NIA charge sheet. While Swamy’s lawyers have claimed in the court that Swamy is a member of the organisation Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), which works with prisoners under trial, NIA has argued that PPSC is a “frontal organisation” for CPI (Maoist).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/stan-swamy-case-never-recovered-straw-sipper-or-sought-20-days-time-says-nia/story-9ewlzkauaZYjHfLBi6uCaN.html
27-11-2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 3-year-old girl dies in celebratory firing; police exhume body, book nine family members||Police on Friday arrested two people in connection with the death of a three-year-old girl in celebratory firing in Rewa, 536 km east of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. Among those arrested is the girl’s mother as her family allegedly buried her body to hide the crime, said police. Police have exhumed the body and sent it for postmortem to know the exact cause of death. The arrests were made after the preliminary post mortem report showed that the child died of gunshot injuries, said Manoj Gautam, police station in-charge, Naigarhi. Police booked nine people of the family including girl’s parents, maternal uncle and grandfather. During interrogation, the mother reportedly confessed to the police. Also read | Three of a family die in Madhya Pradesh after stepbrother allegedly sets house on fireThe police officer said, “The girl reportedly died of injuries from celebratory firing by her maternal grandfather on November 6. The family buried her body in Chakghat. A week later, police got the tip-off that the girl was killed in a firing incident. The body was exhumed on November 13. The girl’s parents had claimed then that she died after falling from height.” Rewa superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar Singh said, “The grandfather has been booked for murder while eight others were booked for hatching a criminal conspiracy and hiding the crime.” (With inputs from Harendra Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-3-year-old-girl-dies-in-celebratory-firing-police-exhume-body-book-nine-family-members/story-RsQQN6jFysusb6INCzV42K.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Helping the homeless: Stories of selfless deeds that will warm your heart||This winter, help spread warmth to those who need it most. Homeless, daily wage workers and those who have lost their homes to calamities are the worst hit. And if the cold weather wasn’t enough, they have Covid19 to battle with everyday. As Rahul Verma, founder, Uday Foundation, rightly points, it is a four-pronged fight. “We are fighting Covid19, hunger, pollution and winter. The least we can do is not ignore what is happening around us. We can’t save people from Covid19, but we help prepare them to face it. For a person living on the street, a warm blanket is a reassurance that there is someone who cares about him,” he says. Relief work is community-based, and volunteers and other good Samaritans add to the task force. “You just have to reach out and people are willing to help. We have conducted distribution drives with armed forces personnel of Delhi Poilce, Jammu and Kashmir Police, BRO, Rashtriya Rifles to name a few,” he shares. Verma and his team help provide blankets, clothing, over-the-counter medicines, masks and sanitisers in addition to several other supplies.  Donate ! https://t.co/cFuzpsKmriThe importance of a shelter in winter cannot be emphasized enough, and then there are those who have been rendered homeless due to either calamities or demolition drives. Avani Gupta, a former data scientist quit her job at the beginning of the pandemic to help rebuild their homes. “I have distributed blankets in Bhopura and Bhowapur in Ghaziabad, and GB Road. I have also provided them with tarpaulin, utensils, clothes, wall paints and electricity supplies so that they can rebuild their homes,” she says. As for funds, she seeks help from crowdfunding sources. “Till now I was sustaining on personal funds, but now I have to ask for crowdfunding,” she adds. Vickey Sharma, an engineer who quit his job in Australia to help people in his homeland, surveys the streets every night, rescuing people in need. “We have a meeting every night and plan our route. We shift people in shelters, hospitalize those who need it, distribute masks and sanitisers, and provide food. We give them blankets and warm clothing,” he says, adding that the zeal to keep going comes from the duty towards his fellow citizens. “Yeh zaroori nahi ki lakh rupaya kamaana hai; hazaar rupaye kamaa lenge, lekin Hindustan mein jo vyakti hai uski help karenge,” he says. Digital marketing specialist Asad Zaidi, along with some friends, aims to distribute 1,0000 blankets every night. “Our campaign is called #BlanketOfLove. We have 10-15 cars which we load with blankets and set off looking for people who need them the most. We enlist help from some NGOs in identifying these places and people,” he says, adding that everything is self-funded and the group pitches in from their own savings.Interact with Etti Bali @TheBalinianFollow @htcity for more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/helping-the-homeless-stories-of-selfless-deeds-that-will-warm-your-heart/story-ZMYp0TqmBj64gNseKPh1HP.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Sikh pilgrims leave for Pakistan to celebrate Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary||A Sikh jatha left for Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on Friday to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak at his birthplace at Nankana Sahib. This is the first time since the imposition of foreign travel restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic that any Sikh jatha has left for the neighbouring country. Punjab Police protocol officer at Attari-Wagah border Arunpal Singh said he has a list of 883 Sikhs who have got visas for travelling to Pakistan on the occasion. The Pakistan embassy has issued visas to around 900 Sikhs this year. It is learnt that more than 1,500 Sikhs had applied for the visa. Every year, the Pakistan government had been granting visas to 2,500 Indian Sikhs. But this year, the list was shorter due to the pandemic. A total of 325 visas were issued to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). The gurdwara body had applied for 503 visas. Ferozepur-based Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society had sought 172 visas, but got approval for 152. Tarn Taran-based Khalra Mission Committee got 225 visas against 300 applications. The request list for visas of other small societies was also cut short by the embassy. The jatha members had undergone Covid tests at a two-day free camp organised by the SGPC. The Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) has appealed to Sikhs visiting Nankana Sahib not to bring elderly people and children due to the pandemic. The jatha will return on December 1. This year, the PSGPC has also cut short the time of the pilgrims’ stay in Pakistan. The jatha will only be able to stay at Nankana Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/sikh-pilgrims-leave-for-pakistan-to-celebrate-guru-nanak-s-birth-anniversary/story-3XI49QM5Ol9gjvdU8dKoSI.html
27-11-2020||Pune||Man held for killing wife with frying pan during domestic fight||A man was arrested for allegedly bludgeoning his wife to death with a frying pan during a domestic fight in Hadapsar on Thursday.“The man is a habitual drinker and routinely demanded money from her. She refused to give money on Thursday afternoon and he started hitting her with a pan. She died on impact,” said police inspector (crime) Raju Adagale of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case.The woman was seen lying in a pool of blood at the entrance of their two-room house, said police.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/man-held-for-killing-wife-with-frying-pan-during-domestic-fight/story-rsU7ebdFWO7e6XOWR2DUSP.html
27-11-2020||Pune||Pune ZP to take responsibility for students’ safety||Schools in the rural parts of Pune district reopened for classes 9 to 12 on November 23 following all safety precautions, however, attendance has still been very low. So, in a bid to provide an assurance to parents, the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP) education department has decided to take responsibility for students’ safety coming to schools. If a student is found Covid-19 positive while attending classes, his/her treatment will be undertaken by Pune ZP. Pune ZP vice-president Ranjit Shivtare, said, “Schools in Pune district reopened after a long break and it was noticed that the number of students attending the school on the first day was very less. So, to encourage students to come to school, we have decided to take responsibility of students coming to attend classroom lectures. We have already taken all the safety precautions in the schools across the district with sanitisation, thermal scanners, social distancing and compulsory face mask. Also, all the teachers have undergone Covid-19 test and those found positive have not been allowed to attend the school.” “If any student still gets infected while attending school, we will be taking their responsibility. The cost of the student’s treatment will be borne by Pune Zilla Parishad. So, I appeal to all the parents to send their children to school,” he added. Sakharam Pangare, a parent from Saswad, said, “I have two daughters and both of them are not willing to go to school due to fear of Covid-19 infection. We also don’t want to risk their lives, but teachers are appealing to come to school. So, we are not yet sure about sending them to school, however, it is good that now Pune ZP is taking responsibility of the safety of students.” On recordTotal number of schools in Pune rural area – 1,246 Schools which have reopened – 215 Total number of teachers – 11,033 Non-teaching staff – 4,821 Total number of students - 2,38,041||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-zp-to-take-responsibility-for-students-safety/story-fDwgpR1ES78Xs3orH1Na3M.html
27-11-2020||Dehradun||In a first, Uttarakhand space agency develops GIS mapping portal for crowd management during Mahakumbh 2021||The Uttarakhand Space Application Centre (USAC) has developed a geographic information system (GIS) mapping-based portal for efficient crowd management in the upcoming Haridwar Mahakumbh using satellite imagery. The portal, covering about 160 sqkm area of the Mahakumbh known as mela area, will provide realtime information to the authorities about movement or concentration of crowds, said officials. MPS Bisht, director USAC said, “The system built using GIS mapping is the first of its kind to be used in the management of any of the mahakumbhs held in the country.” Base map covering mela area of 161 sqkm created Bisht said, “Under the developed mechanism, we created a base map of the mela area covering an area of about 161 sqkm. It was made by 15 students of geology at the Garhwal Central University by collecting data on the ground, which includes locations of camping site, sewer lines, medical facilities, toilets and other basic amenities for the pilgrims.” Also Read: Uttarakhand HC directs state govt to file affidavit on Covid-19 preparedness for Mahakumbh 2021He said that after the data was collected, it was then integrated with the satellite imagery to provide realtime data to the authorities. “As per the system, a war room will be built in the mela authorities’ headquarters where the officials can avail realtime data of crowd movement to manage the mega event,” said Bisht. Mobile application for pilgrims to check crowd and water level at ghats on realtime basis The USAC director said that as part of the system, there would also be a mobile application for pilgrims to help them avail various facilities without much hassle. “Using the application, they can get realtime information about crowd concentration on the ghats by which they can decide on which ghat they should visit to take a holy dip. Similarly, they can also see the water level at the ghats and decide accordingly about taking the bath,” said Bisht. He also said that the “easy to use” application will also help pilgrims with the location of various important basic amenities like lodging and transportation. “As we have included the information about the hotels and lodges in the application, the pilgrims can find which hotels have how many rooms vacant. They can also find about the nearest taxi stand or bus stop for their destination just by using the application,” said Bisht. While the portal was to cover all 41 sectors of the mela area, the number is now reduced to half due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The portal will likely cover only about 21 sectors now as authorities are expecting less of a crowd due to the pandemic,” said Bisht.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/in-a-first-uttarakhand-space-agency-develops-gis-mapping-portal-for-crowd-management-during-mahakumbh-2021/story-xabGpMEHSp6sO6ILbFyJ4N.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Bibi Jagir Kaur elected Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief||Former Punjab minister and Bholath MLA Bibi Jagir Kaur was on Friday elected the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president at the annual general house meeting at Teja Singh Samundari Hall, the headquarters of the apex gurdwara body, in Amritsar. She replaces Gobind Singh Longowal, who remained the SGPC chief for three years. Jagir Kaur is a former SGPC chief too and had become the first woman to be elected to the post in March 1999. She held the post till November 2000. During her second tenure, she was SGPC president from September 2004 to November 2005. Also read: SGPC’s centenary celebration a low-key affairA day after SGPC members owing allegiance to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which has a majority in the SGPC general house, authorised its president Sukhbir Singh Badal to choose the name of the president, other office-bearers and 11 members of the executive committee, the annual poll session was held on Friday and attended by 143 members. Disclosing the choice of Sukhbir, former SGPC acting president Alwinderpal Singh Pakhoke proposed Jagir Kaur’s name for the top post. Opposition members proposed the name of Mithu Singh Kahne Ke as their candidate. Jagir Kaur got 122 of the 143 votes and was declared elected. COURTED CONTROVERSY AFTER DAUGHTER’S DEATH During her first tenure, Jagir Kar was forced to quit after she was accused of murdering her daughter, Harpreet Kaur, in 2000 but she was acquitted by the Punjab and Haryana high court in this case last year. The acquittal paved the way for her holding the post for the third time. On assuming charge in 2004, she was embroiled in a controversy again as she supported women’s demand to conduct kirtan (prayers) inside the sanctum sanctorum of Golden Temple. FROM MATH TEACHER TO BHOLATH MLA Born on October 15, 1954, at Bhatnura Lubana village in Jalandhar district, Jagir Kaur is known as an aggressive leader of the Akali Dal. She graduated in arts in 1977 and did B.Ed. the next year. She worked as a mathematics teacher in a government school for 11 years. In 1980, she married Charanjit Singh, the son of Harnam Singh, the head of Dera Sant Baba Prem Singh Murale Wale at Begowal in Kapurthala district. The couple had two daughters, Harpreet Kaur and Ranjeet Kaur. Her husband died in 1983. After her husband’s death, she took over the responsibility of the head of the dera in 1987. Being the dera head, she held considerable sway in Bholath assembly segment that is known as a stronghold of the Lubana Sikh community. She formally joined the Shiromani Akali Dal in 1995 and was elected as an SGPC member in 1996. GURDWARA MANAGEMENT AND SOCIAL WELFARE The SGPC is responsible for the management of historic gurdwaras in Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh. Besides, it runs educational, medical, religious and human welfare institutions. Of the 191 members in its general house, 170 are elected by adult Sikhs after five years through ballot papers. At the same time, 15 Sikhs are nominated as co-opted members for the house. Five Takht heads and the Golden Temple head granthi are also present at the general house meetings but have no right to vote. The general house assembles at Teja Singh Samundari Hall every year to select its president, senior vice-president, junior vice-president, general secretary and 11 members of the executive committee either unanimously or by voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/bibi-jagir-kaur-elected-shiromani-gurdwara-parbandhak-committee-chief/story-37S0HDnBmdbyXSK1pm39cK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi is conducting more Covid-19 tests compared to rest of India, says Jain||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday authorities are conducting tests to detect the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) three times more than the rest of the country and that they have the infrastructure and capacity to vaccinate all of the national capital’s residents as soon as a vaccine is out.“In Delhi, three times testing is being done as compared to the rest of the country. We have the infrastructure and capacity to inoculate the entire population of Delhi as soon as the vaccination is out,” Jain told news agency ANI.Delhi has conducted over six million Covid-19 tests till now out of which 63,266 tests were carried out on Thursday. The health minister had earlier said that the testing capacity had reached the saturation level adding that labs were finding it difficult to release results of all RT-PCR tests within a single day. “The testing has reached the saturation level… Many people now say they were tested just two to three days ago,” Jain said.Also Watch l ‘No VIPs for vaccine’: Kejriwal’s appeal amid Covid pandemic #HTLS2020 Also Read| Rajiv Gandhi Hospital to have first vaccine storage; Entire Delhi can be vaccinated in just a month, says immunisation officerDelhi’s state immunisation officer Suresh Seth had on Thursday echoed Jain’s claims, saying everyone in Delhi can be vaccinated in a month and that there is sufficient infrastructure to cover the population if all nurses and hospital staff are involved. “We have 600 cold storage points and around 1,800 outreach sites for the universal immunisation programme for children. We have sufficient equipment for vaccines that can be stored at a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius and those that need minus 15 to minus 25 degrees Celsius,” Seth said.The Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital has been chosen as the first vaccine storage facility. The Delhi government is currently collecting data on health care workers who are a priority on the list of those who will be vaccinated first.Also Read: West Delhi will survey all houses in its area for Covid-19 symptomatic personsChief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that there should be no ‘VIP or non- VIP categories’ for vaccinating people as each and everyone’s life is crucial. Priority should instead be given to ‘corona warriors’, those having comorbidities and vulnerable groups such as senior citizens.Delhi has so far logged 551,262 coronavirus disease cases, which include 38,734 active cases, more than 500,000 recoveries and 8,811 deaths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-is-conducting-more-covid-19-tests-compared-to-rest-of-india-says-jain/story-XWWd15GE8DWIh3YxB7eRDJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut bungalow demolition case: Will study court order before deciding to challenge it, says Mumbai mayor||After the Bombay high court on Friday set aside the demolition notice sent to actor Kangana Ranaut by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said they respect the order of the court. Pednekar added that the legal department of BMC will study the high court order before deciding to challenge it in the Supreme Court. Pednekar said, “We believe in the Constitution and we respect the order of Bombay high court. We have issued similar notices in the past and even courts have accepted them. Now, this time we will have to check where we went wrong.”On whether BMC will challenge the order in Supreme Court, Pednekar said, “Our legal department will study the entire issue once the order is served by the court. Only after that we will take a decision.”Also Read: ‘Because you played a villain, I could be a hero’: Kangana Ranaut reacts after Bombay HC rules her bungalow demolished in ‘malice’Pednekar added, “However, I would like to add that someone coming from Himachal Pradesh to Mumbai and calling Mumbai Pakistan occupied Kashmir is wrong, and those trying to make the court a political battlefield is also wrong.”Meanwhile, both the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress have welcomed the Bombay high court order. The BJP said it was a “political demolition” and BMC must not use public money to compensate Kangana Ranaut, instead, it should come out of the pockets of those who ordered the demolition. The Bombay high court has also directed a valuer to ascertain the damage caused in the demolition and compensate Ranaut accordingly.Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator and BJP’s group leader in BMC said, “The demolition of Kangana [Ranaut]’s structure was political vengeance. The Bombay high court order makes it clear that there was malice behind the demolition.”Also Read: Demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow actuated by malafide: Bombay high courtShinde added, “Also, the compensation given to Kangana Ranaut by BMC, as per Bombay high court’s order, should not be paid from public money. The mayor and municipal commissioner are responsible for the demolition, and the money should be recovered from the pockets of who ordered this political decision.”On the other hand, the Congress welcomed the Bombay high court’s order. Ravi Raja, the Congress corporator and Leader of Opposition in BMC, said, “We welcome and respect the Bombay high court’s order. The BMC should take care and follow proper process before taking any action. At the same time, I also respect that Bombay high court has also asked Ranaut to make responsible statements.”A division bench of justices SJ Kathawalla and RI Chagla on Friday set aside the demolition notice sent to Ranaut by BMC dated September 7 and 9 — marking a victory for Ranaut. The high court said the demolition at her office had malafide intent, passing an order for a valuer to be appointed to ascertain the damage caused in the demolition. However, the court has also asked the actor to exercise restraint while speaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-bungalow-demolition-case-will-study-court-order-before-deciding-to-challenge-it-says-mumbai-mayor/story-pYYa6zW4wbVKAvbNXOkc3H.html
27-11-2020||City||Farmers’ protest: Haryana Police dig trenches to block the path of protesters||Thousands of protesting farmers marching towards Delhi have been facing several hurdles while crossing the police barricades on the Chandigarh-Delhi national highway. The Haryana Police used military tactics—digging trenches at Samalkha, Haldana border, Sonepat, Murthal and Kundli border—to block the path of the protesting farmers.The Haryana Police had installed a 7-foot-tall barricade on the Delhi-Rohtak highway at the Rohad toll plaza, but farmers managed to cross it by breaking it from one side. The state police have stationed sand-laden trucks and water cannons as well as tear gas shells to stop the protesters from proceeding further. Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Delhi govt rejects police request to convert stadiums into temporary prisonsHowever, Delhi Police have used barbed wire to fence the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana to stop the farmers’ entry into the national capital. Farmers have been unable to cross the multiple layers of fencing and are sitting on dharna nearly 100 metres away from the Singhu border waiting for more groups of farmers to join them before confronting the cops.A senior Sonepat Police officer, seeking anonymity, said the police brought trucks laden with sand at Murthal, near Education City in Sonepat, Murthal and Kundli border.“ We used water cannons and installed barricades but were unable to stop the farmers from moving forward. The protesters are moving in large numbers and some of them throw stones at the policemen during confrontation,” the officer added.A Jhajjar Police officer, who also wished to remain anonymous, told HT that farmers came in large numbers on Friday morning and crossed the Rohad toll plaza despite the 7-foot-tall barrier by breaking some of it.“The protesters broke the windows of the water cannon vehicle and crossed the plaza. Due to their large numbers, we have no option but to let them through,” the officer added.The police have used water cannons and tear gas shells at Tikri and Sinhgu borders twice and famers have started a dharna in Haryana territory near the border.Rakesh Bains, media in-charge of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) said the stand-off between the police and farmers is continuing at Singhu and Tikri border.“ We will cross this hurdle also to reach Delhi. We will wait for an hour here and cross the Sanghu border after other farmers joins us. The police dug up holes to prevent us from reaching Delhi. Our brave farmers crossed every barricade, water cannon, tear gas shells to reach here. Many farmers diverted their route through villages to reach here. The Haryana government has shown that it is against the farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protest-haryana-police-dig-trenches-to-block-the-path-of-protesters/story-5OnmKPQNwX92KPvENiOGzK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi violence: Court refuses to grant interim bail to Ishrat Jahan, finds no Covid-19 scare in jail||A Delhi court has refused to grant interim bail to former Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan in connection with an Unlawful Activities Prevention Act case related to the northeast Delhi violence. She had approached the court for bail citing a Covid-19 outbreak in Mandoli prison and other medical issues.Additional Sessions Judge Amiabh Rawat on Thursday noted that in terms of the medical ailments agitated by the applicant and the report of the Jail Superintendent, the court does not find any cogent reason for enlarging the applicant on interim bail.“Considering the gravity of the offences including Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 with which the applicant is charged, the discussion in the preceding paragraphs and the Jail Report, I do not deem it a fit case to grant interim bail to accused Ishrat Jahan,” ASJ Rawat said.Jahan had sought interim bail on the ground that being jailed had taken a toll on her mental health and some of the inmates at the prison where she was lodged had tested positive or Covid-19. Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, representing Jahan, had argued that she was a practicing advocate and didn’t have any criminal antecedents.Gupta also argued that the applicant had a history of cervical, spine injury (lower back pain) and migraine prior to her arrest and she had been under continuous medication in the past for the said illnesses.It was also submitted that around 15 days back, the applicant fell inside the bathroom while she was in jail due to slippery floor and has suffered spinal injuries. Moreover, the Covid-19 situation inside the jail is precarious and the applicant has anxiety issues, the lawyer argued.Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad had argued that the applicant has been chargesheet in the case under various sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Indian Penal Code on charges pertaining to criminal conspiracy, rioting, murder among others.Prasad further argued that the latest medical prescription dated June 14, 2020, of Cribs Hospital relating to the applicant also got verified from the hospital and a report has been obtained and added that there is no urgent medical requirement of the applicant.He also argued that as per the report of the Jail Superintendent, Tihar Jail, Delhi, all the necessary protocols regarding the Covid-19 related precautions are being taken and the situation is totally under control.“There is no Covid-19 scare inside the jail. The applicant is also being given proper treatment for her minor health issues and her condition is stable. In fact, she was tested twice for Covid-19 and was found negative,” Prasad submitted.At least 53 people were killed and hundreds of others were injured in the violence that took place in northeast Delhi between February 24 and 26 sparked by clashes between groups supporting and opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-violence-court-refuses-to-grant-interim-bail-to-ishrat-jahan-finds-no-covid-19-scare-in-jail/story-x8QCHTMNThic5nnJUKuHpJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: In Mumbai, number of people not wearing masks almost doubled in last 2 weeks, says BMC||Despite mandatory for people to wear a mask in public places, the number of violators does not seem to be going down in Mumbai. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s data, between November 6 and November 25, the number of violators booked for not wearing mask has almost doubled. The data of BMC shows that the civic body’s squads caught 445,000 citizens for not wearing masks in public places and collected Rs9.28 crore as fine till November 25. The number of violators is almost double compared to 226,000 offenders who were caught till November 6 and paid Rs4.79 crore as fine.The BMC levies a fine of Rs200 from each individual who does not wear a mask in public. According to BMC, currently each of the total 24 wards is levying fine on around 500 citizens daily. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has given each ward a target of booking at least 1,000 citizens daily.Also read | Covid-19: Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccineOn October 12, the BMC launched a massive drive to penalise 20,000 citizens daily for not wearing a mask, however even that target has not been met yet.As per the BMC data, the highest fine collection has been done from S and L ward which covers areas like Bhandup, Vikhroli, Powai, Kurla and Saki Naka.A BMC official involved in the fine collection said, “The numbers increased drastically because for Diwali, many citizens were out, and the marshals were busy during that period. Owing to this, we managed to book so many in the last two weeks.”The BMC official added, “In the coming days, with more unlocking we expect to increase our surveillance. This may result in our fine collection going up further.”Apart from collecting fines, the BMC has also started making violators perform community services, such as sweeping roads for an hour or cleaning graffiti, if they argue or refuse to pay the ₹200 fine for not wearing masks.This punishment is being implemented as per BMC’s solid waste management by-laws, which give it powers to make citizens perform community services for spitting on roads.Stressing on the importance of wearing a mask, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar had told HT a couple of days ago, “Unless we do have an actual vaccine to fight with Covid-19, mask and social distancing is the only vaccine available. Hence, if people do not follow safety norms, administration will be compelled for a lockdown.”Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal said, “Those wearing mask have only 10% chances of getting infected with Covid-19, if social distancing is maintained. Hence, mask is the least we could do. Also, it is not just about us but citizens have to understand that it is for the entire community. Due to this, wearing mask becomes more of a responsibility rather than a rule.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-in-mumbai-number-of-people-not-wearing-masks-almost-doubled-in-last-2-weeks-says-bmc/story-nLcDgpdwASORc0WByGRcXP.html
27-11-2020||Patna||In a first, Bihar jail will get ATM for inmates to draw cash||Purnia central jail in Bihar is going to be the first of its kind in the state with the installation of an ATM (Automated Teller Machine) inside the premises to help inmates withdraw money for their daily use.The move is aimed at preventing crowding at the jail gate by the family members and acquaintances of the inmates. “We have written a letter to the SBI in this regard and we do hope the ATM will be installed inside the jail in a fortnight,” Purnia central jail superintendent Jitendra Kumar said.“Out of 750 inmates, 600 have their accounts in various banks and 400 have been issued ATM cards and the rest would get it soon,” Kumar added.The inmates are paid between Rs 52 to Rs 103 for 4 to 8 hours of work and the wages are deposited in their accounts. Their wages will go up further to Rs 112-Rs 156, if some of the ten proposed small and cottage industries are set up inside the jail. Recently, face masks made by the inmates were supplied to various jails of Kosi and Seemanchal regions.As per the jail manual, an inmate is allowed to keep up to Rs 500 cash.Also Read: Storm over bribe phone calls ends Lalu Prasad’s VIP bungalow stay “Till January 2019, the wages were paid by cheques and now the money is transferred to their accounts,” jail superintendent Kumar said.“An ATM can lessen the crowd at the jail gate as most of them come here to give money to the inmates” Kumar said, adding that the ATM will definitely help jail administration in many ways.“The inmates can use cards to purchase daily use items like soaps, hair oil, eatables against the payment they receive for doing work on the premises,” Kumar said. Purnia central jail is the largest in Bihar in terms of the strength of convicted prisoners. It has 750 convicted prisoners right now with a total 1,900 inmates including 56 females.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/in-a-first-bihar-jail-will-get-atm-for-inmates-to-draw-cash/story-BaZlV7SH8fVM8UehKKX39J.html
27-11-2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 2,237 fresh Covid-19 cases, Lucknow 348||Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 count reached 535,449 on Thursday with 2,237 fresh cases, including 348 in Lucknow, while the death toll reached 7,674 with 30 new fatalities. Kanpur reported 148 cases, Ghaziabad 172, Gautam Buddh Nagar 97, Prayagraj 91, Gorakhpur 61, Meerut 199 and Varanasi 102. Hathras reported no case. Meerut reported four deaths, Lucknow three, Varanasi and Moradabad two each, and Kanpur, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar one each. In Lucknow, fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar (28), Gomti Nagar (26), Rae Bareli Road (18), Alambagh (21), Chowk (20), Madiaon (12) Ashiyana (19), Sarojininagar (15), Mahanagar (16), Vikas Nagar (17), Jankipuram (15), Talkatora (16), Aliganj (15) and Aminabad (14). Also Read: Covid-19: Beginning 2021, India to produce 100 million doses of Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine“The recovery rate in Lucknow is 93.32%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The positivity rate in Lucknow is around 6.7%. In all, 188 patients were discharged while samples of 11,099 people were taken for contact tracing on Thursday. Lucknow has till now reported 70,528 cases of which 65,820 have recovered and 978 people have died. Till now, 52,922 patients have opted for home isolation in Lucknow of which 50,479 have recovered. The state has tested 18,636,313 samples for Covid-19 till now. A meeting of health officials was conducted to review facilities for Covid-19 patients and to make preparations for the same in view of a rise in cases. Officials were asked to ensure contact tracing as soon as possible for each case that tested positive and to make sure they were provided required medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-reports-2-237-fresh-covid-19-cases-lucknow-348/story-h2VkSiWLYIj4kuZw9DZ7uM.html
27-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan MLA’s bodyguard claims toll plaza staff abused and thrashed him||A security personal and the driver of Rajasthan’s Sadulshahar MLA Jagdish Jangid claimed to have allegedly been beaten up by the staff of Suratgarh-Hanumangarh toll plaza. A toll plaza worker has however denied the allegations and filed a counter complaint accusing the bodyguard of threatening them with a gun. but both the sides have registered FIRs against each other. According to a complaint filed by Lakhan Singh Gurjar, the MLA’s security man, the toll plaza staff stopped their car around 11am on Thursday by placing barricades. Gurjar’s complaint alleges he was abused and thrashed by around eight to ten men working at the toll plaza along with the driver of the car when he confronted them about stopping the car.A toll plaza worker has registered a counter FIR against the MLA, his driver, and the security man alleging the car was trying to go through without paying the toll tax and that’s why a barricade was placed to stop them.Also Read: Rajasthan CM asks Centre to hold talks with farmers, calls farm laws ‘anti-people’The worker’s FIR claims that the MLA, his driver and his security personnel abused the toll staff and the security personnel even pointed a gun towards a toll plaza worker which is when other toll plaza workers intervened to save him. “As soon as the police came to know about the incident, a team was rushed to the spot and the matter was resolved. We have registered complaints filed by both the sides and the investigation is being done by the crime branch,” said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-mla-s-bodyguard-accused-of-pointing-gun-at-toll-plaza-staff-he-denies/story-39vEAD9IHj8ZWzbItenAIP.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi govt rejects police request to convert stadiums into temporary prisons||The Delhi government denied police permission to convert nine stadiums in the city into temporary detention centres in light of the farmers’ agitation on Friday. A senior police officer aware of the development, who wished not to be named, said they had sought permission from the home department to convert nine stadiums into temporary jails to detain the farmers. “Looking at the situation at the borders, we think we will require such places to keep the detainees,” the officer added.However, the letter signed by Delhi home minister Satyendar Jain read, “The farmers’ demands are valid. The central government should agree to their demands immediately. Detaining farmers is not the solution. Peaceful protest is the constitutional right of every Indian. They cannot be jailed for that. That’s why Delhi government is rejecting the permission sought by Delhi Police to convert stadiums into jails.”The letter denying permission has been sent to Delhi Police, said government officials.Groups of farmers reached Delhi’s Tikri border on Friday morning after which the Delhi Police had to resort to firing tear gas shells on them. While at least 105 farmers were detained on Thursday, the number is expected to rise with more farmer groups reaching Delhi on Friday. Farmers’ protest: Metro stations near Delhi-Haryana border to remain closed, says DMRCEarlier in the day, senior Aam Aadmi Party leader Raghav Chadha had urged the Delhi government to deny permission. “The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist. Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society,” he had tweeted.I urge the Delhi Govt to deny permission for setting up temporary prisons. The farmer of our country is neither a criminal nor a terrorist.Right to protest peacefully is enshrined in Indian Constitution - Article 19(1) and protests are the hallmark of a free, democratic society. https://t.co/cqMvEb181rOn Friday, about 10 tear gas shells were fired at farmers around 9am as they approached the barbed barricades set up by the Delhi Police at the Singhu border that connects Narela to Sonepat in Haryana.The police action meant that the farmers couldn’t enter Delhi.On Thursday, the police had detained about 105 farmers from Jantar Mantar and Majnu Ka Tilla for managing to enter the city and begin their demonstrations. They were all booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-police-eye-delhi-stadiums-as-temporary-prisons/story-TNki3zKcEDXvv1v6jRjvQJ.html
27-11-2020||Kolkata||NICED in Kolkata to pick 1000 volunteers for Covid-19 vaccine trial||Around 1,000 volunteers, required for the proposed phase III trial of Covaxin -- the vaccine for Covid-19 -- at the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Disease (NICED) in Kolkata, will be selected from among the people living within a radius of 10-15 km of the city, a senior official said on Friday.NICED has already started getting applications from people interested to be part of the trial for the vaccine, the official of the medical institute said.“We have decided to rope in volunteers staying in areas within a radius of 10-15 kilometre of Kolkata. We need to find people who will be able to travel quickly from their residence to the institute in case we need them for any purpose during the trial,” the official told PTI.Till Thursday, the institute has received hundreds of applications from people of different districts of West Bengal, expressing their interests to be volunteers for the phase III trial, he added.“It’s a good sign that people are expressing interest to be part of the phase III trial. But above all, it’s important to check the health parametres to find healthy volunteers. Half of the volunteers will be receiving the actual vaccine while the rest will be given a placebo. Another shot will be administered to each of the volunteers four weeks after the first one is given,” he added.The list of 1,000 volunteers will be finalised by the first week of December when the phase III trial is likely to begin, the official said.As part of the pan-India phase III trial for the vaccine, Covaxin vials reached NICED from Hyderabad on Thursday, he said.“We are preserving the vials at minus 4 degrees Celsius at the institute’s laboratory,” the official said.Around 28,500 volunteers will be chosen for the nationwide trial for the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine being developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Virology (NIV).West Bengal’s Urban Development Minister Firhad Hakim has expressed his wish to be a volunteer for the phase III trial at NICED.Hakim, 62, has also spoken to NICED officials and expressed his wish to be a part of the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/niced-in-kolkata-to-pick-1000-volunteers-for-covid-19-vaccine-trial/story-f5fUrIeHw0NdvwTt6YoRJJ.html
27-11-2020||Dehradun||Mother jumps into dam to save 7-year-old son in Uttarakhand, drowns||A 30-year-old Uttarakhand woman drowned while trying to save her seven-year-old son who fell off a boat in the midst of Gularbhoj dam in US Nagar district on Thursday, said police JC Tiwari, in-charge of Gularbhoj police outpost, said, “The woman was returning to her village Gularbhoj along with her husband and son by a boat after visiting their farm on the other side. The boat was old and was carrying over a dozen people, their bikes and firewood. It was overloaded.” Tiwari said when the boat reached the middle of the dam, part of its side suddenly broke off and in the ensuing commotion, 7-year-old Himanshu fell into dam waters. “Seeing this, the woman immediately jumped into the water to rescue her son. But she struggled and drowned. Her husband tried to rescue her but failed. However, he managed to rescue the child.” Also Read: Uttarakhand HC directs state govt to file affidavit on Covid-19 preparedness for Mahakumbh 2021The woman has been identified as Anjli Dogra, wife of Raju Dogra, a resident of Colony 2 in Gularbhoj area, said police. Gularbhoj dam is located 28 km from US Nagar district headquarters. Villagers who reside on the other side of the dam depend on boats to cross it. The couple had boarded the boat to come to Gularbhoj after visiting their farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/mother-jumps-into-dam-to-save-7-year-old-son-in-uttarakhand-drowns/story-dE5anlIvMls651vdRLYIwJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Demolition of Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow actuated by malafide: Bombay high court||In a strongly worded judgment, the Bombay high court on Friday struck down the September 9 order passed by a ward officer of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to demolish a part of actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow at Pali Hill in Bandra west. The division bench of justice SJ Kathawalla and justice Riyaz Chagla held that the action of the civic body of demolishing about 40% of the bungalow was “actuated by malafide” and was in complete disregard of her rights. The bench concluded that the civic action was a clear case of legal malice and was initiated after Ranaut’s infamous tweets, comparing Mumbai with Pakistan occupied Kashmir. Also Read: ‘Why Section 124A?’ Bombay HC’s scathing remark over sedition charges against Kangana RanautIn this regard, the bench said irresponsible statements made by an individual should be ignored, howsoever distasteful those may be, and no action can be taken against such individual by resorting to colourable exercise of power and causing injury to that individual or his property by the State or any of its instrumentalities. The high court has now appointed valuer Shetgiri and Associates to assess the damage caused by BMC while demolishing part of Ranaut’s bungalow and asked them to submit their report in three months. The high court also allowed Ranaut to take steps to make the bungalow habitable again. But, she will have to approach BMC and seek permission, if any permission is required for reconstruction of the demolished portion. Ranaut approached high court on September 9, hours after the BMC demolished a part of her bungalow in the upscale Pali Hill area. Apart from seeking that the demolition be declared illegal, the actor also sought Rs 2 crore from the civic body towards damages, claiming that several valuable articles were damaged by the civic body during the course of the demolition. She alleged that BMC carried out the demolition out of malice following her comments against the Mumbai Police which, according to her, irked the Shiv Sena leadership. She had also cited an alleged threat against her by Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson and member of Parliament Sanjay Raut in an interview. BMC had denied the allegations of malice and of any personal vendetta against the actor. The civic body maintained that Ranaut had brazenly and unlawfully carried out extensive additions and alterations to the bungalow, in breach of its approved building plan. It said that after being served a stop work notice under Section 354 (A) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, the actor submitted a false and evasive reply, because of which it had to take the next step of issuing a demolition notice and carrying out the demolition work. BMC countered Ranaut’s claim for damages saying she had not submitted any proof to show that any movable property or articles were damaged during the demolition. “The petitioner’s claim for Rs2 crore compensation for movables/ articles allegedly damaged or destroyed during the demolition cannot be adjudicated in the present proceedings,” the BMC had said in its affidavit filed through advocate Joel Carlos.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/demolition-of-kangana-ranaut-s-bungalow-actuated-by-malafide-bombay-high-court/story-B4ygRhImdaYcplz8T9UPJN.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Meet Delhi Police constable who never says no to donate plasma||How do you define ‘new normal’? Wearing mask compulsorily in public places, social distancing, sanitisers placed at the entrance and other strategic spots in shops and homes, and the constant news feed on present number of coronavirus cases. Including all this are the messages for plasma donation, on WhatsApp and other social media platforms; which are becoming another new normal. But, how much attention do you really pay to such messages? Ask Krishan Kumar, head constable, Delhi Police, who says, “Not even once do I said no to anyone who send me a message asking for help with plasma donation.” “I was on ventilator when admitted to the hospital on being detected with Covid-19, and I know what families of corona patients have to go through when their dear one is between life and death,” says the 42-year-old who makes it a point to help everyone who reaches out to him. “Any person who approaches me for plasma donation, I go to any length to help. And so far I’ve donated plasma five times. It feels great to help someone out there,” he adds, and goes on to share what made him do so: “I once saw a family crying for they were unable to get help, and at that very moment I decided ‘Never to say no for plasma, if my health permits’. Aur humara toh kam hi hai logon ki seva karna. Covid-19 ne hume ek aur mauka dia hai iske liye, aur mujhe acha bhi lag raha hai ki log mere is kaam ki tareef kar rahe hain. There are others like me who keep donating plasma.” Kumar has even communicated to his colleagues, including seniors, to inform him if anyone is in need of plasma. “When I offer help in such a manner, usually everyone in my office asks me to take care of my health, and I feel so loved,” he adds. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-meet-delhi-police-constable-who-never-says-no-to-donate-plasma/story-VCqKzpKQRxbjdydesplDAO.html
27-11-2020||Kolkata||Ahead of Bengal polls, Mamata eyes upper hand with cashless health scheme||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced cashless health benefits for 100 million families from December 1 with less than six months left for the crucial 2021 assembly polls, which her government hopes to win on the back of her developmental and welfare record. “Every family in the state, which is not yet covered by any state-sponsored health scheme, will be covered under the Swasthya Sathi health scheme from December 1. Under this project, every family will get a smart card which would allow it to get cashless health benefits up to Rs 5 lakhs from around 1500 government and private hospitals across India,” said Banerjee. The State had initially planned to cover around 75 million families under the Swasthya Sathi scheme, the additional 25 million families including those of artisans, drivers, domestic helps and rickshaw pullers among others would be brought under this from December 1. “It would cost the state exchequer around Rs 2000 crore. Those who have not yet registered under the Swasthya Sathi health scheme can do so when the government launches its door-to-door campaign,” she added. While on one hand the TMC-supremo played the development card, on the other, she upped the ante against the BJP, trying to brand the party as an ‘outsider’ in Bengal and attacked it on various fronts, including alleged delay in developing Covid-19 vaccines and payment of GST dues to States. “After ruining the country’s economy, the Union home minister is now going to campaign for municipal elections. I have never seen such a country where a Union home minister is visiting a household and having food for a photo session when the economy is going down and unemployment is increasing,” she said, while adding that Bengal will not accept outsiders. Also Read: West Bengal transport minister Suvendu Adhikari quits key post, widening rift with ruling TMCTop BJP leaders including Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda are expected to campaign for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation scheduled on December 1. While announcing her government’s decision to extend the health scheme, she criticized the centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme and Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme. Also Read: No place for outsiders who incite violence during polls: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee“The Kisan Samman scheme has been so formulated that most of the small scale farmers in West Bengal will not be entitled for it. But even then we had sent letters to the centre saying that the state would disburse the money as soon as the centre releases the fund. But the money has to be routed through the state as the state is the implementing authority,” she said. Shah during his visit to Bengal earlier this month had assailed the West Bengal government, saying that benefits of over 80 central schemes, including PM-Kisan and Ayushman Bharat, could not reach the poor in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/on-eve-of-bengal-polls-mamata-eyes-upper-hand-with-cashless-health-scheme/story-DXXrY3VWJu0q2XUwTuN6jJ.html
27-11-2020||City||Kashmir: Mehbooba Mufti, daughter allegedly put under house arrest||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti was detained by Jammu and Kashmir Police and was not allowed to visit South Kashmir’s Pulwama to meet the family of senior PDP leader Waheed Parra, who was arrested by the national investigating agency (NIA) earlier this week.“Ive been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, J&K admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid ’s family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers & their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case,” Mufti tweeted on Friday morning.Ive been illegally detained yet again. Since two days, J&K admin has refused to allow me to visit @parawahid’s family in Pulwama. BJP Ministers & their puppets are allowed to move around in every corner of Kashmir but security is a problem only in my case. pic.twitter.com/U5KlWzW3FQMufti said that her daughter Iltija Mufti has also been placed under house arrest. “Their cruelty knows no bounds. Waheed was arrested on baseless charges & I am not allowed to even console his family. Even my daughter Iltija has been placed under house arrest because she also wanted to visit Waheed’s family,” she said, adding that she will address a press conference on Friday.However, in the afternoon when media persons arrived at her home, police didn’t allow them to go inside the Fairview Guest House -- the official accommodation of the PDP president.“Press has been barred from entering my residence in Srinagar. This, despite no written orders explaining my arbitrary detention. Kashmir is an open air prison where no one has the right to express their opinion,” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti.She added that that administration was using fear and intimidation. “We are one day away from DDC polling & its evident that the admin here is using fear & intimidation in tandem to muffle any form of opposition,” she tweeted.Meanwhile, PDP youth president Waheed ur Rehman Parra was presented before the NIA court in Jammu and was sent to 15-day police custody by the court. Parra was arrested by the NIA in New Delhi on Wednesday. PDP has launched a campaign on social media terming all allegation against Parra false. Parra is also contesting DDC polls from Pulwama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kashmir-mehbooba-mufti-daughter-allegedly-put-under-house-arrest/story-dclw7vSig7705AnwWdf94O.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana, Punjab farmers jointly resume Dilli Chalo march from Panipat||Thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana gathered at Panipat on Friday and jointly resumed their march to the national capital on the Dilli Chalo call given by farm unions for an indefinite protest against the Centre’s new farm laws. After a day of clashes with the police, the farmers from Haryana stopped their tractor-trailers for a night halt at Panipat toll plaza, where farmers from Punjab joined them. Several farmers from Punjab, who braved water cannons and tear gas before breaking through barricades put up by Haryana Police on the state’s border, reached Panipat late on Thursday night. Some of them continued their journey and reached Sonepat district, where the police have also put up barricades to stop them. Also read: Why angry farmers want to storm New DelhiIT’S NOW A JAN ANDOLAN: BKU (RAJEWAL) Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) Balbir Singh Rajewal and Haryana’s BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni along with their supporters decided to jointly make a progress from Panipat toll plaza. “This has now become a jan andolan (mass agitation). Lakhs of farmers from Punjab are entering Haryana from 10 routes. We are united against the anti-farmer laws,” Rajewal said. “Not only the farmers but every section of society is with farmers and only the BJP is in favour of these laws. If the police stop us on the border we will sit there and stage an indefinite protest. There were many barriers on the way and farmers have crossed all of them. I’m confident we will take the matter to a logical conclusion,” Rajewal said.HIGHWAY DUG UP TO STOP FARMERS Police have put up barricades near Samalkha town of Panipat district and even dug up holes on National Highway 44 to stop the farmers. But the farmer leaders reiterated that they will continue their journey and will cross all hurdles at any cost. Haryana BKU president Charuni urged farmers en route to come out join the protest. MANSA FARMER KILLED AS TRUCK HITS TRACTORA 40-year-old farmer, Tanna Singh of Mansa district, was killed and two others were injured when a speeding truck hit their tractor-trolley at Bhiwani’s Mundhal village at 5.30am on Friday, police said.The farmers were headed for Delhi to protest against the new farm laws.The farmers refused to hand over the victim’s body to the police, while the injured farmers were admitted to a hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-punjab-farmers-jointly-resume-dilli-chalo-march-from-panipat/story-nngQ6MXGKKWS1oGXLN4ueN.html
27-11-2020||Gurugram||Farmers’ protest: Barricades on Gurugram-Delhi Expressway removed after reports of congestion||The police removed barricades set up on Gurugram-Delhi Expressway near the defunct Sirhaul toll plaza on Friday morning after congestion was reported from the stretch, they said.A 2km-long traffic jam was witnessed on both carriageways of the expressway, following which senior officers visited the spot and directed the staff to remove the barricades to decongest the stretch. Astha Modi, the deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “There was a jam at the border on both sides after which we spoke with Delhi Police and decided to remove the barricades. “We do not want commuters to face any kind of inconvenience due to the checking at the borders. The teams will periodically check vehicles now and barricades will be set up again once the stretch is clear,” she said. Police said since the morning, no tractor trolley or large group of people has crossed the stretch. They will only check suspected vehicles or the vehicles ferrying more than five people. Also Read: Farmers’ group cross hurdles to reach Delhi border, face off with cops loomsGurugram Police is coordinating with the Delhi Police to streamline vehicular movement, they said. Aditi Parasher, a daily commuter to Delhi, said, “Police should check only people they suspect, it took me more than 15 minutes just to cross a few metre-long stretch of as the Delhi and Gurugram Police were checking the same vehicles,” she said. Nikita Gehlot, the deputy commissioner of police (Manesar), said that there is no congestion on the stretches connecting Rajasthan and Palwal. “The force is on standby, there are hardly any farmers crossing this stretch or trying to enter the city to reach Delhi. Police are deployed on the stretches, only barricades have been removed,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/farmers-protest-barricades-on-gurugram-delhi-expressway-removed-after-reports-of-congestion/story-5O9Vcj4wf4ILpsLiErg5jM.html
27-11-2020||Lucknow||UP plans two community service centres in each gram panchayat||With the aim of making Uttar Pradesh Atmanirbhar (self-reliant), the state government will set up two community service centres (CSCs) at every gram panchayat level or for every 10,000 people, said an official government statement issued on Thursday.The CSCs will assist, sensitise and facilitate the locals in availing government welfare schemes and receiving benefits, the statement claimed.The target is to open 1.5 lakh such CSCs, which may employ about 4.5 lakh youth at the local level, as per the statement. The government hopes that more than one CSC will lead to a healthy competition which, in turn, will provide better services to consumers. Also Read: AAP alleges UP managing Covid data, patients from state running to DelhiAs many as 258 services delivered by 35 departments will be made available at the CSCs, benefiting people. Any person desirous of availing services at the centres may access them through the internet on e-district portals.Planned under the state’s IT and electronics department, these centres are to be run on a public-private-partnership (PPP) model. The rural youth entrepreneurs manning the CSCs will now get Rs 30 as fee per service instead of Rs 20 as was decided before.Similarly, for every financial transaction, the centre in charge will receive Rs 11 instead of Rs 4 as announced earlier||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-plans-two-community-service-centres-in-each-gram-panchayat/story-3jaIWgXp1lbk8P1v9XK9MI.html
27-11-2020||Kolkata||West Bengal TMC’s heavyweight minister Suvendu Adhikari quits cabinet; another rebel MLA to join BJP||Dealing a heavy blow to the Trinamool Congress and Mamata Banerjee in the run-up to the assembly polls, West Bengal transport minister and heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari on Friday afternoon resigned from the state cabinet. He sent his resignation letter to Banerjee and emailed a copy to governor Jagdeeep Dhankhar at 1.05pm, fanning speculations that the rebel leader may quit the party. Adhikari, the legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore district, had resigned from the post of chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commission on Thursday night. There were reports that he also resigned from the Haldia Development Authority where he was the chairman. “I do hereby tender my resignation from my office as Minister. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” Adhikari wrote to Banerjee. Also Read: No place for outsiders who incite violence during polls: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee“I still believe that he will not quit the party. We will try to talk to him,” said TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy who had been holding talks with Adhikari over the past few days. Senior TMC leaders told HT earlier this month that Adhikari is specifically unhappy with organisational decisions taken by the chief minister’s nephew and Lok Sabha member Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw a veiled challenge at the party while addressing a public rally at Nandigram. “Political observers are waiting for me to announce my political programme. They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this scared platform. This is not the place. I will speak from a political platform,” Adhikari said at the rally. “I am not afraid of anyone. We will meet in the battlefield,” he added without naming anyone or even the TMC. A senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said that Mihir Goswami, another rebel legislator from Cooch Behar, was on his way to Delhi. He was likely to join the BJP at the BJP headquarters in the presence of the party’s national president JP Nadda on Friday afternoon. “The days of the Mamata Banerjee government are numbered. Adhikari has dealt a blow to the ruling party,” said BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. He however refused to comment on whether Adhikari was going to join his party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/west-bengal-transport-minister-suvendu-adhikari-quits-key-post-widening-rift-with-ruling-tmc/story-dcjtGFyIMVbVZ0mMUMwFkK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: First vaccine storage at government-run Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital||The 500-bed Delhi government-run Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital will house Delhi’s coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine storage. The hospital was among the first two to become a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in the city.This will be in addition to the existing storage of the government at Civil Lines that can hold up to 5 million doses between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius.The hospital has already earmarked a 5,000 square metre facility, which has to be retrofitted with freezers and power backup. Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine review: PM Modi to visit Pune, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad tomorrow“We have already identified the site. Now, the government needs to make modifications for vaccine storage. Once that is done, we will be able to estimate how many vaccine doses it can hold,” said Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of the hospital. HT had first reported about Rajiv Gandhi Superspeciality Hospital being identified as the vaccine storage centre last month.The government has also began work on identifying healthcare workers who will be the first to receive the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-first-vaccine-storage-at-government-run-rajiv-gandhi-superspeciality-hospital/story-Nwp5SbEGM8HlQz5eT4vsaK.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases increase by 24% in 7 days||Mumbai has recorded a 24% rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the last seven days. Health officials have attributed the surge to increase in testing post the festival of Diwali. According to data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), on November 17, there were 8,946 active Covid-19 patients (individuals who are presently carrying pathogens of the virus), which increased to 11,101 in November 25.As expected, cases of Covid-19 after Diwali increased gradually in the city. In the first 15 days of the month, the city was reporting around 700 new Covid-19 cases everyday. However, since November 16, the number of daily new Covid-19 cases increased to over 1,000.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccine review: PM Modi to visit Pune, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad tomorrowMeanwhile, the civic body has ruled out the possibility of a second wave of the pandemic as the positivity rate is still between 6% and 7%. Since Diwali, BMC has increased testing and each ward has been given new daily targets of testing. “The rise in the number of cases is due to the rise in testing post-Diwali to identify super spreaders. We are testing over 17,000 people daily on an average. Local doctors have also been instructed to keep an eye on the suspected patients,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. On November 25, BMC created a record by testing 19,018 people in a day, the highest since the outbreak of the virus in March.To provide timely treatment to infected people, BMC has kept beds ready. The civic body will use beds in private hospitals for the treatment of patients till December 31. They have also filled all oxygen tanks at Covid-19 jumbo centres where mildly and moderately ill patients undergo treatment. The civic authority has stocked up on emergency medicines. Health experts have cautioned citizens, especially the elderly with co-morbidities, as reverse migration has started in the city which can be a source of infection.Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist and epidemiologist at PD Hinduja hospital, Mahim, said there is possibility of a second wave in Mumbai like in Europe, which can be associated with the festival season and violation of social distancing norms. “We hope for high seroprevalence which can gradually push us towards herd immunity. But at present, it is unlikely. So, we have to be very careful around the upcoming Christmas and New Year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mumbai-s-active-covid-19-cases-increase-by-24-in-7-days/story-1KWeKvmEeL2HUOnVG9XOCK.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai clears Rs 569 crore for much delayed Mithi river rejuvenation project||Under its Mithi river rejuvenation project, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will spend another Rs 569 crores on widening of the river and construction of its drainage lines among other works. Proposals for the appointment of a contractor were cleared by the civic body’s standing committee on Wednesday.The work includes widening of the river, diversion of drainage lines, construction of a retaining wall and service roads along its sides for accessibility. These works will be executed in four parts between Airport Taxi Bridge in Kurla, Ashok Nagar in Andheri, MTNL Junction at BKC and Filterpada at Powai stretch of river.The time period for completing the work is 24 months excluding the monsoon period.Under the Mithi river rejuvenation project, the BMC will be carrying out work to clean the river and decontaminate it in four phases. This also includes removal of encroachments alongside the river that have been polluting the river by dumping waste. Civic officials said that dumping waste causes delay in the rejuvenation work. Also Read: Marine Drive residents get muddy water, suspect Mumbai coastal road digging work behind contamination A senior civic official said, “This project will be crucial as retaining walls and widening of the river is an important part of training the Mithi river. The encroachments have delayed similar work in the past.” The river passes through Powai, Sakinaka, Kurla, Andheri and Kurla and then enters Mahim creek. Ravi Raja, leader of opposition and congress corporator, said, “We have been fined by the National Green Tribunal innumerable times for discharging wastewater into the sea. These works are much-delayed and there should not be any further delay as it has a huge environmental impact on the city.” Mithi is one of the city’s longest rivers at 17.84 km and was brought in the spotlight after the 2005 deluge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-clears-rs-569-crore-for-much-delayed-mithi-river-rejuvenation-project/story-HFHyPMDTNTmIBToR0c1QxI.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi breathes easier as air quality improves||Improved wind speed on Friday helped Delhi breathe relatively cleaner air as the air quality index (AQI) improved to moderate category, just two days after it had slipped into the severe zone.The air quality index reading at 7am on Friday was 143, in the moderate category. According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4pm bulletin on Thursday, the average AQI stood at 302 compared to 413 on Wednesday and 379 on Tuesday.The levels of particulate matter (PM) also came down significantly. On Thursday evening, the PM 10 (coarse dust particles) levels reduced to 218ug/m3 as compared to 410 ug/m3 at the same time the previous day. The PM 2.5 levels (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) also came down to133 ug/m3 from 243ug/m3 on Wednesday.Also Read: Weather comes to Delhi’s rescue, winds flush out pollutionScientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the improvement was mainly because of a change in the wind direction and speed. On Thursday, traces of rain were observed at the Lodhi Road and Ridge weather stations. Safdarjung Observatory -- the official marker for the city’s weather -- did not record any rainfall. The IMD had also predicted cold wave conditions in Delhi from November 27. “Due to the influence of a western disturbance over Afghanistan and neighbouring areas, fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall, as well as isolated hailstorms, are likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh from November 25, which will result in low temperatures in Delhi as well,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He said the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 6-7 degrees Celsius till November-end. “The skies will be clear again, and this will cool the surface down faster and reduce the temperature by the end of the week,” said Srivastava.On Thursday, the minimum temperature was 10.4 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal. The maximum settled at 25.8 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-breathes-easier-as-air-quality-improves/story-DBuW27osoisx30hPaDJ2tO.html
27-11-2020||Lucknow||AAP alleges UP managing Covid data, patients from state running to Delhi||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh attacked Yogi Adityanath government over its handling of Covid-19 pandemic on Thursday while lauding Delhi government’s model for disease containment. “The government’s model of controlling the coronavirus is nothing but a data management model,” said Sanjay Singh in a press statement issued here. Singh is also Uttar Pradesh in charge of the party. Singh lauded the Delhi government’s model of combating corona pandemic and claimed it was done through aggressive testing, tracing and successful home isolation. Singh alleged that in Uttar Pradesh, corona tests were not being conducted and the health system had completely failed. “Residents of Ghaziabad, Noida and other adjacent places are coming to Delhi for testing and for treatment of Covid-19,” he said. Also Read: Farmers force way into Haryana, head to DelhiSabhajeet Singh, state president of AAP, accused the state government of failing to check increasing incidents of crime against women across the state. “On a routine basis, crimes against women are being reported from all over the state. The BJP government has failed to check these incidents,” Sabhajeet Singh told newsmen. AAP has decided to contest all seats in forthcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/aap-alleges-up-managing-covid-data-patients-from-state-running-to-delhi/story-vhdVAqzQ9HnQ2JOxGDMnLO.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers force way into Haryana, head to Delhi||Thousands of farmers from Punjab broke barricades and forced their way into Haryana on Thursday, braving tear gas shells and water cannons en route to Delhi, where law enforcement officials deployed stringent crowd control measures as residents grappled with long traffic snarls in border areas. By late evening, a large group of farmers — both from Haryana and Punjab — reached a toll plaza at Panipat, about 100km from the Capital, setting the stage for a confrontation with the Delhi Police, who have refused to give them permission for protests within the city limits. Leaders of farmers’ groups said that they will resume their march — christened “Delhi Chalo” —on Friday morning.While Delhi prepared for a possible law and order challenge as well as traffic disruptions, high drama unfolded in Haryana on Thursday, as farmers from Punjab entered the state a day after being thwarted by border barricades. The police in Ambala erected barricades on an overbridge on the Ghaggar river connecting the Haryana town with Punjab’s Patiala. Farmers threw several of these barricades into the river, facing tear gas shells by law enforcement personnel. Protesters could be seen waving black flags and shouting slogans. The police made announcements on loudspeakers, asking farmers on the Punjab side to disperse, but that did not help. As smoke from tear gas clouded the skies and farmers outnumbered security personnel, they were allowed to enter Haryana around noon. However, their forward march was not smooth, with frequent barricades and trucks filled with sand on the Grand Trunk (GT) Road blocking their way. This led to traffic snarls that hit commuters as well. But the farmers marched on. Apart from this confrontation in Ambala district, there were face-offs between protesters and the police in Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled Haryana’s Sirsa, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Jind districts bordering the Congress-run Punjab. At Karnal, there was another face-off and police again used water cannon. A farmer was injured, though no arrests were reported. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal were among those who criticised the Haryana Police’s action. Haryana Police chief Manoj Yadava, however, said that his force acted with “great restraint”. “In this entire episode, not only a number of police personnel were injured, but police and private vehicles were also damaged,” he said in a statement. As tension spiralled, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal Khattar, exchanged words over Twitter. While Singh asked Khattar why his government was stopping farmers, and the BJP leader told him to stop “inciting” them. Food bowl Punjab is at the centre stage of the farmers’ agitation against the government’s moves to open up agricultural markets in the country and bring sweeping reforms to the farm sector, which supports nearly half the population. Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in an attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future. “New farm laws were the need of the hour. In the coming time, it’s going to bring revolutionary changes. We’ll talk to the farmers on December 3,” Tomar told ANI on Thursday, reiterating that the Centre was ready to talk with farmers and resolve differences.In the Capital, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced stopping trains from neighbouring cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) — Gurugram and Faridabad in Haryana, and Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh — to Delhi on Friday, a decision that could likely impact thousands of interstate commuters at a time when stringent restrictions are already in place in borders areas. However, it will be business as usual for trains to these cities from Delhi.From barbed wires at the Haryana and Uttar Pradesh borders to blocking highways with dumpers full of mud and sand, the Delhi Police on Thursday took a host of steps to stop the march of representatives of about 500 farmers’ groups that are protesting against three contentious laws enacted recently by Parliament with an aim to liberalise the farm sector. During the day, Metro services remained suspended on seven corridors for most parts and normal operations resumed from 5pm. On the road, heightened checking at Delhi’s borders with both Haryana and Uttar Pradesh resulted in huge jams and confusion among commuters. The border connecting Haryana’s Sonepat with Delhi’s Narela was closed for three hours in the evening. Notwithstanding the arrangements, two small groups reached Jantar Mantar, Delhi’s protest venue, and Manju Ka Tilla in north Delhi. Eish Singhal, DCP-New Delhi, said that 70 farmers and activists were detained at Jantar Mantar and then let off. “We have registered a case under IPC (Indian Penal Code) section 188 (disobedience to an order by a public servant),” Singhal said. He refused to describe them as farmers. “They arrived in cars. Most of them were already in Delhi,” Singhal added. A group of 35 people from different states landed near Majnu ka Tilla and began a protest. “They had arrived by public transport such as trains and buses. We have detained them and are booking them for not following the Covid-19 safety protocols,” NS Bundela, joint commissioner of police (central range), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-force-way-into-haryana-head-to-delhi/story-zhUrlettfZeWhdZY58PqhM.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi ‘actively considering’ night curfew to combat Covid, HC told||The Delhi government on Thursday informed the Delhi high court that it is “actively considering” a night curfew or a weekend lockdown as part of its effort to slow the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the Capital. The government was responding to the court, which sought to know whether the Capital is implementing any lockdown in order to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. Delhi has seen an average of 6,103 cases over the last seven days, and its positivity rate rose to as high as 15.3% on November 15; on Thursday, the Union territory recorded 5,475 cases and a positivity rate of 8.65%, reflecting what chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said last Friday at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit— that the third wave may have peaked.Also Read | Situation in Delhi ‘alarming’, says HC, defers beds reservation matterSenior advocate Sandeep Sethi, appearing for the Delhi government along with advocate Satyakam, the Union territory’s additional standing counsel, told a bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad that while a decision on the imposition of the curfew is yet to be taken, it is actively being considered. New guidelines issued by the home ministry on Wednesday, allowed states and Union territories to impose restrictions such as night curfews to fight the pandemic’s spread. The guidelines also said that state authorities shall not impose any lockdown outside containment zones without consulting the Union government.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer Rakesh Malhotra seeking an increase in testing in the city. Over the past fortnight (November 13-26) Delhi has conducted an average of 51,244 tests a day, with a dip on weekends and public holidays. The corresponding period in October saw a similar average of 52,818 tests a day. However, during this period in October, of the total tests, 14,307 was conducted using the RT-PCR method, while in the corresponding November period, this went up to 19,680.On Thursday, for instance, it conducted 63,266 tests, and recorded 5,475 cases — a positivity rate of 8.65%. The Capital has also been increasing the number of RT-PCR tests it conducts. On Thursday, for instance, it conducted 28,897 of these molecular tests which are considered the gold standard in diagnosing Covid-19.“Lockdowns and night curfews are all secondary measures; what is of key importance in cutting the transmission cycle is making Covid-19 appropriate behavioral changes. It is crucial to wear a mask, maintain physical distancing, observe hand hygiene, and following respiratory etiquettes to keep the infection at bay. There is no alternative to people not behaving properly,” said Jugal Kishore, head, department of community medicine, Safdarjung Hospital.The court also said that the Delhi government should consider setting up a portal where fines for not adhering to social distancing norms can be deposited. It added that weddings should be monitored to ensure the government order of limiting the number of attendees to 50 is being followed. “How are you enforcing cap on marriage gathering? Are you conducting random check or is there any protocol that you are maintaining? This is the season where several marriages are either going on or are scheduled,” the bench said. “We cannot allow these wedding parties to become super spreader (events) because this is the season of weddings and similar functions. There should instructions for the banquet halls that if there is one wedding, then they can take only one booking at a time. If there is a partition in the banquet hall where another wedding is conducted, then it would be the violation of your own guidelines.” .In the course of the hearing, the court sought to know from the Delhi government whether it has adopted any of the steps used by other states faced with a sudden spike in cases. To this, senior advocate Sethi said, “We are considering imposing a night curfew or a weekend lockdown. It is under active consideration”.The court also criticised the government for acting only after being pushed to. “It is after so much of pushing and prodding that so much has been done. Do you realize how many lives have been lost? What solace is this to those who have lost their near and dear ones?”The number of deaths in Delhi has soared during the third wave. Over the past fortnight, the average deaths have been 105 a day.The court asked the Centre why it is yet to respond to the Delhi government’s proposal of shutting down some markets. During the hearing, the petitioner Malhotra told the court that over 2,200 deaths have taken place in the city from November 1 to November 24. He said that over the past eight months, over 6,562 deaths have taken place in the city due to Covid-19 infections, which is an average of 800 deaths in a month. To date, Delhi has recorded over 551,000 cases.The court termed the situation “alarming”. It asked the Delhi government to file a further status report detailing the meeting to be conducted with the market associations and the Resident Welfare Associations making them aware of the conditions.It will next hear the case on December 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-actively-considering-night-curfew-to-combat-covid-hc-told/story-rlOE2d2YmVvLOMze0sER4L.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Situation in Delhi ‘alarming’, says HC, defers beds reservation matter||Calling the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital “alarming”, the Delhi high court on Thursday said it would hear, on December 9, a plea by the Association of Healthcare Providers challenging the state government’s decision to reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.Until Thursday, Delhi had reported 551,262 cases and 8,811 deaths. Currently, there are 38,734 active cases. Justice Navin Chawla said, “The numbers are presently in alarming state. The matter should be heard after two weeks looking at the present situation.”Through an order on September 12, the Delhi government had asked 33 private hospitals in the city to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients. This order was stayed by the high court on September 22 on a petition by the Association of Healthcare Providers.Later, on October 9, a division bench of the court took up an appeal by the Delhi government, refusing to vacate the stay while adjourning the matter to November 27. The AAP government approached the Supreme Court against these two orders of September 22 and October 9. The apex court refused to interfere with the HC order, staying the AAP government’s instruction to private hospitals.On November 12, a division bench of justice Hima Kohli and justice Subramonium Prasad vacated the stay considering the increase in the number of cases in the city. The court had also posted the matter for further hearing before a single bench for November 26.On Thursday, appearing for Delhi, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain said the situation was being reviewed periodically and review meetings were being conducted under the chairmanship of the Union home minister. In a status report filed through advocate Sanjoy Ghose, additional standing counsel of the Delhi government, a meeting was conducted on November 17 under the chairmanship of the Special secretary, Health. “There has been a rise of more than 200% and consequently there is a shortage of both Covid ICU beds for clinically severely ill patients and normal Covid beds for clinically moderate to mild patients, respectively,” the minutes of the meeting said.The court will now hear the matter on December 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/situation-in-delhi-alarming-says-hc-defers-beds-reservation-matter/story-Bq91Kpea7GuOlTlmNwc5QO.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh, Manohar Lal Khattar spar over police action||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar engaged in a war of words on Thursday over Haryana’s attempt to stop thousands of farmers from entering the national Capital to stage a demonstration against three contentious laws enacted recently by Parliament to liberalise the farm sector.While Singh termed the Haryana government’s move to stop the farmers from moving towards Delhi “totally undemocratic and unconstitutional”, Khattar accused the Punjab chief minister of “inciting” innocent farmers.Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, had announced they will go to Delhi through several routes, and will hold a dharna wherever they are stopped from moving towards the national Capital.On Wednesday, Haryana completely sealed its borders with Punjab to prevent the farmers from entering the state for their protest march. Tension spiralled at the Shambhu border in Haryana, around 215 km from Delhi, on Thursday as police used water cannons and teargas to disperse hundreds of farmers coming from Punjab who broke barricades, throwing some into a river, determined to enter Haryana as part of their march. Condemning the move, Singh tweeted: “Why is @mlkhattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic and unconstitutional.”The Punjab chief minister said it was a “sad irony” that the constitutional rights of farmers were being “oppressed” on the Constitution Day. “Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully,” Singh, a senior Congress leader, said.Shortly after, Khattar of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asked Singh to desist from “misleading” farmers, highlighting that he has already pledged to quit politics if the Minimum Support Price mechanism is ever dismantled.“@Capt Amarinder Ji, I’ve said it earlier and I’m saying it again, I’ll leave politics if there’ll be any trouble on the MSP -- therefore, please stop inciting innocent farmers,” Khattar tweeted. He also accused Singh of “only tweeting” and “running away from talks” with him on the issue. “I’ve been trying to reach out to you for the last 3 days but, sadly, you have decided to stay unreachable -- is this how serious you are for farmers’ issues? You’re only tweeting and running away from talks, why,” Khattar asked in another tweet.Congress leader Singh expressed shock at his response. “Shocked at your response @mlkhattar ji. It’s the farmers who’ve to be convinced on MSP, not me. You should’ve tried to talk to them before their #DilliChalo. And if you think I’m inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi,” he asked.Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal, a former ally the BJP, too criticised attempts to thwart the protest. “Today is Punjab’s 26/11. We are witnessing the end of the right to democratic protest,” he tweeted.Former Union minister and SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who had resigned from the Union Cabinet in September in protest against the three laws, she said: “Using force against farmers on Constitution Day has turned the day a ‘black day’ for ‘annadattas’ of the country.” Condemning the police action, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “The nation’s farmers are standing firmly against the cruelty of the Modi government.”West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “What @narendramodi ji’s wonderfully pro-people government has ensured? 700% increase in farmer protests, Draconian anti-farmer bill, Atrocities on the farmers.’’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/amarinder-singh-manohar-lal-khattar-spar-over-police-action/story-hQmge6bRqWAw3BtO993teJ.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Mesmerising shades of blue||There is something gracefully fragile about the blue colour—especially in Delhi, where blue skies are more of a myth. In our city, every bit of blue, whatever its shade, depth and scale, can be seen as a mute testament to what we don’t have. See this wall. It displays such an exquisite depiction of blue that it probably wouldn’t be out of place in a critically acclaimed museum. The colour here is rendered in many fine gradations of decreasing brightness, as if a painter had, after playing on her palette with several shades of blue, harmoniously arranged them on a canvas of bricks. For that matter, red bricks also show up, in a long straight line running horizontally at the centre of the wall, evoking a thunderbolt suddenly flashing across a blue sky, frozen still on the painting.The wall’s beauty is particularly poignant because it is unintentional. It hasn’t been put up to attract admirers. A quick investigation reveals that the wall was painted blue by a couple of professional wall painters some years ago—and one wonders who picked the colour, and why. The irregular coating, though essential to the beauty, might not be voluntary. The passage of shifting seasons also left its layers of patina over the wall. Parts of the paint surface peeled off here and there, revealing the bricks underneath. This is an exhibit in which humans, atmosphere and time each played a role. The wall lies at one end of a courtyard, snuggled inside the little-known Sufi shrine of Sheikh Kaleemullah Jehanabadi in Old Delhi, just across the road from Red Fort. The courtyard itself strives to be worthy of the wall’s melancholic allure. It is lined with a smattering of marble graves—one of which has a plaque announcing “physician to president of India.” Some of them have tulsi plants growing about. This afternoon, the littlest grave of all has a white skull cap tucked onto its headstone. This is all charming, but this charm is only secondary to the breathtaking blues of the aforementioned wall. For maximum impact, visit on a day when the sky is nastily grey. But that is any day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-mesmerising-shades-of-blue/story-BunjFAMPgY1nPTXce3DDBN.html
27-11-2020||City||After arrest of Pratap Sarnaik’s aide, ED claims link between Thane MLA, firm||A special The Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Thursday remanded Amit Chandole, a close business associate of Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik, in the Enforcement Directorate’s custody till Sunday in a money laundering case related to Topsgrup, a security service giant owned by businessman Rahul Nanda. ED had sought his custody to probe various money laundering aspects of irregularities linked to Nanda. ED in their remand application has stated that from the probe conducted so far, it appears that Topsgrup obtained contract from Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) in “collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means by a well-thought out strategy”. “The aim of these illegal manoeuvrers was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract through Amit Chandole,” said the ED’s application. Nanda had earlier denied all the allegations. “Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny into my business or company ever. He or Sena have nothing to do with Tops. This is absolutely absurd.” Sarnaik has claimed vendetta politics behind the allegations. “The day I moved a privilege motion against (actor) Kangana Ranaut and [Republic TV editor-in-chief] Arnab Goswami, and spoke about reopening the Anvay Naik (suicide) case, I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far. (Chief minister) Uddhavsaheb has made me the spokesperson to put forward the party’s views. Today they told him [Vihang] your father speaks a lot on Ranaut and Goswami. I will continue to speak wherever Mumbai, Maharashtra or its police are maligned. I have done nothing wrong in my business,” he had told a news channel on Tuesday, the day his offices were raided. On Wednesday, the legislator quarantined himself after his return to the state from Goa and asked a week’s time to appear before ED. According to ED, Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from Topsgrup. The billing was done by the security firm by allegedly inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed for MMRDA projects. Therefore, part of the amount received by Topsgrup from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime. The 50% profit of the said contract was being shared by Topsgrup with Sarnaik through Chandole and sometimes, through bank transfer to the account of a third person. Chandole appears to be a recipient of the proceeds of crime fraudulently obtained by Topsgrup from MMRDA, ED’s remand application stated. ED’s money laundering probe is based on the case registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court, against Nanda and his family members. Topsgrup former vice-chairman Ramesh Ramkrishna Iyer is a complainant in the case, who approached the court alleging Nanda’s involvement in unlawful activities, massive irregularities in the company and misappropriation of funds involving Rs175 crore and cheating company’s employees, its shareholders, other government and private organisations with forged documents. lyer alleged that Nanda and the others diverted huge funds from the accounts of Topsgrup companies to various accounts in India and to accounts of overseas companies. He also alleged that these funds were further utilised by Nanda and other individuals for their personal purposes such as purchasing real estate etc and thus defrauded the company Rs175 crore. The case was recently transferred to the Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation. Iyer and Topsgrup’s former director of finance Amar Panghal alleged that in 2014, a contract was signed by Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd with MMRDA as per which, the security firm was to deploy 350 to 500 guards at project sites on a monthly basis. While only 70% of the guards were actually deployed, the billing was done for all the guards as per the contract. The details of the wages paid to the labourers were submitted to MMRDA for 100% of the contract value and accordingly the documents of their provident fund (PF)/ Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) were also submitted, ED stated before the court. The agency further alleged that huge cash amounts were withdrawn from the bank accounts of Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd and given to a former top executive of the firm, which in financial year 2017-18, amounted to Rs92 lakh. There was an arrangement with two people, one of whom was Chandole, as per which 50% of the profits (revenue billed to MMRDA by showing wages to workers and their PF) were being shared on a monthly basis. In addition, a fixed commission of Rs50,000 per month and Rs500 per guard (as per contracted agreement) deployed was being paid to both the people by the former top executive. As per the details provided by lyer, from May 2017 till June this year, the amount aggregating to Rs2.36 crore has been shared as commission. Of the said amount, Rs90 lakh has been paid through bank transfers to Chandole and the other person. As per lyer, all these amounts are still being paid from Topsgrup bank accounts and commissions worth Rs7 crore has been paid to Chandole and the other person since 2014 (the year the contract with MMRDA was initiated). During the course of investigation, the statement of the former top executive was recorded on Tuesday and Wednesday, in which he has allegedly stated that Nanda acquired a United Kingdom- based (UK) firm, Shield Guarding Company Limited, in 2014 for around Rs200-250 crore. On the pretext of meeting the expenses of the overseas company, Nanda used to siphon off money from his Indian firm. These funds were allegedly used for the personal expenses of Nanda and his family and for acquiring several immovable properties in Dubai and the UK. The former top executive also submitted that the said contract, worth around Rs32-33 lakh per month, was regarding the security and traffic management of footover bridges of Mumbai. For sharing a 50-50 profit, a sheet used to be prepared by the company’s finance department and approved by Panghal. Chandole used to coordinate with the finance department and collect the said profit share on behalf of Sarnaik, ED said. Funds mostly used to be delivered in cash. A company employee used to maintain the records and she used to mostly coordinate with Chandole, ED stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-arrest-of-pratap-sarnaik-s-aide-ed-claims-link-between-thane-mla-firm/story-9h6rAUBwJpEEZdwzLkdeZJ.html
27-11-2020||City||‘Dilli Chalo’ protest: Amarinder, Khattar spar over police action on farmers||Chandigarh: On the day the farmers started their ‘Dilli Chalo’ march, a war of words erupted between Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar who blamed each other for the chaotic scenes witnessed on the roads leading to the national capital. The slanging match was started by Amarinder who lashed out at Khattar on Twitter for stopping farmers from heading towards Delhi to protest against the Centre’s agriculture marketing laws. “Why is @mlkhattar govt in Haryana stopping the farmers from moving to Delhi? The tyrannical use of brute force against peacefully protesting farmers is totally undemocratic & unconstitutional,” he wrote in a series of tweets. Amarinder, who leads the Congress government in Punjab, asked Khattar why he was provoking them (farmers) by resorting to force. “Let them pass @mlkhattar ji, don’t push them to the brink. Let them take their voice to Delhi peacefully,” he tweeted, making an appeal to the BJP to direct the Haryana government not to indulge in strong-arm tactics. Khattar responded in equal measure, accusing the Punjab chief minister of inciting innocent farmers for cheap politics during the time of pandemic. The Haryana CM said he kept trying to reach Amarinder for the last three days but he was unreachable. “Is this how serious you are on farmers’ issues? You are only tweeting and running away from talks. Why?” he tweeted. Khattar further said that time for his (Amarinder’s) lies, deception and propaganda was over. “Please stop putting the lives of people in danger during the Corona pandemic. I urge you to not play with the lives of the people – at least avoid cheap politics during the time of pandemic,” he posted only to see Capt express shock over the response. Amarinder replied that it is the farmers who have to be convinced on MSP. “You should have tried to talk to them before their #DilliCaho. And if you think I’m inciting farmers then why are Haryana farmers also marching to Delhi?” he asked. He also questioned the Centre’s decision to push through the farm laws amid the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dilli-chalo-protest-amarinder-khattar-spar-over-police-action-on-farmers/story-LbZEUX58OTA8ycCVCrIF0I.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Three die as car plunges into gorge in Chamba||Three people were killed after a car they were travelling in skidded off the road and plunged into a gorge in Himachal Pradesh’s Chamba district on Thursday.The accident took place on Chamba-Khajjiar road. The deceased are Anoop Kumar,24, of Chanaru village, Amit Kumar, 22, of Tundah and Manoj Kumar,18, of Parel village in the district.Superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said prima facie, the driver lost control while negotiating a curve. The bodies have been handed over to the family after autopsy. A case under Section 279 (Rash Driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/three-die-as-car-plunges-into-gorge-in-chamba/story-zFUY50bLhwcoSeB81V2zVI.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Now, 8-day jail, ₹5K fine for stepping out without mask in Himachal’s Kangra||DharamshalaResidents of Kangra can be arrested without warrant, sent to jail for up to eight days or be fined ₹5,000 for not wearing a mask in public places.Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan on Thursday issued the order under Section 111 of the Himachal Pradesh Police Act, 2007.The order authorises all police officers of the district not below the rank of sub-Inspector to give reasonable directions to the public. Any person found not wearing mask can be arrested without warrant and on conviction can be imprisoned upto to eight days or may be fined upto ₹ 5000, or both.The compounding fee will be ₹ 1000 and fine for congregation in public functions in numbers more than allowed by the government will be ₹ 5,000.Virus claims 14 more lives in HimachalHimachal on Thursday logged 931 new cases, taking the state’s tally to 37,497 while the death toll mounted to 589 as fourteen more patients succumbed to the virus.Of the new cases, 254 were reported in Mandi, 232 in Shimla, 140 in Kangra, 86 in Kullu, 59 each in Hamirpur and Solan, 32 in Chamba, 23 in Bilaspur, 16 in Lahaul-Spiti, 15 in Una and one in Kinnaur. Four fatalities occurred in Shimla, three each in Mandi Kullu and Kangra and one in Solan. There are 7,878 active cases in the state . Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 6,362 cases followed by Mandi with 6,171 cases.Kangra ranks third with 4,790 cases while Solan has 4,689 cases, Kullu 3,372, Sirmaur 2,573, Una 2,040, Bilaspur 1,914, Hamirpur 1,942, Chamba 1,872, Lahaul-Spiti 1,022 and Kinnaur 750.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/now-8-day-jail-5k-fine-for-stepping-out-without-mask-in-himachal-s-kangra/story-bbXT0XSwHgJqiLgI7vdZbJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||ED arrests Cox and Kings promotor Ajay Peter Kerkar in Mumbai in ‘multi-crore money laundering case’||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday arrested global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG) promoter Ajay Peter Kerkar in an alleged money laundering case involving thousands of crores of rupees. Kerkar, who is arrested under the relevant sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), will be produced in court on Friday. He has been refuting all the allegations levelled against him.He is also booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy in four first information reports (FIRs) registered by the banking (fraud) unit of Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) based on the complaints made by Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd Bank and a private investment firm. According to these four financial institutions, the amount in the irregularities is worth Rs1,900 crore. The names of CKG and Kerkar emerged when the central agency was probing the financial irregularities and money laundering linked to the Yes Bank case. ED had arrested Yes Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor in March. The agency has since then been scanning the transactions made by the bank to its borrowers. Last month, ED had arrested CKG’s chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain in connection with the Yes Bank case. In June, ED had raided five premises belonging to the senior management of CKG. Investigations have revealed that CKG has defaulted loans from Yes Bank worth Rs3,642 crore. ED stated that CKG forged its consolidated financials by manipulating the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries. In addition to this, some board resolutions submitted to banks for sanctioning the loans were also found to be forged. The loan sanction from Yes bank was driven by Kapoor after bypassing the norms. “ED gathered the evidence regarding clear instructions of Kapoor to the bank officials concerned to get the said loan continued and not to take efforts to recover it,” the agency had previously said. The probe has also revealed that between the financial year 2015 to 2019, lending worth Rs3,908 crore was made to 15 fictitious customers. Majority of collections shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity of CKG ) were not found in the bank statements. There are 15 fictitious, high-value debtors reflected in the books of accounts and another 147 sets of customers also appeared to be suspicious and non-existent, the agency said. The Cox and Kings Limited (CKL) has diverted Rs1,100 crore to another stressed company which has no business relationship with the company without any approval of its board, ED has further alleged. The probe conducted so far has revealed that the bank transactions of CKG are not matching with its books of accounts. The travel company was declared bankrupt last year in October, after it defaulted on payments to the bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-cox-and-kings-promotor-ajay-peter-kerkar-in-mumbai-in-multi-crore-money-laundering-case/story-V75FFpPDFevxjHICDkpLdM.html
27-11-2020||City||Ludhiana MC earns ₹2.9 crore by auctioning 4 parking lots||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) remained successful in conducting e-auction of its parking lots in third attempt and managed to earn ₹2.9 crore by auctioning four out of five lots in the city on Thursday. Till now, the parking lots were being managed by MC as the previous contracts had expired in October.While the MC had floated tenders for e-auction of five parking lots, no bidder turned up for the facility at Model Town extension (tuition market). The multi-storey parking near MC’s Zone-A office has been auctioned for ₹1.24 crore, including 20% night charges (reserve price ₹80.5 lakh); Feroze Gandhi market parking lot went for ₹1.16 crore (reserve price 80.1 lakh); BRS Nagar parking lot for ₹20.2 lakh (reserve price ₹18.5 lakh) and Bhadaur House parking lot for ₹30.3 lakh (reserve price ₹27.5 lakh). Contractor Deepak Madaan remained the successful bidder for multi-storey parking lot, while Jugnu enterprises gave highest bid for other three spaces. The parking lot of Sarabha Nagar’s I-block market was auctioned for ₹4.3 lakh last week.The contractors can charge ₹10 as parking fee for two-wheelers and ₹20 for cars.MC secretary Neeraj Jain said, “The successful bidders will have to deposit 1/6th of the amount to the civic body within 24 hours. The parking lots will be handed over to the bidders after getting final approval from MC’s finance and contracts committee.”Earlier, members of local market association had opposed the e-auction of Feroze Gandhi market parking lot. The market association had demanded that the MC should first mark a fire lane, parking area and no parking zones in the market. Also, yearly parking should be introduced to reduce traffic congestion in the market, they had sought. MC to avail ₹100 crore loan for development worksWith the civic body mulling availing ₹100-crore loan for development projects in the city, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting with representatives of different banks at MC’s Zone-D office on Thursday. The representatives have been directed to submit the quotations, following which final decision to select the bank from where the loan has to be availed will be taken.Mayor Sandhu said, “The MC has almost cleared the previous loan of ₹200 crore and a loan of ₹100 crore is being taken for development projects in the city.” The opposition has been taking a dig at the MC for its failure in taking up development projects and the matter was also raised during the meeting of general house on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-mc-earns-2-9-crore-by-auctioning-4-parking-lots/story-dx2BKxB0zTcokzTqR3GDvO.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh snowfall in Kufri, Narkanda, NH 5 blocked||Fresh snowfall in Kufri, Narkanda, Khadapathar and Chaupal disrupted traffic on National Highway -5, Theog Hatkoti Road and Chopal Link road.Shimla superintendent of police (SP) Mohit Chawla said the roads were being cleared.The minimum temperatures dropped one to two notches below normal as snowfall in higher reaches and rainfall in middle and lower hills of the state continued on Thursday morning.Kinnaur’s Kothi village received 60 cm snow, Shimla’s Khadrala 20 cm, Kalpa 17cm, and Keylong 3 cm. Prominent tourist destinations Manali and Kufri received 10 cm snowfall each . Meanwhile, Mandi received 15.3mm rain, Shimla 15.9mm, Dalhousie 12mm, Bilaspur 10.5mm, Palampur 8.6 mm, Solan 8mm, Dharamshala 7.6mm and Nahan 3.2mm.State meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said snowfall and rain in isolated places of the state was very likely to continue and weather will get clear from November 27.The minimum temperature in the state capital, Shimla was 2.8°C while Kufri recorded a minimum 3.9°C temperature.Manali shivered at minus 0.9°C, while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 5.2°C and 0.2°C minimum temperatures, respectively.Una recorded a minimum temperature of 10°C, Solan 7.5°C, Bilaspur 10°C, Hamirpur 10.2°C, Nahan 10.3°C, Mandi 7°C and minus 0.6°C in Kalpa. Keylong was the coldest place in the state as it recorded a minimum temperature of minus 2.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/fresh-snowfall-in-kufri-narkanda-nh-5-blocked/story-FoPtcEATM2HFFteMkXUF5O.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Sion, JJ hospitals in Mumbai get approval to start phase 3 of Covaxin clinical trials||The Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital (Sion hospital) and JJ Hospital have received approvals from their respective ethics committees to conduct third phase of clinical trials for Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine candidate for Covid-19 by Bharat Biotech. Both hospitals, which are conducting human trials for Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield vaccine, will require around 2,000 volunteers for their trials of Covaxin. Of these, 20% will be people with co-morbidities and 5% will be medical health workers.Civic-run Sion hospital, which received the nod on Thursday, is expected to start the trial within two-three days. “We have already got 300 volunteers, who want to participate in the trial, and we are currently running tests on them. Each will have to undergo Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and antibody tests to check if they are or have been infected with Covid-19,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Sion hospital.The government-run JJ hospital will start their trial after a week, as they are yet to select volunteers. “We will start the selection process by next week. We will also start a dedicated helpline number where people can call to participate in the trial,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, dean of JJ Hospital. People between the age group of 18 and 60 years will participate in the trials, with a second dose of the vaccine given to them 28 days after the first dose. The hospitals will follow up with the volunteers for a year.As per Bharat Biotech’s official website, Covaxin is developed in BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) high containment facility. The vaccine received Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approval for Phase I and II human clinical trials, which commenced across India from July.DEDICATED ZONE FOR TESTING AT MUMBAI AIRPORT After the state made it mandatory for passengers from NCR, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa to have a negative RT-PCR test result before entering Maharashtra, Mumbai airport has created a dedicated zone for fliers to undergo the test upon arrival. Passengers, who have not undergone the test before boarding the flight, can take the test at Mumbai airport and they will be given the result in 8 hours, while they wait in the dedicated zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sion-jj-hospitals-in-mumbai-get-approval-to-start-phase-3-of-covaxin-clinical-trials/story-vXQvAsHvOq74nqmg51jsSJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||MVA government completes a year: Handling Covid-19 in Maharashtra the highlight||The first year of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, formed by three parties following different ideologies with a common aim of keeping the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) out of power, has been a hurdle race, with the Covid-19 pandemic, economic slowdown and a friction with the Central government. The Uddhav Thackeray-led government has little to show, besides the handling of the Covid-19 situation, which, too, can’t be termed as complete success as Maharashtra remains the most-affected state in India and the disastrous financial impact of the pandemic. Till Thursday, the state reported 1,802,365 cases and 46,813 deaths. Successive governments did not invest much in building health infrastructure, as no party expected a pandemic like Covid-19, leading to chaos as the pandemic struck in March. It took some time for the government to work out facilities to handle the huge inflow of affected people. The situation eased in October-November with the fall in cases, but the post-Diwali spike has again worried the state. To make it worse for the Thackeray government, the Covid-19 lockdown affected the state economy badly over the past nine months, with expected shortfall of ₹1.10 lakh crore in the revenue receipts, which were pegged at ₹2.6 lakh crore during 2020-21. This has badly affected the development works and led to less spending on social-educational schemes. A pendency of ₹35,000 crore from the Centre towards the GST compensation and tax devolution has posed a serious economic challenge before the state. “Our outlay towards development works is ₹1.15 lakh crore and the expected drop in revenue collection is equal to it. This means only the inevitable expenditures are being undertaken from the money borrowed from the market,” said a senior official from the finance department. The shrunk revenue resources have put the state government in a fix when it comes to the compensation to the farmers for crop, house, livestock damages due to natural calamities or while fulfilling the promise of waiver to consumers who received inflated bills during the lockdown. Also read: Maharashtra’s MVA government will complete 5-year term: Shiv Sena MP Raut after meeting BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis“In political perspective, the stay on Maratha reservation and delay in lifting it and failure to give waiver from inflated electricity bills will cost the three ruling parties dear. The sentiments among Marathas over the reservation are extreme and perception is that the MVA government could not retain the quota given by the Fadnavis government. This may damage the prospects of the ruling parties in Marathwada and western Maharashtra. We could not fulfil the demand of waiver from the inflated bills due to the financial burden of more than ₹1,000 crore. It is being perceived as our backtracking on the promises. Both these damages could have been avoided with better coordination within the ruling parties,” says an NCP minister, requesting anonymity. “It is true we could have given more relief to farmers hit by cyclone or unseasonal rain, if we were not hit by the pandemic. We would have given incentives to farmers who have been paying the loans regularly,” said Balasaheb Thorat, revenue minister and state Congress chief. “As far as the Maratha reservation is concerned, the Supreme Court stay was unexpected. But it does not mean that the entire community will go against the government.” Thorat said the electricity bills waiver could have cost the state between ₹1,000 crore and ₹2,400 crore, depending on the waiver extended to the types of consumer and the state was not in a position to handle it. He added that errors in bills and unjust amount levied on consumers was false propaganda. Other leaders from ruling parties, however, said that while Marathas are unhappy to an extent, a few decisions by the Thackeray government has helped them creating a soft corner among farmers. “We gave loan waiver of more than ₹22,000 crore to over 30 lakh farmers and more than 50% of the amount was credited to farmers within just four months of announcement. Similarly, we have procured record 219 lakh quintal cotton this year and it was highest procurement in the past 10 years. Our ₹10,000-crore relief package for flood, cyclone-hit farmers too has sent a positive message among farmers,” said a Sena minister. While the MVA government is banking on farmers in rural parts of the state, it has not been able to do much for urban areas. In case of Mumbai, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray pleased citizen groups and environment activists by scrapping controversial Metro-3 car shed at Aarey Colony and reserved 800 acres in the area as reserved forest. Former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said both these announcements are just hogwash. “Shifting of car shed will not save environment as the salt pan land in Kanjurmarg will face destruction for car shed. Secondly, what is touted to have reserved as a forest, was already declared as eco-sensitive zone during our tenure,” he said. Political analyst Hemant Desai points at the MVA government’s failure to roll out any project or scheme which could be recognised by its name. “The Samruddhi corridor between Mumbai and Nagpur was Fadnavis’s pet project and will be known as an achievement of his government. Sharad Pawar’s horticulture development scheme during his tenure as the CM, or AR Antulay’s Sanjay Gandhi pension scheme are acknowledged by their names in the state. The Thackeray government has neither implemented any such scheme nor does it have the vision to make any policy statement,” he said. Also read: MVA government completes a year: More challenges ahead for Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP in MaharashtraThorat however said, “All infrastructure projects, be it Metro lines, coastal road or Samruddhi corridor, are being completed on war footing. It is a balance between rural and urban development. We have helped farmers financially, but ultimately the money in pumped into state economy, leading to the growth of the GDP.” The incumbent government is full of experienced ministers as 26 of the 43 ministers and their deputies have been in cabinet earlier. Even after considering the exceptional situation amid the Covid-19 pandemic, very few ministers have been able to perform in accordance with their experience, a bureaucrat said. “They have been lucky in a way that they have got extended ‘honeymoon period’ owing to the pandemic and lockdown. Generally, people start raising questions over the performance of the government within six months,” he said. The MVA government has been haunted by the uncertainty over its existence since day one. The prime opposition party BJP and its leaders have been announcing dates for dislodging the government every few weeks. The bitter experience of a group of NCP MLAs led by Ajit Pawar joining hands with Devendra Fadnavis to form a three-day government on November 23, keeps haunting the MVA government and raises doubt over its ability to complete the five-year term. According to the leaders from ruling parties, the 2022 elections for 27 district councils and 10 municipal corporations – which are termed as mini Assembly polls – could see the three parties at loggerheads. The tussle will be to gain power at local level due to different equations in local bodies. They also expect a clash over seat-sharing in Mumbai civic body elections. Prakash Bal, another political analyst, said immediate collapse of the MVA government was unlikely. “The BJP has been talking about the fall of the three-party government time and again, but it is because it has a fear of leaders and workers quitting the party. I do not see any uncertainty over the existence of the government as long as Sharad Pawar is at the Centre at the affairs of the alliance. The party’s MLA tallies are at such a matrix that the government cannot be dislodged unless an entire party joins hand with the BJP to form a new government. The Sena or NCP are not in a position of even thinking of any such move,” he added. Although no major differences within the alliance have come up in the first year, the murmur of discontent is being heard. The Congress has expressed its displeasure over the allocation to the portfolios it held. It has a feeling of secondary treatment in decision-making. A few ministers also point at the dominance of the bureaucracy. It had led to clashes between bureaucrats and ministers from the Congress and NCP on a couple of occasions. On the investment front, Thackeray has tried to get foreign investment in industries, signing MoUs with various investors. Amid Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has signed memoranda of understanding (MoUs) worth nearly ₹51,000 crore. The state has signed three MoUs with Chinese companies, which was expected to get ₹5,000 crore investment. After the relations between the two nations turned sour, they have been put on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-government-completes-a-year-handling-covid-19-in-maharashtra-the-highlight/story-duO0bIh1oj1Vfdpqjky3cJ.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon case: NIA court raps jail administration for no report on activist Dr Anand Teltumbde||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Thursday pulled up prison authorities for not sending a report on the application for home food filed by activist Dr Anand Teltumbde. The court has directed the commissioner of police concerned to take necessary action and asked the prison authority to submit its report at the next hearing, scheduled in December. “In number of matters, this court has observed that whenever a report is called either from superintendent of Taloja central prison or Mumbai central prison they do not bother to submit timely reports, resultantly it compels the court to keep such application pending for want of reports from the prison authorities. Hence the superintendent of Taloja central prison and Mumbai central prison are directed to submit the reports on fixed dates, else this court will be constrained to initiate action for not following the orders of the court,” said the court on Thursday. On August 28, Teltumbde had moved an application for home food and raised concerns about his health. The court had directed the superintendent of Taloja Jail to submit a report and take Teltumbde for a medical check-up. The prison authorities were to submit a reply by September 4, but are yet to submit their report. Teltumbde is among those arrested as part of the NIA’s probe into the violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-nia-court-raps-jail-administration-for-no-report-on-activist-dr-anand-teltumbde/story-3fmzN2UVGkOLoOPCmmZcSI.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Rise in crimes against women, children in Mumbai in 2019-2020: Praja Foundation report||The number of rape cases in Mumbai went up from 728 in 2015-2016 to 904 in 2019-2020 (a 24% increase), according to the city-based Praja Foundation report released on Thursday, which stated that there has been an increase in crimes against women and children.A total of 2,145 molestation cases were registered in 2015-2016, as against 2,677 in 2019-2020, an increase of 25%. The report stated that children were victims in 61% of the rape cases in Mumbai in 2019.According to the report, probes in 67% of the 15,654 crimes against women, and 73% of the 11,268 crimes against children were pending. It also stated that 61% investigations (3,039 cases) under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act were pending. The report also stated similar pendency across courts in Mumbai — 94% of the 23,791 cases related to crimes against women were pending in courts, while 92% of the 8,126 cases of crime against children were pending in courts. 89% of the 4,250 cases under POCSO Act, too, was pending in courts, stated the report. Also, the report stated that of the 222 cases tried in 2019, only 20% were finished within a year. Section 35 of the POCSO Act states that the court should complete the trial within one year of cognisance of the offence. “There are multiple reasons for trials to be delayed. Increase in cases and shortage of police personnel are among them,” said Jennifer Spencer, project coordinator at Praja Foundation. Former chief public prosecutor of Mumbai sessions court, Kalpana Chavan, said that cases gets delayed majorly because courts are overburdened. “There are lots of factors responsible for delay. Sometimes, witnesses are not available or cannot come on a particular date. Or, at times, either the public prosecutor or defence lawyers are not available, or the courts could be busy in some other cases. There is no single factor for delay in conducting trials,” Chavan said. Similarly, Chavan pointed out multiple factors responsible for low conviction rate. “In a criminal case, the most important thing is preparation of a case and case papers of investigation. The police officer has to make sure that he has prepared all documents as per mandatory provisions. At times, for technical reasons, the accused gets the benefit of doubt,” Chavan said. The key point is punchnama in criminal trials. According to the Indian law, the investigating officer has to seize a piece of evidence in front of an independent witness that are referred as punchas and a document is prepared under their signature on how a piece of evidence is collected from the scene of offence. If this is faulty, the process of collection of evidence is invalidated, Chavan pointed out. While talking on crimes against woman, Chavan said, Many of the cases filed are cases of relationship went wrong. “There is a rise in cases wherein a relationship went wrong and women file a complaint of rape out of revenge. These kind of cases result in acquittal as the parties at the end make a settlement out of court,” Chavan said. Flavia Agnes, a women’s rights lawyer and pioneer of the women’s movement in India focused on issues of gender and law reforms, said, “Trial is the last part of the journey which starts after a year or two. And by that time, everything is settled. In most cases, investigation is not done properly, which results in lower conviction rates.” The victim faces so many problems at the time when a case is registered, and also during the trial. But there is no one to support them, said Agnes. “There is not support system for the victim after the incident. We need to provide support to the victims, which we do not have. The support system should be improved,” said Flavia. RC Chavan, former judge, Bombay high court (HC), who joined the judiciary in March 1976 as a civil judge (junior division) and judicial magistrate first class and went on to become a high court judge in 2005, said that faulty investigation is one of the key reason for low conviction rate. “The police is always under pressure during the investigation. In such circumstances, judiciary has to play an active role. The magistrate has a power to reject the charge sheet filed by the investigating officer. The power is not used much, because of which, the faulty charge sheet is accepted and taken further,” Chavan said. Chavan said that a judge has to see at the preliminary stage itself if there is evidence enough to prosecute the accused or if something is missing. “Rejection of charge sheet would give an opportunity to the police to strengthen the case. This will help in improving conviction rate,” Chavan added. On the delay in judicial system, Chavan said, “The major reason is service of summons to the witnesses. The police are overburdened and at times they cannot serve the summons to the witnesses on time, which delays the trial. Most of the court’s time wasted in this and they are just made to wait for either prosecution of defence to come up for hearing. The judiciary is, however, in process of developing a system that can solve the problem in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/rise-in-crimes-against-women-children-in-mumbai-in-2019-2020-praja-foundation-report/story-JxDRqQslDW2P5uImuUSbvK.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||In a first-of-its-kind experiment, Maharashtra to release tigress captured for killing human, livestock back in the wild||The Maharashtra forest department will carry out a first-of-its-kind exercise to release a sub-adult tigress that was previously involved in conflict, back into the wild. The tigress T2C1 is almost two-and-a-half years old and was captured in September. The rewilding exercise will be carried out in Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR), Nagpur.Rewilding captured or captive tigers is mostly carried out with cubs or young adults. It involves placing them within a natural enclosure with access to wild prey, to teach them hunting skills, before they are reintroduced to the wild. The principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF-Wildlife) approved the decision to rewild T2C1 on Saturday, and said this was the first time in Maharashtra where a sub-adult tiger would be part of such an exercise. Previously, cubs less than a year old have been released back into the wild through minimal human imprint. The PCCF’s decision was based on recommendations by a state-appointed committee on the possible rehabilitation of tigers captured due to conflict.On September 19, T2C1 killed a 60-year-old woman at a farm near Andharwadi village. Earlier in the month, the tigress had attacked a farmer in the same area and killed livestock. On September 23, T2C1 was tranquilised and captured near the Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS) in Yavatmal district, and sent to the transit treatment centre at Nagpur.“We want to give this tigress one more chance because of her age and to ensure she doesn’t spend the rest of her life in captivity. She has killed only one person, and that may or may not have been killing by stalking. The basic aim is to give her a chance to survive on her own,” said Nitin Kakodkar, PCCF-Wildlife. “Our intent is to wean the tigress away from cattle kills and human presence so that it takes to wild prey.”For the next three to six months, T2C1’s behaviour will be monitored in PTR. “Human imprint will be zero once T2C1 goes into the enclosure. Over the next three to six months, we will release wild prey steadily and monitor her with CCTV cameras placed across the enclosure. A final decision on T2C1’s release will be taken based on the progress we make,” said Kakodkar, adding that T2C1 did not seem to present a threat to human life.According to veterinarians, animals in captivity undergo emotional distress resulting in them becoming overweight, developing health problems and sometimes leading to self-mutilation. SP Yadav, additional director general of forest (Project Tiger) and head of National Tiger Conservation Authority, said, “This is a step in the right direction. Rehabilitation in the wild is a better option for young tigers, but it has to be ensured they are properly rewilded and don’t enter into conflict again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/in-a-first-of-its-kind-experiment-maharashtra-to-release-tigress-captured-for-killing-human-livestock-back-in-the-wild/story-Db9tnU1MNYG1zTgQoL8RKM.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Common admissions to entry-level classes in Chandigarh schools to begin on December 3||The Chandigarh education department on Thursday released the common admission schedule for entry-level classes in schools across the city.The process will begin on December 3 and is expected to go online in view of the Covid pandemic.Before that, by December 2, all schools have to display an admission notice on their websites, with details of entry class, age criterion, number of seats, documents required, fee structure, etc.The admission form will be available for free on school websites. However ₹100 will be charged from students of general category for registration at the time of receipt of forms. The final list of students along with the waiting list will be displayed both online and at the school notice board by February 1. “We are considering to allow form submission just online to avoid queues outside schools. We have also asked schools to conduct the draw of lots online, if need by. The decision will be taken in January, on the basis of the pandemic situation,” said Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education, adding that deadlines could be relaxed in case of a surge in infections in the city.Meanwhile, private schools have asked the education department to first clarify whether they can hike fees and by how much for the 2021 session.“Last year, an 8% hike was allowed and then rolled back leading to a lot of confusion. As the fees hasn’t been hiked for two years, we should be able to hike it by 16%. The administration should clear the air on this,” said HS Mamik, president, Independent School Association.Common admission scheduleDisplay of admission notice by schools: By Dec 2Issue and receipt of admission forms: Dec 3-16Display of the list of eligible candidates: By Jan 15Display of list of selected candidates and waiting list: By Feb 1Deposit of fee by selected candidates: By Feb 12||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/common-admissions-to-entry-level-classes-in-chandigarh-schools-to-begin-on-december-3/story-f7SHupla5YvnhWm4KbPDWP.html
27-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Four members of three-wheeler gang arrested||The Sahnewal police have arrested four members of a three-wheeler gang, which used to rob passengers. The police have also recovered one three-wheeler and one mobile phone from their possession. The accused were involved in five incidents of snatching.A case under sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Sahnewal police station.The accused have been identified as Kulwinder Singh of Lakhowal village, Amritpal Singh of Dugri, and Amardeep Singh and Gursimranjit Singh of Sahni Khurd.ASI Sadhu Singh said that the police arrested the accused near Dharod village during a special checking. The accused were roaming in the area to find their target.The cop said that the accused used to travel in a three-wheeler. They used to pick-up passengers from the railway station and bus stand in the night hours. They would then take the passengers to isolated places and rob them after thrashing them.He added that more important information is expected to be extracted from them during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-four-members-of-three-wheeler-gang-arrested/story-JTQZd1FWdhLJ9pE9C39PHL.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Bhima-Koregaon case: Father Stan Swamy files plea for woollens, sipper, straw||Tribal rights activist and priest Father Stan Swamy filed a fresh application on Thursday, requesting winter wear, a sipper cup and straw after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) informed the special court it had not confiscated Swamy’s straw and sipper cup. The matter, along with Swamy’s bail plea, will be heard next in December. Swamy, 83, is among the accused in the case of violence at Bhima-Koregaon in January 2018 and has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). In early November, Swamy’s lawyer Sharif Shaikh had filed an application seeking the return of Swamy’s straw and sipper cup, citing Swamy’s medical condition as a patient of Parkinson’s disease. On Thursday, NIA’s special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty told the court these items had not been confiscated during Swamy’s arrest on October 8. The defence counsel then sought direction to prison authorities, to provide Swamy with the same at a cost, along with slippers for daily use. The court has asked the prison authority to file a report and adjourned the matter till December 4. While seeking bail for Swamy on Thursday, Shaikh pleaded that Swamy has been falsely implicated in the Bhima-Koregaon case. While accepting that Swamy is a member of the organisation Persecuted Prisoners Solidarity Committee (PPSC), which works with undertrials, the bail plea points out that working with those accused of being members of the banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist) does not necessarily make Swamy an affiliate. NIA has alleged PPSC is a “frontal organisation” for CPI (Maoist) and that Swamy had received Rs 8 lakh to carry out activities for the outfit. In the charge sheet filed on October 9, NIA said it had seized “documents related to aiding the activities of CPI (Maoist) and propaganda material” from Swamy during his arrest and that the agency had found letters that proved Swamy’s connection with CPI (Maoist). In his bail plea, Swamy refuted NIA’s allegations and questioned the authenticity of letters that NIA has submitted as evidence. “The Prosecution has attached word and pdf copies of the letter. They are not even part of emails. That these alleged letters were ever sent/received is questionable,” said Swamy’s bail plea.Last month, Swamy had applied for bail on medical grounds, but was denied. Parkinson’s disease is a debilitating nervous disorder that can cause involuntary spasms and tremors that make it difficult for patients to carry out everyday actions, such as drinking water, without aid. Meanwhile, the court on Thursday permitted activist Shoma Sen to withdraw Rs1 lakh from her account for expenses, but rejected her plea to add her husband as a second account holder to operate the account. The prosecution said that during investigation, Sen’s accounts had reflected some suspicious transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bhima-koregaon-case-father-stan-swamy-files-plea-for-woollens-sipper-straw/story-hYCuIiumPEDaQWJCK4GC1O.html
27-11-2020||Kolkata||Trade union strike partially affects normal life in Bengal, 449 arrested||Normal life was partially affected in West Bengal on Thursday due to a nationwide trade union strike -- the first since the lockdown -- during which sporadic clashes were reported in several parts of the state.Around 449 people were arrested in the state, 140 of them in Kolkata, while trying to enforce the strike, which began at 6 am, police said.The CPI(M) claimed that the 24-hour bandh called by a joint committee of the central trade unions in protest against the Centre’s economic policies turned out to be a “complete success in West Bengal”.The strike, which was also supported by the Congress, was more of a litmus test for both the parties, which seem to be testing waters ahead of the assembly polls in the state.Bandh supporters, mostly activists of CPI(M)- affiliated outfits such as CITU and DYFI, brought out rallies in Jadavpur, Garia, Kamalgazi and Dumdum areas, besides other parts of the state, disrupting vehicular movement and asking shopkeepers to pull down shutters, an official said.They picketed outside Howrah railway station, threatening vehicle operators to stop services, but a large police contingent, deployed in the area, ensured vehicles plied normally, he said.Left activists blocked roads in Central Avenue, Hastings, Shyambazar and Moulali areas of Kolkata, while Congress workers tried to shut down shops in Burrabazar area, triggering tension, he said.Left Front Chairman Biman Bose led the protesters, as they restricted traffic movement at Mallickbazar Crossing.He alleged that the TMC government was trying to muzzle a “spontaneous people’s movement” with brute force.SFI activists blocked a portion of the road near Jadavpur 8B bus terminus and played football and table tennis.Protesters clashed with the police at Barasat and Belgharia in North 24 Parganas, Paschim Barddhaman’s Durgapur, Coochbehar’s Mathabhanga, Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri and Midnapore town in Paschim Medinipur district, the official said.Suburban trains in the Sealdah division and Howrah- Kharagpur section came to a halt as agitators sat on railway tracks at several stations, a railway spokesperson said.Kolkata Metro services, however, were not affected.Flight, too, took off from the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport as per schedule, an official said.Banking services were partially affected in parts of the state as many branches and ATMs remained closed.Operations at the Syama Prasad Mookerjee Port’s Kolkata Dock System faced a temporary setback, as 70 per cent of permanent employees and 50 per cent of contractual workers did not join work in the city, officials said, adding that the Haldia dock functioned normally.The strike had an adverse impact on the state’s jute industry, with many mills remaining closed and a handful operating at 30-50 per cent capacity, sources at the Indian Jute Mills Association said.Several tea gardens in the Dooars region in North Bengal did not function during the day, but the strike had little effect on the estates in Darjeeling Hills, a senior trade union leader said.The bandh also affected coal production in the mines of the Eastern Coalfields Ltd in the western part of the state, sources said.The TMC did not support the strike but said it backed the issues flagged by the Left and the Congress.“We are opposed to any bandh as we don’t believe in inconveniencing people. But we support the reason for which it has been called,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said.CPI (M) politburo member Mohammed Salim said that the strike was a “success” in Bengal.Attempts by the state administration to scuttle the agitation prove the theory of “tacit understanding” between the TMC and the BJP, he alleged.“The BJP, through its protest at Majerhat, and the CM, through her press conference, tried to divert attention from the success of the strike,” he stated.Senior Congress leader and MP Pradip Bhattacharya also echoed Salim and said “had the TMC been serious about supporting the reason for the bandh, its members would have joined the agitation.Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh claimed that the way the TMC administration gave a free run to the agitators, it proves a “grand alliance of the TMC, CPI(M) and Congress” is in the offing.“We have seen how the CPI(M) and Congress were allowed to have a free run. This proves a grand alliance is in the offing. We have defeated grand alliance in Bihar, and we will defeat it in Bengal also,” Ghosh said. PTI SUS AMR BSM PNT RMS RMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/trade-union-strike-partially-affects-normal-life-in-bengal-449-arrested/story-3D26OjU0zP9hhcgxXK5LEN.html
27-11-2020||Kolkata||No place for outsiders who incite violence during polls: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that there is no place for outsiders who come to the state during elections and incite violence.“There is no place for outsiders in Bengal who come only during elections to incite violence,” Mamata said at a press conference in Nabanna at the State Secretariat.Targeting the BJP, Mamata said, “They are giving statements that vaccine will be given but don’t know when. I say this place is not for outsiders. They only come here to do politics during elections.”She announced Swasthya Sathi health scheme stating, “All the people are to be taken under Swasthya Sathi health scheme to avail the benefit for those who are not under any health scheme. It will be a smart card and per year Rs 5 lakh can be availed under this scheme as health cover. This will be universal from December 1.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/no-place-for-outsiders-who-incite-violence-during-polls-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee/story-RCD4YnsY1CEE8p0p5dz4zN.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi to continue door-to-door survey to test symptomatic Covid-19 patients||A door to door survey for identifying and testing symptomatic Covid-19 patients will continue in Delhi with focus on those aged above 50 years and having comorbidities, officials said on Thursday.The survey was earlier conducted between October 20-24, covering over 57 lakh people in containment zones and hotspots to identify symptomatic persons and their contacts and test them.The direction to continue the exercise was given in a meeting of the Covid-19 nodal officer with district magistrates on Wednesday, a senior Delhi government officer said.The district magistrate of the west district in an order issued on November 25 directed officials to continue the door to door exercise.“During the meeting on November 25, it was directed by the competent authority to continue the process of the house to house search for symptomatic persons and those above 50 with co-morbidities,” the order stated.All the SDMs in the district have been directed to ensure the house to house search for symptomatic persons and other categories through teams allocated to them till further orders, it said.“We have been directed to continue the survey to cover buffer areas adjoining containment zones and vulnerable pockets,” a senior officer in the north east district said.“No time period has been given to wrap up this next phase and elderly people especially those over 50 years of age having comorbidities and those above 60 years, and also the contacts of symptomatic persons will be focused,” he said.The extended door to door survey will not have any time period and will be conducted as an ongoing process. It will be random rather than being targeted in terms of numbers and the focus will be vulnerable age groups who have higher chances of getting infected, another officer said.The door to door survey for five days in October to identify and isolate Covid-19 infected persons in containment zones and hotspot pockets of the city reported 1,178 cases with a positivity rate of 6.4 per cent, officials said.The RTPCR test reports of total 18,336 symptomatic persons and their contacts reported 1,178 cases, they said.About 9,000 three-member teams equipped with oximeters and thermal scanners surveyed people in 4,456 containment zones and surrounding areas across 11 districts.The survey was part of various steps decided to be taken in Delhi in view of surging Covid-19 cases, in a high-level meeting including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Delhi Chief Minister Amit Shah on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-to-continue-door-to-door-survey-to-test-symptomatic-covid-19-patients/story-XJf3ZTHxnVjYmbm98kROXP.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Eight Chandigarh Press Club staffers test Covid +ve in 3 days||Six employees of Chandigarh Press Club were among 116 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in the UT on Tuesday. Meanwhile, four people succumbed, taking the toll to 270.The number of cases also breached the 17,000 mark. Of 17,051 cases so far, 1,169 remain active.The club employees were tested after two were found positive in the past two days. Elections of the club are scheduled on November 29.“A few employees worked in the club’s kitchen department as well. As a precautionary step, the club has been closed for the next 48 hours and sanitisation has been carried out. So far there is no change in the election schedule,” said Sanjiv Shukla, returning officer. Meanwhile, three men, aged 69, 80, 85, from Manimajra, Sector 40 and 37, respectively, died while undergoing treatment and a 61-year-old man from Sector 15 was found positive after his death. Also, with 80 patients being discharged on Thursday, the number of those cured has reached 15,612.Nine more micro containment zonesThe Chandigarh administration on Thursday declared nine more micro containment zones in the city. As many as 14 were declared on November 19. The areas are in Sectors 15 (Houses No. 281 and 284), 20 (346, 348, 350, 352 and 354), 37D (3401-3409), 38A (176-181), 40A (328-334), 42C (2323-2326), 45C (2163-2166), 46C (3208-3211) and 51A (117-118).UT adviser Manoj Parida said regular screening and monitoring of the areas will continue and frequent sanitisation will be conducted. Residents have been advised to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. 157 cases in Mohali, 2 deaths in P’kula Mohali district on Thursday reported 157 fresh cases and no death. The infection tally has risen to 14,929, with 1,753 cases still active. As many as 12,903 patients have recovered, including five discharged on Thursday, and 273 have died. In Panchkula, a 75-year-old man from Sector 21 and a 65-year-old man from Kalka died, taking the district’s toll to 127. The 26 new cases included one health worker.Of 8,480 case so far, 462 are active while 7,891 patients have been cured and discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/eight-chandigarh-press-club-staffers-test-covid-ve-in-3-days/story-n19bmaB2PUWqZjU8e2dCpL.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai records its worst air quality of the past eight months||The city recorded its worst air quality over the past eight months on Thursday after a sharp spike in pollution levels was witnessed over the past two days. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality index (AQI) went from 157 (moderate) on Tuesday to 180 on Wednesday morning, then 201 (poor) on Wednesday evening, and 252 (poor) on Thursday morning, which fell to 242 (poor) by the evening, making it the worst AQI so far this season and worst since March 17 when 272 (poor) was recorded. Prior to Thursday, the worst AQI was recorded on November 10 at 221 (poor).On Thursday, five of 10 locations —Malad (311), Bandra Kurla Complex (308), Mazgaon (314), Colaba (303), and Chembur (303) — all recorded very poor AQI.AQI levels are categorised from 0-50 as good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 as moderate, 201-300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor, and above 401 is severe.SAFAR had predicted AQI to worsen after a change in wind direction. “The northerly to north-easterly wind component has increased pollutant accumulation over the city, making the air heavy. This is being reflected through a thin layer of haze. Calm winds are further reducing fast dispersion of pollutants suspended close to the surface,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR, adding that poor air quality could continue for the next three days. SAFAR predicted an AQI of 235 (poor) for Friday.The concentration of PM2.5 increased from 91 microgrammes per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Wednesday to 103 µg/m3, against the safe limit of 60 µg/m3, while PM10 levels were 195 µg/m3, against the safe limit of 100 µg/m3, almost twice the safe limit.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin, Mumbai recorded an AQI of 221 (poor) — from the average calculated from 15 air monitoring stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) — on Thursday, with prominent pollutant being PM2.5 (small pollutant particles that can easily enter the lungs and cause health ailments). Meanwhile, the maximum and minimum temperature at the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, was 34.8 and 20.8 degrees Celsius, both a degree Celsius above normal. Colaba weather station, representative of south Mumbai, recorded the maximum temperature at 32.6 degrees Celsius, a degree Celsius below normal, while the minimum temperature was at the normal mark at 22 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-its-worst-air-quality-of-the-past-eight-months/story-bWl30cWscSoebm2Y1YiZjI.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||MSC Bank scam: Mumbai court rejects ED’s plea for intervention||The special anti-corruption bureau (ACB) court on Thursday rejected the plea of Enforcement Director (ED) for intervention in the process of hearing the closure report recently submitted by Mumbai Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) in connection with Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank scam involving politicians from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government.EOW had, in September, filed a closure report in the alleged ₹25,000-crore MSC Bank fraud. The police filed a C-summary in the special ACB court after EOW’s special investigation team (SIT) found no criminal aspect to be investigated in the case.The agency had filed a first information report (FIR) in the case under sections 406, 409, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 120B and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, section 13 (a)(b)(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and section 29 of Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act. The case was filed in August last year on the direction of the Bombay high court (HC) while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Andheri-based social activist Surinder Arora who had alleged police inaction into the fraud.On the basis of the case registered by the Mumbai Police, ED too initiated probe for money laundering. While the Mumbai Police filed a closure report after the probe, ED questioned the probe by the Mumbai Police and sought to intervene. ED also urged the court to reject the closure report filed by the Mumbai Police.The complaint pertained to thousands of crores of rupees obtained in loans by sugar cooperatives, spinning mills and other processing units from district and cooperative banks. MSC Bank, the apex bank that controlled credit to the co-operative sector in the state and was handled by then ruling politicians, landed in trouble in 2011 after an inquiry report by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) found the bank was in red with a negative of ₹144 crore. The report indicated financial mismanagement on part of the board of directors which led to ballooning of non-performing assets. This was largely due to handing out loans to sugar co-operatives and spinning mills in violation of all norms.The Mumbai Police in its closure report justified the actions and claimed there was no case. ED, however, questioned the probe.In Its plea, ED claimed that during their investigation they referred to reports of Nabard available since 2000-01. “On perusal of the said reports, it is found that Nabard has pointed out various irregularities in its every inspection report from the period 2000-01 onwards. The said irregularities pertain to working of the board of directors of the bank, size of the various committees of the bank, documentation and proposing of loan proposal, sanctioning of the loan proposals, non-compliance of various RBI circulars and directions from Nabard, etc,” ED claimed.The central agency further claimed, “During the course of investigation, it was found that loans were given to sugar mills/companies controlled by relatives of the directors of the bank without assessing loan repayment capacity of the sugar mills/companies.” It also alleged that the bank did not follow the process stated under the SARFAESI Act while auctioning defaulting Sugar Sahkari Kharkhana (SSK). “It is found that though the reserve price was decided based on the valuation of the valuers, the same was not disclosed in the advertisement as well as in the tender form of the above mentioned 5 SSKs. Therefore, the offer amounts were received well below the reserve price and the SSKs were sold below the reserve price,” the agency claimed.The ED has further alleged that, “Some SSKs were indirectly sold to the then director/office-bearers of the bank, and the financial investigation in this regard raises suspicion about transparency in the auction proceedings conducted for sale of the said SSKs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msc-bank-scam-mumbai-court-rejects-ed-s-plea-for-intervention/story-33mZtTqUV8IFRq0zDw20YN.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 1.8 million Covid-19 cases; state hints against lockdown||Maharashtra on Thursday went past 1.8 million Covid-19 infections with 6,406 new cases, pushing the tally to 1,802,365, even as the state hinted against imposing any lockdown. Mumbai reported 1,147 new cases and added 15 deaths, taking the tally to 279,744 and toll to 10,740. The state’s death toll was pushed up to 46,813 with the addition of 65 new fatalities on Thursday.Cases are on the rise in the state in the past ten days as the daily caseload first mounted to over 5,000 cases from November 18 and over 6,000 cases in the past two days. Nine days before it, the daily caseload average was 3,690. Despite the steady rise in cases, owing to crowding during Diwali and fall in temperature, the state government in not in favour of reimposing a lockdown. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has opposed any new lockdown as he feels it badly affects the economy and vulnerable population. “We cannot afford any more lockdown. The poorer class, which makes its living on daily wages, has been affected badly during the lockdown. Despite it, they cooperated with the state and central government with lockdown imposed earlier. I think instead of curbs, all of us should adhere to the health protocol by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks as it will help us contain the virus spread,” he said in Pandharpur.According to officials from the health department, a section of ministers and bureaucracy is against imposing a fresh lockdown. “Central government, through its notification on Wednesday, prohibited states to impose a lockdown without its permission. Even the state authorities are against it as the collateral economic and social damages are more than the health benefits. Instead of it, we are focusing on strict implementation of health protocol and tapping superspreaders. We believe that it will help us contain the spread to a large extent,” said an official.The doubling rate, which is a crucial parameter to show the growth of the outbreak, improved to 81 days in the state as the caseload breached the grim milestone of 1.8 million, 81 days after it crossed 900,000 cases on September 6. The last 100,000 cases were reported in 26 days, after going past 1.7 million cases on November 5. After crossing the 1.5 million mark on October 9, another 100,00 cases were added in 10 days, taking the tally to 1,601,365 on October 19 and another 17 days to take the tally to 1,703,444 on November 5.In Mumbai, for a second day in a row, recorded over 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, at 1,147, taking the total to 279,744. Mumbai also recorded 15 new deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 10,740. Active cases in Mumbai have now gone up to 14,185, up from 12,707 in the beginning of this week, and 11,822 last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-1-8-million-covid-19-cases-state-hints-against-lockdown/story-jajYFSvRxbZs3erPTxVrnK.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Mercury to drop in Chandigarh amid clear skies||Owing to western disturbances, 5.3mm of rain was recorded in the city in the early hours of Thursday. As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), clear skies are likely in the city from Friday and a drop in temperature is expected.As per IMD officials, 5mm of the 5.3mm rain was recorded between 2.30am and 5.30am on Thursday. The city has seen a total of 20.4mm rain this November, the second highest this month since 1997; 20.9mm rain was witnessed in November 2019.Speaking about this, IMD officials said, “The rain kept the night temperature high with the minimum temperature climbing up to 13.5 degrees on Thursday from 13 degrees on Wednesday, 4 degrees above normal. From Friday, with clear skies the minimum temperature is expected to drop back below 10 degrees.”The IMD has issued a warning for cold wave conditions in the region up to Sunday: the minimum temperature can go below 10 degrees, 4.5 to 6.4 degrees below normal.After a record low of 19.2 degrees on Wednesday, the maximum temperature rose up to 21.7 degrees on Thursday, still 4 degrees below normal. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 22 to 24 degrees while the minimum temperature will remain around 10 and 11 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/mercury-to-drop-in-chandigarh-amid-clear-skies/story-NcFi03fNqNXwNJfG7m9lpM.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||MVA government completes a year: More challenges ahead for Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP in Maharashtra||“I have the remote control of the government in my hand…The moment I think the chief minister is not working for the people, I will eject it..” This was a favourite line of Shiv Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray during the tenure of the first Shiv Sena-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Maharashtra in 1995-99. He never took up a position of power, even though his party ruled the Mumbai civic body for years, ruled Maharashtra between 1995 and 1999 and was part of the successive NDA governments at the Centre headed by the late AB Vajpayee. The senior Thackeray preferred having power in hand without him being held accountable for the performance of the government. His followers and supporters would see him as a leader above power politics, often saying: “Balasaheb wouldn’t need to do any compromise for power.” His son, Uddhav, however, chose a different path. He decided to head a government propped by two parties that were not just traditional rivals of the Sena, but had exactly opposite ideology. He wanted to come out of the shadow of his father. More importantly, he had to prove a point. Forming the government with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress under the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was his revenge on the BJP, which was aiming to finish the Sena in Maharashtra. A year ago, on November 28, he was sworn-in amid an atmosphere of uncertainty – whether his government would last or collapse due to its internal contradictions. One year later, Uddhav Thackeray has shown that he has the acumen to handle a complex coalition of three parties, even though the uncertainty still exists. He has been appreciated for his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, although he has not yet shown his administrative skills. One year could be a short period to draw a conclusion on his performance, but he has not disappointed his supporters and allies. “Thackeray has not yet got an opportunity to show the performance of his government, as most of his time and energy has gone into fighting the Covid pandemic. Coupled with revenue loss, the functioning of the government is badly affected. The Centre too has not extended a helping hand, as expected by the government,” opined Pratap Asbe, political analyst. Also read: MVA government completes a year: Handling Covid in Maharashtra the highlight Survival, an achievementThackeray’s major achievement in one year is that his government survived. While non-BJP governments in neighbouring Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh have collapsed, the one in Rajasthan was on the verge of collapsing, the MVA government in Maharashtra remained intact. It is partly because all three parties were forced to stick together due to the fear of common enemy (the BJP), partly because the MVA’s architect NCP chief Sharad Pawar is firmly behind Thackeray and partly because Thackeray has managed to do the balancing act. Pawar, who suffered setback as Devendra Fadnavis tried to cut him to size during the latter’s tenure as chief minister, needs his party to be in power in Maharashtra as much as Thackeray. The mutual need has led to a good understanding between the two leaders. Pawar has been guiding Thackeray in the matters of governance. Both the leaders are on the same page when it comes to their political strategies. Thackeray has acknowledged Pawar’s big brother role though he doesn’t follow the latter’s advice every time. He has also kept the people who matter in Congress happy. He kept his cool even as friend-turned-foe BJP threw up one challenge after another to corner him. He also tried maintaining relations with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah even as he battled it out with Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP in the state. “Thackeray has played a gamble and it is in his interest that this government survives. He has been taking care not to upset the allies though he also tries to keep his original agenda intact,” said a senior Congress minister, who did not want to be named. Even as he runs a government with parties that believe in secularism, Thackeray has not given up on the Hindutva plank. However, he keeps insisting that his Hindutva is different than the BJP’s Hindu hardline politics, but also adds that the MVA government would be run on a common minimum programme agreed upon by the three allies. Hurdles galore As the Covid-19 epidemic became his priority, his one-year rule was made difficult by an offensive BJP and not so-friendly Central government. Whether it was the handling of the pandemic or Palghar mob lynching case or Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case, the BJP has not left any stone unturned to politically corner Thackeray and his government. Just when the state was planning a thorough investigation in the Bhima-Koregaon violence, the Centre took over the case through the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Governor BS Koshyari’s refusal to accept the government’s requests—whether to nominate Thackeray to the Council or endorse the decision to cancel final-year examination of universities due to the pandemic or nominate 12 candidates to the legislative Council— has not made things easy for Thackeray. MVA leaders keep pointing out how the Centre has not been responding to state’s request for adequately compensating the state for revenue loss due to Covid-19 or giving funds to provide compensation to farmers hit by natural calamities. After initial reluctance, Thackeray has started taking on the BJP and its supporters. The state’s decision to reopen the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik who had blamed TV anchor Arnab Goswami or Sena-ruled Mumbai civic body’s action against illegal structures by actor Kangana Ranaut clearly indicated that. The MVA has also begun investigation into fake social media handles (80,000, according to Mumbai police) that were apparently being used to target the government and Thackerays. “Thackeray doesn’t lose his cool, but can take a stern stand if he needs. In case of lockdown, too, he lifted the restrictions when he thought the timing was right,” said Hemant Desai, political analyst. Lacking administrative skills? Before becoming the chief minister, Thackeray had never occupied any public office in his life. Covid-19 outbreak was his first big test. “He has handled the government’s effort to tackle Covid-19 epidemic in a transparent way, chosen to communicate directly with the people, often being frank and seeking their cooperation. His approach was appreciated even though there were different opinions on how much the state government succeeded in containing the pandemic,” said Desai. Also read: Maharashtra’s MVA government will complete 5-year term: Shiv Sena MP Raut after meeting BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis“The MVA government’s handling of the situation was better than several states. Thackeray takes advice from a taskforce of experts and remains firm on his plan. Besides him, health minister Rajesh Tope has taken a lot of efforts to handle the situation,” said Asbe. However, Thackeray’s colleagues in the government are not completely impressed with his style of functioning. In his first year in office, he has been extremely cautious to avoid any mistakes or getting entangled in any allegations of corruption. The common complaint about him among the MVA ministers and legislators is that he is over-cautious in his bid to avoid any controversy or allegations and hence relies too much on bureaucracy. Thackeray’s approach in handling the governance is stark in contrast with several experienced ministers from the NCP and Congress who are in his cabinet (they include one former chief minister and two former deputy chief ministers). “It is a group of top bureaucrats who enjoy his trust and have a say on various issues. This is not how we used to run the government. If people have elected us, we will decide the direction the government should take and the bureaucracy should handle the execution,” remarked a senior NCP minister. It was no surprise when the NCP and Congress ministers strongly opposed his move to give a second extension to IAS officer Ajoy Mehta as chief secretary of the state. Thackeray then appointed him as the former’s advisor in the chief minister’s office (CMO). Mantralaya insiders say deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar (NCP) openly expresses his unhappiness about Thackeray not giving enough time to discuss the financial situation and what can be done to generate revenue in current circumstances. Ajit Pawar heads the finance department. “In the aftermath of Cyclone Nisarga or when he was reluctant to lift the lockdown initially, he had to be nudged by Sharad Pawar. It remains to be seen, if he learns from his experience in first year and improves handling of the government,” Desai pointed out. Rocky road ahead The coming days are challenging for Thackeray. The economy is in bad shape which means there will be paucity of funds. It will badly affect state’s work on welfare schemes and building infrastructure. It may create a negative sentiment against the government in rural areas where subsidies and welfare schemes matter more than cities. There is visible unhappiness among the NCP-Congress MLAs over the same, but as of now they have no option but to keep quiet. To make it worse, a wounded BJP would be an undesirable Opposition for any government. Fadnavis has already gone on the offensive. With not much hopes of help from the Centre, Thackeray’s skills as politician and administrator will be put to test. And not to be forgotten, he will have to do a balancing act of keeping the allies happy. Congress leaders point out that Thackeray had avoided direct confrontation with the BJP-led Centre till his son Aaditya and he were targeted by the BJP as well as the right-wing trolls over Palghar mob lynching and actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. His stand on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) was ambiguous. He did not show a desire to retain the Bhima-Koregaon case investigation with Maharashtra Police even as the Centre took over. He has not yet accepted the Congress’s demand for passing a resolution in the Assembly against new farm sector laws. This has not gone down well with his both the allies, but they do not have any option due to political compulsion. “I don’t think there is any problem regarding stability of the government. The BJP has been on the offensive in the state and that has been working in Thackeray’s favour as the three allies are sticking together,” remarked Asbe. In his first year in office, Thackeray has got a glimpse of the challenges he would face in his tenure. Can he survive another year or will he manage to complete a full five-year term?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mva-government-completes-a-year-more-challenges-ahead-for-shiv-sena-congress-ncp-in-maharashtra/story-TVEuBlZQVaLEufUvqbQqAN.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Over 2.42 lakh FYJC seats up for grabs in Mumbai Metropolitan Region, second merit list on December 5||More than 2.42 lakh first-year junior college (FYJC) seats remain vacant after the first round of online admissions. As per the revised admission schedule, these seats will be up for grabs in the second round of admissions, and the second merit list will be released on December 5.As per information shared by the Maharashtra school education department, a total of 3.2 lakh seats were available for admissions, including 2 lakh seats for online admissions.“Registrations for the second round of admissions were already complete, but with the change in socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota, we’ve reopened the registration process to allow students to change their quota preference. New registrations will be also be allowed,” said an official from the school education department.On September 9, in line with the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the SEBC quota in jobs and education, the state education department stayed the admission process for FYJC until further orders. With this, the second merit list for admissions, which was originally scheduled to be released on September 10, was stalled, leaving over 2.42 lakh students in the lurch in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) alone. While the state government has revealed that admissions to all courses will now take place without the 12% of SEBC quota, it has also clarified through its recent government resolution (GR) that admissions under the SEBC quota that have already been confirmed before September 9 will remain intact.With lakhs of seats still vacant, top college principals confirmed that seats in their colleges have already filled up after the first round. “Most seats in the open category were already filled up after the first seat merit list itself, so very few seats remain vacant for the remaining rounds. Unless students withdraw admissions in the forthcoming rounds, any dip in cut-offs will also be less likely due to the high number of Class 10 top scorers this year,” said the vice-principal of a south Mumbai college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/over-2-42-lakh-fyjc-seats-up-for-grabs-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region-second-merit-list-on-december-5/story-BG33K2uhV09gpilYHOqr0I.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Vile Parle, Kurla, Bandra, Chembur see maximum crime in Mumbai: Praja Foundation report||North-central Mumbai, consisting of areas like Vile Parle, Kurla, Bandra and Chembur, followed by Jogeshwari, Goregaon, Andheri and Malad, recorded the maximum number of cases in Mumbai in 2019-20, according to a report released by NGO Praja Foundation on Thursday. According to the report, 12,865 cases were registered in Vile Parle, Kurla, Bandra and Chembur which included 1,833 cases of theft, 580 cases of house break-in, 281 cases of rape and 40 of murder. North-west Mumbai, which constitutes of Jogeshwari, Goregaon, Andheri and Malad, recorded 11,088 cases which included 1,435 cases of theft, 540 cases of house break-in, 251 cases of rape and 40 of murder.According to the report, murder cases from April 2019 to March 2020 were highest in the north-east region of Mumbai, including Bhandup, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar and Govandi. However, this region is reportedly the least number of criminal cases with 6,594. Mumbai Police said that the areas of Bandra and Kurla are the most vulnerable, though the topography and the people living in them are different. “Ironically, cases of rape and theft are highest in Bandra which otherwise is a plush locality,” said a police officer. The second-highest region recording more crimes was north-west Mumbai with 11,088 cases.“Crimes like murder have dropped considerably due to the constant efforts of the police in several parts of the city,” said Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner, law and order.It was also observed in the annual report, that although criminal cases were less in south Mumbai with 7,223, theft cases were third-highest, with 1,110 cases after north-central Mumbai, with 1,833 cases and north-west Mumbai with 1,435 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/vile-parle-kurla-bandra-chembur-see-maximum-crime-in-mumbai-praja-foundation-report/story-HBZ0t9pADJuSSVc1HG7NmK.html
27-11-2020||Chandigarh||Constitution Day observed in and around Chandigarh||The 71st Constitution Day was commemorated on Thursday across various education institutes of the tricity. At Panjab University, a webinar on fundamental rights and duties was organised. Chief guest professor Dilip Ukey, vice-chancellor of Maharashtra National Law University, talked about fraternity, human dignity and said that people were rights-centric and must concentrate on fundamental duties.Professor Devinder Singh, coordinator of Dr BR Ambedkar Centre, talked about maintaining a healthy balance between fundamental rights and duties.Meanwhile, Government College of Yoga Education and Health in Sector 23A also organised a webinar on the theme “Constitutional values and fundamental principles of the Indian Constitution”. Former chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court Vijender Jain said the Constitution was the supreme law in the country’s democratic framework and continuously guided us in our endeavours. At Aryans College of Law in Rajpura, several virtual activities were organised. The day was also observed at Government Polytechnic College, Mohali. Principal Rajiv Puri said it was a national duty to uphold the principles of the Constitution such as equality, liberty and brotherhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/constitution-day-observed-in-and-around-chandigarh/story-5bUNmcSTiFuTrLpSN8XsOO.html
27-11-2020||City||Khanna man flees with ₹39 lakh belonging to his employer||An employee of a shopkeeper fled with ₹39.13 lakh belonging to his employer in Khanna, police said on Thursday. The accused, along with his co-worker, had left the shop for depositing the cash in the bank. However, when the co-worker went to refuel bike, the accused fled with the cash.Khanna City 2 police have registered an FIR against Nihal Vijan of Khanna following the statement of Gagan Batra, owner of Batra Enterprises. The complainant said that he had sent his employees, Nihal and Narinder, to deposit ₹39.13 lakh to his account in Union Bank of India.“When Narinder and Nihal were going to bank, their motorcycle ran out of fuel. They pushed the motorcycle to the petrol pump. While Narinder went inside the filling station, Nihal waited outside. When Narinder came out, he couldn’t find Nihal and contacted me immediately. When Nihal couldn’t be traced, we approached the police,” Batra said. Inspector Labh Singh said while scanning CCTV footage, the police found Nihal standing outside the filling station. “In the mean time, a white Honda City car turned up there. Nihal could be seen signalling the car occupants. The car arrived near him, he sat in the car and they fled the scene,” he added. The inspector said that police are trying to trace the owner of the car. The police also suspect that the accused was hatching conspiracy of committing the crime for long.The police have also conducted raids at his house in Khanna, but he was not present there. A hunt is on for his arrest, the cop said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khanna-man-robs-his-employer-of-39-lakh/story-B5HyzswLIaUWcsVZAMjYwO.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Daily Covid deaths dip below 100 for the first time in 10 days; 5,475 new cases||For the second straight day on Thursday, Delhi’s Covid-19 test positivity rate remained below 10%even as the national capital added 5,475 new cases, a marginal increase from the previous day, but significantly lower from the highs seen two weeks ago. Delhi added an average of 5,805 new cases a day in the seven days ending November 26, down from 6,228 in the week before that, and 7,196 in the week ending November 12.Meanwhile, of the 63,266 tests conducted on Thursday, 28,897 were conducted using the gold standard reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) method, the most in a single-day so far.The positivity rate in Delhi — 8.65% on Thursday — has dropped consistently from the levels it breached in the first half of this month. In fact, as per the November 15 state health bulletin, the city’s test positivity rate had hit a 140-day high of 15.33%.Experts regard the positivity rate — the proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — as a crucial metric to judge the spread of an infection. According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control in the region.The single-day death toll also dipped slightly with Delhi reporting 91 new deaths on Thursday, as compared to 99 on Wednesday, and 109 the day before that. The Capital added over 100 daily deaths for five days, between November 20 and November 24.With 5,475 new cases being reported on Thursday, Delhi’s tally has crossed 550,000 cases, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. So far, 8,811 people have died of the infection in Delhi since the first case was detected on March 2. Of the total deaths, 2,300 happened in November, as per the data. The seven-day case fatality ratio (CFR) – the proportion of deaths among those who test positive – remained at 1.8%, which has increased from 0.85% at the beginning of the month.  “The positivity rate was less than 8.5% yesterday (Wednesday). On November 7, the positivity rate was 15.2%. Over the past three weeks, the positivity rate has been going down steadily,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said in a press briefing. Dr Vivek Nangia, head of the department of pulmonology at Max hospital, Saket, said, “People have started taking Covid-19 lightly and because of that there has been a spurt in cases. This is usually the time when people get the common cold and seasonal flu. So most people are ignoring symptoms. Everyone must get tested two to three days after they get symptoms of cough and fever. They should rush to a hospital if their oxygen saturation drops -- there is generally a feeling of breathlessness, fingers turn blue, and a person feels disoriented.” The government has been working on increasing the number of tests, especially the more accurate RT-PCR tests, after a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah 10 days ago. However, the numbers have remained stagnant at about 61,000. The proportion of RT PCR tests has increased to an average of 43.5% of the total tests over the past seven days, as compared to 36.8% the week before, and 30.5% the week before that. “We are trying to increase the number of RT-PCR tests, over 35,000 samples are being collected. But, it was said that labs have a capacity to test 35,000 samples and they are unable to give reports within a day. Now, you will hear people say that their samples were collected two or three days before results came. Testing has reached a saturation level,” Jain said during the briefing. The government has also asked experts for measures that can be implemented to reduce the number of deaths from the infection. There have been around 100 deaths each day for the past 10 days in the city. “Yesterday, there was a meeting with experts and chief minister Kejriwal has asked whether there was a need to change protocols to reduce the number of deaths,” Jain said. Stepping up its preparedness, the government has increased the number of intensive care unit beds by 843 in the past five days, as per data on the Delhi corona app. But there is a long way to go before Delhi’s positivity rate reaches the desired 5% or less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/daily-covid-deaths-dip-below-100-for-the-first-time-in-10-days-5-475-new-cases/story-rvb64L84YlWRvDdYWjscjM.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Phase 3 of Covaxin trials kick off at AIIMS, neurology chief gets first dose||Phase 3 trials of the indigenously developed Covaxin kicked off on Thursday at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), with the vaccine being given to the head of the department of neurology Dr MV Padma Shrivastava.Unlike the phase 1 and 2 trials, people from the general population – including the young, the old and the comorbid – will be given the vaccine in Phase 2 and not just healthy volunteers.The large scale phase 3 trials will recruit over 26,000 volunteers from 25 trial sites across the country. In Delhi, doctors from AIIMS will administer the two dose vaccine, developed by an Indian vaccine maker in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, to 3,000 persons in Delhi’s Dakshinpuri. “The first person to be enrolled for the phase 3 trial has received the first shot today. Another shot will be given a month later. We hope to complete the enrolment of 3,000 persons within a month. Volunteers would be selected from among AIIMS employees and from a site we have in Dakshinpuri. That will ensure that we are able to do proper follow-ups,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor, department of community medicine, AIIMS. He is one of the investigators of the vaccine trial. “It is my institute’s trial and my country’s product. It is an honour to participate in the trial. All medicines that come into the market have to go through the trial. I understand the science; it is a placebo controlled trial and no one will know who gets the vaccine and who does not, and I am happy to play my part,” said Dr MV Padma Srivastava. The doctor vouched that she is over the age of 60 years and has no comorbidities.Vaccine candidates have to be tested on animal models first to check their safety and immune response. In humans, a small phase 1 trial is done to check the safety of the compound, while in phase 2, trials are done to see the immune response and the dose at which the vaccine should be administered.Large scale phase 3 trials are done to see how many infections or severe disease the vaccine prevents in a given population. “The recruitment should be complete within a month and we will start seeing some preliminary data by that time,” said Dr Mishra. The people who are administered the vaccine will be followed up for a period of 207 days by researchers. The vaccine uses an inactivated Sars-Cov-2 virus to generate an immune response that can prevent Covid-19 disease. The preliminary data, which can be presented to the drug regulator for seeking emergency use authorisation, should be available within two months, the researcher said. The doctor said so far, none of the participants in the phase 1 and 2 trials has had any adverse events, although there have been news reports of a volunteer from Nagpur developing viral pneumonia or inflammation of the lungs. “Some participants have just experienced redness and pain at the injection site, but that is common to many injectables,” said Dr Mishra. Four vaccine candidates from around the world have announced preliminary reports this week – trial data from US Pfizer and Moderna and Russian Sputnik V show their vaccines were about 95% effective at preventing Covid-19, while AstraZeneca/ Oxford say its vaccine could be up to 90% effective with a particular half dose first and a full dose later. Apart from Covaxin, ZyCovD developed by Indian pharmaceutical company Zydus is also in advanced stages of human trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/phase-3-of-covaxin-trials-kick-off-at-aiims-neurology-chief-gets-first-dose/story-BOblmC07c44m5SBPgHoOVP.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||West Delhi will survey all houses in its area for Covid-19 symptomatic persons||The west Delhi revenue district on Thursday expanded the ambit of the door-to-door Covid-19 survey meant for containment zones, vulnerable localities and hot spots and said the exercise will now cover the whole district until further orders.Other districts in Delhi are likely to follow suit in the coming days, said a senior government official privy to the matter.“It has been directed by the competent authority (the Delhi Disaster Management Authority) to continue the process of house-to-house search for symptomatic persons, contacts, those above 60 years of age and people above the age of 50 years with co-morbidities in the remaining areas until further orders. It was also directed that testing of all such persons be carried out,” said the order issued for the west district, which HT has seen.The initiative to expand the survey started with west Delhi as its district officials had proactively sought permission to do so in a meeting with chief secretary Vijay Dev on Wednesday evening. Soon, other district magistrates, who were also present in the meeting, expressed a willingness to expand the survey in their respective districts, said a senior official privy to the meeting.“We will expand the survey across the district aiming to identify, test and isolate more Covid-19 cases, especially the elderly and the vulnerable,” said Neha Bansal, district magistrate (west Delhi).Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the expansion of the surveyHT has reported on Thursday that a total of 13,516 persons (0.24%) of the 5.73 million screened as part of the Delhi government’s ongoing door-to-door survey, were found to have symptoms of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till Tuesday, while 1,178 persons have tested positive for the disease. The survey was launched on November 20 and was to conclude on Thursday, but it is likely that the exercise may now be extended.Around 6.42% -- both symptomatic persons and contacts of Covid-19 patients in high-risk areas who have undergone tests till Tuesday -- have tested positive for the virus, according to the government data accessed by HT.The survey, which was launched on the directions of Union home minister Amit Shah in light of the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases and deaths in the national capital, was supposed to cover around 5.8 million people – more than one-fourth of Delhi’s total population of around 20 million – mainly residing in the over 4,500 containment zones and other areas assessed as hot spots in the 11 revenue districts.Around 30,000 government officials and civic agency employees ranging from teachers to mosquito breeding checkers and social health workers were roped in for the survey, which had covered 5.73 million people as on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/west-delhi-will-survey-all-houses-in-its-area-for-covid-19-symptomatic-persons/story-pOVPwznzI4KZWenqQLXFoO.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi has enough storage capacity, staff to deliver Covid vaccine: Govt||Delhi has the storage capacity as well adequate trained professionals to inject the entire population of Delhi within a month once the Covid vaccine is made available, head of the state immunisation programme said on Thursday. “We had already planned out the logistics for vaccinating 5 million children under the national MR [measles and rubella] vaccine campaign. The storage capacity is already there, we have a network for the childhood immunisation programme that can be used. And, if the nurses from hospitals are also pooled in for vaccination then the entire population of Delhi can be immunised in a month,” said Dr Suresh Seth, head of the state immunisation programme. However, the vaccination is unlikely to be carried out all at once as it will depend on the number vaccines that get approval and the number of doses that are made available. Currently, all the vaccines that are in advanced phase III clinical trials require two doses to be administered. On Thursday, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said schools in the city are unlikely to open before a vaccine becomes available. “There are no plans to open the schools as of now. A vaccine is likely to become available soon. Until we are completely assured about the situation is in control, schools are unlikely to open in Delhi,” he said during a press briefing. HT had reported last month that the government had started collecting data of 13- categories of healthcare workers, including MBBS doctors, AYUSH practitioners, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists and ANMs (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife). The central government has said that 30 million healthcare workers and frontline workers will be the first to receive any vaccine that becomes available. HT had also reported that the government has identified a new storage facility at the state-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality hospital in Tahirpur. The government currently has a vaccine storage facility in Civil Lines, which was used to store over 5 million doses of the MR vaccine for the national campaign that was to happen in 2019. “We have deep freezers and other machines needed to safely store the vaccine. We might just need one more site where large quantities of the vaccines can be stored,” said a senior government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-has-enough-storage-capacity-staff-to-deliver-covid-vaccine-govt/story-7BWxyRkyPiytDZG6yjufdK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Stricter checks at Delhi’s interstate borders lead to traffic chaos||Heightened checking at Delhi’s borders, to prevent agitating farmers from entering the national capital, resulted in huge jams and confusion among motorists crossing state lines throughout Thursday even as stray group of farmers managed to reach Delhi and were detained. The situation was the worst at Singhu border (connects Haryana’s Sonepat with Delhi’s Narela) after the local police shut the border for nearly three hours in the evening. The farmers from Punjab and Haryana were scheduled to reach Delhi on Thursday via several highways for a two-day protest named “Delhi Chalo”. The protesters are demanding that the Central government revert the implementation of the three new farm laws that, they allege, will harm the interests of farmers across the country. The Delhi Police on Wednesday had refused permission to farmers’ organisations to protest in Delhi on Thursday and Friday.On Thursday, motorists complained of being stuck in slow-moving traffic near the borders for hours, and many took to Twitter to bombard the Delhi traffic police with queries about road closures and restrictions. But Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (Delhi traffic police), said the only road that was completely shut on Thursday was the Singhu border near Narela. “We diverted traffic towards the Ring Road and the Signature Bridge. All closures are being made at the discretion of the local police,” he said. Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north), under whose jurisdiction the Singhu border comes, said there were inputs from the Haryana Police that protesters were marching towards Delhi. “So we closed both carriageways of the border road from 4.30pm to 7pm,” Sharma said.Other highways leading to Delhi also saw traffic move at a snail’s pace even as police maintained that they were only carrying out “strict checking” and not closing any road. “The traffic was slow on the DND Flyway (Delhi-Noida) in the morning due to heightened checking. The Ghazipur border (Delhi-Ghaziabad) and Chilla border (Delhi-Noida) were not so affected,” Jasmeet Singh, DCP (east), said. Ingit Pratap Singh, DCP (south-west), admitted that while checking at the Rajokri and Mahipalpur borders (both connect Delhi with Gurugram) did slow down traffic, the roads were not closed even once the whole day.Unless the protest march by the farmers is called off overnight, the situation could be quite similar or even worse on Friday, the traffic police has warned. It has advised motorists to avoid roads such as Outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK Road, NH-44 and Singhu border. Commuters to and from Noida were also caught in slow-moving traffic on Thursday. “ It took me half an hour to cross the Chilla (Noida-Mayur Vihar) border. There were barricades set up on both Delhi and Noida sides and there was a lot of checking,” said Sadhna Gupta, a Noida resident travelling to Mayur Vihar Phase 3 for work.In Ghaziabad, there was heavy deployment of personnel and administration officials at the UP Gate border with Delhi where commuters faced traffic snarls from about 11am till about 2.30pm. Commuters said the police had allowed vehicles to move via the Hindon canal over-bridge on NH-9 but no vehicle was allowed on the road below the UP Gate flyover. “Many commuters used the over-bridge to move to Delhi. Below the UP Gate flyover, the Ghaziabad traffic police had put up barricading for checks and that resulted in traffic bunching up,” said Kuldeep Saxena, resident of Shakti Khand, Indirapuram. Sporadic protests in Delhi There were sporadic protests by farmers in Delhi on Thursday and the police responded by registering cases in some of these incidents. Eish Singhal, deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi), said that 70 farmers and political activists were detained from Jantar Mantar and later let off. “We have registered a case under the IPC Section 188 (disobedience to an order),” Singhal said. A group of 35 farmers were detained near Majnu Ka Tilla. NS Bundela, joint commissioner of police (central range), said, “They had arrived by public transport. We booked them for violating Covid-19 protocols.” Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava also made a tour of boder areas to review the situation. He said, “We have requested the farmer groups not to enter Delhi and if despite that they enter Delhi, we have our force deployed and prepared. We are in regular touch with our counterparts in Haryana and Punjab for updates. Since they have blocked the national highways there will be some problems which we will try to sort it out as soon as possible.” Protest low-key in NCR cities The protest against farm laws remained low-key in Gurugram when compared to areas bordering Punjab, as a majority of protesters mobilised by farmer unions in south Haryana were prevented by the police from reaching Panchgaon and Gurugram. Activists, including Swaraj India convener Yogendra Yadav, and farmer leaders were taken into preventive custody on Thursday morning when they tried to move towards Delhi to participate in the ”Delhi Chalo” protest. Addressing the media at Rathiwas, Yadav said, “Farmers across the country are united and they stand with protesters from Punjab who are spearheading the movement to save agriculture. Repressive measures are being taken in Punjab, Uttarakhand and particularly Haryana to deprive farmers of their constitutional rights,” he said. In Greater Noida’s Pari Chowk, a group of 30 farmers from the Bhartiya Kisan Union was stopped while trying to get to Delhi. “We assembled at the zero point and before we could start moving to Delhi, we were detained and taken to the DCP office,” said Rajkumar Roopwas, tehsil president, BKU. A group of about 25-30 farmers in the afternoon tried to move to UP Gate but were held back by police at Mohan Nagar. The traffic police officials said that checking points were also set up on the Hindon elevated road to scan vehicles for movement of farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/stricter-checks-at-delhi-s-interstate-borders-lead-to-traffic-chaos/story-BmtYa86ZmFmVwDXqlEvyJK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers should be allowed to protest peacefully: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday showed his support to farmers protesting against the three farm laws passed in Parliament in September and said they should be allowed to stage a peaceful protest.“The three farm bills of the central government are anti-farmer. Instead of rolling back these bills, farmers are being stopped from staging peaceful protests. Water cannons are being used against them. This is an injustice to the farmers. Peaceful protest is their constitutional right,” Kejriwal said in a tweet on Thursday.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had voted against the Bills in both the Lok Sabha (where it has one MP) and Rajya Sabha (where it has three MPs).Thousands of farmers are marching to Delhi from Punjab and Haryana, protesting against the laws that liberalise the agriculture sector. While some groups were stopped in Haryana on Wednesday and water cannons were used against them, several others continued to approach Delhi to stage a protest. The Delhi Police has issued a notice prohibiting any gathering in the Capital and the Delhi Metro temporarily closed operation on certain routes on Thursday.The three laws that have led to widespread protests are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-should-be-allowed-to-protest-peacefully-kejriwal/story-VaaosSdWeb1vJYFnurg0oO.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Metro to remain suspended from NCR cities to Delhi on Friday||Metro services to Delhi from stations in neighbouring NCR cities such as Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad will remain suspended on Friday in view of farmers’ protests, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Thursday. Trains from Delhi to these cities, however, will ply as usual. The corporation also clarified that metro services in Delhi, and within the respective NCR cities -- as well as the rapid metro -- will run normally.After remaining suspended on seven corridors for most of the day due to the protests, normal services to and from NCR cities resumed from 5pm on Thursday. But in a statement issued on Thursday evening, DMRC announced that train services from NCR towards Delhi will not be available on Friday as a precautionary measure. “As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections. However, services from NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice.”Between 2pm and 5pm on Thursday, DMRC resumed services from Delhi towards other NCR cities, but trains from the opposite direction weren’t allowed. It was only after 5pm that Delhi Police allowed DMRC to resume full operations, including travel from NCR to the Capital.Most of Thursday, commuters travelling from or to Delhi faced problems as Metro restricted its routes in the wake of the farmers calling for a “Dilli Chalo” march in protest against the Centre’s recently passed farm bills. This was done on the request of Delhi Police to avoid overcrowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The move left a number of passengers stranded, who had to either book a cab, take e-rickshaw or a three-wheeler for their journey.Greater Noida resident Vivek Rana, who stays in GTB Nagar and is preparing for civil services, said he was stranded at Mayur Vihar Extension as there was no service beyond New Ashok Vihar for those wanting to go to Noida.“I had to book a bike ride because cabs were costly. Even cab drivers are apprehensive in crossing the border because of the heavy police presence,” he said.Sanjeev Kumar Jha, 49, who travels everyday for work from Dwarka, Sector 9, to Noida, Sector 15, by Delhi Metro, said, “Today, I had to get down at New Ashok Nagar and then take an e-rickshaw to reach my office in Sector 5.”Another passenger who had to reach Noida, Sector 168, said when he got off at Mayur Vihar Extension Metro station, he booked two cabs but both cancelled the rides as no one wanted to cross border. E-rickshaw drivers and auto drivers plying near Metro stations, however, got lucky as they had plenty of passengers willing to go to Noida, many of these getting off at New Ashok Nagar and Mayur Vihar Metro stations. Ratan Singh, a 40-year-old auto driver, said the first drop he got in the morning was at Noida, Sector 18. “We don’t get such passengers because Metro has direct connectivity. Some even got far off drops,” Singh added.These sections will be shut on Friday till further orders, DMRC officials said. On the Red line, no service will be available between Dilshad Garden and Major Mohit Sharma Rajender Nagar section.Similarly, on the Yellow line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA city Centre) services will not be available between Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations.Trains will not run between Noida City Centre and New Ashok Nagar and Vaishali to Anand Vihar.On the Inderlok-Mundka corridor (Green line), services will not be available between Tikri Kalan and Brig.Similarly, on the Violet line, there will be no trains between Badarpur Border and Mewala Maharajpur section. DMRC officials said regular services will be available on the Airport line and other corridors.On the Magenta line, no services will be available from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh and Botanical Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/metro-to-remain-suspended-from-ncr-cities-to-delhi-on-friday/story-PhP2tnjkOABB3IIZO21JGM.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Weather comes to Delhi’s rescue, winds flush out pollution||Good winds helped Delhi breathe relatively cleaner air on Thursday as the air quality index (AQI) improved to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ zone after remaining in the ‘severe’ zone for a day. The air quality may improve to the ‘poor’ category by Friday and continue to remain so at least over the next three days, government agencies have forecast.According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) 4 pm bulletin, the average AQI stood at 302 compared to 413 on Wednesday and 379 on Tuesday. The levels of particulate matter (PM) also came down significantly. On Thursday evening, the PM 10 (coarse dust particles) levels reduced to 218ug/m3 as compared to 410 ug/m3 at the same time the previous day. The PM 2.5 levels (the most harmful aerosols in Delhi’s air) also came down to133 ug/m3 from 243ug/m3 on Wednesday.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the improvement was mainly because of a change in the wind direction and speed. Traces of rain were observed at the Lodhi Road and Ridge weather stations. Safdarjung Observatory -- the official marker for the city’s weather -- did not record any rainfall.V K Soni of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre said that with the impact of stubble burning being almost negligible, the good winds helped in the dispersion of local pollutants. “The wind speed was around 10-12 kmph. The wind direction changed to northwesterly in the afternoon from easterly. We expect the wind speed to remain high over the next three days. The air quality is likely to improve to the ‘poor’ zone and will remain so at least till November 30,” Soni said.According to the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of stubble burning to city’s PM 2.5 levels on Thursday was just around 1% with the number of fire counts being as low as 37.COLD WAVEThe IMD had also predicted cold wave conditions in Delhi from November 27. “Due to the influence of a western disturbance over Afghanistan and neighbouring areas, fairly widespread rainfall and snowfall, as well as isolated hailstorms, are likely over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan, Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh from November 25, which will result in low temperatures in Delhi as well,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.He said the minimum temperature is likely to remain around 6-7 degrees C till November-end. “The skies will be clear again, and this will cool the surface down faster and reduce the temperature by the end of the week,” said Srivastava.On Thursday, the minimum temperature was 10.4 degrees C, a notch below normal. The maximum settled at 25.8 degrees C, normal for this time of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/weather-comes-to-delhi-s-rescue-winds-flush-out-pollution/story-rb3BUYWULyQXUB4oshvgyH.html
27-11-2020||Education||DU to release lists for sports, ECA quota on December 2||Delhi University (DU) will on Wednesday release the list of marks awarded based on certificates submitted for undergraduate admissions under the sports quota. The marks will be notified on the students’ admission portal, following which they will be given three days to report any grievances.The university this year skipped trials for admissions under the sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) quotas in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, and students will be enrolled only on the basis of merit and participation certificates. In DU colleges, 5% supernumerary seats are reserved under these two categories collectively in each course. In a notification issued on Thursday, the university’s sports council said, “A grievance period of three days, from December 3 to December 5, will be given to the applicants to register their grievances (if any).”Grievances can be sent to the university on email, and applicants are advised not to visit the campus. “The centralized sports merit list for each sport/ game along with the ranking of applicants for sports quota admissions to UG Courses 2020 will be displayed on the DU UG portal after the redressal of the grievances of the applicants,” the notification added.Explaining the reason behind the delay in announcement of the results of sports quota admission even as the academic session for first-year undergraduate students began on November 18, sports council chairperson Pankaj Sinha said, “We have received over 50,000 sports certificates, on the basis of which marks have been allotted. Because of the prevailing pandemic situation, we could not call all our teachers together. They worked in batches.”Sinha said students will be able to take admission immediately after the grievance redressal. “There won’t be multiple lists of selected candidates this year. We will release the marks of all students and according to their ranks and marks, they will be allotted eligible courses and colleges on their admission portal,” he said.Meanwhile, on Thursday, the university released the list of marks allotted to candidates on the basis of their ECA certificates. It has invited students to register their grievances if any before it starts enrolments. “The centralized ECA merit list for each category along with a ranking of candidates for admission to UG courses will be displayed on the DU UG admission portal after the redressal of grievances of the applicants,” read another notification issued by the University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/du-to-release-lists-for-sports-eca-quota-on-december-2/story-nnyT27IXR26S7piB5gh2pK.html
27-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt asks CPWD to explain violation of tree transplantation norms||The Delhi environment and forest department on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), asking the agency to “explain” if it had violated conditions of the permission granted to transplant trees for the new Parliament building project and if so, “in what circumstances”.A Delhi government spokesperson said the department held a meeting on the matter on Thursday. “A show-cause notice has been issued to the CPWD following reports of violation. Necessary action will be taken under the DPTA, in case violations are found,” the spokesperson said. Officials in the department said they have given 15 days to the agency to respond to the notice issued under the Delhi Preservation of Trees Act (DPTA). They said It came to their notice that CPWD had started the process of transplanting trees to a site more than 20 km away in NTPC Eco Park in Kalindi Kunj. As per the permission granted by the Delhi government, the agency was supposed to transplant the trees in the Central Vista itself.“Following news reports of violation of the permission given for transplantation, we have issued a show-cause notice to CPWD, asking them to explain, if the terms of the permission issued have been violated, and why the due procedure was not followed for the same. We have sought details of the number of trees, size, age and the kind of species transplanted to the site so far,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named.The official said a change in a site cannot be done without following due procedure and amounts to a violation of the DPTA, under which the permission was granted. “Once a response is received, officials from the CPWD will be summoned for a hearing in the matter,” the official said.A senior CPWD official countered, “We are sending our reply to the Delhi government’s forest department. There is no violation of law or procedure. We have followed the due process. The site where trees are being transplanted is a government site.”The notification issued by the Delhi government granting the transplantation permission on September 16 stated: “Transplantation of 404 trees, which are standing on the site (plot no. 118, next to existing Parliament building) shall be done by the user agency (CPWD) at eight pockets in the Central Vista, New Delhi ….It shall be ensured by the user agency that all conditions mentioned in the environment clearance shall be followed scrupulously.”According to officials, the 404 trees to be transplanted are 100% native species and range from as young as five to 100 years old. The species include jamun, neem, peepal, amaltas, bargad and gular, among others.Ishwar Singh, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), said if the agency undertaking the work needs to change the sanctioned location for any project, they are required to send an application to the tree officer concerned, who will inspect the site and assess if it is conducive to the survival and growth of the trees being transplanted. “If the due procedure is not followed, it’s a violation of the permission and can cause damage to trees,” Singh said.According to the Delhi government’s transplantation policy, 80% of the transplanted trees must survive after a year. Besides, the compensatory plantation has to be carried out by the agency undertaking the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-govt-asks-cpwd-to-explain-violation-of-tree-transplantation-norms/story-NaC9dGpXzK5ytbvkUyzVDK.html
27-11-2020||City||From notoriety to glory, a village on border that changed its fate||Once a hotspot of terrorism and infamous for drug peddling activities, Jalaldiwal village in Raikot block is set to restore its glory and change its fate.Villagers are setting an example for the country by showing how communities and NGOs can work together to conserve the environment, help the needy and check the drug menace.Villagers, who formed the social organisation Giani Nihal Singh Sewa Society, have distributed medicines worth Rs 2 lakh to the needy from the village dispensary in the past one year. The dispensary remained open even during the lockdown to cater to the villagers.Besides, the constant persuasion of villagers led to the setting up of a Rs 5-crore power grid in the panchayat land that is expected to resolve the problem of power outage in six nearby villages.In order to protect the environment, 90% of villagers have decided not to set the paddy stubble on fire. Further, they are milking profits as the cooperative milk society of the village has made a whooping annual profit of Rs 8 lakh from the sale of dairy products.Not only this, the village, having a population of over 5,000, is also promoting sports among girls. Currently, over 20 girls, most of them from underprivileged backgrounds, are being trained for free in government-run sports institutions.“The hockey wing for under-14 and under-17 age group was set up in this village in 2013. Since then, the girls’ teams from the village are continuously bagging the first or second position at district-level competitions. Besides, six students have participated in the state-level competition,” said government-appointed hockey coach Baljeet Kaur.Sarpanch of the village Jagjit Singh Jagga said that Jalaldiwal has a glorious history with many freedom fighters hailing from the village. “But during the dark days of militancy, our village was targetted by terrorists. In 1991, a bomb was lobbed in the bank, where the dispensary is now located. One person was killed in the explosion. Besides, cannabis was grown in the vacant land which also attracted drug addicts. This brought a bad name to our village,” said Jagga.He credited homeopath turned progressive farmer Harminder Singh for being a catalyst for change.“Had he not persuaded all of us, this development would not have been possible. Harminder channelised the energies of the youth towards creative works. He formed a society that played a pivotal role in setting up development projects in the village,” said Jagga.Harminder Singh said that bringing social change was an easy task. “Initially, we faced a lot of criticism for our initiatives including management of stubble. There were times when I was told that I am a maniac and youngsters were asked to stay away from me. But, staying positive is the only way forward. Now, things are going in the right direction,” he said.Surinder Singh (75), the founder of Giani Nihal Singh Sewa Society, who is also running a library consisting of over 1,000 books said, “We kept the society apolitical. We have encouraged the participation of youngsters in development activities which proved to be a boon.”Rural medical officer Dr Deepak Bakshi said that the initiative by the villagers also intrigued NRIs to participate. Now, patients from nearby villages are also visiting the dispensary for treatment, he said.Appreciating the efforts of villagers SDM Raikot Himanshu Gupta said that these developmental works would not have been possible without the active participation of villagers, particularly youngsters.“The power grid being set-up in the village will resolve the problem of low voltage and breakdown,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/from-notoriety-to-glory-a-village-on-border-that-changed-its-fate/story-fBTEppOAC6gvr5mvqphJ1K.html
27-11-2020||Mumbai||Sedition charge: Kangana Ranaut, sister to appear before police in January||After receiving a rap from the Bombay high court, actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel agreed to appear at the Bandra police station where an offence has been registered, charging them with sedition.The counsel for the sisters, advocate Rizwan Siddiquee, assured the bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik that Ranaut and her sister will appear before the investigating officer of the case between 12pm and 2pm on January 8, 2021.They will, however, not be arrested, as the high court has temporarily restrained the police from taking any coercive action against the Bollywood actor and her sister.The statement about their appearance before police came after the judges questioned as to why they did not appear before the police despite summons.Also Read: Kangana Ranaut, sister Rangoli move Bombay HC for quashing of FIR in sedition case“We gather from news reports that now a third summons has been issued to the applicants,” said the bench.Public prosecutor Deepak Thakare responded to a court query on the issue, saying the third summons asked them to appear on November 23, but they haven’t honoured the summons.Siddiquee then pointed out that all the three summons had been answered. He said the actor and her sister could not come to the police station because of a wedding in the family. According to the Covid-19 guidelines, they have to remain isolated for a certain number of days after the wedding, he added.“What is the procedure? What do you mean by you have answered the summons?” the bench asked Siddiquee. “How do you answer summons... by sending letter to police by post. Are police bound to wait for your convenience?” the judges sought to know. “You have to honour the summons,” they insisted.Siddiquee then took specific instructions from Ranaut and Chandel and informed the court that they will return to Mumbai on the first weekend of January 2021 and appear before the investigating officer on January 8.The actor and her sister moved the Bombay high court on Monday, challenging the October 16, 2020 order of a magistrate court in Bandra on the basis of which an FIR was registered against them at Bandra police station for allegedly “creating hatred between Hindus and Muslims, especially those engaged in Bollywood.”The Bandra police on October 17, 2020, booked the sisters under sections 124(A) (sedition - to bring or attempt to bring into hatred or contempt, or excite or attempt to excite disaffection towards the Government established by law in India, by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise), 153(A) (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, language etc. and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class, by insulting it’s religion or religious beliefs) along with section 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.The magisterial order had come on a complaint lodged by casting director Munawarali aka Sahil Sayyed. The magistrate directed the Bandra police to take action under Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, as he felt that a thorough investigation and search and seizure was necessary in the matter.Sayyed, in his complaint to the magisterial court, had alleged that Ranaut has, through her tweets and television interviews, continuously defamed the Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased people, murderers etc.The casting director further alleged that her sister Chandel, who also works as her manager, has also tweeted highly objectionable messages, intended to create communal rift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/sedition-charge-kangana-ranaut-sister-to-appear-b/story-9KS9SY9jFTKjSGTjgKi3aL.html
