28-11-2020||Mumbai||₹2.32L fine collected from auto drivers ferrying more than two passengers in Thane||The Thane city traffic police have taken action against 4,646 errant auto rickshaw drivers for travelling with more than two passengers since the start of November.The drive was carried out from November 9 across the 18 traffic units in Thane commissionerate to ensure auto drivers do not violate the norms during the festive season.The police, however, found that despite the permission to ferry only two passengers, auto drivers were carrying three to five commuters. As per the records provided by the traffic police, till November 25, action was taken against 4,646 auto drivers and a total fine of ₹2.32 lakh collected.The highest number of 570 cases was registered in Kalwa followed by 517 in Kalyan and 358 cases by Kapurbawadi while Ambernath had merely 55 violation cases against the auto drivers followed by 118 in Vithalwadi and 137 in Rabodi.Balasaheb Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), said, “We had received several complaints from the commuters about auto rickshaw drivers ferrying more than two commuters. As per the norms of social-distancing, only two commuters can travel in an auto at a time. Most share autos from railway station carried four to five commuters, thus we initiated the special drive. A fine of ₹500 was imposed on the drivers who were caught ferrying more than two commuters.”With the unavailability of adequate public transport, most residents opt for share autos to reach home from the station. Patil said, “This being true, it is certainly not advisable to sit in close proximity of each other as it is a sure way of passing the infection. We would appeal to the commuters to wait for next auto or bus instead of overcrowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2-32l-fine-collected-from-auto-drivers-ferrying-more-than-two-passengers-in-thane/story-InnQGethaRVgs7lQvYrkiI.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A cobra’s polite reminder||Golfers playing the tricity greens occasionally stumble upon a shed snake skin. They are wary of venturing close, fearing that the discard’s owner may be lurking and tempted to take a nip at a rippling ankle. The skin is evidence of a snake’s presence, a reptile most often not seen due to its furtive, nocturnal existence. Like a leopard and its revelatory pugmarks, a snake is ghostly, it is here and yet not there. Freshly-discarded skins of Spectacled cobras are lying to the left of the ladies’ tee box at the 6th hole and another one just ahead of the tee for the 7th hole at the Chandigarh Golf Club. Hawk-eyed caddies spotted the skins and tipped off their sahebs, leading to a jittery surprise at the spot and a mental note for the future not to hit an errant ball into that spot of scrub roughs!This was followed by banter at the 19th watering hole and a recall of snake anecdotes, the caddies’ wagging tongues being a principal source of such lore. Speculation followed on species identity, whether it was venomous, and cues were the distinctive impression of scales on discarded skin. Snakes shed periodically as their body outgrows the skin, which does not keep pace with the reptile’s growth. When discarding, the snake inches its way through the old layer until it is completely removed, inside out, much like peeling off one’s sock! What appears uncanny is that the skin is found in one perfect piece (try skinning a Kinnaur apple in one, unbroken peel!). The fragile discard – like crumbling, flaming autumn leaves on winter’s pyre – returns to nourish the soil that had birthed it.I sought a perspective from herpetologist and Padma Shri awardee Rom Whitaker. “Since snakes are territorial (have a specific home range), they may indeed return to where they shed their skins. Also, a male snake will follow the scent trail of a female and may show up where a female had shed her skin. There are ancient myths that snakes live forever since they are able to shed their skins and thus ‘renew’ themselves. If you look closely at a shed skin, you will see that even the eye cap is shed, which is like a snake changing its contact lenses!” Whitaker told this writer.  La Vie En Rose ‘Life in happy or rosy hues’, is the title of a French song immortalised by Edith Piaf. But life was hardly happy last week for tricity citizens due to the cold wave. Poor granny’s teeth chattered like a typewriter’s clatter as winds armed with the sting of snows swept down from Himachal Pradesh and beyond.If you wondered what stoic Himachalis were weathering high above and what unseen devil was causing your discomfort in the plains, here is a picture that could thaw a 1,000 words from the frozen sea within. It was taken on Thursday at a highlander’s cottage garden ringed by orchards of apple and shrouded in half-a-foot of snow in the village of Bahu, Banjar valley (Kullu).A bunch of velvety vine roses set in snow like rubies glowing in a white jewel case, the photo kindled warm fires in the landscape of the imagination. “Snows came early but are beneficial as they are white manure for apples. The more it snows, the better for apples though our lives get tougher. My garden roses bear snow bravely and will not wilt till such time as their branches snap under repeated snowfall,” Atheist Deepak, the iconoclast photographer, told this writer. For orchard owners, snow struggles and robust roses evoke a bitter-sweet metaphor: the best roses oft come with the most prickly thorns.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/wildbuzz-a-cobra-s-polite-reminder/story-ZLWhzVzayzcEe75t9homiN.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Despite warnings, heavy vehicles use narrow bypass road in Kalyan||Heavy vehicles continue to use the narrow and weak bridges along the Govindwadi bypass road despite the directives to use the road only for light vehicles.The authorities have put up a sign board on the bypass preventing heavy vehicles from taking the route.However, a huge trailer truck passing along the bypass early this week met with an accident followed by which one side of the road was shut for more than two days.This led to traffic congestion on the Patripool Rail Over Bridge (ROB) that connects to the bypass road.The container was carrying a 100ft-long huge drum, the bottom of the container rammed into the speed breaker at the bypass road. “The repair work was initiated on Wednesday and by evening, the trailer was shifted from the bypass road,” said Sukhdev Patil, senior police inspector, Kalyan traffic police.The Govindwadi bypass road was opened to the vehicles in February 2017 by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). However, heavy vehicles were prohibited due to a narrow and weak bridge falling on this bypass road.Sreeniwas Ghanekar, a social activist from Kalyan, said, “When the authority has put up a board saying that heavy vehicles cannot be allowed, how come these vehicles ply on the bypass road. The work on the bypass road is still under way and there is no safety measures taken by the authority as heavy vehicles keep plying on this road.”Shashikant Sontakke, chief engineer, MSRDC, said it was the job of the traffic police to stop the trailer.He added, “There are two narrow bridges on the bypass road, out of which work on one was completed while the repair of the other bridge is under way. We have clearly stated that no heavy vehicles can ply on the bridge. The traffic police should ensure it is imposed.”The traffic police, however, stated that these vehicles are allowed at night despite the directives. “The heavy vehicles can be allowed between 11pm and 5am, which is why the trailer was allowed,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/despite-warnings-heavy-vehicles-use-narrow-bypass-road-in-kalyan/story-YleGqIgmAPMz50WhlvPxTI.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||MSRTC bus driver arrested for mishap on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||The accident of MSRTC bus on Mumbai-Pune Expressway on Thursday was due to the bus driver trying to overtake a trailer from the left side, as per an eye witness account.The driver had earlier claimed that the trailer was speeding and had hit the bus. The police have now arrested the bus driver for providing false information.One person died and 13 others were injured in the accident after the right side of the MSRTC bus, coming from Satara to Mumbai, was completely damaged after collision with the trailer.The driver of the bus, Jagannath Kisan Raut (48), in his statement, had told police that the unidentified trailer driver had rammed into the bus while overtaking rashly.“After we detained the trailer driver Bajrang Sharma, he revealed that it was the bus driver who tried to overtake from the left side. We confirmed this from other witnesses and when questioned, the MSRTC driver too accepted his role,” senior police inspector Ravindra Daundkar from Panvel Taluka police station said.It was found that Raut had to take a left turn ahead to go towards Panvel depot for which he tried to overtake the trailer from the left and collided with the trailer, injuring all 13 passengers on the right side of the bus and killing Ganesh Ramdas Kadam (36), a BEST driver from Satara, who was going to Mumbai to join back work after Diwali.Raut was arrested under Sections 182 (False information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) and 211 (False charge of offence made with intent to injure) of the IPC.The trailer driver was detained on Thursday evening and was interrogated. After his statement, police also recorded the statement of the passengers who were injured.“Of the 13 injured, three are in critical condition. We recorded the statement of the other passengers who narrated what had happened. After corroborating all the statements, we interrogated the MSRTC bus driver after which he confessed,” Daundkar added.The bus had left Satara on Wednesday night and was heading to Patel depot when it met with accident at Kon village near Panvel at around 1.30am. Following the accident, Sr PI Daundkar and assistant police inspector Subhash Pujari of Highway Safety Patrol, Palaspa unit, reached the spot and shifted the injured to a hospital.“Since the right side of the bus was damaged. All passengers sitting there fractured their legs,” API Pujari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/msrtc-bus-driver-arrested-for-mishap-on-mumbai-pune-expressway/story-EhDVLhkOufgIdHHhhVooYN.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Blended learning models are here to stay||Today, we cannot imagine education systems without technological interventions. The penetration of information and communication technologies (ICTs) in academic affairs has scaled up during the Covid-19 pandemic as millions of students have been driven out of their academic space and kept confined at their homes.In such a situation, academic institutions have embraced online teaching. Access to classes have been provided to learners and their teachers through available gadgets. Now virtually a part of academic life, it looks as if this system of teaching will now blend with the traditional classroom mode. Online teaching was the immediate solution to academic disconnectivity when the Covid-19 virus struck. It might, however, not be accepted as the complete replacement for classroom teaching, especially for professional and practical courses and other subjects requiring hands on skill development and training.Education is not about memorising facts and spewing everything out during examinations. It is aimed at overall development of students, which can only be attained in an organised academic setup. Undoubtedly, the crossover to online teaching caused by the tectonic shift of the pandemic will be long lasting and/or permanent. Thus, technological interventions would be best put to use after academic activities resume in physical classrooms, with routine didactic learning approach. In the post Covid situation, blended learning model (BLM) with face-to-face education augmented by online teaching is likely to be the new normal. Technology enabled learning deliverables through gadgets supplemented with frontal instruction method will offer a futuristic model of education, taking in its ambit the best of both methods. In BLM, the role of educators will also be transformed. They will act as facilitators, guiding learners in practical application of knowledge, monitoring their performance and providing a blend of assorted content formats, making learning dynamic and vibrant entity. Topics that are difficult to grasp will be covered in class and other content made available online for students to cover at home. This will also help teachers provide personalised attention to the students. In BLM technology enabled monitoring of students’ presence and performance through Learning Management System will help teachers get customisable learning modules based on the competency and learning behaviour of students in a student centric teaching and learning environment. Use of educational technologies encompassing augmented reality and virtual reality will make practical learning more immersive and realistic and will cover up for loss of practical training in exigencies. BLM will also give learners the flexibility to grasp things at their own pace as they will be free to access the same content multiple times, to chisel their practical skills. This will also allow them to remain connected to their institutions and teachers when they study from home. The benefits? Students will become proficient in self learning as they can, guided by the teacher, prepare at home for next day’s interactive discussion in class. This will teach youngsters soft skills such as t time management, accessing the right information and independent decision-making and will also develop critical analytical thinking, confidence, as well as team work. (The authors Dr Nirmal Singh and Dr G Banga are assistant librarian, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University and professor, School of Business Studies, Punjab Agricultural University, respectively, both in Ludhiana. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-blended-learning-models-are-here-to-stay/story-55V3AUL36iW714vYmS96WO.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Pending work on Thakurli parallel road gets Kalyan-Dombivli civic body nod||With the launching of the girder of Patripool Rail Over Bridge (RoB), the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has now also given a push to 100m patch of the Thakurli parallel road that was stuck for more than four years. The patch on this 1.5 km road was unfinished due to the land dispute.The officials of Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) claimed that the work would be completed in a month.This pending portion of the 1.5km road had been causing congestion on the Patripool bridge as the commuters taking the parallel road had to take another narrow lane to reach the bridge.Executive engineer Jagdish Kore said, “The work on the remaining stretch of the road has already started. It will be taken up with topmost priority as it connects the Patripool bridge and once the bridge is ready, this road should also be open for the vehicles.”The Patripool ROB was dismantled in November 2018 and is presently under construction by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The bridge is expected to be ready by January 2021.“This portion of the road was pending due to a land dispute that has been resolved by the civic commissioner,” added Kore. The land belonged to a private party and there was a dispute between the party and the civic body over compensation.This particular road helps connect Kalyan-Thakurli-Dombivli cities. Presently, those going towards Thakurli take the parallel road through a narrow lane that passes by the Kachoregaon.“The Thakurli parallel road, which was built for easy connectivity between Kalyan and Dombivli, did not serve the purpose due to the pending portion. Vehicles taking the parallel road used to flow freely on the road and later get stuck at the Kachoregaon road as the entry of the road that connects the bridge was not ready,” said Umesh Pawar, 30, who takes the parallel road to connect Dombivli for work.The Thakurli parallel road had been built with the purpose of giving road connectivity when the railway service is disrupted.The KDMC had passed the project to concretise the road in March 2013. However, the work for the parallel road began a year later as it faced land acquisition hurdles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pending-work-on-thakurli-parallel-road-gets-kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-nod/story-qKaZiFRi6o4xwTCmSAF3ZJ.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Two Delhi Police constables among nine held for fraud in competitive examinations||Two Delhi Police constables were among the nine people held by the Noida police on Saturday for allegedly operating a gang, which provided scribes for writing competitive examinations in place of real candidates.According to police officials, a call was received on the police helpline number at 8.15am from an examination centre in Sector 62, complaining that the invigilator had caught three people for impersonating candidates for a Delhi police entrance examination. “A team from Sector 58 police station rushed to the examination site, and the three candidates were taken into custody. Upon questioning, they revealed details of a racket in which several other people were involved,” said Luv Kumar, joint commissioner of police, law and order. The mastermind of the racket was identified as one Ravi Kumar, who was posted as an inspector with the income tax department. His nephew, Dinesh Jogi, who was also a part of the gang, was nabbed on Saturday. “Jogi claims to be an ASO (assistant section officer) for the ministry of defence, who is waiting for his joining letter after taking his examination in 2017 through the same fraudulent method. He runs the gang on the behalf of his uncle’s. His accomplice, Arvind, is also an ASO for the home ministry and worked for the gang. He would bring in both candidates, looking for someone to take examinations on their behalf, and scribes looking to earn quick money,” said assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1, Rajneesh Verma. The fake scribes were identified as constables Manjeet Singh (batch of 2018, currently suspended) and Ravindra Kumar (2008 batch). Police officials said that they took help from their relatives to act as solvers on behalf of candidates and would keep aside their uniforms to avoid suspicion. “The suspects used a mobile application that would produce a photograph similar to the candidates. Using this they would develop a fake identity card which would then be used for online competitive exams,” said Kumar. A candidate was also among the nine people held by police on Saturday. Police officials said that the gang has already impersonated at least 100 candidates over the past three years for different exams. “Their fees also varied from one examination to another but on average they charged ₹10 lakh per candidate which they distributed among themselves,” said Kumar. Noida Police has also recovered incriminating chats between the suspects along with voice recordings in their phones discussing plans for the operation. “There are several other people involved in the scam. We are working on tracing them. We will also identify the examinees who have used their services,” said Verma. The suspects were booked for fraud and forgery along with relevant sections of the UP Public Examinations Act. Several sets of fake documents, mobile phones and ₹2.1 lakh were recovered from their possession. Police officials said the suspects will be taken into custody for further investigation.Despite repeated attempts, a spokesperson from Delhi Police could not be reached for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/two-delhi-police-constables-among-nine-held-for-fraud-in-competitive-examinations/story-yYRgPacgj78TaGgSevMSsN.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Noida: Plantation drive held in Sector 77||Noida: The Noida authority on Saturday carried out a plantation drive in Sector 77, following the demand from residents. The drive was held along the newly paved footpath on a busy road in Sector 77, in which nearly 100 saplings were planted. The area of Sector 77 with several high-rises has a large green belt proposed. Authority officials said that the green belt will be worked upon in coming months and over a thousand saplings are to be planted. “The residents had raised demands that the road in Sector 77 now has pavements, it must also get trees. So, we provided the saplings and the tree guards. The plantation drive was held with around 100 saplings and the local residents also participated,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority. The saplings of Jamun, Peepal, Neem and Pilkhan were planted, the officials said. Singh said that soon the work will start on the vacant green belts of Sector 77 and some neighbouring sectors. “The concept of green belt is to save the high-rises from the dust, while also maintaining the green cover. There is a large patch of proposed green belt within Sector 77 that has several high-rises. We have done the tender process of building the boundary wall, and then the plantation will begin,” said Singh. The residents stated that while the road in Sector 77 where plantation was carried out is a preferred spot for a number of joggers and walkers, and there was not a single tree except for two Neem trees at a corner. “The plantation drive was long pending and much needed. We expect that the fresh plantation, though it will take some years for them to grow, will help combating pollution which is one of the major issues in the city,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Sector 77 and member of Progressive Community Foundation (PCF), a citizens’ group. Swaranjeet Singh, a resident of Sctor 79, said, “The entire stretch of road looked barren without trees. The entire region, especially this stretch, was in desperate need of a proper tree cover.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-plantation-drive-held-in-sector-77/story-GwcYYHWRJSsxroYB374MCK.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Soon, Covid-19 static testing booths can be located through app in UP||Ghaziabad: The state government has sought location details of the static booths from the districts where Covid-19 testing is taking place. Officials of the Ghaziabad health department said that the information is sought for the purpose of development of a mobile application through which anyone can get location of the nearest Covid-19 testing centre. The Ghaziabad district at present has 30 locations where Covid-19 testing is conducted by the government. Of the 30 centres, 13 of them are static booths where residents can walk-in and get themselves tested free of cost. However, locating a static booth for testing is a major issue in the district, the officials said. “For the purpose, we have been asked to send details of all the 13 static Covid-19 testing centres, along with coordinates. This is being done as there is a proposal for development of an app through which anyone can locate the nearest testing booth and walk-in for testing,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Presently, the 13 static testing booths are located at Indirapuram, Vaishali, MMG Hospital, Women Hospital, ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad, Kamla Nehru Nagar, Vijay Nagar, four community health centres and a primary health centre at Bhojpur, among others. “Locating a testing centre is an issue, and the app will be helpful for residents to locate the nearest centre. It is proposed that all the testing centres across the state will be available with location on the app. There have also been directions that the static centres will be operational from 10am to 4pm each day,” Gupta added. The state government has already focussed on carrying out increased testing across the state and has directed that the proportion of the RT-PCR and rapid antigen kits should be in proportion of 40% and 60%, respectively, as against one-third and two-third previously. In the latest directions issued by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari, there is a focus on containment exercise in which the areas having positive cases has been defined for strict perimeter control. The direction states that in case of a single positive case, radius of 50 metres will be subjected to perimeter control while the area will be 100 metre radius in case of cluster where more than one cases surface. The officials have already been directed to map areas based on last 10 days where cases of infection have increased and have been asked to take up focussed surveillance in order to isolate the positive cases. The directions with regard to surveillance said that if, within 24 hours, three houses within a radius of 50 metres of each other have a positive case, then the entire area that falls under the radius will be identified as a cluster and a minimum of 100 houses in each such cluster will be subjected to focussed surveillance. “To enhance the surveillance activities, there were earlier 861 teams. Now, 140 more teams have been formed. The teams are tasked to carry out door-to-door surveys and identify suspected patients who will be tested. Further, the contact tracing of positive patients has also been increased as there are directions to increase it to about 25 per positive patient,” Gupta said. According to official records, the district had 22,570 positive cases till November 25, and 352,275 contacts have been traced for 22,386 positive cases with a rate of 15.73 contacts traced per positive case. However, during the period November 12 to 25, the health department is tracing an average of 24.6 contacts per positive case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/soon-covid-19-static-testing-booths-can-be-located-through-app-in-up/story-L8AW4Ov8WVZ03vsBP2TREI.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Anticipating surge in Covid-19 cases, state govt asks districts to ensure availability of different kinds of beds||NOIDA: Apprehending a surge in Covid-19 cases during the ongoing winter season, the Uttar Pradesh government has asked all the district magistrates in the state to ensure the availability of different kinds of beds for Covid-19 patients and to ramp up contact tracing in their respective districts. In a letter issued by UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, it has been stated that after analysis of the Covid-19 figures of different districts, it was found that the cases are on the rising trend in several districts that include the NCR districts of the state.“As even common people can have respiratory problems during the winter, it may serve a rider for increasing the Covid-19 complications. Therefore, maximum precautions must be taken in the coming two months,” stated the letter issued on Friday. The government has also asked the district magistrates and divisional commissioners to make all the L-2 and L-3 Covid-19 facilities well-equipped with adequate ICU and high dependency unit (HDU) beds. “All these beds must have uninterrupted oxygen facilities. The capacity of beds must be increased at all the L-1 facilities, so that they could be used at the time of any emergency,” the letter said. The district officials have also been asked to ramp up effective and qualitative contact tracing. “The administration must ensure effective mapping of those areas, from where more cases are being detected. Based on this mapping, focussed surveillance in those areas must be ramped up and it has to be ensured that maximum number of RT-PCR tests must be done in those high-risk areas,” the letter said. Mentioning that digital mapping is being successfully done in Gautam Budh Nagar district with the help of ‘Google Earth Pro’ application, the letter has asked other districts to follow this methodology. “The ratio of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests must be maintained to 40:60. The Covid-19 testing facilities must be increased in all the districts,” the letter stated. When contacted, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that there is no dearth of beds in the district, even in the L-2 and L-3 facilities. “Apart from increasing the testing, stress is being laid on proper contact tracing. In the present situation, early and timely tracking and providing adequate treatment are the main goals before the administration. Despite having adequate beds for Covid-19 patients, all private and government hospitals have been asked to increase the number of ICU and HDU beds,” he said.In GB Nagar, there are a total of 2,411 Covid-19 beds in various hospitals. Of these beds, 1,212 were occupied till Friday. Suhas also said that the administration’s main focus is on reducing the number of deaths and curing the maximum possible number of infected patients on time. “For that, we have adapted the ‘tracking, testing and treating’ method. The health workers have been told to find out 25 contacts of one infected patient. We are testing nearly 5,000 people every day. While recovery rate in GB Nagar is still over 90%, the current case fatality rate (CFR) is around 0.36%, which is much better than the state’s overall CFR of 1.42%,” the DM said. District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the health workers have been asked to increase the daily testing to over 7,000. “To check the rise in new positive cases in the district, the health officials and workers have been categorically asked to keep strict surveillance in the crowded areas,” Ohri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/anticipating-surge-in-covid-19-cases-state-govt-asks-districts-to-ensure-availability-of-different-kinds-of-beds/story-gNm5YnLt4nY5VbrNgp0iIL.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad witnesses marginal increase in test positivity rate post-Diwali||Unlike the national Capital which recently saw a spike in Covid-19 cases during and following the festive season, Ghaziabad’s increase in positivity is relatively marginal.Positivity, or test positivity rate (TPR), is the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases per 100 tests and is a crucial metric that denotes the prevalence of the virus. According to recommendations by the World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control there.In the case of the Capital, which had never reached this threshold and the lowest it had ever been was 5.34%, the rise was documented from the last two weeks of October and touched a high of 15.3% on November 15. It has since been decreasing and reached 9.13% on Thursday.Against this, Ghaziabad, from November 5 to November 14 (the 10 days to Diwali), conducted 37,365 tests and returned a TPR of 3.47%. In the next 10 days, they had tested 44,971 samples and returned a TPR of 3.69%. The total TPR till November 24 (till data available) was 4.21%, a slight decrease from the 4.3% on October 31.“We can say that there is not much variation (in TPR), but the trend is on the rise. The Chhatt festival ended recently (November 21), and we have deployed teams to test residents who stepped out. More cases may arise then. The wedding season too is on in full swing and will continue till next month,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “We have also increased testing in sensitive areas and also focussing on enforcement with the help of drones (as per a high court ruling on crowded areas). So, our focus will be to watch the trend of cases till mid of December. In city areas I have directed to deploy 10 drones to keep an eye on people in markets while other local bodies have also been asked to deploy at least one drone for surveillance on people coming out without masks and not maintaining social distancing.” As part of their ‘post-festival strategy’ Ghaziabad aims to increase testing from 4,000 tests per day to at least 6000. “Ideally, the testing should be about 8,000-10,000 tests per day. Since it is winter and pollution is also high, we have more Covid patients coming in and most require L-3 (tertiary care for severe cases) treatment,” said Dr Ashish Agrawal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Recently, a new 100-bedded paid Covid-19 private hospital was inaugurated at Lohiya Nagar which also has 30 ICU beds and is the fourteenth private hospital in the district to provide dedicated treatment. “With the new hospital in place, the number of beds has gone up to 1109 in private hospitals. Overall, we have 240 ICU beds which also include 34 ICU beds in government hospitals,” said an officer from the district health department who wished not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-witnesses-marginal-increase-in-test-positivity-rate-post-diwali/story-jxS4KzG21jEgcmkSD3S6WK.html
28-11-2020||City||Son, his friend held for Yamunanagar mason’s murder||Almost a week after a 50-year-old mason was found dead on a road in Yamunanagar, police on Saturday arrested his son and his friend for the crime. The accused were identified as Shantti of Kansali village and Ravi Kumar alias Sonu of Sasoli Majra village. The body of the mason, Arjun of kansali village, was found with his throat slit on an under-construction satoli road near sector 18 on November 20. Police spokesman Chamkaur Singh said Shantti had told police that his father used to frequently fight with his mother and sisters. “My father had an extramarital affair with a woman and sometimes he didn’t come home at night. Due to this, there was a lot of trouble at home and my family was very upset. Once he had kicked me out of the house. Ravi got me a room on rent in his village and I was staying there. I had told Ravi about my father’s actions,” Shantti had told the police. “I had stolen a bike from Pansari Bazar and wanted to chase my father to kill him. Later, on November 19, Ravi helped me and in the evening we chased my father, caught him and I stabbed him with a knife near his neck. I also slit his throat and fled,” Chamkaur said quoting Shantti.CIA-2 incharge Mahruf Ali said the weapons used in the incident are yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/son-his-friend-held-for-yamunanagar-mason-s-murder/story-xRThjhrykuA48Fl220pHLI.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Uganda invites investment from Noida entrepreneurs||Kezalla Mohammed Baswali, the deputy high commissioner of Uganda to India, said on Saturday that the country has created immense investment opportunities for Indian entrepreneurs. Addressing the India-Uganda SME trade connect, organised under the aegis of the Noida Chapter of Indian Industries Association (IIA), Baswali said that with its consistently improving infrastructure and welcoming population, Uganda can be explored as one of the best places for investment. “Uganda’s investment climate continues to present important opportunities for Indian investors. With an open market economy, ideal climate, ample arable land, young and largely English-speaking population, and at least 1.4 billion barrels of recoverable oil, Uganda has immense scope for the Indian entrepreneurs, especially those from the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector,” he said. Talking about the textile and apparel industries in Noida, he said that since Uganda produces one of the best grades of cotton, investment in the textile sector can be particularly attractive for Indian investors. “The Indian entrepreneurs can also invest in manufacturing, tourism, electronics, infrastructure and education sectors. Since the geographical location of Uganda provides a strategic commanding base to trade and investment and 75% of its population is under 30 years, it provides an educated and skilled labour force for the investors,” he said. Echoing similar views, Birungi Sophie, the first secretary of the High Commission, said that the liberalised economy and 100% foreign investment permitted in Uganda, ensures free inflow and outflow of capital to the investors. “Uganda’s conducive investment environment guarantees duty and quota-free access into the US, under the AGOA Act. Foreign investors can avail two incentives here – general and sector-specific. While the first one is based on import and export, the sector-specific incentives are given to investment projects in priority sectors, such as agro-processing, horticulture, food processing, textiles and garments,” she said. She further said that a 10-year-long income tax exemption is given to the free zone developers and operators, having an investment capital up to 50 million USD. Among others, who addressed this meet, were IIA (Noida) chairman Kulmani Gupta, his deputy Umesh Batra and Rekha Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/uganda-invites-investment-from-noida-entrepreneurs/story-sTSny4ccsDlL4uz7zqaP4M.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana govt mulls free android tablets for government school students||The Haryana government is planning to provide free android tablets to students of government schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic. An official spokesman said the plan to provide devices to students of classes 8,9, 10, 11 and 12 of government schools belonging to all categories is under consideration of the state government. This will help students take advantage of digital education, the spokesman said.The tablet device will be distributed on the lines of library scheme under which they will be the property of government. The device will be issued to the students and they will have to return it after passing Class 12.The device will have different types of pre-loaded content such as tests, videos and other materials as well as digital books, which will be as per the courses of government schools. This will not only facilitate studying different topics at home but students will be able to receive online education and take online exams as well, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-govt-mulls-free-android-tablets-for-government-school-students/story-ZrmJxou4QjSYfFeMbGiJzI.html
28-11-2020||City||Haryana Police books over 10,000 farmers on rioting, other charges||Haryana’s Dabwali police on Saturday booked 10,000 to 12,000 unidentified farmers from Punjab for rioting, causing obstruction in government duty and various other charges for violations during their ‘Delhi Chalo’ march.As per the FIR, “the farmers who had gathered on the Dabwali-Bathinda border removed barricades forcibly at around 10:15am on Friday and tried to deter the public servant during their duty. The farmer leaders provoked others to cross the barricades to reach Haryana. They also misbehaved with the policemen. The incident took place when Dabwali DSP Kuldeep Singh and other senior officials were present there”.The FIR was registered under Sections 147(rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant), 188, 332, 353, 427 of the Indian Penal code and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property and Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the farmers were protesting peacefully on the Dabwal-Bathinda border and they were forced to remove barricades after police denied permission to enter Haryana.“The police has been acting on the behest of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who has been creating hurdles in the farmers’ agitation. More than two lakh farmers reached Delhi through Haryana and the state government can register FIR against us at various police stations. We are not afraid of cases, we will continue our battle till the Union government takes back its laws. If the government can’t take back these laws, then they should kill us with bullets,” he added.200 farmers booked at Kaithal As many as 200 farmers from Punjab have been booked by the Kaithal police under various sections of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly violating the prohibitory orders and damaging public property by forcing their way through Haryana-Punjab border during their march towards Delhi. As per the FIR, the police have booked farmer leader from Punjab Hardeep Singh Badsui, Aam Aadmi Party leader Gurmit Singh of Siwan, Jaspal Singh, several anganwadi, ASHA workers and others under Sections 148, 149, 186, 188, 279, 332, 353, 379 and 427 of the IPC, Section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act. Police officials said an investigation is going on to identify all the accused. However, no arrest has been made so far. In his complaint, assistant sub-inspector Vikram Singh said the accused accompanied by about 200 farmers allegedly barged into Haryana with their tractor-trailers by removing barricades at a police check post near Tatiana village of Kaithal district. He also alleged that the activists forcibly entered Haryana border and clashed with the cops when they tried to stop them. The farmers also allegedly damaged the water cannon and trucks parked to stop their entry. He alleged that the police tried to stop them but they fled the spot and also took away chairs, mattresses and electricity wires.In Ambala, a case was registered against Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni and several farmers on November 26 under IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing any public servant in discharge of public functions), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 307 (attempt to murder) at the Parao police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/haryana-police-books-over-10-000-farmers-on-rioting-other-charges/story-hnKV9WzrDtI7pEwSt28KCO.html
28-11-2020||City||Women march at par in farmers protest||A large number of women from Punjab have been marching along with farmers towards Delhi to protest against the Centre’s three agriculture laws.The farmers are staying put at the Tikri (Bahadurgarh) and Singhu (Sonepat) borders between Haryana and Delhi with thousands more set to join them and their leaders yet to take a call on shifting to the Burari ground, a place earmarked for their agitation by police. Most women activists affiliated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) are moving in tractor-trolleys driven by young farmers. The trolleys have mobile charging facilities, blankets, warm clothes and carpets. The women, most aged 40 or above, are in separate tractor-trolleys.HT travelled with a group of these women activists from the outskirts of Rohtak to Sampla. The women farmers get up early in the morning by 5:30am and prepare tea for protesters before starting their journey towards Delhi. At around 1:00pm, they prepare lunch and the dinner is provided by Haryana farmers mostly since last two days.Joginder, BKU (Ughran) Mansa chief, said over 40,000 women activists have joined their protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. “The women farmers will hold demonstrations with us till the government takes back these laws. We are moving towards Delhi with arrangements of essential commodities,” he added.Gurjeet Kaur, a woman farmer from Mansa district, said she along with other women has been a part of the agitation for the last two months. “We had started our journey on Thursday. These farm laws will affect us deeply. I, along with my grandson, are participating in this agitation. We will hold demonstrations until the government takes back these laws,” she said.Another woman farmer, Satpal Kaur, said her family cultivates crop on three acres of land. “This fight is for the entire farming community. Whenever we need money to pay the school fee of children or if someone falls ill, we used to take the help of arhitiya (commission agent). However, after the implementation of these laws, private players will come into play. Our permanent ATM (referring to Arhitiya) will be ended and we would have no source of money in a serious situation,” she added.Another woman Palo Kaur said,“It is better to die due to Covid-19 rather than poverty. We will observe a dharna at the Tikri border till our demands are met. We want to make it clear that no one can end the MSP and mandi system in Punjab. I have joined the protest with my son ,who is pursuing MPhil. Instead of creating jobs for our children, the government has brought these laws to snatch our lands. The government has no plan to tackle stubble burning, drug abuse and unemployment but they come up with these laws to drive the rural economy into distress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-march-at-par-in-farmers-protest/story-r2X1xPLFQhYCAIo076eDiJ.html
28-11-2020||Noida||A day after breathing easy, air quality in Noida drops sharply||After a day of experiencing “moderate” air, the city’s air quality started deteriorating once again on Saturday as the incidence of farm fires increased. The pollution level in the city surged despite the presence of strong winds, mostly due to the rise in the number of farm fires and the winds carrying them.According to pollution monitoring agencies, the city’s air quality may fall further as the wind speeds drop in the coming days. On Friday, the city had experienced its cleanest air in the past two months, with the air quality in the “moderate” category. According to the weather analysts, the northwesterly winds, which flow from Punjab and Haryana bringing in pollutants due to stubble burning, will continue over the next couple of days. This will also lead to a slight drop in the mercury. “The wind speed was good on Saturday and the region saw northwesterly winds at speed of 20 kmph. Since the winds are cold and will continue for the next two days, the mercury is likely to fall by two degrees,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) reading of the city was 223 as against 125 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 226 as against 129 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 240 as against 166 a day earlier. Meanwhile the fine particles or pollutants also recorded a rise in their overall volume over the past 24 hours. Particulate matter (PM) 2.5 for the past 24 hours in Noida was recorded at 104.70 micrograms per cubic metre against 64.98 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 101.23 units against 63.87 units a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 112.24 units as against 78.49 units a day earlier. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 units. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate further due to rise in the number of forest fire – from around 50 on Thursday to over 400 on Friday. “The boundary layer transport-level winds are northwesterly and effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential as estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products are marginally increased (around 499). The AQI is forecasted to marginally deteriorate and will be in the poor to very poor category for the next two days. It is likely to further deteriorate and very poor category is forecasted for 1st December(sic),” read the SAFAR statement on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/a-day-after-breathing-easy-air-quality-in-noida-drops-sharply/story-QvvbcPlDLj4xuVmxcySQYO.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Guest Column: India’s Beth Harmon would need to be a brave one||As the world remains glued to the surprise Netflix hit of 2020, The Queen’s Gambit , the long drawn question of why female players perform worse than their male counterparts has resurfaced with greater vigour. While researchers including psychologists and mathematicians have not been able to establish a definite correlation, both male and female players themselves have had useful (or maybe not!) insights to contribute to the matter.According to the universal FIDE (World Chess Federation) Ratings, there is a stark gap between men and women in the rankings with only one female player in the world’s top 100 players. Closer home, India has only two females out of 66 Grandmasters.Here, the multiple struggles girls face in the chess world make the likelihood of their breaking the glass ceiling tougher.Commonly ascribed causal factors hindering favourable outcomes for female players include externalities such as societal pressure, travel issues including safety and often extra costs of being accompanied by a guardian, and instances of discrimination or harassment.Lower participation rates are one of the many reasons that women don’t make it to the top. Simply put, if a classroom only has 10 girls out of 50 children, then the probability of a girl finishing first is just 20% and that of a boy doing the same is 80%. But by this logic, we would definitely expect at least one girl to make it to the top five, which is not always the case in chess.Strength does not mean having an athletic builtOn the personal front, apparently girls have lesser physical strength to maintain the stamina and accuracy for four to six-hour matches and gruelling 10-hour training days. Although maintaining fitness is extremely important in chess, not having an athletic built does not act as a deterrent in one’s performance up until a very advanced level.Many also argue that girls are more caring and lack the fighting spirit. A majority of chess players regard this as an ‘innate’ feature of female players. However, it has more to do with the way girls are conditioned from the time they are toddlers. Our expectations from girls are sky high in terms of behavioural and emotional conduct while boys are allowed mischief even when they could be doing something potentially wrong. Girls are shunned for getting themselves in a risky spot while boys are applauded for the same.“We’re raising our girls to be perfect and we’re raising our boys to be brave” was mentioned by Reshma Saujani, an American lawyer and politician, and founder of the tech organisation, Girls who Code.Shedding light from a different perspective, Beth Harmon in The Queens’s Gambit actually benefited from staying away from ‘normal’ life and aloof from the generic code of conduct as she did not have to live up to society’s norms of being ‘perfect’. She did not shy away from claiming that she was the best candidate to win even before the tournaments began.The story is different for girls in the real world. While competing in the U-16 Open (boys) Category in the Commonwealth Championships a few years back, I found it hard to imagine that I could actually win the gold even after I had defeated the top seed and was leading the pack. The gender conditioning of fear and self-doubt always lurks subconsciously. And so it happened, low confidence while playing in the boys’ section did not help me win the medal in the tournament. Later that year, while competing in the World Under-20 Open (boys) Championship, a European player casually mentioned during post-game analysis, “You are not like most other girls”. I would rather say, most girls are made risk-averse even before they find what lies on the other side of the spectrum.No treading on the path less travelledThis is another reason why girls drop out early on from the sport. Those who are already good at mathematics and science prefer to pursue a safer field than chess as it requires one to tread on the path less travelled and have a higher risk appetite. Even if the monetary aspect is taken care of, they would still prefer academics as there are lower stakes and they would not have to think about the consequences of failing miserably. Essentially, we are wired to take the risk averse stance on and off the board even if it’s something we do not really want.Nevertheless, there have been a few cases when young girls in our country have managed to prevail over innumerable hindrances, thereby becoming a source of inspiration for others. Vaishali R, 19, has managed to win medals in the Open section in many category tournaments. Divya Deshmukh, a rising star whom I worked with during the Indian junior camps, used to crack positions even faster than the boys who were technically supposed to be better than her.The wrangle here is not whether girls have the ability to ever match up to boys or not, it is whether we are willing to foster and train them to do so. A sport that has been male-dominated for the past 100 years can definitely turn into an equal opportunity one in the next 10 years if there is enough stimulus for girls to falter and strike again, and to do so over and over again for as long as it takes.India is woefully placed at 122 out of 162 countries in the Gender Inequality Index (GII) released by the United Nations Development Programme. The report forecasts that it may take 202 years to close the gender gap in economic opportunity.Establishing more female achievers in any sport would go a long way in improving the overall status of women and further creating a positive outlook for the country.India’s Beth Harmon would have to shed the timidity and be a valiant fighter on the battlefield, breaking all the shackles that she has grown up with.The author is an international chess player, Woman FIDE Master and FIDE Instructor, who is studying BA (Hons) economics at the Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/guest-column-india-s-beth-harmon-would-need-to-be-a-brave-one/story-DAOrWhrvP9RvSAEh14TCrM.html
28-11-2020||Noida||31-year-old man dies after being hit by speeding truck in Indirapuram||A 31-year-old man was killed and his car caught fire after being hit by a speeding truck driving on the wrong side of the road near the Shipra underpass in Indirapuram during the wee hours on Saturday. The cops said that the injured man was rushed to the hospital before the car got charred in fire. The front portion of the truck also suffered major damage due to fire. The cops identified the deceased as one Punit Agarwal, a native of Lucknow, who was a resident of Sector 74 in Noida and working as a manager with a private company in the city. The police said that he was returning to Noida at around 2.45am and was about to take turn at the underpass when his car was hit by the truck. “The truck was driving on the wrong side and there was a massive head-on collision between the two vehicles. The driver in the car sustained severe injuries and he was rushed to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries later. The fire soon engulfed the entire vehicle. The front portion of the truck was also damaged,” said Anshu Jain, circle officer (Indirapuram). The cops said that the truck driver fled the spot after the incident. The truck had a registration number of Moradabad. “We have received a complaint from the family and will soon register an FIR. The truck driver will also be nabbed soon. The man died of injuries but not of burns. He was pulled out before the car was engulfed in flames,” she added. There were certain social media posts that stated that the man was burnt in the accident. The police, however, denied these claims. The fire department officials said that they had to rush three fire tenders to the spot at around 3am to douse fire. “The cops from a PCR van pulled the injured man out and rushed him to a hospital for treatment, where he succumbed to his injuries at about 4.25am. We have the medical report, which states that he did not suffer any burn injuries. Soon after the incident, the car caught fire. However, the injured man was pulled out in time,” said Sunil Kumar Singh, chief fire officer. “After the fire assumed major proportions, it completely gutted the car, while the front portion of the truck was also burnt down. Our fire tenders were able to douse the fire,” he added. The officials said that the deceased was staying in Noida, with his wife, mother and a two-year-old child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/31-year-old-man-dies-after-being-hit-by-speeding-truck-in-indirapuram/story-joMSzz6NlIGYUvoPm0pfkN.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Six killed in two road accidents on Yamuna Expressway||Six people were killed in two separate road accidents on the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday morning in areas under Beta 2 and Jewar police jurisdictions. In the first incident, four men travelling from Agra were killed, while a fifth person was severely injured when the SUV they were travelling in rammed a roadways bus at 6.45am on the Yamuna Expressway.“We were travelling from Azamgarh to Delhi. Nearly 2 kilometre from the zero point on the expressway, an Innova car rammed into our bus from behind. Luckily none of the 40 passengers on board were injured. Those in the car were in a very poor state,” said Vijay Bahadur Singh, the bus driver. The passengers then called the police helpline (112), after which a team rushed to the spot. Police officials said that the car was so badly mangled that it took them a long time to rescue the passengers. By the time they were pulled out, four men had already succumbed to their injuries, while the fifth person was rushed to Kailash hospital where he continues to remain critical. The deceased were identified as Ashish Chauhan (Ghaziabad native), Alok Kumar (Faridabad native), Manigandan Maikan (Maharashtra native) and Firoz (Agra native), while the injured man was identified as Prince Pal, 22, a native of Faridabad. Police officials suspect that the Innova was travelling at a very high speed and the driver may have dozed off behind the wheel leading to the crash. “The car was in a very bad state. We have informed the families of the victims and the bodies have been sent for autopsy. Prince is still very critical,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey. Police officials said that the men worked for an event organizing company and were returning to the city after an event in Agra when the accident took place. The second incident took place around 3.15am when an SUV coming from Bihar was hit by a private double decker bus that was coming from the wrong side. The incident took place 32.7 kilometre from the zero point. “There were two men in the SUV who died on the spot. One of our patrolling vehicles saw the crash and raised the alarm. The injured men were pulled out of the SUV but they had succumbed. Their bodies were sent for an autopsy and their families were informed,” said Umesh Bahadur Singh, station house officer, Jewar police station. The deceased were identified as Pappu (32) and Dhananjay Kumar (50). Singh said that the driver of the bus fled the spot after the accident but the vehicle was seized. Police officials suspect that the bus had just dropped off a wedding party nearby and was driving back, when the mishap happened . “We are waiting for the family members to come and file a complaint after which a case will be registered. Meanwhile, a search has been launched for the driver,” said the SHO. The bodies of the deceased were sent for an autopsy and later handed over to the families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/six-killed-in-two-road-accidents-on-yamuna-expressway/story-6MzH2fZDsqwurBV72hqwwL.html
28-11-2020||Noida||BKU supporters to camp at UP Gate to decide on next course of action||Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), led by their leader Rakesh Tikait, broke police barricades at the UP Gate border with East Delhi on Saturday afternoon and later decided to make a night stay below the UP Gate flyover in Ghaziabad. However, the gathering of farmers on Saturday was estimated at about 500 as against the mammoth gathering, observed in October 2018, during the Kisan Kranti Yatra at the same venue. The BKU members said that on Saturday, they broke the barricades put up at the Delhi-Ghaziabad border at the UP Gate in order to enter Delhi. There was hardly any resistance put up by the Ghaziabad Police. Later, BKU members decided to return to UP Gate flyover area in Ghaziabad to stay for the night. “After breaking the barriers, we took our vehicles up to the Ghazipur area where the Delhi Police had deployed dumpers. So, we returned back to the UP Gate. We have decided that we will make a night stay below the UP Gate flyover as we decide on the strategy to enter the national Capital,” said Rajvir Singh, state vice-president, BKU. The area below the UP Gate flyover is the same site where the BKU members and farmers on October 2, 2018, had clashed with the Delhi Police while trying to enter Delhi over their 15-point agenda, including a demand of a blanket loan waiver, revoking NGT’s ban on 10-year-old diesel run tractors in NCR, reduction in electricity tariff, implementation of MS Swaminathan Commission recommendation on remunerative prices and payment of sugarcane arrears, among othersOn Saturday morning, the Ghaziabad Police had made arrangement for a large-scale deployment of police personnel at the UP Gate and also at Delhi-Meerut Road, from where the BKU groups entered Ghaziabad district from Meerut in a bid to reach Delhi as part of ‘Dilli Chalo’ protest. “There was no untoward incident at the UP Gate and the farmers have opted for a sit-in below the UP Gate flyover. They have planned to stay for the night. In view of this, we have decided to divert traffic. Commuters coming from Mohan Nagar will not be allowed to take a left turn towards UP Gate. Instead, they will have to go to Kaushambi from where they can enter Delhi,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police, City 2. . “The commuters travelling on NH-9 will also not be allowed to come down to the UP Gate flyover. Instead, all vehicles will be diverted over the flyover. This arrangement will be in place till farmers continue their protest at UP Gate,” he added. Traffic congestion on Delhi-Meerut RoadDelhi-Meerut Road witnessed congestion on Saturday afternoon as traffic from Ghaziabad moving towards Meerut was diverted to the Upper Ganga Canal (UGC) Road, instead of being allowed to go straight to Modinagar and Meerut as a precautionary measure. “We were stranded for over an hour at Muradnagar as traffic was moving at slow pace. The other side of the Delhi-Meerut Road was without any traffic and cops were using it for letting the farmers move towards the UP Gate,” said Arun Tyagi, a commuter from Modinagar. The cops said that the traffic was diverted to the UGC Road in wake of procession of the farmers coming in from Meerut. “The BKU members and their supporters were diverted towards the UP Gate.Traffic on the other side was also diverted towards the UGC Road. The diversion only lasted for about two hours after which traffic normalised. The farmers had an estimated strength of about 400 to 500 and were moving in 40 to 50 vehicles,” said Neeraj Jadaun, superintendent of police (rural). The farmers reached the UP Gate by about 3.30pm, where they decided to camp for the night. “We will sit here and decide on our next course of action.The barrier will now be removed and people will be able to go smoothly to Delhi. There were no discussions with farmers over the issue of minimum support price. If need be, we will go to Delhi and witness the Republic Day on January 26,” Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of BKU, told reporters at UP Gate. Meanwhile in Gautam Budh Nagar, another group of farmers trying to go to Delhi was intercepted at the Yamuna Expressway on Saturday afternoon.“They were stopped near Jewar, after which they camped at the side of the Expressway. There wasn’t any traffic disruption and it was a peaceful gathering. No police action was needed,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3, Vishal Pandey.The farmers dispersed after handing over their memorandum to the police and administration officials. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and parts of western UP have been trying to enter Delhi in a bid to raise voice against the farmer’s bill and the minimum support price system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/bku-supporters-to-camp-at-up-gate-to-decide-on-next-course-of-action/story-1XdPumuaXzbIU94oSDkqAI.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Gurugram collects record 25,000 samples in a day for Covid-19 tests||Long queues of people were witnessed outside several testing centres and camps on Saturday, as the Gurugram district administered a record number of 25,000 Covid-19 tests – the highest ever in a single day. The voluminous sampling size contributed 25 percent to the overall tests (more than one lakh) conducted in Haryana in 24 hours. It exceeded the target of more than 10,000 samples set by the district health department in observance of the sampling day. In Gurugram, at least 25,101 samples were collected on Saturday, more than double the previous highest number of tests (10,200) administered on November 21. Of these, 20,112 were through gold front-line Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) method and only 4,989 were rapid antigen — 19.8 percent of total tests. Both the test numbers were highest so far. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Gurugram health department has conducted a total of 505,314 tests so far. On Saturday,the sample collection started from six in the morning at wholesale food grain and vegetable market in Khandsa. At Sadar Bazar, sample collection started around 10am, when locals from nearby areas, shopkeepers and customers started pouring in to get themselves tested. Teams from NGOs were deployed to manage the crowd who queued up for testing. Testing announcements were being made at timely intervals. Likewise, at a testing centre near sector 15, long queue was seen on the road. As many as 50 testing camps were held on Saturday.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Nobody was forced to get tested. People are now aware of the disease and are voluntarily choosing to get tested without inhibitions.” The total count of Covid-19 infections in Gurugram reached 48,619 on Saturday, with 668 new cases being reported. The test results of 15,287 samples are awaited. Record testing at state levelEven at the state level, Haryana’s 22 districts together collected a record number of 12,1227 samples, much higher than the set target of more than 50,000 in a day. It included highest sample collection in Gurugram, followed by Faridabad (10,459), Rohtak (10,311) and Rewari (9000). On an average 30,000 tests were being conducted across the state daily.On November 25, the state health department had set a target to administer over 80 percent RT-PCR tests to detect new cases and their timely isolation. This, officials believed, will help in lowering the positivity rate as Haryana is consistently among the ten worst-affected Covid-19 states in the country. Five districts – Gurugram, Rewari, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonepat — are reporting maximum cases every day. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department complimented the districts for the record testing through a tweet. The state chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was also in Gurugram on Saturday, also emphasized on respiratory hygiene and mask discipline to be followed by people to help check the spread of the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/gurugram-collects-record-25-000-samples-in-a-day-for-covid-19-tests/story-5pTS8qeVph8SrON1lEyvZL.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Air quality slips back into ‘poor’ category due to slow winds, falling temperature||The city’s air quality slipped back into the “poor” category on Saturday, recording a reading of 204 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s(CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin — a significant deterioration from Friday’s AQI reading of 107, which was in the “moderate” category. Experts attributed the deterioration to slow wind speeds and the falling temperature.The level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5) — the city’s primary pollutant — was recorded at 109 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) on Saturday, as per the data by CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. The concentration of PM2.5 pollutants on the previous day stood at 167ug/m3. According to the early air quality warning system for the National Capital Region (NCR), the air quality is likely to remain in the “poor” to the lower end of “very poor” category on Sunday. Air quality is expected to remain in the “very poor” category on Monday. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said that the AQI is expected to deteriorate further as the temperature falls gradually. “The winds were not strong enough to disperse the pollutants. At the same time, the morning temperature is decreasing day by day. Once fog starts persisting in the morning hours, accumulation will increase and air quality will become bad,” said Panwar. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the air quality would deteriorate in the coming days due to slow wind speed. “From November 30, the wind speed is likely to slow down. Now, because a western disturbance is passing, the winds have picked up speed, but it will slow down again. The temperature will also go down once the western disturbance passes,” he said. The minimum temperature of Gurugram settled at 10.5 degrees Celsius on Saturday, same as the previous day. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 24.6 degrees Celsius on Thursday, marginally less than 25.1 degrees Celsius the day prior. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature will hover around 26 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature is expected to stay at 10 degrees. As per the weekly forecast, clear skies will prevail on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/air-quality-slips-back-into-poor-category-due-to-slow-winds-falling-temperature/story-RZ5IQbECQYe6jVsHZj5QxM.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||DTCP directed to install fire system, power connection at housing project in Sector 92||Chief minister(CM) Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday directed the department of town and country planning (DTCP) to work with fire department to ensure that fire fighting system is installed at the Sare Home project in Sector 92. The CM was hearing the complaints raised by the members of the residents’ welfare association, who alleged that the project was incomplete and that there were a number of deficiencies with the project, like a non-existent fire fighting system. Furthermore, two phases of the project were yet to be delivered and electricity connection was frequently disconnected due to non-payment of bill by the developer. After hearing the submission on the matter, the CM also issued directions that a separate power connection should be issued to the project in the name of RWA. “The issue of fire-fighting system and electricity supply should be resolved by the DTCP after coordinating with the departments concerned,” he said. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) submitted that the original licence of the project was in the name of Ramprastha Developers, which had entered into an agreement with Sare Homes, which, in turn, had brought foreign investment. Hearing this, the CM stated that firefighting system should be installed from the assets of original license holder, namely Ramprastha Developers.“We will be working to resolve these issues and also submit a report regarding taking over of the project as per the rules of town planning department. A report will be submitted within a month,” Bhath said. A spokesperson for Ramprastha Developers said that the land of the project and its development rights were taken over by Sare Home Developers years back. “We have nothing to do with this project anymore,” he said. A senior Sare Home executive said that at present the project has been taken over by Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority(H-Rera), Gurugram. “The directors were employed on a rotational basis but the project is being overseen by the regulatory authority now,” he said. Pravin Malik, president, Sare Homes RWA, said that the only solution to the issue is a government takeover of the project so that it can be completed. “Around ₹200 crore has still to be given by buyers to complete the project but they don’t know who to make payments to. There is no director of Sare Home presently. The project will get completed only if the government intervenes,” he said. During the meeting, the CM also directed the Municipal Cororation of Gurugram (MCG) to start development works like water, electricity, sewerage, roads in the next one month in Palam Vihar, Gurugram, on the site where the EWS plots have been allotted. The CM said that the EWS Township should have all the facilities and it should be ensured that the work is completed by March 31, 2021.Khattar also ordered the re-carpeting of the road in front of the under-construction Bishnoi Bhawan in Sector 31. The MCG officers also apprised the CM that a budget of ₹38.74 lakh has been approved for construction of this road in Sector 31 and tenders would be floated for the same in the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/dtcp-directed-to-install-fire-system-power-connection-at-housing-project-in-sector-92/story-zEkHmsCjz5QrZzidSSj09K.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||No Haryana farmers participated in Delhi Chalo protests: CM||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said that Haryana farmers had not participated in the Dilli Chalo protest against the farm laws, alleging that the farmers’ stir was a conspiracy of other political parties and organisations in Punjab, which is ruled by the Congress. The chief minister, who addressed the media in the city, even hit out at Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh for avoiding talks with him in the last three days. “The movement was started by farmers of Punjab. There is some connection with certain political parties and unions. Farmers of Haryana did not participate in this agitation of marching to Delhi,” said Khattar, who was in the city on Saturday to address the grievance redressal meeting. “Haryana police during the agitation exercised complete restraint and did not use any force. They only tried to stop them from going to Delhi in such a large number,” he said during the press briefing.The two chief ministers — Bharatiya Janata Party’s Khattar and Congress’ Singh — have indulged in a war of words on Twitter since the beginning of the farmers agitation on November 26. Khattar accused Singh of inciting farmers and running away from talks. In response to that, Singh took potshots at the Haryana CM saying he should have tried to talk to the farmers before the protest began. The issue snowballed after farmers from Punjab and Haryana were stopped from entering Delhi through the Delhi-Haryana border, especially Jhajjar and Sonepat on Friday.“Going in large numbers to Delhi is of no use. Instead Punjab farmers should send their 10-15 representatives to talk to the Central government in this matter as negotiation is the only solution,” said Khattar.The protest by farmers is against the three farm laws passed in the parliament in the monsoon session — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. Farmers want the new laws to be repealed and demand minimum support price (MSP) for all agricultural produce to continue. Khattar said that the Punjab government was playing politics in the matter and said that officials from Punjab CM’s office were seen leading the agitation and were at the forefront. Referring to his tweets made in the last two days, he said, “It is an abnormal situation as for the first time in six years a chief minister is trying to talk to another chief minister and is being avoided. I tried to talk to my counterpart in Punjab, Captain Amarinder Singh, several times during the last three days but he avoided taking my calls. I dialled him two to three times, and thereafter several calls were made from our exchange, but every time the chief minister’s staff told us that he is busy and will connect with us in a short while.”Slamming Khattar, Punjab chief minister Singh called the allegation baseless and demanded an apology. He said, over 50,000 farmers from Haryana joined the march, as per the Punjab intelligence and Centre’s intelligence report. In a press statement issued by the Punjab government based on interviews given to the media, Singh said, “Khattar is lying that he tried calling me earlier and I did not respond. But now, after what he has done to my farmers, I will not speak to him unless he apologises and admits that he did wrong with Punjab’s farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/no-haryana-farmers-participated-in-delhi-chalo-protests-cm/story-MJBXp3Rxn75lcObF7u3Q8K.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Driver arrested for using fake toll slip while trying to cross Sirhaul border||A 31-year-old driver was arrested while he was trying to cross the Gurugram-Delhi border at Sirhaul by allegedly producing a fake slip purportedly issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation toll plaza on Thursday night. Police said the suspect was using forged slips for the last many months. According to the police, a gang has been selling fake passes for several months and is believed to have duped the toll operator of crores of rupees. The company is yet to verify the total number of forged slips used by commuters. The police said that so far, the toll slips that have been duplicated were printed by a person in Gurugram. They used to print at least 60 such fake slips every day.The incident came to light on Thursday night while the driver was stopped while trying to cross the toll around 9.30pm,. The toll operator checked the slip and found the series to be different. The operator informed his seniors following which police was called to the spot and the driver was handed over to them. The suspect was identified as one Tajinder Singh of Ropad in Punjab. He worked as a driver with a private company in Gurugram and was going to drop an employee to Delhi when he was nabbed, said police. KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that during questioning, Singh revealed that he used to buy fake toll slips for Rs 10 from one of his friends who printed such slips. These slips helped him save paying the toll amount of around Rs 100. “We have formed teams and have identified the kingpin,” he said. Later, police said they arrested the kingpin of the gang — identified as Jitender singh hailing from Alwar in Rajasthan — on Friday night from sector 29. He used to print these slips along with one of his partners.Police has recovered one printer and CPU from his possession.Investigators, however, said they are yet to identify the total number of people involved in this scam. The police said they received a complaint from MEP Infrastructure Developers, the contractor for collecting municipal toll, alleging that a driver was trying to pass through with a fake slip. The police said MEP officials had also found similar fake slip when they had, randomly, stopped three cars to check their slips. They found the slips to be duplicate and confirmed the same by checking the serial numbers, which revealed that the slips were printed with similar ink and the printer used was also different. “The staff informed a senior officer and contacted the police control room. A PCR was sent from Udyog Vihar police station and the suspect was taken for questioning,” said Rao. A case under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forging document) and 120B (conspiracy) of the IPC was registered at Udyog Vihar police station on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/driver-arrested-for-using-fake-toll-slip-while-trying-to-cross-sirhaul-border/story-CQtaBpPpDw4IUxOU622ixI.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Policy for division of large plots to be tabled soon: Khattar||The Haryana government will soon unveil a policy for the division of large plots with a provision that every part of plot must be divided into a minimum area of 100 square yards. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced this on Saturday, while presiding over a meeting of district public relations grievance committee in Gurugram.“A policy on this matter will be tabled in the next cabinet meeting and the minimum area of a plot has been fixed at 100 square yards,” Khattar said. Khattar made this announcement while hearing an issue pertaining to the existing town planning scheme, which was formulated in 1966-67. Officials said that at that time, the colonies, which were developed or came under this scheme, also included the plot size but the maps of the properties were not passed at that time. The problem arose when the owners of the houses on these plots wanted to divide the property but the municipal corporation refused to approve the maps citing old rules. The matter was raised in the grievance committee by two residents of Shivaji Nagar, in which the complainants submitted that their grandfather had built a house on a 153 square yard plot in 1971, which was later transferred to both the brothers. As the house was old, the brothers decided to reconstruct the property and submitted an application to get approval from the MCG. The civic body, however, declined the application, citing the old rule, the complainant submitted. While addressing this problem, the CM said that for such cases, the state government has almost formulated the new policy, which will be tabled in the next Cabinet meeting.The CM also issued directions to register a case against those making illegal constructions in New Colony, Gurugram, and the construction should be removed as per the demolition order issued by MCG. These directions were issued on the grievance raised by a complainant, who submitted that illegal construction at a site was being carried out despite sealing by MCG. Khattar also said that similar action would be taken on complaints where illegal construction is being carried out despite sealing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/policy-for-division-of-large-plots-to-be-tabled-soon-khattar/story-0fU0Hb2IheSncerHYpMNfP.html
28-11-2020||City||Farmers’ agitation: Sealing of Delhi borders leaves Ludhiana industrialists on tenterhooks||Sealing of the Delhi borders due to the farmers’ agitation against the agriculture bills has left industrialists in Ludhiana in a state of uncertainty. Transportation of goods to the National Capital via road has come to a halt for the last three days, causing them heavy losses, industrialists say. Representatives of the hosiery and cycle industry rued that the lockdown, then the “rail-roko” agitation and now sealing of the Delhi borders was taking a toll on their business. Darshan Dawar, president of the Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club, said, “It is peak season for the hosiery industry and sealing of Delhi borders will affect business at large. A large number of traders in Delhi purchase goods from Ludhiana and will cancel orders if delivery is delayed. Not only Delhi, but movement of goods to other states, including Madhya Pradesh, has also been affected.”Industrialists said the failure of the central and state governments to find a solution for the impasse, was resulting in heavy losses for them.DS Chawla, president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA), said, “Around 50% of the bicycle industry has already been hit due to the farmers’ agitation. We are not being able to procure raw material as transporters are not accepting orders. They fear untoward incidents at the borders of Punjab and Haryana.”Transporters said the Delhi borders were completely sealed for the last three days and some vehicles had also got stuck on the way.Jagdish Jassowal, media secretary of Ludhiana Goods Transport Association, said, “Delhi’s borders are sealed for the last three days, now allowing movement of goods vehicles. Some vehicles also got stuck on the way, so no new orders are being accepted for now. To reach other states, truckers are taking alternative routes from Haryana.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-agitation-sealing-of-delhi-borders-leaves-ludhiana-industrialists-on-tenterhooks/story-A5QFZWXzQDF721WoJFwL4M.html
28-11-2020||City||LIP president urges farmers not to lift protest until demands are met||With the Union government allowing farmers to peacefully protest at Sant Nirankari Samagam ground, Burari, president of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains on Saturday, urged farmers not to move out of Delhi until their demands are met. The LIP leaders said that the Centre is trying to pacify farmers by shifting them to Nirankari ground. Earlier, Member of Parliament (MP) Ravneet Bittu also urged farmers not to move away from Delhi roads. Bains said, “As the farmers have now reached the Haryana-Delhi border, the Union government is now trying to pacify them by asking them to stage a peaceful protest at Nirankari ground. I urge farmers not to lift their protest until their demands are met.”Bains added that they will move court against chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar-led Haryana government as it had dug up the roads to block the way of farmers marching towards Delhi.“Also, the LIP workers will go from village to village in the state to urge farmers to block every route to Delhi so that the Union government is forced to fulfill the demands of farmers,” said Bains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lip-president-urges-farmers-not-to-lift-protest-until-demands-are-met/story-jmvKw7oMnQtdRLx2hWR2dK.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||‘Very unfortunate’: AAP on Centre blaming rise in Covid-19 on Delhi govt in SC||The AAP on Friday termed as “very unfortunate” the Union Home Ministry’s remarks in its affidavit filed before the Supreme Court blaming the Delhi government for the rise in COVID-19 cases here, saying the Centre has chosen to play “dirty politics” at this critical hour. The Centre on Friday blamed the Delhi government for rising COVID-19 cases in the national capital and said that despite “repeated exhortations”, it did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 tests for a long time.In a statement, the Aam Aadmi Party said the comments of the Centre about Delhi government in its affidavit before the Supreme Court are “very unfortunate”. “It is extremely unfortunate that the central government has chosen to play dirty politics in this critical hour. “The affidavit seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson rather than by the Union government which is meant to work in collaboration with the states at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect.” The AAP claimed that Union Home Minister Amit Shah had promised to provide 750 ICU beds within 72 hours during a meeting held on November 15.  “Till date, only 200 beds have been provided. We hope the Centre will provide the rest of the beds soon. The central government has deprived Delhi of all funds, provided to other state governments during this epidemic, on the flimsy premise that Delhi is a UT. Therefore, we hope that the central government will do something concrete for Delhiites rather than play the blame game,” it said. In its affidavit, filed before the top court, the Ministry of Home affairs (MHA), said “while there were regular advertisements on achievements of Delhi government, including on dengue prevention and control, no ads on COVID-appropriate behaviour were to be seen. The people, at large, were also not apprised about this through regular outreach measures.” It said, “That despite repeated exhortations in the wake of rising COVID-19 cases, the Delhi government did not take steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 RTPCR tests for a long time.” A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah took the Centre’s affidavit on record and observed that “things are going from bad to worse but no concrete steps are being taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/very-unfortunate-aap-on-centre-blaming-rise-in-covid-19-on-delhi-govt-in-sc/story-UVTSvLsJoF9P0Y2KHe7fgI.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||650 candidates to take CAT in Ludhiana today; Covid precautions in place||As many as 650 candidates will appear for the Common Admission Test (CAT) on Sunday at Satnam Infosol on Threeke Road, which is the only exam centre in Ludhiana.In Punjab, the other centres have been set up in Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Pathankot and Sangrur. Clearing this exam is a pre-requisite for admission to Indian Institute of Managements (IIMs) across the country. To avoid crowding at the venue, candidates have been asked to reach the exam centre as per the assigned time slots sent on their registered mail and mobile numbers on Saturday.At the centre in Ludhiana, authorities have put several measures in place to ensure the safety of students amid the pandemic. To avoid crowding, the seating plan will not be put up on the notice board. This information will be given to candidates when they get their admit cards scanned before entry. Students will also undergo thermal scanning at the entrance gate. If their body temperature is above normal (37.5 °C/99.4 F), or if they show any symptoms of Covid, they will be seated in an isolation room to take the exam. The exam will be held in three slots—8.30am, 12pm and 4.30pm.As per IIM Indore’s instructions, a candidate will have to wear face masks and carry gloves and hand sanitisers into the examination centre. The entry gate will be closed 15 minutes before the exam.Other instructions:Candidates should not wear jackets or sweaters with pockets Digital watches/items cannot be carried into the exam centre They must carry a physical copy of their admit cards and an ID proof .The exam will be conducted in three slots, 8.30am, 12.30pm and 4.30pm. The reporting time has been conveyed to candidates via SMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/650-candidates-to-take-cat-in-ludhiana-today-covid-precautions-in-place/story-28umR9nXuZ1TpLhn76zTML.html
28-11-2020||City||Cabinet minister, mayor review projects for upgrading sports facilities in Ludhiana||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu reviewed projects under the Smart City Mission for upgrading sports infrastructure in the city at the mayor’s camp office on Saturday.Apart from the municipal corporation (MC) officials including MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, officials of the district sports department also participated in the meeting. The civic body is working to establish a sports park on a 32-acre land in Jainpur village, an all-weather swimming pool near Rakh Bagh and upgrade the existing sports infrastructure including Shastri hall for badminton, athletic track Guru Nanak Stadium, cycling velodrome and hockey ground in PAU among other projects. It is said that the tenders for construction of the sports park will be floated in January next year.Ashu said that the park will have playgrounds for cricket, football, hockey, lawn tennis, swimming pool, outdoor archery ground, 50m indoor shooting range, volleyball, badminton and table tennis courts etc, along with a 3.5-km long and 15-feet wide cycling as well as a pedestrian track. Besides, this sports park would also have a club area for sportspersons with refreshment lounge, children zone, yoga zone. A new table tennis court is coming up near Rakh Bagh, whose architectural layout has been prepared. The two open basketball courts at Ludhiana Basketball Academy will soon be made indoors.Ashu said, “The officials have been told to complete the projects within the set deadline and action will be taken against any kind of delay. Further, we have also invited different sports associations to know their suggestions/objections regarding the ongoing projects. Another meeting will be held next week in this regard.”Ashu said that the public can also submit their suggestions with the civic body and the officials will deliberate upon the same.With the 15th Finance Commission allocating Rs 26 crores under the National Clean Air Program for Ludhiana MC, the minister and mayor also briefly deliberated upon what steps can be taken to improve air quality in the city with PPCB superintending engineer, Sandeep Behl. It is expected that a detailed meeting will be held in the coming few days and councillors will also be involved in the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/cabinet-minister-mayor-review-projects-for-upgrading-sports-facilities-in-ludhiana/story-f0hnq8LdyZeaYj6Hqp9UwM.html
28-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: Confusion reigns over government school fees||To pay or not to pay – parents of children studying in government schools of the district are confused with announcements of state government offering relaxations for school fees amid the Coronavirus pandemic.With December 1 set as the deadline to deposit the registration and continuation fee for Classes 10 and 12, the school authorities are on their toes to collect the fees from parents.School principals have stated that a large number of students have not deposited the fee, including amalgamated, sports and PTA charges, as their parents are under the false assumption that the state government has waived all charges. However, during the recent three-day virtual parent-teacher meetings, teachers had informed the parents that only the funds deposited in the treasury with regards to tuition fee, absentee fine and school leaving certificate have been waived and not other charges.There are 900 students in Classes 9 to 12 at Government Senior Secondary School, Dhandari Khurd, and majority of them have not submitted the school fee till November. In every parent-teacher meeting, the school authorities have been informing parents to deposit the fee, but to no avail.Speaking over confusion among parents, district education officer, secondary, Swaranjit Kaur, said, “I am not aware of the issue. School principals must clarify to parents through virtual meetings that the funds deposited in the treasury have been waived by the government and not all charges.”Principal Ujjalveer Singh, said, “There are over 570 students in Classes 10 and 12 and many have deposited the board registration fee but parents are not ready to deposit the school fee. The charges are minimal and parents have been asked to pay it on a monthly basis but despite repeated requests, they have not deposited it citing financial constraints.”As per the rules, government schools can charge Rs 15 each as sports fund and parent-teacher association fund and Rs 20 as amalgamated fund monthly from students of Classes 9 and 10. While from Classes 11 and 12, the school authorities can charge Rs 20 each for sports fund and parent-teacher association fund, Rs 25 as an amalgamated fund.The board registration and continuation fee for Class 10 are Rs 900 and Rs 1,170 for Class 12.Schools hold meet to ask parents to deposit feeA chemistry lecturer of a government school, said, “For the last three days, we are holding parent-teacher meetings to inform parents regarding the performance of their child. During the meetings, we have also asked them to deposit the school fee but the majority of them believe that the state government has waived all the charges. To address the issue, the education department must issue a statement as these funds are used to maintain the school infrastructure and pay water and electricity bills.”At Government Senior Secondary School, Multipurpose, which has a strength of 3,300 students in Classes 9 to 12, over 50% of students have not deposited the fee. The teachers are contacting the parents daily and asking them to deposit the board class registration fee as the last date is approaching and if not submitted in the given time then they will have to pay the late fee charges as well.School principal Navdeep Romana, said, “All class teachers are directed to collect the registration fee from students. The last date to deposit the fee is nearing and if a student has to appear for the board exams, we have informed parents to deposit the fee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-confusion-reigns-over-government-school-fees/story-dJENXEwBC4rG41tjvhWawI.html
28-11-2020||City||2,320 complaints resolved as ‘Know your case’ resumes in Ludhiana after eight months||Eight months after police suspended the “Know Your Case” scheme due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it resumed the service on Saturday across all 29 police stations in the district.Police claimed to have resolved 2,320 complaints through the day, while another 423 people were given information about progress on their cases and complaints. Police also handed over case property, which was seized in different cases.As part of safety measures against Covid-19, police made special arrangements to maintain social distancing among the people. Hand sanitisers were also provided and help desks were set up to properly guide people and avoid crowding.Launched on November 28, 2019, the scheme was suspended by the police commissioner on March 20 in view of the Coronavirus outbreak in the region. Police had also called off public dealings after some cops tested positive for the virus. Thereon, the public was advised to drop complaints in complaint boxes installed outside police stations or send these via e-mail. This led to pendency of many cases, both new and old.Inderbir Singh, a resident of Dugri, said he had a dispute with a tenant, who owed him rent and electricity dues for six months. He had filed a complaint regarding this, but it was left unaddressed due to the pandemic.On Saturday, he got to visit the police station and the dispute was resolved, with the tenant issuing cheques for the dues.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) Gurpreet Singh Sikand said 162 cases of matrimonial dispute were also resolved at the women cell.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said any complainant desirous of knowing the status of their complaint, case or petition can visit the police station or unit concerned from 10am to 2pm on the designated Saturday. Gazetted officers, along with the SHOs, investigation officers and in-charges of the units will remain present. Investigation officer will apprise the complainant of the case status, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/2-320-complaints-resolved-as-know-your-case-resumes-in-ludhiana-after-eight-months/story-JJphrtwRhhiJeQiBh90U7N.html
28-11-2020||City||Ludhiana’s Covid-19 death toll surpasses 900 in 244 days||The district’s death toll due to Covid-19 breached the 900 mark on Saturday with five more residents losing the battle to the virus – eight months after Ludhiana recorded its first casualty on March 29.Besides, 100 residents also tested positive, taking the case tally to 22,642. Among these, 869 cases are still active, while 20,868 people have recovered.The latest fatalities include a 75-year-old man from Haibowal, a 68-year-old woman from Latala village, a 65-year-old man from Jagraon and a 63-year-old man from Dhandran Road. The fifth patient died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, and the details were awaited, health department officials said.The spike in death rate After the first Covid casualty on March 29, Ludhiana had recorded another three in April and five more in May. As the lockdown restrictions were lifted, allowing borders to reopen and economic activity to resume, the Covid fatalities rose to 12 in June. The situation worsened in July that saw 67 deaths. August saw the death rate spiralling in Ludhiana, with 323 people succumbing to the virus in a month. There was no bend in the curve until the end of September either, as 330 more deaths were recorded. The district saw some relief from the pandemic in October when the casualties came down to 96 – a 70% drop in the monthly fatality rate.Similarly, as of November 28, 65 deaths have been recorded in Ludhiana.But, health department officials caution that though there was a brief lull, the Covid-19 casualty graph was again witnessing an uptick, so there was no room for complacency.“The recent spurt in cases as well as deaths is a clear indicator that the second wave has arrived. Earlier, during the first wave, the virus had first spread in Delhi and three weeks later, we saw the cases burgeoning in Ludhiana as well,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, member of the Covid-19 task force formed by the state government. He urged residents not to disregard the significance of social distancing, wearing masks and frequent hand sanitisation while being in public.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said Delhi was a clear example of what apathy towards the pandemic can do. “Disregard towards safety protocols only led to another spurt in cases there. We have to ensure not to repeat this mistake in Ludhiana. Until the vaccination programme begins, social distancing, hand washing and wearing a mask are the only ways to prevent infection,” said Dr Bagga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-s-covid-19-death-toll-surpasses-900-in-244-days/story-pj6XhIGeSh6QPC6KDCw7BP.html
28-11-2020||Lucknow||UP races to meet cold chain target for 1st phase of Covid-19 vaccine||The Uttar Pradesh government is aiming to create 2,03,938 litre space for cold chain maintenance at temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccine. This 2.03 lakh litre space includes 87,801 litre ordinarily used for routine immunisation. The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination is expected to immunise over four crore people in the state with the focus on frontline corona warriors, including health workers. Uttar Pradesh has a population of about 23 crore.So far, 80,733-litre space has been created, according to official data. Now, work is going on in 75 districts for creating an additional 1,23,205 litre cold chain space.For the Covid-19 vaccine alone, 1,16,137 litre space has to be created in the first phase in December.Construction work is going on in 22 districts for making exclusive vaccine depots, while repair work is underway in 27 others.For the districts, the target Covid population is taken in proportion to the state Covid population, which is seven times the number of beneficiaries for routine immunization. The number is roughly equal to 20 per cent of the districts’ population, according to state government officials.Also read: SII to apply for emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine in 2 weeksThere are 97,000 doctors registered in Uttar Pradesh and over 65,000 of them are active in practice, according to the state medical faculty data. Apart from doctors, there are nurses, pharmacists, ward boys, lab technicians, cleaning staff and clerks working in hospitals. They are expected to among the first to be vaccinated for Covid-19.Dr AP Chaturvedi, state immunisation officer, said, “We have not been told how many vaccine vials will be coming, but the infrastructure will be ready in time.”“Vaccines will come in batches and we will ensure they are dispatched from the depots,” said Dr Chaturvedi.“As soon as the vials arrive, they will be sent out from the depots for vaccination, making space for more batches to be stocked,” said an official.Walk-in-freezers, walk-in-coolers, cold chain boxes and deep freezers are to be provided by the union government.Who will be next after healthcare workers? After healthcare workers, people above 60-65 years of age could be vaccinated.“The risk of complications from Covid-19 is up to 50 per cent higher in the elderly and those with comorbidity. As the majority of the elderly suffer from some type of comorbidity such as diabetes or high blood pressure, vaccinating them will be a wise decision,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors and expert in geriatric medicine.The population of the elderly is over 6 crore in the state and over 5 lakh in state capital Lucknow. The vaccine storage equipment will have electronic vaccine intelligence networking (EVIN) devices that record temperature in which vaccines are stored and if the range is broken, a message is sent via an SMS to the authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/up-races-to-meet-cold-chain-target-for-1st-phase-of-covid-19-vaccine/story-GGFrqPY2CkYmv100aHucWP.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 5,965 fresh Covid-19 cases; tally now 1,814,515||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 5,965 fresh Covid-19 infections to push the state’s tally to 1,814,515. The state’s death toll is now within a touching distance of 47,000 after 75 fatalities took the toll to 46,986. Out of the deaths reported on Saturday, 56 occurred within the last 48 hours, while the remaining occurred in the past week.Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to report over 1,000 cases for the fourth day straight as it added 1,063 fresh cases to take the city’s tally to 281,881. Mumbai also reported 17 fatalities, pushing the toll to 10,847. Active cases in Mumbai stood at 14,979.The active cases in the state rose by nearly 15% in the past eight days. The state’s active caseload was on a decline till November 20, when it had 78,272 active cases. On Saturday, the active caseload stood at 89,905, which is an increase of 14.86%.In November so far, the state has reported 136,109 cases, with a daily average of 4,861 cases. In October, Maharashtra had recorded 293,960 cases. The number of cases in November shows a decline in the infection’s spread. However, the state health department has predicted a surge in cases after Diwali (November 15). A second wave is expected to hit the state by December-end or January 2021, according to prediction models of the health department.Also read: Maharashtra: Existing lockdown restrictions extended till Dec 31However, state health department officials said that so far there was no significant change in fresh cases reported. “The cases have shown some increase, but it is due to increased testing after Diwali. The positivity rate has not shot up nor is it even showing an upward trend so far. The average positivity rate for the past week has been around 6.5%,” said a health department official requesting anonymity.An analysis of the data shows that the positivity rate in the seven days has been 6.62%. The tests have gone up from around 50,000 two weeks ago to an average of 86,000 tests daily in the past seven days.Meanwhile, various corporations within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai) reported 1,105 fresh cases. Kalyan-Dombivli reported the highest cases in MMR at 245 cases, followed by Thane city with 202 cases and Navi Mumbai with 159 cases. Thane rural reported 112 cases, while Panvel city 104 new cases.Pune district reported 1,095 fresh cases and 16 fatalities, where Pune city reported 552 cases and 14 deaths, while Pune rural parts saw 340 cases. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 203 and two deaths. Pune district is seeing an increase in cases this month. The district active caseload was dipping till November 12, when it had 15,713 active cases, which rose by 26.57% to 19,889 on November 28.Meanwhile, Satara district reported 228 fresh cases, Nagpur district reported 423 cases, of which 355 were from Nagpur city. Chandrapur, Gondia, and Bhandara districts in Vidarbha reported 146, 105 and 107 cases respectively. Aurangabad district reported 153 new cases, of which 138 were from Aurangabad city. Ahmednagar district reported 269 cases, with 208 from districts’ rural parts.The state also reported recoveries of 3,937 patients, taking the tally of recovered cases to 16,76,564. The recovery rate stood at 92.4%. Maharashtra has so far tested 1,07,22,198 samples and has the overall positivity rate of 16.92%. Currently, 528,462 people are in home quarantine and 7,118 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-5-965-fresh-covid-19-cases-tally-now-1-814-515/story-ZNFeg3b8ER2XXO4Py3WdLP.html
28-11-2020||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP chief says no talks of replacing CM Yediyurappa||The BJP’s Karnataka unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Saturday reaffirmed that there has been no talks in any of the party forums on leadership change in the state, as speculation about the high command mulling over replacing Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa refuses to die down.“There have been no discussions on leadership change.There have been speculations in this regard for the last three to four months and I have been saying this constantly,” Kateel said.Speaking to reporters in Mangaluru, he questioned whether discussions have taken place in this regard and at what level. “Who has raised the issue of leadership change? Who has questioned it? Has our national president or national office bearers or core committee members or our legislators have spoken in this regard?” he asked.There have been rumours in some quarters in recent times that the BJP is weighing the option of leadership change in Karnataka considering the age of Yediyurappa, who is 77.The state BJP has repeatedly rejected such speculations, but some within the party like senior MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal have openly talked about his replacement.The recent move by Yediyurappa like-recommending inclusion of the Veerashaiva-Lingayats community as OBC under the central list, which has been deferred, is being seen by many within BJP circles as a move by the CM to further consolidate his position as the leader of the community considered as BJP’s core vote bank, amid such speculations.On cabinet expansion or reshuffle, Kateel said the Chief Minister along with national leaders will decide on who should be in the cabinet and all party legislators will abide by it.Echoing similar views,Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan too said, the chief minister will decide in consultation with the high command.The statement from the party president and the DCM has come amid some aspirants openly expressing their resentment about the delay in the cabinet exercise.Ministerial aspirant and MLC MTB Nagaraj expressed unhappiness about delay in his induction into the cabinet.“It has been six months since we became MLC. Chief Minister has been saying that induction will happen, but the delay has caused some resentment naturally,” he said.Other BJP MLCs A H Vishwanath and R Shankar, who along with Nagaraj had rebelled against the Congress-JD(S) coalition government and faced disqualification, which helped the BJP come to power, too have expressed similar sentiments.They too have asked Yediyurappa to keep up the promise by making them ministers in return for their “sacrifice”.As per the agreement, Yediyurappa has already inducted 10 rebels into the cabinet after they won subsequent bypolls on the BJP ticket.Now the the three MLCs along with newly elected Rajarajeshwari Nagar BJP MLA Muniratha (also a rebel) are now waiting for their turn.With cabinet expansion delaying, a section of this group had met at a hotel last night and held discussions.They are said to be miffed about one among them, Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who has made repeated visits to the high command lobbying for the induction of MLC C P Yogeshwar, who is not from the group.Yediyurappa on Friday told reporters that he has spoken to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the cabinet expansion, and the central leadership will convey their decision soon, and that the exercise may take place in two- three days.The cabinet expansion or reshuffle is expected to be a tightrope walk for the Chief Minister, considering that there are too many aspirants, from the party old guard too along with Congress-JD(S) rebels who are now BJP legislators.The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/bengaluru/karnataka-bjp-chief-says-no-talks-of-replacing-cm-yediyurappa/story-OuvdLWcOlSpFhU7HrtVpEL.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi detects 4,998 Covid-19 cases from record 69k tests; positivity rate drops to 7.24%||The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi dropped to 7.24 per cent on Saturday, the lowest since October 23, as authorities detected 4,998 fresh Covid-19 cases from a record 69,051 tests. Eighty-nine more fatalities pushed the city’s death toll to 8,998.“Since 7 Nov, cases and positivity in Delhi are going down. Today, less than 5000 cases, 89 deaths and 7.24 positivity. Hope this trend continues. Delhiites and Delhi govt together will win over this third wave also. Pl continue to observe all precautions,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.On October 23, Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 6.98 per cent. It was 8.51 per cent on Friday, 8.65 per cent on Thursday and 8.49 per cent on Wednesday.   A record 69,051 tests, including 33,147 RT-PCR ones -- the highest till date -- and 35,904 rapid antigen tests, were conducted the previous day for the detection of Covid-19, according to a bulletin by the Delhi health department on Saturday.As many as 64,455 tests were conducted on Thursday.The city had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11.As many as 131 Covid-related deaths were recorded on November 18, the highest till date.According to the bulletin, the total number of coronavirus cases climbed to 5,61,742 on Saturday, of which 516166 have recovered. The tally of active cases in Delhi was 36578 down from 38181 on Friday.  Delhi recorded 6,746 cases on Sunday, 4,454 on Monday, 6,224 on Tuesday, 5,246 on Wednesday and 5,475 on Thursday and 5,482 on Friday.The number of Covid-19 containment zones in Delhi rose to 5331 on Saturday from 5,229 on Friday.Of the total number of 18,389 beds in Covid-19 hospitals, 9,739 are vacant, according to official data.Health minister Satyendar Jain said Delhi has sufficient infrastructure and equipment to vaccinate its entire population in a few weeks once a Covid-19 vaccine is available.“There is no need to worry about storage of vaccines. We have a large number of health care facilities, such as mohalla clinics, poly clinics, and hospitals etc., where a Covid-19 vaccine can be administered to people,” Jain told reporters.“Once a vaccine is available, we can vaccinate the entire population of Delhi in a few weeks,” the minister said.Jain also said that Delhi should be given priority during the distribution of the vaccine as it is the national capital.A three-storeyed building on the premises of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital has also been identified for storage of Covid-19 vaccines.Jain said that more than 50 percent of the beds reserved for coronavirus patients in Delhi are unoccupied.“More than 1,200 ICU beds and around 9,500 normal ones are unoccupied at present. Overall, more than 50 percent beds are available. So, we are in a slightly better situation,” he told reporters. The minister said there were some problems related to oxygen supply in Delhi on Friday which have been resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-detects-4-998-covid-19-cases-from-record-69k-tests-positivity-rate-drops-to-7-24/story-bUs0QwVq6EsbYDFfooct8I.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Significant improvement in Mumbai’s air quality after Cyclone Nivar’: Researchers||After three days of poor air quality, an increase in wind speed and a rise in minimum temperature due to partly cloudy conditions led to a significant improvement in Mumbai’s air quality. The pollution index was at 123, falling under the moderate category.The System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and the India Meteorological Department (IMD), both said air quality improvement was an after effect of the remnants of Cyclone Nivar, which made landfall over the east coast as a very severe cyclonic storm north of Puducherry late on Wednesday and subsequently weakened and dissipated as it moved over peninsular India.According to SAFAR, Mumbai’s AQI was 201 (poor) on Wednesday, 252 (poor) on Thursday and also the worst air quality in eight months, 218 (poor) on Friday. It dropped back to the moderate category on Saturday and is expected to be 120 (moderate) on Sunday.Also read: SII to apply for emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccine in 2 weeksGufran Beig, project director, SAFAR and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, said, “Under the influence of the remnants of cyclone Nivar, winds over coastal and interior Maharashtra suddenly became fast between late Friday night and early Saturday morning which helped disperse pollutants that accumulated closer to the surface. A marginal rise in morning temperatures also helped reduce the carrying capacity of pollutants in Mumbai’s air.” Beig added that depending on the intensity of winds, the AQI was expected to fluctuate within the moderate category for the next three days.Mazgaon (242) and Chembur (208) were the most polluted locations in the city on Saturday with poor air quality while Navi Mumbai (71) and Worli (88) had the cleanest air under ‘satisfactory’ category. According to the IMD, the minimum temperature in south Mumbai increased to 24 degrees Celsius, 2 degree Celsius above normal on Saturday while the suburbs recorded 23.2 degrees Celsius, an increase of 3.2 degrees Celsius since Friday.“Mostly due to post-cyclone Nivar effect, almost the entire state was under cloud cover on Saturday as the remnants of the system pushed a lot of moisture, contributing to high clouds, which can lower the visibility, lead to some drizzle and lower temperatures too,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, western region, IMD. He said light drizzling was reported from Solapur and other areas in interior Maharashtra could witness drizzling as well.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature in south Mumbai fell below the normal mark on Friday at 31.7 degrees Celsius, 1.3 degree Celsius below normal. The day temperature in the suburbs dropped from 34.4 degrees Celsius to 33.3 degrees Celsius which was close to normal. The weather bureau has predicted a partly cloudy sky for Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/significant-improvement-in-mumbai-s-air-quality-after-cyclone-nivar-researchers/story-w5QfBzixgD5JFjLLJ8ggjK.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Three held for stabbing man to death for refusing them a bidi||Three men aged between 20 and 22 years were arrested for stabbing a man to death after he allegedly refused to share his bidi with them. Police said the three men had stabbed Siddhique on November 26 on the banks of the Yamuna, near Shaheen Bagh in south-east Delhi.Police said the three men -- Mohammed Faizan,20, Mohammed Usman,22, and Jaheer Mansoori,20, are all residents of Abul Fazal Enclave and do not have a previous crime record. Police said they were alerted of the murder on the evening of November 26, by officials of the Al-Shifa hospital in Shaheen Bagh. The hospital authorities told police that a man was brought in with multiple stab wounds.Deputy commissioner of police(south-east) RP Meena said police met a witness, who said that he and Siddhique were on the river banks after lunch when Faizan, Usman and Mansoori spotted them and asked them for a bidi.“When they refused, those men started abusing and beating them. They ran towards Gali No. 6 to save themselves but the three chased them and again started beating them on the road. However, they were saved by the public. They were then going home when the three again chased them and attacked Siddique with a skewer they picked up from a nearby eatery,” said Meena.The three men fled the spot after the incident. DCP Meena said the men were arrested from their hideout in Shaheen Bagh on Saturday. Police have recovered the skewer that was used in the murder.Faizan, police said, runs a small shoe store in Jaitpur; Usman runs a garments shop in Seelampur, and Mansoori assists his father, a vehicle mechanic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/three-held-for-stabbing-man-to-death-for-refusing-them-a-bidi/story-rcYM1vgyyN5jmR2RiilhzJ.html
28-11-2020||City||Naib tehsildar faces DA case too,vigilance watered-down inquiry||Jalandhar Nearly a month after Punjab vigilance bureau arrested tainted Zirakpur naib tehsildar, Varinder Singh Dhoot, and four others in a corruption case on November 2, HT has learnt that Dhoot faces another case of disproportionate assets which is pending with vigilance headquarters, after Jalandhar vigilance ‘watered-down’ the investigation and recommended departmental action. The corruption case goes back to 2017, when Dhoot was Majri naib tehsildar. He, in connivance with subordinate revenue officials and private individuals, is accused of fraudulently selling 99 acre of shamlat land in Seonk village. The exchequer lost crores of rupees in this, vigilance had claimed.In 2017 itself, the Jalandhar vigilance had started a probe into Dhoot’s alleged disproportionate assets. The department accused him of buying prime properties, some in the name of his family members, spending crores of rupees on a palatial house and buying 25 acre in Hoshiarpur district.In December 2017, Jalandhar vigilance inquiry found that Dhoot had immovable and movable property, which was more than his known sources of income, through corrupt or illegal methods. Vigilance claimed Dhoot spent around Rs 50 lakh more than his income between 2009 and 2015, with the total expenditure detected at Rs 2.45 crore. Following this, the Jalandhar vigilance recommended a First Information Report (FIR) against Dhoot to Mohali headquarters, after legal opinion.In October 2019, nearly two years after this recommendation, Dhoot filed a representation before vigilance headquarters seeking a re-probe into the disproportionate asset case of 2017. This was allowed, and the Jalandhar vigilance again prepared an expenditure report of Dhoot from 2009-2015, and calculated it at Rs 2.25 crore. This was Rs 18.6 lakh more than his income and fell within the government mandated guideline of less than 10%. Now, the Jalandhar vigilance wrote to the state revenue department for departmental action.“The matter has been pending with the state vigilance for its final decision,” an official said, adding Dhoot also underwent an expensive kidney transplant in Singapore in 2018, was politically well-connected and a close confidante of a prominent politician of Hoshiarpur.The departmental inquiry report against Dhoot showed that 66 land deeds were registered under his name on November 2, when he was not even present in office.Jalandhar vigilance SSP Daljinder Singh said, “We have not given any clean chit to Dhoot. There were some technical issues and the matter is still pending.” Vigilance bureau assistant inspector general Ashish Kapoor, who is the investigating officer of the corruption case, refused to comment.Vigilance bureau director LK Yadav said, “I am not aware of the specifics of the inquiry against Dhoot. We will take our decision as per law and no culprit will be spared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naib-tehsildar-faces-da-case-too-vigilance-watered-down-inquiry/story-fO0wtCMK6pixOQJNHvEwfO.html
28-11-2020||City||Battery operated bicycles and trikes to be included in Delhi’s EV policy||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s electric vehicles (EV) policy – aimed at reducing air pollution in the Capital – is being revised to include a segment on battery-operated bicycles and trikes, said a senior government official on Saturday, adding that the government has drafted a proposal to offer monetary incentives on their purchase.While the policy was notified by the government in August this year, the amendments are yet to be notified. The proposed revision includes cycles both in the passenger and cargo categories.A vehicle will be considered as a passenger electric bicycle if it is an electrically assisted pedal cycle with a motor with a maximum speed of 25 km per hour, said the draft pertaining to the proposed revision in the policy which HT has seen.“A purchase incentive of 25 per cent of the maximum retail price up to a maximum of Rs 5000 per vehicle will be provided to buyers of passenger e-cycles with a fixed additional incentive of Rs 2000 to the first 10,000 e-cycles,” said the document.The incentive will be available to individual buyers as well as bicycle sharing service providers, it said. An e-cycle will be considered the equivalent of a normal bicycle and will be allowed to use cycle lanes, wherever available, said the document.It further said, the incentive policy will also cover cargo e-cycles, which can be either two-wheeled or three-wheeled “trikes”. In case of cargo cycles, the purchase incentive will be 33% of the maximum retail price with a cap of Rs 15,000.The EV policy aims to ensure that by 2024, e-vehicles account for at least 25% of all new vehicle registrations in the capital. It also aims to help achieve the transition of at least 50% of all two-wheelers engaged in last mile delivery to the electric segment.In case of electric two-wheelers, the maximum incentive on purchase has been fixed at Rs 30,000 while in case of e-cars it is up to Rs 1.5 lakh per vehicle. For e-rickshaws, an amount of up to Rs 30,000 is the incentive for purchase. Buyers have to pay the full amount during purchase and later claim reimbursement from the government, for which the government had launched a website.In October, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Arvind Kejriwal had enlisted boosting the EV policy in his action plan to combat air pollution in the Capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/battery-operated-bicycles-and-trikes-to-be-included-in-delhi-s-ev-policy/story-NNg8jtQEjsjuQncUuuWqeP.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Oxford Covid-19 vaccine: Serum Institute to apply for emergency authorisation in 2 weeks||The Serum Institute of India (SII) will apply for emergency license of Covid-19 vaccine in the next two weeks, said chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Saturday. Speaking to reporters through virtual press conference minutes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to SII’s facility in Pune on Saturday, Poonawalla said, the vaccine, post-authorization, will initially be distributed in India and then to African countries. “We are in process of applying for emergency licensing in the next two weeks. We will have to wait and see when we get the authorisation,” said Poonawalla while responding to a question on Covishield vaccine’s distribution in the country. “The vaccine will be distributed initially in India and then we will look at COVAX countries which are mainly in Africa. The United Kingdom and European markets are being taken care of by AstraZeneca and Oxford. If they need our help for scaling up production capacity, we are always there to support them.”The SII, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed an agreement to manufacture the vaccine developed by the Jenner Institute of Oxford University in collaboration with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca. University of Oxford and AstraZeneca on Monday said that their Covid-19 vaccine was up to 90 per cent effective in late-stage clinical trials, raising hopes for the arrival of shots in India by the end of the year. Also read: PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccine progress in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and PuneAccording to Poonawalla, the Covishiled vaccine has proved effective during trials. “What we found in Covishield during trials globally was that there was zero hospitalisation and 60 per cent reduction in sterilizing immunity.” Poonawala said during PM Modi’s visit to the manufacturing facility at SII, various issues about pricing and logistics as well as pros and cons of other vaccine candidates were discussed. The SII is currently producing 50-60 million doses per month and plans to scale up to 100 million doses by January next year. “We are producing 50 to 60 million doses per month and post-January, it will be scaled up to 100 million doses a month. We have built the largest pandemic-level facility in Pune and our new campus in Mandri. That was also showcased to the PM with a tour around the facility and a lot of detailed discussions,” Poonawalla further mentioned. On signing any deal with the government of India, Poonawalla said there has been no contract signed with centre yet. “As of now, we don’t have anything in writing on how many doses they will purchase but as indicated by the health ministry, they would need 300-400 million doses by July 2021,” said the SII CEO.Poonawala also claimed the Oxford drug can be transported easily at normal refrigerator temperatures, unlike some of the other candidates which require extreme cold storage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/oxford-covid-19-vaccine-serum-institute-to-apply-for-emergency-authorisation-in-next-2-weeks/story-ii8plpbkdSwksb2c6J0aIP.html
28-11-2020||Kolkata||TMC pulls ups socks, BJP ups ante after Suvendu Adhikari quits cabinet||Jolted by the resignation of party heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, the ruling Trinamool Congress in West Bengal has started pulling up its socks, even as the Bharatiya Janata Party upped its ante against the ruling party on Saturday. While TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is expected to hold rallies in some of the districts where Adhikari has a support base starting with West Midnapore on December 7, the chief minister will also hold a virtual meeting with all district-level leaders on December 4. On Saturday, Abhishek Banerjee, TMC MP and the chief minister’s nephew and poll strategist Prashant Kishor held a meeting with party leaders of Malda district. Adhikari was an observer of five districts including Malda and East Midnapore overseeing party’s organisational network in the districts. TMC leaders from East Midnapore have been directed to remain present in the December 7 rally. “The party leadership not only wants to take a stock but also wants to boost the morale of the party workers ahead of the polls after Friday’s double setback,” said a TMC leader. The ruling party received a double blow on Friday with not just Adhikari quitting the cabinet, further widening his gap with the party, but another party veteran Mihir Goswami joining the BJP. Also read: PM Modi reviews Covid-19 vaccine progress in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and PuneBJP MP Arjun Singh had said a few days ago, “If Adhikari joins the BJP, the government will fall. The TMC party will come to an end.”Even though senior leaders of the party said that both Adhikari and Goswami and a few other party leaders are seemingly peeved with Kishor and his way of functioning, the TMC still sounded hopeful and upbeat. “Suvendu is still a party member. So talks can still be held. His mother is unwell so it may take some time. But I am hopeful,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP, who had earlier held at least two rounds of talks with Adhikari. Party insiders said that some of the TMC leaders from Malda were absent in the meeting called by Abhishek Banerjee and Kishor in Kolkata on Monday. Among the absentees was TMC’s Rajya Sabha MP Mausam Benazir Noor.Meanwhile, the BJP sharpened its attack against the TMC with state president Dilip Ghosh saying that the TMC would meet its end within a month.“Didi has failed in disaster management of the state and is now busy with the disaster management of the party. In a month from now, the TMC will come to an end. Goswami’s joining is just the beginning of TMC’s end,” Ghosh said, adding that BJP national president is likely to come to Bengal around December 8. The TMC, however, lashed out against Ghosh saying that he was daydreaming. Even though Adhikari was not available for his comments, he is scheduled to hold a non-political rally in West Midnapore on Sunday. Abhishek Banerjee is also scheduled to hold a rally on Sunday in South 24 Parganas. Meanwhile, supporters of Adhikari came up with fresh posters in Hooghly district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/tmc-pulls-ups-socks-bjp-ups-ante-after-suvendu-adhikari-quits-cabinet/story-2ahuK0PFUCJc0H9gC3OkaN.html
28-11-2020||City||Ludhiana man accuses wife of beating up his mother||A driver has accused his wife of frequently thrashing his 60-year-old mother in his absence. The complainant, Baljit Singh, 40, said he lived with his mother and wife in New Sundar Nagar, Daba.As he is a driver by profession, he often remains out of town. On returning home, he would often find his mother injured. However, she never told him how she got the wounds. Eventually, on Friday, he saw his wife beating up his mother, Baljit alleged.Inspector Pavittar Singh, SHO, Daba police station, said the complainant’s mother was medically examined after he filed a written complaint. An FIR will be lodged after taking her statement, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-man-accuses-wife-of-beating-up-his-mother/story-pbiXa6U5pNTDZwJePUumVN.html
28-11-2020||City||Air quality dips due to poor wind speed||New Delhi: Delhi’s air quality deteriorated marginally on Saturday and settled in the poor category from moderate on Friday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed Delhi’s overall AQI on Saturday at 231. On Friday, the air quality had improved to reach 137. IMD scientists said that the wind speed had slowed down slightly on Saturday compared to Friday, but it was still enough to have facilitated pollution dispersion. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre, said the average wind speed during the day remained around 8-10kmph. On Friday, however, the wind speed had peaked to around 15 kmph during the day and on Thursday night too the wind speed was high. “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday night was also around 8kmph, which is rare because winds tend to slow down at night. During the day too, the winds have been favourable for the dispersion of pollutants. Today (Saturday), the wind speed was high but not as high as it was on Friday, thus the increased AQI,” Soni said. Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), data shows that on Friday 499 fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana, and its contribution to the Capital’s PM 2.5 levels was around 4%.Soni also said that the air quality is expected to remain between moderate and poor range till November 30, after which there is a forecast for deterioration. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, also said that gradually wind speed will deteriorate from Sunday. “Over the last few days because of the impact of a western disturbance over the hills, the winds have picked up speed, but it will slow down again,” he said. Srivastava said that the temperature in Delhi and NCR is also expected to fall in the coming days because of the continuing snowfall in the regions of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and parts of Uttarakhand.On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the city, was 10.1 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature was 26.4 degree Celsius. “The normal minimum temperature for the first week of December is around 9-9.5 degrees Celsius. We are expecting the temperature this time to be a couple of degrees lower. From November 30, the minimum is likely to be around 7-8 degrees Celsius,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/air-quality-dips-due-to-poor-wind-speed/story-bEWX1WogDuI737tTrXfl3L.html
28-11-2020||City||Lost mentally ill woman abducted, raped by auto driver in Ludhiana||A 30-year-old woman, suffering from mental illness, was allegedly raped by a three-wheeler driver after she lost her way back home on November 23, police said on Saturday.The accused dropped the woman near Jalandhar Bypass a day later and fled. With the help of a Good Samaritan, the woman managed to contact her family and returned home, following which they informed the police on Saturday. The woman’s brother told the police that his sister had married a Daresi Road resident 10 years ago and had a nine-year-old son. He alleged that her sister was a victim of domestic violence and the abuse had led to mental illness. She underwent treatment for it and after regaining fitness, returned to her husband’s house in October 2018. However, he sent her back in October 2019 and she resumed her psychiatric treatment.On November 23, his sister lost her way while returning home from a shrine. The next day, they got a phone call that she was in Ganna village, Phillaur, 20km away from Ludhiana. While her family got her back home to safety the same day, it was only on Friday that she revealed that on losing her way, she had reached near Chand Cinema. There, a three-wheeler driver made her sit in his vehicle, offering to drop her home. But he took her to a room and raped her. On November 24, the accused dropped her near Jalandhar Bypass and drove away. “An FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the auto driver at the Division Number 4 police station. We are scanning CCTV cameras to trace the accused,” said sub-inspector Manju Bala, who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lost-mentally-ill-woman-abducted-raped-by-auto-driver-in-ludhiana/story-R3A8sR1edAmWWwyBmy2wcN.html
28-11-2020||City||Three petrol pump workers assaulted by six men in Ludhiana||Three petrol pump employees were injured after they were assaulted by six men following a brawl over fuel theft in Salem Tabri on Saturday afternoon. The victims, Amrish, Sandeep and Durgesh, all aged between 25 and 30 years, told the Salem Tabri police that two men arrived at the petrol pump on a motorcycle around 1pm.After getting fuel filled, they accused the petrol pump worker of filling less petrol. As a scuffle ensued, the turban of one of the customers was tossed, following which the men left the spot in a huff.But, the duo returned with four more men 20 minutes later and assaulted three workers with swords and other sharp-edged weapons, before fleeing. The victims informed the police, who rushed them to the hospital.Sub-inspector Manjit Singh said they were scanning the CCTV footage to identify the accused. A case will be registered after recording statements of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/three-petrol-pump-workers-assaulted-by-six-men-in-ludhiana/story-XmSSgz9HzM5n5GwCHdZI7J.html
28-11-2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan to slash rate of RT-PCR test in private labs||The Rajasthan government will further slash rates of RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test at private labs by Rs 400 on Tuesday. RT-PCR is the confirmatory test for Covid-19. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said, given the drop in prices of testing kits, the government will now bound private testing labs to slash rates from Rs 1,200 to Rs 800. Earlier the labs were charging Rs 2,200, which was reduced to Rs 1,200 in September mid. Gehlot, after dedicating Covid-19 ICU in RUHS hospital, equipped with 70 beds, and Covid-19 testing labs in six towns, said the state government is making all efforts to strengthen Covid-19 management and infrastructure. “People should not be worried by looking at the increasing cases as it will happen with the increase in tests. The recovery rate in Rajasthan is encouraging and the death rate is below 1 per cent,” said the CM.“Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu are the only two states in the country where testing is done through RT-PCR, which is the most reliable method. Now the current rate of RT-PCR testing in private labs will be reduced from Rs 1,200 to Rs 800 per sample,” he said. Also read: Rajasthan woman tortured with pliers to ‘free her from evil spirit’State health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said that after the new ICU ward at RUHS Hospital, a total of 205 ICU beds have now become available. In addition, 1,000 oxygen beds are also available here and CT-scan facility has been started. Secretary health education, Vaibhav Galaria informed that at present, coronavirus is being tested across 38 government and 23 private labs in the state. Rajasthan has achieved the capacity to perform 60,000 RT-PCR tests in a day. The state government issued a notification stating, “exercising powers under section 4 of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, the rate of RT-PCR tests is fixed at Rs 800, including all taxes, at NABL accredited and ICMR approved labs.” It said any violation of this notification shall be punishable under section 5 of the ordinance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/rajasthan-to-slash-rate-of-rt-pcr-test-in-private-labs/story-Ku4bubFmyfTKVOHMCKc52L.html
28-11-2020||Lucknow||Boy, 15, picked up by cops for issuing death threat to Yogi Adityanath||A week after he was picked up by the Uttar Pradesh police for allegedly threatening to ‘blow’ up state chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the family of the 15-year-old Agra boy is awaiting his return.The family, however, has termed the boy’s action as “childish”. The 70-year-old grandmother of the juvenile said she was not at home when her grandson was taken away. “We are making efforts and the father of the boy has gone to Lucknow to ensure his release,” she said. “My grandson is a simple boy and should not be treated as a criminal for his childish act,” she added. According to police at Sushant Golf City police station in Lucknow, the teenager had sent the threat by WhatsApp on the state’s Dial 112 helpline number. The police traced the mobile number through its cyber cell and it was found of a boy residing in a village of Agra district. Two policemen landed at the boy’s home in Agra last Sunday and he was taken to Lucknow where he was presented before a Juvenile Board. He was subsequently sent to a juvenile home in the city. The boy is the son of a school teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lucknow/boy-15-picked-up-by-cops-for-issuing-death-threat-to-yogi-adityanath/story-zUQJ697hPm0NLd6uoscstM.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Six arrested for extorting money from HR professional in Chakan||Six men have been remanded to five days in police custody by a local court for demanding extortion money from an industrial company in Chakan while identifying themselves as members of the head-loaders’ association.The five arrested men have been identified as Kaluram alias Ajay Shankar Kaudre (39), Pradip Ramchandra Sonawane (32) both residents of Kharoshi in Khed; Ganesh Dashrath Sonwane (32) a resident of Kuruli in Chakan; Swapnil Ajinath Pawar (29), a resident of Ektanagar in Chakan; Dhondiba alias Hanumant Vinayak Vadje (32) a resident of Medankar wadi in Chakan, and Shrikant Sanjay Sonawane (30), according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shrimant Bharat Nikam (22), a resident of Kharabwadi, Chakan.“The complainant works in the human resource department of the company. These men used the modus of threatening the HR with a law from 1969 that has provisions for employment of head loaders in industries. They had demanded Rs 50,000 to begin with and Rs 22,000 in the subsequent months,” said police inspector Ashok Pawar of Mahaluge police outpost.“The complainant came to us and we laid a trap for the men when they came to accept the initial amount. We are now investigating if these people have done this in other companies too,” he said.The men allegedly threatened the complainant that he will not be able to run the company without paying them a monthly sum of Rs 22,000. The accused allegedly wanted a man from their association to be paid the money in form of salary. However, the man would not be working in exchange for the money like a normal employee, according to the complainant.A case under Sections 385 (putting a person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion), 387 (putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 143, 149, 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act is registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/six-arrested-for-extorting-money-from-hr-professional-in-chakan/story-BhP4LdYCOkqehST6HEM4ZP.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||40% polling till 1pm in first phase of J&K’s District Development Council elections||Nearly 40% polling was recorded till 1pm in the first ever District Development Council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, with Samba district recording the highest turnout of 59.29% and Pulwama the lowest at 6.08% so far, officials said. The first phase of the eight-phase elections to the DDC in J&K was held from 7am to 2pm amid tight security. This is the first election in J&K since the revocation of Article 370 and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. The contest is among the newly launched People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the BJP and the Apni Party floated by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari. The results will be declared on December 22. Also read: DDC polls are for local issues, not for ‘bigger’ political problems, say voters in J&K’s GanderbalAccording to the state election commissioner, Kashmir division, Kupwara recorded a voting percentage of 34.1%, Bandipora 34.18%, Baramulla 25.58%, Ganderbal 36.26%, Srinagar 29.94%, Budgam 47.44%, Pulwama 6.08%, Shopian 22.37%, Kulgam 24.49% and Anantnag 26.65% till 1pm. Similarly, in Jammu division, Kishtwar recorded a voting percentage of 27.14%, Doda 50.63%, Ramban 54.91%, Reasi 56.17%, Udhampur 45.03%, Kathua 54.23%, Samba 59.29%, Jammu 48.96%, Rajouri 57.73% and Poonch 55.48% till 1pm. EXIT POLLS PROHIBITED TILL LAST PHASE OVER The state election commission has prohibited the conduct of any exit poll and publishing/displaying of the result of exit poll by print or electronic media till the last phase of the DDC elections. An order by state election commissioner KK Sharma said, “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 36 of the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, the election authority (state election commission) prohibits the conduct of any exit poll and publishing or publicising/displaying the result of exit poll by means of the print or electronic media or in any other manner in the ongoing DDC elections in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir till the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll in the last phase of these elections, which is 2pm on December 19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/40-polling-till-1pm-in-first-phase-of-j-k-s-district-development-council-elections/story-E7CksG3OUbqokiZPLF7JFL.html
28-11-2020||Pune||ICAI adds more centres for CA exams||The number of centres for the Chartered Accountant (CA) examinations were increased from 500 to 1,100 despite the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, according to Lalit Bajaj, president of Western India Regional Council (WIRC) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI). “Due to proper planning and strict adherence to the rules, the CA examinations have started smoothly. The number of examination centers have been increased so that social distance should be followed and students should not face any difficulty while giving the exams. Therefore, it is becoming easier for students from rural areas to take the exam,” he said. Bajaj was speaking at a press conference on Friday on ICAI’s activities, various changes, and provisions for students and CAs in the context of Covid-19. The central committee members, CA Chandrasekhar Chitale, CA Yashwant Kasar, WIRC secretary CA Murtuza Kachwala, Pune branch president CA Abhishek Dhamne and several others were present on the occasion. Bajaj further said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, all the members of the CA institute did a remarkable job in giving a helping hand to the community. However, the examinations are currently underway with all kinds of care through the institute. All the study materials have been made available online. Positive discussions are underway to innovate in the years to come.” The CA exams began on November 21 last week, all the safety arrangements were made by the ICAI at examination centres. The ICAI has prepared for thermal scanning, hand sanitisation, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, following all the guidelines given by the central and state governments. Exams of ICAI are taken in groups of four papers, and a CA aspirant has to appear in all four in one sitting. Talking about the studies of CA students, CA Chandrashekhar Chitale said, “Study materials are made available online and webinars, online workshops, lectures by experts are organized. A conducive environment is being created for students from ordinary families to take the CA exam. Various scholarship schemes are being introduced. At the same time, various suggestions are being made by ICAI to strengthen the economy. Small and medium enterprises are being encouraged. Changes to the law regarding CA are being communicated to students and CAs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/icai-adds-more-centres-for-ca-exams/story-7L3dl1zYBSvv1a9pCRnLrN.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Social distancing norms flouted during protests held in Pune||Protests are being held in various parts of the city flouting safety guidelines issued by the civic administration in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Members of various trade unions, on Thursday, held protests against recently approved labour and farm laws. While many members were wearing face mask, the six-feet social distancing norm was missing as at least 2,500-3,000 people created a human chain at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar chowk, Pimpri.“A huge crowd was gathered during the protest and people were seen flouting social distancing norm,” said Mohammed Riyaz, autorickshaw driver.A case has been registered at Pimpri police station, on Friday, against union leaders and workers who held protest where safety norms were flouted.Trade union leaders Kailash Kadam, Irfan Sayyed and social activist Maruti Bhapkar, Sanjeevan Kamble, Sandip Bhegde, Keshav Gholwe, Kishore Dokle, Dilip Pawar, Anil Madhavrao Roham, Ajit Abhyankar were booked under the Section 188 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), 269, Maharashtra Police Act, Epidemic Diseases Act, National Disaster Act.“At least 2,500-3000 people had gathered and created a human chain to protest against the farm laws. Protesters flouted social distancing norms,” said an official from Pimpri police station on condition of anonymity.“Since it was a nationwide strike many people had gathered during the protest. Most of the safety norms were followed,” said Maruti Bhapkar, social activist.Similar scene was observed during a protest held by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) against inflated power bills. Party workers staged protest near Faraskhana police station. Most workers, with mask on faces, were sitting close to each other defying social distancing norm.“The rules are same for all. And those who conduct rallies are given instructions to follow Covid-19 safety precautions. Social distance norms should be strictly followed by all,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police (crime branch) Pune.When contacted district collector Rajesh Deshmukh about the issue, he said he is busy with the preparation as Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be visiting the city on Saturday.Pune district reported 978 positive cases and nine deaths on Thursday due to Covid-19, as per the state health department. The number takes the progressive positive count to 349,792. Of these total cases, 323,559 have recovered, 7,346 have been declared dead and 18,887 are active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/social-distancing-norms-flouted-during-protests-held-in-pune/story-DmvzfgbT6UT5dCDm0AUeaO.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Father, son arrested for attempted murder||A father and son were arrested for the attempted murder of a man for his acquaintance with a woman known to the accused’s family, according to the police. The injured man was identified as Sameer Hatagale who was with his friends from the SRA building near Dandekar bridge where they all live. The accused were identified as Harshad Ganesh Jategaonkar, (21), who works in a local restaurant while his father was identified as Ganesh Vinayak Jategaonkar, (46), who sells crabs for a living and they both live in the same locality as the injured. “The woman is not biologically related to the accused. He says he has accepted her as his sister. We are yet to question the two about why they got involved,” said assistant police inspector S Dhumale of Dattawadi police station who is investigating the case A complaint in the matter was lodged by the injured man’s friend Akash Mhaske, (23), a resident of area near Dandekar bridge in Pune. Even though Hatagale was attacked at 11pm on Wednesday, the case was registered only later on Thursday. The investigating officer refused to reveal most of the details of the crime. However, he revealed that the two arrested men were remanded to police custody for attacking Hatagale. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/father-son-arrested-for-attempted-murder/story-fd9MJUq6ymHpQ3p7lacVRM.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Three arrested for kidnapping businessman||Three men were released on bail on Friday, after being arrested on Thursday for kidnapping and assaulting a businessman from Pune on Wednesday. The three have been identified as Avinash Kamble (28), a resident of Tingarenagar; Tanaji Vitthal Jahav (30), and Tushar Hanumant Shelke (22), both residents of Kalasgaon, according to police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Vikas Kamble (36), who lives in Lohegaon. He had allegedly taken money from Kamble and had failed to return it. He told the police that he was kidnapped from his office in Sakorenagar at 6pm on Wednesday by the three men, who then forced him to sit on a motorbike. He was then allegedly taken to an open ground in Kalasgaon, where the men beat him. Once at the ground, the men allegedly beat him with belts and recorded the beating. The men threatened to upload the video on social media if the man failed to return the money to Kamble, according to his complaint. “The accused said that he has given Rs 7 lakh to the complainant for his telecommunication marketing business, but he has received only Rs 30,000 in return. However, the complainant says he has returned Rs 5-6 lakh. Since the sections are bailable, they were released by the court,” said assistant police inspector Ravindra Alekar of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 324, 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/three-arrested-for-kidnapping-businessman/story-bn7AJAJWV8GZoWLLvj1e1H.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Dilapidated water tanks pose risks, need urgent repairs, say activists||A number of overhead water tanks constructed in Parvati and Janta Vasahat in 1960 are posing a risk to residents in the area due to their dilapidated condition and need for urgent repairs. The water tanks which are over 50-years old need urgent restoration work. The PMC water department has put up boards with warning signs stating, “Threat to life due to dilapidated condition” at the entrance of the water tanks. Similarly, the three large-sized overhead water tanks constructed by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are dry for the past two years due to lack of water supply in the area. Aniruddha Pawaskar, PMC water supply department head said, “The PMC has conducted a survey of all dilapidated water tanks in the corporation area and a structural audit will be conducted soon. After that, the repair and restoration work will be taken up on a priority basis.” Janta Vashat and Parvati have four large water tanks that have a capacity between 170 to 172 megalitres per day (MLD) water storage. Suraj Lokhande, a social worker said, “The water tanks in Parvati need immediate repairs failing which a major disaster is likely to happen. When will the administration wake up? Only after disasters? The slabs are broken, and it is a pathetic sight that reflects the casual approach of the administration. We will resort to agitation if our demands are not met and the repair work must be done according to the highest standards of safety.” The wall of the water tank located in Janta Vasahat in survey no 109 has developed a wide crack and weakened considerably with no repairs in sight. The water tanks supply water to Bibvewadi, Taljai, and the entire Western Pune region covering a population of 8 lakh. Similarly, the old water storage tank in Parvati also needs immediate restoration work and repairs. Daljeet Goraya, a member of the NIBM citizens watch committee said, “The PMC is spending crores of rupees on unnecessary expenditure and it shows that it does not have money. We have a right to an adequate and 24-hour water supply. Mohammad wadi and Undri are facing a water crisis for over a decade and it seems the PMC does not want any work to be done and keeps them in such a situation that they buy water from private persons. It is a water-profit business that is preventing water supply in the area. The water tanks are dry and it is a dead investment.” Jehangir Dorabjee, owner of Royal Heritage mall said, “The water tanks are of now used to citizens who are bereft of the benefit as there is water supply connection to the storage. Undri-Mohammadwadi areas are reeling under severe water crisis and water supply alone can bring about a change in the area. A huge investment has been made towards the construction of the water storage tanks some two years ago and they are lying unused till date.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/dilapidated-water-tanks-pose-risks-need-urgent-repairs-say-activists/story-ndj63XgiK3PJ4rtE3RcVPI.html
28-11-2020||Pune||GMRT observatory, located near Pune gets international recognition||The Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT), one of the world’s largest and low-frequency radio observatories, has been selected as an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Milestone facility. The facility is only the third IEEE Milestone recognition for an Indian contribution. The previous two Indian contributions, recognised by the world’s largest technical professional organisation recognised in 2012, are for the pioneering work done by Sir JC Bose to demonstrate the generation and reception of radio waves in 1895, and for the Nobel Prize winning discovery of the scattering of light named “Raman effect” by Sir CV Raman in 1928. With GMRT users covering over 40 countries and the fact that it was designed and built entirely in India, the IEEE India office and IEEE Pune section initiated a proposal to nominate the observatory for the prestigious international recognition. The proposal was submitted in cooperation with National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA) Pune , which is a part of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, to IEEE in early 2020, after an initial review of the history and accomplishments of the GMRT by a team from IEEE India. After a rigorous review process, including appraisal by international experts and additional information from NCRA, the proposal was first put up before the history committee of the IEEE which cleared it for approval in October 2020. It was later submitted to the IEEE board of directors for final approval, which was granted on November 23. Harish Mysore, senior director, IEEE India operations said, “IEEE has recognised 212 milestones worldwide for their scientific and engineering contributions. GMRT is the third IEEE Milestone in India. This IEEE milestone not only recognises the contributions of scientists and engineers of India, it also helps to attract young talent towards fundamental Science and Engineering.” Prof Yashwant Gupta, centre director, NCRA, said, “It is indeed a very proud and special moment, not just for GMRT and NCRA (and the global astronomy community), but also for the entire Science and Technology fraternity in the country, to see a modern, made in India facility earn this international recognition. It is also a fitting tribute to the late Prof Govind Swarup, who was the driving force behind GMRT, and all the team members whose efforts over the last 30 years or so made GMRT a reality, culminating in the successful upgrade of the facility that we completed last year. We look forward with great anticipation to the IEEE Milestone dedication ceremony.” Prof Toshio Fukuda, president and CEO of IEEE for circulation to the media said, “IEEE milestones recognise important landmarks in the global pursuit of excellence in Science and Engineering which have significantly advanced technology for the benefit of humanity. I am pleased that the Giant Metrewave Radio Telescope (GMRT) programme of India has been recognised as an IEEE milestone, acknowledging its contributions to the important work of exploring the universe through Radio Astronomy. I congratulate all of the scientists and engineers who have developed and operated GMRT with such great distinction.” The IEEE Milestone will be formalised at a special dedication ceremony that will involve unveiling of the bronze citation plaque at the GMRT premises. The event is planned in 2021 after the Covid-19 pandemic situation allows ease of travel to India, and the IEEE president and other officials are expected to participate, in addition to several dignitaries from academia, industry and the Government of India. Noted scientist Prof Raghunath Mashelkar while congratulating NCRA said, “This is fantastic news. My heartiest congratulations to the entire NCRA family, both the past and the present. What makes it special is the fact that the only other time this happened was when the pioneering work of JC Bose and CV Raman was recognised almost a century ago.” Premier scientific body IEEE is the world’s largest technical professional organisation dedicated to advancing technology in all areas related to electrical and electronics engineering. The IEEE Milestones programme honours significant technical achievements and excellence for the benefit of humanity found in unique products, services, seminal papers and patents, which have global or regional impact, in all areas associated with IEEE. India’s pride GMRT is one of the largest and most sensitive low frequency radio observatories in the world. It is operated by the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), Pune which is a part of the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. It consists of an array of 30 antennas of 45 m diametre each, spread out over a 30 km region about 80 km from Pune, with sophisticated electronics and computing for processing the data from all the antennas. The facility was conceived of and proposed in the late 1980s, built and made operational during the 1990s, and opened for use by the global astronomy community in 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/gmrt-observatory-located-near-pune-gets-international-recognition/story-1ELACKRARb6x1bMy9HdOsI.html
28-11-2020||Pune||PM Modi’s Pune visit to cover only SII||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s scheduled visit to the city on Saturday will only cover a visit to Serum Institute of India (SII) located at Hadapsar. According to the district officials, the prime minister will not attend any public programme and the media is not allowed to cover his visit to the pharmaceutical unit. The prime minister will reach Pune around 12:30 pm, a senior official said. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “Prime Minister’s tour is fixed at Serum Institute.” The press information office and district information office confirmed that the programme is fixed and even media representatives are not invited till Friday late evening for the programme. Modi’s visit is aimed at reviewing the status of the vaccine candidate for coronavirus infection and to know about its launch, production and distribution mechanism, an official said. The district administration on Friday was busy carrying out preparations for the prime minister’s tour. The officers and staff who will be part of the prime minister’s tour underwent Covid-19 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT -PCR) test. The prime minister is scheduled to visit Pune, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad on Saturday to review coronavirus vaccine development work at facilities there, officials said. Modi will arrive at Pune airport. Instead of road travel, the administration has planned air travel for the prime minister to Serum Institute of India. The prime minister would be welcomed by protocol office-bearers at the Pune airport and later he would go to Serum institute by helicopter, according to the officials. Serum Institute of India has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the Covid vaccine, a senior official said. With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pm-modi-s-pune-visit-to-cover-only-sii/story-pmnmDE6LAIyiWN8bZ2X3BL.html
28-11-2020||Pune||No bank accounts leave sex workers in Pune worried about receiving Rs 15,000 aid from MVA govt||A visible elation was reported among sex workers in the Budhwar peth area when they got to know that the government of Maharashtra has decided to provide financial help of Rs 15,000 for a period of three months from October to December 2020. However, many are now worried of the transfer of funds since they do not possess an active bank account. The Uddhav Thackeray led Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s decision to provide financial help to sex workers was a welcome move since they were facing an unprecedented financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the data shared by the state, Pune district has 7,011 sex workers and around 1,000 children between the age group of six to 18 years, completely dependent upon their mothers, while the government has identified 31,000 beneficiaries across the state. “This financial aid was first requested via a petition in the Supreme Court by the Durbar Mahila Samanvay Samiti, West Bengal, which is a collective of sex workers in Sonagachi,” said Tejasvi Sevekari, executive director of Pune based NGO Saheli. The organisation approached the court to get Covid relief for sex workers. The Supreme Court in September announced that all the states should take the onus and disbursing Rs 5,000 per sex worker per month from October to December 2020. In Maharashtra, it was taken further proactively by the women and child development department who had lent a hand during the lockdown by providing ration kits to the women in few of the red-light areas. Sevekari pointed out a hurdle sex worker faced is that many of them do not have an active bank account, and according to the state government resolution, the sum of Rs 5,000 per month would only be disbursed through banks. “If a community-based organization were to be part of the disbursement committee, we could help in verifying the sex workers and also ease out the problems of many of the workers who are not on the list provided to the government,” said Sevekari. “According to the list, there are 7,011 sex workers in Pune district but this list is ever increasing, what happens to those women who are not on the list? How does one determine or verify whether they have an active bank account or even have opened one,” asked Sevekari. Before the announcement, NGO Saheli in fact began a program through the national network of sex workers Sahayak Setu in helping sex workers disseminate information on assistance through government welfare schemes. “We were helping them to procure their Aadhaar cards and other proper identification options to help them open their accounts in banks, which while surveying we found that not many had accounts,” she said. Seema Thapa has been in this business for 10 years and has never felt the need to open a bank account. “I would simply keep the money with me and spend it as I wanted to. It has been six months that I have had no work, no business and was happy when I was informed that the government will be giving us money, but now I am disappointed as I do not have a bank account or any identification card to open an account,” Thapa said. Babita Sheikk who has been a sex worker for eight years assertively said, “I have a bank account but it is used to only send money to my relatives in the village and I hardly keep any savings. I have loans, which I borrowed from the brothel keeper for basic needs, hence money is never enough to be called savings.” Seema Waghmode, founder member of Kaya Kalp and executive member of Maharashtra State Aids Control Society (MSACS) who is heading the committee for the disbursement of the financial aid said, “It is a difficult task since many of the sex workers do not have bank accounts nor possess any identification or UID card. We have in fact launched a process whereupon we have given them a form to authenticate that they are in this business. The city has about 4,000 sex workers within the red-light area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/no-bank-accounts-leave-sex-workers-worried-about-receiving-rs-15-000-aid-from-mva-govt/story-HFfYBiEnTtef6Cblw1XmbM.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Will hold protest at Jantar Mantar in heart of Delhi not Burari: BKU (Ugrahan)||Continuing its direct dissociation with the joint forum of the 30 farmer unions of Punjab, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan), one of the most active unions in the state, on Saturday decided not to enter the national capital till the evening. Union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the supporters have gathered at Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar on Delhi’s outskirts till a decision is taken. “Our leadership has unanimously rejected the plan to hold a protest at the Nirankari ground in Burari. Other unions may have agreed but we are against the decision to change the venue. We will hold a rally at Jantar Mantar to register our resentment against the new farm laws,” he said. Also read: Thousands of farmers stay put at Delhi’s borders, traffic disruptedLEFT-LEANING UNION AWAITS DIRECTION Supporters of this Left-leaning union had left for Delhi in large numbers on Friday after entering Haryana from Doomwali in Bathinda and Khanauri in Sangrur. “We are deliberating with leaders of the farmers’ joint forum from Punjab and other states to resume the culmination of Dilli Chalo at Jantar Mantar,” he said. Union’s Bathinda district president Shingara Singh Mann, who coordinated the march from Doomwali, said 5,000 vehicles carrying activists, dry rations and other logistics were on their way from Bathinda and Sangrur. A large group of Ugrahan faction of the BKU reached Meham in Rohtak, 200km from the Doomwali border, early on Saturday before restarting the march. “After breaking barricades at Dabwali on Friday, we reached a grain market at Meham. Our supporters faced challenges at a Ghaggar bridge near Sirsa and heavy barricading by the police near Agroha in Hisar. We are now headed towards Delhi border and will park at Bahadurgarh till a decision is taken,” Mann said. CRITICISM LED TO U-TURN As members of the joint forum of farmers entered Haryana from various points on Thursday after facing tear gas and water cannons from the police, the Ugrahan faction started a peaceful dharna at Doomwali and Khanauri borders. However, it had to change its plan to hold a sit-in for a week after the activists criticised the BKU leadership for its decision. On Wednesday, Ugrahan criticised the joint forum for holding a rail blockade and prolonging the agitation, affecting the industry, farmers and common man due to the suspension of rail traffic for two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/will-hold-protest-at-jantar-mantar-in-heart-of-delhi-not-burari-bku-ugrahan/story-iSYXlkoExpwMR2OcviGqMI.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Don’t subscribe to Arnab, Kangana’s view but against suppressing voices: Devendra Fadnavis||Former chief minister of Maharashtra and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said that he does not subscribe to the opinions of journalist Arnab Goswami and actor Kangana Ranawat, but was not in favour of suppressing the voices that criticised the government.“We do not subscribe to the thoughts of Arnab Goswami and Kangana Ranaut but we are against the attitude of suppressing those who speak against the government,” Fadnavis said.Also Read: No flight risk, can’t tamper evidence: Supreme Court details why it granted bail to Arnab GoswamiThe BJP leader was referring to the events following Kangana Ranaut’s statement that she feared the Mumbai police more than the “movie mafia” and her comparison of Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). The actor’s row with the Maharashtra government escalated further when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolished her office in Bandra’s Pali Hill for “structural violations”.In the latest development in the row, the Bombay High Court on Friday ruled that the BMC officials involved in the demolition acted out of malice and also appointed a valuer to assess the quantum of damage, according to news agency PTI.Also Read: ‘Don’t threaten,’ says Fadnavis after Thackeray’s ‘don’t compel me to come after you’ jibeMeanwhile, Republic TV editor Arnab Goswami was granted bail by the Supreme Court on November 11 after being arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 for allegedly abetting the suicide of 53-year-old interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother Kumud in 2018. The apex court on Friday said the bail granted to the journalist would be operative for another four weeks.“We are dealing with a person’s liberty. Across the country, if this court is not to interfere today, we are treading on a path of destruction of liberty....you may dislike a person’s ideology and challenge it but if this is what our states will do to nail persons, we have to put across this message to all high courts to preserve the liberty of citizens,” the bench had said on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/don-t-subscribe-to-arnab-kangana-s-view-but-against-suppressing-voices-devendra-fadnavis/story-ElRXJXFfwhoksrIX3qXphK.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra govt achieved nothing in one year: Fadnavis||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday attacked the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government as it completed its first year in office, saying it has failed on all counts. He said the government has been unable to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, resolve farmers’ issues, and has made no progress in development projects.“The Maha Vikas Aghadi government has achieved nothing in this one year,” he said. He added they say they will run the government for five years but have failed to deliver on governance. “The achievements of this government are only halting all development works in the state.”Fadnavis listed the projects his government initiated but which have been stopped. He asked chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to stop threatening the opposition and show governance instead. Thackeray on Friday warned the opposition against personal attacks and vindictive politics while slamming the BJP over attacks on his family. In an interview with HT, he called personal attacks “low and perverted tendency of their [BJP] politics”.Fadnavis said the BJP does not make personal attacks and nor does it target families of political opponents. “We have never made personal attacks. If we are talking about personal attacks, Shiv Sena leaders have attacked my wife but I have never made a fuss over it. The BJP does not believe in personal attacks, but if the family is in politics, then political questions will be raised against them,” he said. Fadnavis advised Thackeray to behave like a chief minister and not issue threats.He cited the Supreme Court’s ruling granting journalist Arnab Goswami’s interim bail in an abetment to suicide case and the Bombay high court’s observation that Mumbai civic body’s action to demolish a part of actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow was illegal and smacks of malafide intentions.Fadnavis added they are not demanding the president’s rule but the two rulings highlight “a breakdown of constitutional machinery and abuse of power”. “We do not subscribe to the thoughts of Arnab Goswami and Kangana Ranaut but we are against the attitude of suppressing those who speak against the government.”Fadnavis said MVA constituents, Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and Shiv Sena, lack coordination and called it an “unnatural” alliance. “They [Shiv Sena] remember the promise that was not given [by the BJP] for the chief minister’s post, but they have forgotten promises they made to the farmers. The government has not provided any help to the farmers…”Shiv Sena quit an alliance with the BJP last over the chief minister’s post and formed the government with Congress and NCP’s help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-led-maharashtra-govt-achieved-nothing-in-one-year-fadnavis/story-nCksXNRjf7AMCpRNH0nw6N.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM, governor not to accompany PM Modi during his SII visit in Pune||Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will not accompany Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday.The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said this in a statement.“The chief minister and the governor will not be in Pune as the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has informed that their presence was not required since the prime Minister will be there for a brief visit,” the statement said.Modi began his three-city visit on Saturday to review coronavirus vaccine development work by going to pharma major Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad in the morning.After Ahmedabad, the PM is scheduled to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility in Hyderabad, after which he will proceed to Pune, where he will visit the SII, which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine.The prime minister is scheduled to reach the Serum Institute campus around 4.30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-governor-not-to-accompany-pm-during-his-sii-visit-in-pune/story-q0xqEa1nch1FG8Mj2WmgZM.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM, Governor not to accompany PM Modi during his SII visit in Pune||Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyariand Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will not accompany Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Saturday.The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said this in a statement.“The chief minister and the governor will not be in Pune as the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has informed that their presence was not required since the prime Minister will be there for a brief visit,” the statement said.Modi began his three-city visit on Saturday to review coronavirus vaccine development work by going to pharma major Zydus Cadila’s manufacturing facility near Ahmedabad in the morning.After Ahmedabad, the PM is scheduled to visit vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s facility in Hyderabad, after which he will proceed to Pune, where he will visit the SII, which has partnered with global pharma giant AstraZeneca and the Oxford University for the vaccine.The prime minister is scheduled to reach the Serum Institute campus around 4.30 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-governor-not-to-accompany-pm-modi-during-his-sii-visit-in-pune/story-j6LljmFNmuHPizfwIZTrvM.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Farmers from Punjab, Haryana hold up supplies to Delhi by blocking its borders||Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws stayed put at the Singhu and Tikri border points for the third consecutive day on Saturday amid heavy police presence even after being offered a north Delhi ground to hold peaceful demonstrations.The agitating farmers also burnt the effigy of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar at Tikri border. Assuring that the MSP will continue, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated that the central government was ready for talks with the farmer unions’ leaders on December 3 to resolve their issues.After spending a cold night at the Tikri (Bahadurgarh) and Singhu (Sonepat) borders between Haryana and Delhi, the farmers said they will block roads connecting Delhi and disrupt supplies if their demands are not met. The farmers said they wanted to demonstrate at Ramlila Ground in Delhi but the police have allowed them to protest at Nirankari Samagam Ground in Burari. With tractor-trailers parked on either side of the highway at Singhu border, Johal Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana district, said: “If we start protesting at Nirankari Samagam Ground, no one will care. Delhi sirf tab sunti hai jab unka ration pani bandh karte hain (The Union government will listen only when we will block the supply of essential items).” Refusing to enter Delhi, farmers at Tikri border gathered in the middle of the highway. Punjab’s farmers, who camped at Jind’s Julana for the night, have resumed their march to Delhi. As many as 30 farmers unions protesting at Singhu border held a meeting on Saturday and decided not to enter Delhi. Rakesh Bains, media in-charge BKU (Charuni) said they will hold demonstrations at Singhu border on Saturday night. “ We will wait for other farmers and take decision about further planning on Sunday,” he added.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda reached Bahadurgarh to extend support to the protesting farmers.Issuing an advisory, a spokesman of Sonepat police said, “The farmers have blocked the national highway 44 by parking their vehicles on the road. The commuters should avoid travelling via national highway 44 and use the NH-71A to reach Delhi via Gurugram, Buana, Narala and Safiyabad.”Meanwhile, the famous Amrik Sukdev dhaba at Murthal has started free meals for farmers. A spokesman of the eatery said they have started free food for farmers for the sake of humanity. “The farmers are growing food for the entire nation and now, it’s our turn to feed them till the agitation continues,” he added.The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee is also offering meals to the farmers. Traffic eased on Chandigarh-Delhi highway, diversions in Sonepat The traffic movement along the Delhi-Chandigarh highway was eased on Saturday, a day after barricades were removed along the Sadopur/Lalru border on the Ambala-Chandigarh expressway. The Ambala police had sealed the border near Kamboj Filling Station on November 26 and 27. SP Rajesh Kalia had on Friday evening ordered the removal of barricades on the borders—Sadopur and Shambhu (Ambala-Patiala). Deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Sultan Singh said the traffic movement has been eased and no farmer is being stopped. “There are a very few farmers crossing the Shambhu or Sadopur borders with clothes, food or other items for their fellow protesters, who have reached Delhi or are at the Haryana-Delhi borders,” he said. Assistant superintendent of police, Sonepat, Nikita Khattar said the traffic from Sonepat to the border is completely blocked and multiple diversions have been created near Bahalgarh, Rai, Gannaur and other areas to ease the traffic bound for Delhi and beyond. Also read: Farmers March LIVE updates: Rahul Gandhi blames ‘PM Modi’s arrogance’ behind viral photo of farmer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/farmers-from-punjab-haryana-hold-up-supplies-to-delhi-by-blocking-its-borders/story-Y7hqeAM55nqTdrfLH0yvsI.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra surgeon held for patient’s ‘unnecessary’ examination gets bail||Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court on Thursday granted bail to a surgeon from Maharashtra’s Akola, who was earlier booked and arrested for alleged rape and sodomy while conducting ‘unnecessary’ clinical examination of a patient.Police in Akola booked the doctor for outraging modesty, rape and unnatural offence following a complaint lodged by the patient. The 33-year-old woman, a resident of Khamgaon tehsil of Buldhana district, alleged that she had been to the doctor for treatment for severe abdominal pain for the past two years.She said she had got a sonography done on the advice of the doctor and visited him at the hospital on November 3 with the report. She claims the doctor inserted his finger in her private parts and also touched her inappropriately.Offended, as she felt the examination to be unnecessary, the patient said she slapped the doctor and rushed out of his check up room. She first reported the matter to her mother and then approached the police. Police registered an offence on the basis of her complaint and immediately placed the doctor under arrest.Also Read: Man who stabbed Agra dentist held after encounterThe surgeon then approached the high court claiming that a surgery was required to be conducted on the patient and for that purpose a thorough clinical examination was necessary. He claimed that the case falls within exception 1 to Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, which lays down that a medical procedure or intervention shall not constitute rape.In support of his contention, the doctor had also submitted an expert report stating that in some instances of lower abdominal pain, the surgeon has to consider an ovarian mass before anything else and to rule out conditions of swelling in fallopian tube and ovary, ovarian tumor and cyst, a vaginal examination is necessary.Also Read: BJP attacked my family... I’ve not stooped to their level, says UddhavIn view of his claim, justice Pushpa Ganediwala had called for a report from a panel of experts from the Government Medical College, Nagpur and granted bail to the surgeon following the submission of the panel’s report.The expert panel stated that examination of private parts of female patient having chronic abdominal pain is “a part of complete clinical evaluation in medical practice” and in a given case, “the doctor may decide to examine other systems or body parts, including breasts to arrive at a diagnosis.”In view of the report, justice Ganediwala ordered the surgeon to be released on personal bond of Rs 50,000, with one surety in the same amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-surgeon-held-for-patient-s-unnecessary-examination-gets-bail/story-ZDGdsE2hj5wFMVGud9BVoN.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Thousands of farmers stay put at Delhi’s borders, traffic disrupted||The Delhi Police’s proposal to allot the Sant Nirankari Ground in Burari as a protest site for farmers demonstrating against three contentious central laws did little to ease the situation on Friday with only a few of them accepting the offer to march in but others deciding to stay put at the borders. The few farmers who arrived at the Burari ground were those who had gathered at the Tikri Border. They cooked and camped at the huge ground along the Outer Ring Road even as the police kept watch. But a large number of protesters continued to camp at that border point through the night. At the Singhu border, which opens into Sonepat, none of the farmers accepted the offer and the impasse continued. As a result, key arterial roads remained closed for traffic through the night, causing massive disruption for commuters, including those wanting to enter Haryana from the national capital or vice-versa. “The farmers…are undecided about whether or not they should accept the Burari ground as the protest site. Since many of these groups look to be leaderless, it is difficult for us to have a conversation with them and arrive at a consensus,” said a senior police officer.Thousands of farmers protesting the Union government’s new farm laws pushed their way into Delhi on Friday after skirmishes with the police, which fired tear gas and used water cannons to stop them but later agreed to a peaceful demonstration within the city.The farmers who refused to accept the police’s offer on Friday said that they would settle for nothing less than the Rashtrapati Bhawan or a place close to the corridors of power. The police offer was made after a series of clashes at the borders with officials using tear gas shells and water cannons to disperse the agitators and putting up barded wires and barricades to deter them. On Friday, the police also closed two other border roads -- the Dhansa border and the Jharoda Kalan border -- for traffic as a precautionary measure, even through there were no protesters there. Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said that while the Dhansa border (which sees little traffic anyway) was opened on Friday evening, the Jharoda Kalan border was opened only for traffic towards Haryana. “The incoming traffic at Jharoda Kalan is open only for emergency traffic,” Meena said. “If someone is ending up at the Jharoda Kalan Border, we are asking them to enter through the Tikri Border,” said Meena on Saturday morning.On Friday, when protesters at landed at the city’s gates, they insisted on being let in, and it resulted in multiple conflicts between them and the police at the Singhu and Tikri borders. “But now the farmers themselves don’t want to enter the city,” said another senior police officer.Farmers have demanded a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament in September which, together, allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales and lay down new rules for contract farming. Farmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railways, food and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal held day-long negotiations on November 13 with leaders of several farmers’ groups in an attempt to end over two months of a politically challenging agitation. The discussions were inconclusive, but both sides had agreed to continue negotiations in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/thousands-of-farmers-stay-put-at-delhi-s-borders-traffic-disrupted/story-3GQt4EdDnLWYKD07MeQCQP.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||At 199, Delhi’s air remains in moderate zone||Delhi’s air quality showed a marginal deterioration but continued to remain in the moderate zone on Saturday morning with the air quality index reading 199 at 7am.With stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana coming to a close and strong winds, Delhi’s improved drastically on Friday, falling from the severe zone to the moderate zone in just two days.In fact, the air quality in at least eight stations improved to satisfactory on Friday, a rarity for the city during this time of year.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that Delhi’s overall AQI on Friday was 137, considered to be in the moderate zone. From Wednesday, when the AQI was in the severe category, at 413, it improved to 302 (very poor) on Thursday, according to CPCB recording.IMD scientist, VK Soni said the air quality is expected to remain between moderate and poor range till November 30, after which it is forecast to deteriorate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/at-199-delhi-s-air-remains-in-moderate-zone/story-t5WaCBJP5kNGYyxemwC4jI.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt did nothing despite warning of Covid surge: Centre tells SC||Delhi, third among the top ten states with most Covid-19 active caseload in the country, took no effective steps despite being aware of the expected surge in cases in November with the confluence of winter, festival season and a spike in pollution, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Friday.In an affidavit detailing the circumstances that led the Union home minister to personally monitor Delhi’s preparedness on account of the rising Covid-19 cases in November, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) was aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases. This foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and IEC measures being instituted well in time. However, this was not done.”It was on November 15, when the Union home minister Amit Shah stepped in and took a joint meeting of officials in the capital and spruced up efforts to augment the medical infrastructure by way of adding ICU beds, ramping up testing facilities, contact tracing, surveillance, and availability of medical workers.Pointing to the alleged deficiencies in the actions taken by Delhi government as observed by the home ministry during several rounds of meetings held over the past months, the affidavit disclosed that the Arvind Kejriwal government was informed in advance by an expert group headed by VK Paul, member NITI Aayog that Delhi should anticipate for a surge of around 15,000 cases per day in November and accordingly must provide for about 6,500 ICU beds.“Against this recommendation, GNCTD did not take any timely measures to increase the ICU beds from the present level of around 3,500, thus causing a sudden pressure to come on the health and medical infrastructure in Delhi,” stated the affidavit filed by MHA joint secretary Sandeep Kumar Jindal.Also Read: States must rise above politics to check Covid spread, says SCThe affidavit also faulted the Delhi administration for not taking steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 RT-PCR tests for a long time. Patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced. In addition, “house to house surveillance, contact tracing, quarantining and clinical management were also not done properly, which led to the spread of infection,” the affidavit added.According to the figures made available by the MHA, with 9.2 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.44 million are active, India is faring “remarkably well” in restricting the spread.Also Read: India to manufacture 100mn doses a year of Sputnik: Moscow institute“Recovery rate has gone up to 93.7%. Average cases per day have reduced by 50% since the past eight weeks. Our case fatality rate remains low at 1.46% compared to the global average of 2.36%…We will continue making efforts to reduce fatality rate to less than 1 per cent and accelerate our efforts in reducing the positivity rate which stands at 6.9%,” the affidavit stated.This was largely attributable to 10 states which constituted 77% of the active caseload of the country. Delhi’s active case load is 8.5% of the national tally. Maharashtra leads with close to 19%, Kerala 14.7%, followed by Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-did-nothing-despite-warned-of-covid-surge-centre-tells-sc/story-7AoTEUd6E2cNKOMH7iEpuJ.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers let into Delhi after clashes at border||Thousands of farmers protesting the Union government’s new farm laws pushed their way into Delhi on Friday after skirmishes with the police, which fired tear gas and used water cannons to stop them from coming into the Capital, but later backed off and agreed to a peaceful demonstration within the city.Several layers of barriers could not keep the protesters – mostly from Punjab, demanding a repeal of three laws enacted by Parliament – as they pelted stones and broke barricades to push through with their “Delhi Chalo” march.The new laws allow agribusinesses to freely trade farm produce without restrictions, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming. The farmers groups, however, say that the laws are quiet on minimum support prices and will encourage monopolies and make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations.Delhi Police agreed to let the farmers march into the Capital after hours of a stand-off at some entry points. While thousands – gathered at Delhi’s Tikri border (it opens into Bahadurgarh) – proceeded in trucks to Burari after they were allowed to stage demonstrations at the Sant Nirankari Ground, a larger group of agitators gathered at Singhu border (it opens into Sonepat) stayed put as it couldn’t build consensus on whether to accept the police’s offer or continue the march to the Rashtrapati Bhavan, Jantar Mantar, or some other venue close to the corridors of power.By Friday morning, thousands gathered in trucks, tractors and trailers as they set up tents and camps. The police, too, camped on the other side through the night as large cement slabs, mud-filled trucks, barricades, and barbed wires separated them.The stand-off at the Singhu border began around 8.30am, when a group of farmers tried to remove the barricades. The police responded by firing tear gas shells that appeared to temporarily contain the farmers. At around 9.30am, farmers at the Tikri border made a similar attempt. The police resorted to the use of water cannons and tear gas shells.A little before 2pm, farmers managed to remove the barbed wires and then used ropes to tie the cement barriers to pull them out of their way at the Singhu border. They then brought down the iron barricades and threatened to march into Delhi.The developments came a day after thousands of farmers from Punjab broke barricades and forced their way into Haryana, braving tear gas shells and water cannons on their way to Delhi, which prepared for a law-and-order challenge as well as traffic disruptions. The farmers threw several barricades from an overbridge into the Ghaggar river, facing tear gas shells by law enforcement personnel. Traffic was disrupted in many parts of Delhi on Friday. The Delhi Traffic Police posted a series of tweets, asking people to avoid outer Ring Road, Mukarba Chowk, GTK road, NH-44 and Singhu border in view of the march.Punjab farmers, representing over 30 farm bodies, previously announced they planned to go to Delhi through several routes – Lalru, Shambhu, Patiala-Pehowa, Patran-Khanauri, Moonak-Tohana, Ratia-Fatehabad and Talwandi-Sirsa. Tension remained high at all border points on Friday evening.As the issue snowballed on Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said no government in the world can stop farmers fighting the “battle of truth”. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said the PM should remember that whenever arrogance takes on truth, it gets defeated. “The Modi government will have to agree to the demands of the farmers and take back the black laws. This is just the beginning!” he tweeted with the hashtag ‘IamWithFarmers’.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh welcomed the Union government’s decision to allow the farmers to enter Delhi to exercise their democratic right to protest. “They should also now initiate immediate talks to address farmers’ concerns on the #FarmLaws and resolve the simmering issue,” he said on Twitter.Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar was quoted by ANI as saying: “The government has always been ready to discuss issues with farmers. We have invited farmers’ organisations for another round of talks on December 3. I appeal to them to drop the agitation in view of Covid-19 and winter.” The scenes from both borders on Friday morning were of mayhem.At Singhu, a man climbed into a mud-laden truck – deployed by the police to keep farmers away – found the ignition key inside, and drove it into a water cannon parked nearby. As a group of policemen tried to stop him, he went on to ram a parked private bus and push it for nearly 100m before being apprehended. At another spot on the same border, a group of men climbed onto a tear gas machine vehicle and twisted the barrel to face the vehicle. The police responded by cane-charging them, firing several tear gas shells, and using water cannons on them. While some farmers crushed the shells with their feet, a few others wrapped them in cloth and hurled them back at the police.Gaurav Sharma, deputy commissioner of police (outer north), said that the situation was in control. “We had to use some force to contain them, but the situation was in control the entire day,” said Sharma.The farmers were not keen on returning to their homes. “Some farmers have come from 400km away. We have dealt with the Haryana Police for long distances and covered roads dug out to keep us away. We are not going to back off at the last lap of our march,” said Saj Rinku, a farmer from Moga.“After discussion with farmer leaders, the protesting farmers have been permitted inside Delhi to hold peaceful protest at Nirankari Ground in Burari. The Delhi Police appeals to them to maintain peace,” said Eish Singhal, Delhi Police spokesperson.Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said: “We have been allowed safe passage to Delhi.”Before being allowed through the Tikri border, farmers clashed with the police and tried to remove a truck, which was placed as a barricade, by tying it to a tractor with the help of a chain.At the Singhu border, the police said they couldn’t find the farmers’ group leaders to discuss the next course of action. The farmers said that they did not have consensus on whether or not to accept the Burari offer. “We have not come all the way from Punjab and Haryana to be sent to an empty ground far away from the centre of Delhi. We could as well have sat at our homes. We’ll either march up to the Rashtrapati Bhavan or somewhere closer, or continue our protest at this spot. Our leaders are talking among themselves to decide,” said Dalveer Singh, a farmer from Ludhiana.In Burari, farmers began gathering by Friday evening. The police and government agencies also began preparing the ground by bringing in mobile toilets, water tankers, tents. Hoshiyar Singh, a 65-year-old farmer from Ropar, Punjab, said they reached Nirankari Ground around 4pm. “We had been detained near Bangla sahib on Thursday night. Police later released us and we came here. Our other farmer friends are at Singhu Border and they plan to stay put until we get Ramlila Ground as the site to protest,” he said.RS Mani of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University said: “Farmers fear the reforms will disturb the minimum support price mechanism. Since the government sets MSPs, farmers are fair to demand actual realisation of those MSPs. But fears of any imminent threat to the MSP system seem exaggerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-let-into-delhi-after-clashes-at-border/story-nKUU6pigcI4faslSzJsqoI.html
28-11-2020||Kolkata||Setback to TMC as leader quits cabinet||West Bengal transport minister and senior Trinamool Congress leader Suvendu Adhikari resigned from the state cabinet on Friday, dealing a blow to the Mamata Banerjee-led government in run-up to the assembly polls due in five months.Adhikari sent his resignation letter to Banerjee and emailed a copy to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at 1.05pm, fanning speculation that he might quit the party and make his next political move. Adhikari, however, made no move till 8pm to indicate that he would step down as a legislator or leave the TMC. Senior party leaders maintained that Adhikari did not drop any hint that he might join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and efforts were on to reach out to him. BJP leaders did not claim that the 50-year-old legislator was ready to switch sides either.A senior TMC leader said on condition of anonymity that the differences between Adhikari and the party leadership widened after he wanted it to field candidates of his choice on 65 assembly seats spread across several districts. This was unacceptable to the leadership. While Adhikari avoided the media on Friday, Banerjee called a meeting of senior leaders in the evening and informed the governor that the resignation had been accepted and she would take charge of the three departments that he was looking after. Adhikari and his family have played a key role in the growth of the TMC in East Midnapore. The Kanthi and Tamluk Lok Sabha seats, most of the assembly segments comprising these and many local bodies, are controlled by the leader, his two brothers and their father, 78-year-old Lok Sabha member Sisir Adhikari.Adhikari, a legislator from Nandigram in East Midnapore, had resigned from the post of chairman of the Hooghly River Bridge Commission on Thursday. On Friday, he also resigned from the Haldia Development Authority of which he was the chairman. “I do hereby tender my resignation from my office as Minister. Steps may be taken for its immediate acceptance,” Adhikari wrote to Banerjee. “I still believe that he will not quit the party. He was aggrieved with certain decisions of the party. Quitting the cabinet was his personal decision. I don’t know why he took it. We will try to talk to him,” said TMC lok Sabha member Saugata Roy who had been holding talks with Adhikari over the past few days. The TMC suffered another blow on Friday evening when Mihir Goswami, the rebel legislator from the Cooch Behar South seat, joined the BJP in the presence national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya. Goswami resigned from the TMC a few hours before joining the Opposition camp. Senior TMC leaders told HT earlier this month that Adhikari was unhappy with organisational decisions taken by the CM’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee and election strategist Prashant Kishor who was roped in after the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On November 10, Adhikari threw a veiled challenge to the party while addressing a public rally in Nandigram. “Political observers are waiting for me to announce my political programme. They want to hear me talk about the roadblocks I am facing and the path I am going to take. I will not announce my political programme from this sacred platform. I will speak from a political platform,” he said at the rally. “The days of the Mamata Banerjee government are numbered. Adhikari has dealt a blow to the ruling party,” said Vijayvargiya. He refused to comment whether Adhikari was going to join his party. While joining the BJP, Goswami said, “I am happy to announce that today I am joining the BJP. I would like to call this a crusade against immoral and incorrect happenings in our state... My decision is driven by the corruption and reign of contract firms. We hope to see north Bengal rising again under the leadership of our beloved prime minister Narendra Modi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/setback-to-tmc-as-leader-quits-cabinet/story-N6aFYlpsyV7CpmdPBMtwfM.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||5,482 new cases, positivity rate below 9% for 3rd day in Delhi||On an average this month, the positivity rate recorded by rapid antigen tests was almost 17 percentage points lower compared to the more accurate RT-PCR test, according to data shared by health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday, as Delhi added fewer than 5,500 cases for the third straight day. Over 23% of the samples tested using molecular tests like RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat returned positive this month, as compared to 5.8% of those tested using the rapid antigen test. Although cheaper and faster, the rapid antigen test sensitivity can be as low as 50%, meaning it can throw up false negative reports for half of the patients who have the infection. The highest positivity rate this month – which is an average of both molecular and rapid antigen tests – was recorded on November 15 when 15.33% of the samples returned positive. This was then a 140-day high. The positivity rate crossed 15.2% on November 8 as well, as per data shared by the Delhi government. However, as per the data shared by the Delhi health minister, molecular tests recorded a positivity rate of 30% on November 7, reported in the health bulletin a day later. A positivity rate this high was seen in Delhi only during the surge in cases in June-July before the introduction of the rapid antigen tests. The highest positivity rate reported in the city was on June 13 when 36.9% samples had returned positive. Only 5,776 tests were conducted on the day in comparison to over 60,000 tests that are being conducted in the city at present. “From a positivity rate of 30% on RT-PCR tests on November 7, it has now come down to about 15%, almost half. The positivity rate on rapid antigen test has also gone down by a third,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday. Meanwhile, the total positivity rate in Delhi remained below 9% for the third straight day on Friday, as 5,482 samples tested positive, of the 64,455 tests conducted on the day.Delhi has consistently been adding fewer than the peak of above 7,000 fresh cases a day it saw during the second week of November.As per the Delhi health bulletin on Friday, 98 deaths were added to the city’s overall fatality count, taking the overall toll in the city to 8,909.“I do not think we can compare the positivity rates of the two tests as such, but the rapid antigen test is known to be only 50 to 60% sensitive even when the test is done properly. And if there is a 17% difference in the positivity rates of the two tests, it clearly shows we are missing out on diagnosing as many people through the less sensitive test. ,” said Dr Shobhaa Broor, former head of the department of microbiology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/5-482-new-cases-positivity-rate-below-9-for-3rd-day/story-pscndX8N28iBUCUpauZKHN.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||BJP attacked my family... I’ve not stooped to their level, says Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray completed a year in office as head of a Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Friday. It has been a torrid year, with political attacks by his former ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party, a health crisis in the form of Covid, which laid Maharashtra low, and poor relations with the Centre. On Friday Thackeray,  60, spoke to reporters on a range of issues. Edited excerpts: Let them keep predicting; they are busy and happy. I do not want to spoil that. The time in which we are running the government is different (because of the pandemic). The world has faced such a situation after a century. Whoever was running the government before did not face such difficulties. Even though the party or ideology of people running the government is important, it is the duty of the government either at the Centre or in the state to work impartially. From September, the Centre stopped the supply of things such as PPE kits and N-95 masks. This led to an increase in the state’s financial burden by around Rs 250-300 crore. Also, the GST and tax devolution dues of around Rs 38,000 crore are still pending with the Centre. We also did not receive any cooperation in handling natural calamities such as the Nisarga cyclone, the floods in Vidarbha, and incessant rainfall. We need a plan as there are five companies making vaccines. What temperature does it have to be stored at? How many doses are required? So far there is no clarity on anything. When GST came we raised some of the issues through BMC . Mumbai, for instance, has a special status in terms of the scale of tax it generates. Therefore Mumbai should get additional help to further develop the city. If there are any lacunae in GST, it should be fixed to make it a foolproof system. If this is not possible, then the old tax regime should be brought back. If by centralising something, justice is not given to all (states) then what is the point of doing it.During the budget session (in 2019), the Covid-19 started spreading in the state, so we had to curtail it (the session). While everything was shut, the Maharashtra government signed memorandums of understanding worth ₹50,000 crore. We have decided to target investment worth ₹1 lakh crore in one year. It is important to note that though the wheels [of economic activities] slowed down, they have not stopped. We will see the fruits of our efforts in the coming days.We started with a decision on developing Raigad district and allocated funds for this. Another big decision was a farm loan waiver up to ₹2 lakh crore. Whatever promises we made, we have nearly fulfilled all of them. The farm loan waiver was a big decision. We don’t make announcements of doubling and tripling farmers income or say acche din aayenge. Running government through remote control is a separate thing. Here three parties are there and the government runs by a coalition. Such discussions are pointless. I do not want to waste time on such topics. We had requested him to do it at the earliest. Like reopening of temples (the Governor had written to Thackeray on this) we expect him to take fast decisions on these matters related to democracy as well. No, that is never my intention. I work passionately and speak on issues passionately. I never make personal attacks or speak with malicious intent. Like they have attacked my family with vengeance… When we were with them we were good to them, we used to campaign for them without which their ballot boxes would not fill up. Now see the manner in which they are attacking our family and perverted tendency of their politics. I have not stooped to their level and attacked them. That time you (Fadnavis) did not see brother’s janam kundali? Now you realised it? We have your kundalis as well.Firstly, using the word inflated bill is incorrect because during lockdown [physical] metre readings were not done. Average bill of three months was sent to consumers. Everybody thought that the average bill that came was high, including me. I want to say here that there was no increase in tariff. Wherever there are complaints, it is being checked and I am told that once the metres are checked people do understand that this is an average bill as per their [past] usage. Even then, if people have complaints, they are being attended to. Do not mislead people with the use of the word ‘inflated’. The pending recoveries are worth ₹60,000 crore. We are not getting much help from the Centre, our dues are not coming from the Centre, and we are facing a financial crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/bjp-attacked-my-family-i-ve-not-stooped-to-their-level-says-uddhav/story-h8ga60cwuZAlKaJmzhTLoN.html
28-11-2020||Jaipur||Man beaten to death in Rajasthan||A 25-year-old man found dead allegedly after he was beaten up by unidentified people in Sikar district, police said on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Dharmesh Kumawat, a resident of Rampura village under Khandela police station. According to the complaint lodged by Kumawat’s family members, the victim returned to Rampura village bus stand around 2am on Thursday after attending a wedding in Jhunjhunu. Later, Kumawat was found injured by the locals and rushed to the nearby hospital, where he died during treatment. “The victim had sustained serious injuries on his head, stomach and legs and some of his nails were also removed. We have detained the four named accused. We are investigating the matter,” said Sanwarmal Nagora, deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Nim Ka Thana police circle. “As per the statements of the locals, the victim was drunk and was trying to barge into the house of the accused, where they started beating Kumawat,” he added. He said things would be clear once the medical report of the victim comes.Family members of the victim also staged a protest in front of the mortuary, which was called off on Friday after senior police officials promised a fair probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/man-beaten-to-death-in-rajasthan/story-FCKkjA9xAhBntZvwZ2nqQP.html
28-11-2020||Gurugram||Woman kills 4 daughters, attempts suicide||A 35-year-old woman, apparently suffering from depression for over six months because of fights with her husband because the couple did not have any male children, allegedly slit the throats of her four daughters with a kitchen knife on Thursday night, and later attempted suicide, the police said. Police in Nuh (about 40km from Gurugram) said they received a call from the woman’s husband on Friday morning, informing them about the murders of his daughters,who were between six months and eight years old. The woman was found unconscious in the house, police said. She is in the intensive care unit (ICU) of a hospital in Nalhar, where a police team has been deployed to record her statement once she is in the condition to give one. A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the woman at the Punhana police station.HT is not naming the accused or giving exact locations because the crime could be linked to mental illness.Vivek Choudhary, deputy superintendent of police (Punhana), said that the husband was away on Thursday night on a condolence visit because a family in the vicinity had lost three members in a road accident. “He returned at around 3am on Friday, and knocked the door. When his wife did not open it for a while, he tried to prise open a window. He saw two of his daughters lying in a pool of blood on a bed in one of the rooms,” he said. Choudhary added that once the husband raised the alarm, relatives and neighbours broke down the door. They found the bodies of two other daughters on another bed in the hall, and the woman lying in her bedroom. All the girls had injury marks on their necks. There were two injury marks on the woman’s neck. She allegedly attacked herself with a kitchen knife after she killed her daughters.The neighbours found that was no entry from outside, and the main gate and the room was locked from inside, so they did not suspect role of any outsider,” the DSP said. The husband told the police on Friday that his wife was depressed because they did not have a male child. The two were married since 2012. Police said the woman had another daughter from and earlier marriage -- the girl lives with her father and the woman wanted to bring her to live with her family, but the husband did not allow it. Some neighbours, however, told the police that the couple often fought, and the husband blamed his wife for not delivering a son. “She was under tremendous pressure to produce a son,” a neighbour told HT on condition of anonymity. The husband denied allegations that he wanted a male child, and said that he was attached to all his daughters and loved them dearlyDSP Choudhary said the bodies of girls were handed over to the father after the post-mortem examination. The doctors confirmed that their throats were slit, and they died due to excessive bleeding. “We are conducting investigation and a team of forensic experts was called to the spot. Fingerprints and other samples were collected by them. We haven’t given a clean shot to the husband yet, and he is under the scanner,” Choudhary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/woman-kills-4-daughters-attempts-suicide/story-bbLpbmQSDeSiucwKgl0juJ.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||PMLA court sends Cox and Kings Group promoter to ED custody till December 3 in money laundering case||The special court set up to try cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has remanded Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, the promoter of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings Group (CKG), to the Enforcement Directorate (ED) custody till December 3 on Friday, a day after he was arrested. The role of Kerkar and his company emerged when the central agency was probing the alleged financial irregularities and money laundering linked to the Yes Bank fraud case. The ED, which arrested Yes Bank’s founder Rana Kapoor in March, has been scanning the transactions made by the bank to its borrowers.Kerkar has previously denied all the allegations against him. According to ED, its preliminary investigations had revealed that Cox and Kings Group had defaulted Rs3,642-crore loans taken from Yes Bank. The loans sanctioned from Yes Bank were driven by Kapoor after bypassing the norms, the ED had alleged. In June, ED officers had raided five premises belonging to the senior management of the Cox and Kings Group, and last month, the agency had arrested the travel company’s chief financial officer Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain. While seeking Kerkar’s custody, public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves argued that the loans given by Yes Bank to the Cox and Kings Group were diverted by Khandelwal and Jain in connivance with Kerkar. “Funds were diverted to a firm named Ezeego, which is another entity of the Cox and Kings Group. The depositors’ money, which went to Ezeego through Cox and Kings, and from there to the group’s other entities Redkite and Promytheone, were further diverted to various overseas accounts. The balance sheets were manipulated to avail more loans from two more banks,” argued Gonsalves. He had contended that ED had to ascertain for whom the funds were diverted, as the Cox and Kings Group had 30 subsidiary companies and for this, it needed Kerkar’s custody. The defence advocate has opposed ED’s request on the grounds that a case has been registered by Kerkar against Khandelwal and Jain at Nagpada police station on the charges of money laundering. The advocate argued that the custody of the accused with the ED was not essential as Kerkar has been falsely arraigned in the case. However, the ED said that Kerkar had lodged complaints against Khandelwal, Jain and others with an ulterior motive to camouflage his role in the case. Investigations have pointed out that Kerkar was the mastermind behind siphoning off the proceeds of crime and hence an additional Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) was registered on November 23 against him. After hearing both the sides, the court felt that the alleged irregularities need to be investigated for which Kerkar’s custodial interrogation is needed and remanded him in ED’s custody for six days. Meanwhile, in a related development, the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police registered the fifth first information report (FIR) against Cox and Kings Group for allegedly cheating HDFC Bank of Rs50.71 crore. The banking (fraud) unit-2 of EOW booked Kerkar, along with Urrshila Kerkar (who is also a promoter of the travel firm), directors, auditors and others executives of Cox and Kings Group on the complaint of Rajit Matloob Quereshi, an authorised representative of HDFC Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/pmla-court-sends-cox-and-kings-group-promoter-to-ed-custody-till-december-3-in-money-laundering-case/story-PCS1s17LMdHjcoT1AelCbM.html
28-11-2020||City||Mohali’s Covid count breaches 15,000 mark with 156 new cases||With 156 fresh cases cropping up on Friday, Mohali’s Covid tally crossed the 15,000 mark – eight months after its first case was reported on March 21. The district also confirmed another Covid casualty, taking the toll to 274. Of the total 15,085 cases now, 1,901 remain active.Among the fresh infections on Friday, 112 were from Mohali (urban), 20 from Dhakoli, nine from Kharar, four each from Gharuan and Lalru, three from Dera Bassi and one from Kurali. These included two employees of the birth and deaths department of the Zirakpur municipal council. Therefore, the office has been closed till December 1. Mohali has witnessed an uptick in cases since the beginning of November, registering 2,634 cases in the past 27 days, of which 76% are from Mohali city (1,992). The recovery rate also declined from 93.7% in October to 87% now. 106 new cases in Chandigarh, 39 in PanchkulaChandigarh confirmed 106 new Covid cases on Friday, taking the total to 17,157, while no death was reported in the past 24 hours. As many as 1,190 cases patients are still infected. The city also recorded 85 recoveries, pushing the total recoveries to 15,697. As many as 1,644 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 270 patients have succumbed to the virus till now.Panchkula also reported no death, but 39 people tested positive for the virus. With this, the total cases went up to 8,519, of which 481 are active cases, while 7,911 have been discharged and 127 have died.Medical interns to help with vaccination programme in UTChandigarh The first-high level meeting regarding the Covid-19 vaccination programme was held on Friday, where the administration decided to train and recruit medical interns and final-year MBBS students for its execution.Suggestions were taken from doctors at PGIMER, and officials of the UT health department, municipal corporation and police department. “A suggestion was put forward that final-year MBBS students, as well as interns, be trained for the vaccination exercise whenever it takes place,” UT adviser Manoj Parida said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-s-covid-count-breaches-15-000-mark-with-156-new-cases/story-zYcffJbhwLK0BKNm5pG5OM.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||ED questions Pune builder Avinash Bhosale in FEMA case||Pune-based builder and hotelier, Avinash Bhosale, was questioned by officers of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), zone-2, in Mumbai for around five hours on Friday, in a case pertaining to alleged violations under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA).Bhosale was previously fined ₹1.83 crore for alleged FEMA contravention in the same case by the special director of ED, Mumbai, in 2015. Officers had then said that he was fined for opening a bank account abroad without the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) permission and maintaining the account after returning to India.Though the officers from the central agency have confirmed Friday’s development, they refused to divulge any further details on the fresh action taken against the builder in the case.Bhosale came out of the ED office in Ballard Pier at 8.10pm but refused to speak to media persons. Later, HT tried to contact him, but he was unavailable for a comment till the time of going to print.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ed-questions-pune-builder-avinash-bhosale-in-fema-case/story-VBwZIUD1ggr8djDQ1uOX3M.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC extends licence fee waiver, parking contractors to continue||With the municipal corporation extending partial waiver of licence fee owed by parking contractors for three more months, they will continue to manage the parking lots in the city. Expressing their inability to clear dues piling up since September, the contractors had threatened to withdraw their services if MC didn’t give them relief. There are two paid parking contractors that manage 89 parking lots in the city.Succumbing to the contractors’ threat, at its General House meeting on Friday, the civic body decided to allow partial waiver of licence fee – ranging from 45% to 65% - for September, October and November. Thereon, MC will charge the full fee from December.“In case they decide to withdraw their services hereon, the exemption allowed would stand cancelled,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav. Vikas Pandey, manager, Pashchatya Entertainment Pvt Ltd, parking contractor for Zone 2, said, “With the MC relief in place, we will continue with the parking contract. But, we are awaiting a formal communication in the matter.”Relaxations in the pastIn the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, MC had already given a complete licence fee waiver for April and May. Thereafter, contractors were allowed to deposit 35% to 45% of the licence fee for June 1 to August 31.Notably, in the last General House meeting, the members had decided not to give any more relaxations from September. They had contended that financial activity in the city had picked up, since markets and offices had been allowed to open. Contractors yet to offer smart facilities Even though the House on October 29 had directed the contractors to introduce smart features within 30 days, the contractors haven’t provided these yet. The hiked parking charges are contingent upon contractors offering smart features. Pandey said, “Certain features can only be offered through the use of Chinese products, which we want to avoid. But, we are trying to start these as soon as possible.” After the new rates kick in, parking fee for the first four hours will remain the same as the flat rates charged right now: Rs 5 for two-wheelers and Rs 10 for four-wheelers.Thereafter, these will be doubled. The charges will further be doubled if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours. However, there will be free entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes.Illegal water connections at villages, colonies to be regularisedThe MC House also approved the regularisation of illegal water connections in all colonies and villages, including 13 villages transferred to the civic body. The consumer will have to deposit one-time charges within 90 days. A rebate of 10% will be allowed if deposited within this period, failing which a penalty of 15% will be charged up to the date of regularisation. The rate of regularisation for domestic connections ranges between Rs 50 and Rs 200 per month and for non-domestic connections, from Rs 400 to Rs 800 per month. For the water connections outside the village lal dora, the mayor was authorised by the House to constitute a committee to examine the issue and give recommendations thereon. When the House was taking up the issue of allowing water connections outside the lal dora, the Congress councillors rushed to the well of the House with placards. They demanded that the use of smart watches be stopped, water tariff be reduced and outsourced employees be regularised. Rehab colonies: MC mulls regularisation of building violations MC decided against issuing any notices for existing building violations at rehabilitation colonies, and to constitute a committee to prepare a one-time regularisation policy for large-scale violations. Various rehabilitation colonies in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, and Sectors 52 and 53 house around 4,300 allottees, who stand to gain from MC’s decision. The corporation also decided that any new violations hereafter will invite action. MC commissioner KK Yadav directed the officials concerned to rein in any new violations at these colonies. As per the MC General House resolution, the mayor has been authorised to constitute a committee, comprising a councillor and MC officials, which will examine all cases of the violations of the buildings bylaws, and terms and conditions. It will then recommend a one-time policy, including rates therein for regularising these violations. In violation of allotment terms, 90% of the licencees have sold out the transit sites on general power of attorney. There are also rampant violations of the building bylaws in the shape of construction of unauthorised cantilevers, toilets, additional storeys and rooms. Under “Licensing of Tenements and Sites and Services in Chandigarh” rehabilitation scheme, transit sites in Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, and Sectors 52 and 53 were allotted in 1998 by the UT estate office to residents of various slums. In 1995, the work of rehabilitation of colonies was transferred to MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-extends-licence-fee-waiver-parking-contractors-to-continue/story-9lkzCIrdXIX2lHkB0z91wK.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid cases rise, no tests yet at Thane entry points||Like the twin cities of Kalyan-Dombivli, Thane city, too, has seen a gradual increase in the number of Covid-19 cases since the start of the week. Though the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has claimed to be ready for the second wave, no arrangements have been made yet at the city’s entry and exit to test people travelling by road from Rajasthan, Gujarat and Goa.As per the state guidelines, travellers from these three states need to be screened at the railway stations, bus stops and city entry points. The corporation, though, has been testing outstation passengers at railway stations for more than two months, there is no system yet in place to test those travelling by road.An officer from TMC requesting anonymity said, “We have been testing all the outstation passengers at Thane station for the last couple of months. The details and symptoms, if any, of the passengers are noted. Even if their test result is negative, our team keeps a tab on those passengers with symptoms after a few days. We have set up testing counters in both east and west sides of the Thane station so that no passenger leaves the station without being tested.” The testing at the city’s entry points was done earlier when the cases were high. The corporation is now formulating a system for the same. TMC will not be testing at city entry points as of now. Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, TMC, said, “We have taken a decision to not have testing at city entry points as of now. The situation is well under control and doing this would just add to the pressure. It will also increase traffic at these points on a daily basis as we will have to make provisions for ambulances to park here as well. Instead, we have asked all assistant municipal commissioners to be alert and identify travellers and regular commuters within their wards.”On the other hand, the corporation had initiated testing centres during the night at railway stations. However, hardly 0.4 per cent tested positive throughout November. Covid testing at night began on November 1 at Thane railway station. Till now, around 8,275 antigen tests have been conducted, out of which 33 tested positive.“The possibility of passengers arriving at night getting infected and being the cause for the virus to spread led us to conduct testing at night as well. However, hardly 0.4 per cent has turned positive throughout the month during testing at night. This clearly shows that the situation is under control in the city,” said Sandeep Malvi, TMC deputy civic chief.Meanwhile, Thane city has a total of 50,545 cases while the death toll has reached 1,183. Currently, there are 1,588 active cases in the city and the doubling days are at 244.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-cases-rise-no-tests-yet-at-thane-entry-points/story-fPMv8mYcU1MQjnz25UCKQK.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway approves new plan for stalled Palava Jn flyover work||The work of Palava Junction flyover, which was stalled, received a push after the Central Railway (CR) approved its revised plan on Friday.The junction, which falls on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch, is one of the vital links of the stretch. Heavy congestion is regularly reported at the junction. This flyover from Desai creek to Katai toll naka will ease the congestion in future.Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde assured that the work of the flyover will resume in a month.“This is the final plan for the project, which has been approved by the railway. Now, the work can be resumed and completed without hurdle. This approval was one of the crucial stages of the project,” said Shinde.The work of the flyover was initiated in December 2018. However, it was later stalled due to the awaited Dedicated Freight Corridor project that will pass the flyover from below. The authority building the corridor had approached the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), asking to leave space for the corridor.“Due to this demand, the plan of the flyover had to be changed. The revised plan had to be sent to railway for approval,” added Shinde.The flyover has 45 foundations, out of which the work of 37 foundations is completed. Out of the 45 pillars required for the flyover, 12 are ready.Last year, a 20-year-old national-level carrom player Jhanvi More, died after she was run over by a tanker while crossing the junction. Following this incident, a need for the flyover was highlighted by the residents as the junction has several commuter crossings. The junction is located near the Palava City, a housing complex with thousands of residents.The flyover, once built, will ease congestion on the road below, thus allowing pedestrians to cross the road safely.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of CR, confirmed the development on the project. He said, “The new plan for the flyover is approved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-approves-new-plan-for-stalled-palava-jn-flyover-work/story-58SI5BNAp4TMgdqSwEIO2J.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||2022 mini-Assembly polls in Maharashtra: Real test for Shiv Sena||After parting ways with ally Bharatiya Janata Party, the Shiv Sena rode to power in Maharashtra on the back of an alliance with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Although Shiv Sena leaders maintain that it has not abandoned Hindutva, the stance of the party has softened over the year since it came to power. The 180-degree turn to forge an alliance with the two parties it fought against for decades will prove to be a major roadblock in growth or a gamble that will pay off in time? The Shiv Sena will get an answer to this question in less than two years as 10 civic bodies, including Mumbai, and zilla parishad (district councils) in 27 districts go to polls in what are described as mini-Assembly polls. Party makeover The Shiv Sena, under the leadership of Uddhav Thackeray, has deviated from his father Bal Thackeray’s style of politics. Uddhav wants the party to be a moderate version of what it was and reach people across the state, going beyond its traditional strongholds. He also decided to head the government when he got the opportunity. Political analysts point out that this shift in thinking in the party, coupled with the anger of being ditched by the BJP on CM’s post, brought about this new political dynamic in Maharashtra. Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said, “The political makeover is crucial for its future. The old character of the Sena, which was parochial and aggressive, is gone now. However, the Sena will not disown its Marathi identity and Hindutva ideology. With regards to Hindutva, Sena’s Hindutva’s was always different from BJP’s; even Balasaheb [Thackeray] acknowledged it in his later days.” The Sena has faced criticism from various quarters on aligning with Congress-NCP for the sake of power. The Sena intends to keep Hindutva identity intact, but the BJP, which has a far more reach across the country, has been able to use the Hindutva plank far better, say experts. Political gain For the Shiv Sena to gain politically, observers said it will have to stick with the NCP and Congress to beat the BJP. Sanjay Raut, Sena leader and an architect of the three-party alliance, has stressed the long-term intention of the party, with his remarks that the MVA will remain together not for the next five years, but 25 years. Jondhale added that the Thackeray government will have to resolve the socio-economic issues, including those of farmers, related to caste, employment, and infrastructure and industrial development in the state, if they want people to look beyond the ideology. Pratap Asbe, another political analyst, said, “As long as the MVA allies are together, they can counter the BJP. But they will have to stay together in local self-government polls. The key issue which could emerge in ZP elections is seat-sharing. If they remain together, they will win or else the BJP will gain to some extent.” There could be a triangular contest between the Congress, BJP and Sena to wrest control of the Aurangabad civic body, which is now controlled by the Sena. Last month, Congress minister Amit Deshmukh said the Congress had always gone solo in local polls and this year too workers want to go solo. However, Jondhale doesn’t see fissures appearing in MVA, even if the Congress goes solo in local polls. “The Congress has a grassroot network across districts. The trio will remain together till the next Assembly election. The glue of political power is very strong,” he said. “If the government succeeds in solving socio-economic problems, it will guarantee power. Uddhav Thackeray has won the goodwill of the people. Post-pandemic, he will have to start delivering on promises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/2022-mini-assembly-polls-in-maharashtra-real-test-for-shiv-sena/story-rN8b3fiwOJ35TrwlisKlWK.html
28-11-2020||City||Covid’s second wave: Experts convene meeting to deliberate countering measures||Deliberations were held on countering the possible second wave of Covid-19 in Punjab and discuss management strategies with state’s top doctors and bureaucrats from private and government institutions. Dr KK Talwar, adviser, health and medical education and research; Husan Lal, principal secretary, health; DK Tiwari, principal secretary, medical education and research; Tanu Kashyap, MD, PHSC; Dr GD Puri, dean, PGIMER; Dr Kamal Kajal, associate professor, PGIMER; Girish Dayalan, Mohali DC, and Aashika Jain, IAS, were among those present. Dr Talwar appreciated the quality healthcare services being provided in Mohali which drew patients from Panchkula, Chandigarh and Himachal to seek treatment at Mohali health facilities. The seamless co-ordination between government and private hospitals under direct supervision of Mohali DC was also lauded. Increasing sampling and arrangement of adequate bed capacity was stressed upon. Reducing case fatality rate (CFR) was deliberated upon at length. The doctors also shared practical tips and best medical practices which would be helpful for all hospitals in reducing death rate. L1 facilities have been discontinued statewide considering low occupancy rates. It was decided that home isolation for asymptomatic/mildly symptomatic patients will be promoted. Home isolation kits are to be distributed among the needy patients. In order to help the patients recover quickly and strengthen their immunity, post-Covid care kits have also been prepared by the state government which are to be distributed generously. Private hospitals were requested to initiate home counselling services for patients under home isolation. An appeal was also made to them to charge genuinely. All private hospitals have been asked to fill ventilator support proforma and infrastructure availability performa so that the expert committee could analyse the same and help them in every way possible. It was informed that the health institutions should fill death audit forms so that the experts may have a fair analysis of deaths taking place in Punjab and tackle CFR. All hospitals were suggested to attend the weekly live sessions conducted by Dr KK Talwar and other experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-s-second-wave-experts-convene-meeting-to-deliberate-countering-measures/story-n07q5xngR6zAnnGi2HFiGL.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Inter-state vehicle theft racket busted in Navi Mumbai, five arrested||In a case similar to what you see in movies, the Navi Mumbai crime branch busted an inter-state gang that duped people by offering to rent their vehicles to corporate houses and hotels.The police went undercover as tenants and waiters in different housing societies and hotels to trap the gang members. The gang opened bogus companies, took possession of the vehicles along with their documents and later shut shop and sold the vehicles in Gujarat.Vehicles worth ₹2.2Cr have been seized and five persons including the prime accused have been arrested in the case.The central unit of the crime branch has recovered 20 vehicles worth ₹1.21Cr while nine vehicles worth ₹81L have been seized by Gujarat police as they had been used in various crimes.Navi Mumbai police commissioner, Bipin Kumar Singh, said, “The gang members would open an office and appoint 4-5 unsuspecting employees. One of the accused, Ayan alias Rahul alias Anthony Paul Chettiar, a hotel management diploma holder, would then go to another state and search on social media apps for people wanting to rent their vehicles. He would call them and discuss the rental offer and send them to the bogus company office.”The other two accused, drive Satya Prakash Verma alias Babu, 30, a Virar resident and Ashish Pujari, 32, a graduate from Palghar, would sign the contract with the client and take possession of their vehicles and original documents. They would then start giving them monthly rent.Singh added, “Unknown to the owner, the vehicle would be immediately sent to their accomplices in Gujarat, where they would be sold in 3-4 days at throwaway price. With the money accrued, they would pay the rent of the vehicle for 2-3 months and win the confidence of the customers, thereby dragging more people in the net. They would then suddenly close their office, switch off their mobile phones and vanish.”Following a similar incident in Nerul this year, the case was entrusted to the crime branch. The gang members regularly changed their numbers and locations to evade arrest. Singh said, “The crime branch learnt that Babu was residing in Bhoisar with his wife. On making inquiries, the team learnt that his wife was alone at home. A police squad then rented a flat in the same building and kept a watch on him for a week. After a week, Babu returned home and was immediately nabbed by the police. On interrogation, he confessed to his involvement in the crime and also revealed the whereabouts of his accomplices. He was arrested on November 6.”Babu revealed that accused Ashish and Ayan were in Bangalore. A team led by Gajjal immediately left for the city.They learnt that they were staying in a hotel. “One of our constables dressed up as a waiter and worked in the hotel. When the accused came to their hotel room, he alerted the team and the duo was nabbed on November 7,” the commissioner said.Based on further investigations, the crime branch then arrested Mohammed Wasim Shaikh, 33 and Javed Shaikh alias Mama, 46, both from Gujarat, on November 19. Police learnt that the vehicles had been sold in Surat, Ahmedabad, Vapi, Daman, Valsad areas. The gang had opened offices at Nerul, Marol – Andheri and Yerwada in Pune.Singh, said, “The prime accused, Ayan, used a Dubai SIM card to mislead the investigating agencies. He would be in Bangalore and make WhatsApp calls and had managed to evade arrest so far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/inter-state-vehicle-theft-racket-busted-in-navi-mumbai-five-arrested/story-z7dvAoKZAJs8X9egMF1pBM.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Opposition insists on winter session, Himachal cabinet to take final call||After leaders failed to arrive at a consensus on whether the state assembly’s winter session should be deferred in view of the pandemic at the all-party meet on Friday, the Himachal Cabinet will take a final call on the matter next week. Opposition leaders, primarily the Congress and CPI (M), were in favour of going ahead with the assembly. Leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri said, “The Opposition feels there is no reason to defer the session. The decision to hold the session from December 7 to 11 has already been taken by the Cabinet and has been approved by the governor. Many issues need to be discussed urgently. Around 400 questions have already been listed.” The meeting was presided over by parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj. “Traditionally the winter session of the state assembly is held in December. However, given the spike in Covid cases, many legislators had suggested deferring the session and the issue was also discussed informally in the cabinet. The Opposition is of the view that the session should be held and I will inform the chief minister about the same. The final decision will be taken by the Cabinet,’ he said. It is possible that if the winter session is convened it may be held in Shimla instead of Dharamshala, as customary, given the situation. Bhardwaj said the Cabinet will also take a call on the venue of the session, in case it is held.” Agnihotri said, “Earlier, it was being speculated that the winter session may be deferred till March 18, which would make it the budget session. The session is to be called within six months but there is no other possibility as the code of conduct for panchayat polls will come into force around December 15.” “When elections are being held in the country there is no reason that the assembly should not be convened. We recently wrapped up polls in Bihar and panchayat polls are about to begin in Jammu and Kashmir,” he said, adding that marriages and other social gatherings were also going ahead as planned amid the pandemic. Covid will be one of the main issues that will be discussed, along with hike in electricity tariffs, bus fares, national highways, and expansion of railway lines, said the leader of Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/opposition-insists-on-winter-session-himachal-cabinet-to-take-final-call/story-phRMgiD8YO5bwIIKmisjQL.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Explosion from gas leak in vacant Thane flat causes panic||An explosion due to leakage of gas cylinder hose of a flat in Rabodi on Friday morning led to panic in the nearby areas.The first floor flat of Devdeep Society, near KV school, was used as office space by an art direction company and has been closed for more than a month. A bomb squad was called in to detect the source of explosion.The explosion took place at 8.30am. Neighbours heard the explosion and informed the fire brigade. The fire brigade, along with Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) and bomb detection squad, reached the spot.The impact of the blast was so huge that the walls and windows of the flat collapsed. The door was broken along with its frame. The window grills, too, were unhinged while the electronic equipments like computers and music system were damaged, informed Santosh Kadam, chief of RDMC, Thane.Kadam said, “The bomb squad found that the cause of explosion was the leakage in hose pipe of the gas cylinders in the office. The pipe was ruptured and due to the pressure, the explosion took place. The room was completely closed with no ventilation, thus leading to heavy damage.”Rabodi police station senior police inspector, R Shirtode, said, “We conducted an examination of the room with the help of a dog squad and did not find anything suspicious in the explosion. It is confirmed that it was due to gas leak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/explosion-from-gas-leak-in-vacant-thane-flat-causes-panic/story-fnOwRDymSzQ7hBs3bWddKN.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli civic bodies reduce rentals by 75% for theatre||After Thane, the municipal corporations of Kalyan and Navi Mumbai have now reduced rentals of the play theatres in the city by 75 per cent to give a boost to the theatre industry.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has announced a cut in charges by three-fourths for booking the civic body’s Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Vashi for plays. The auditorium is the biggest and the most popular in the city.The decision came after a meeting popular between Marathi actor and producer Prashant Damle, on behalf of Jagtik Marathi Natyadharmi Nirmata Sangh, and NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar. He had sought reduction in the auditorium charges to provide relief to the theatre industry.The reduction in charges has been ordered for the period of next six months i.e. till May 31, 2021 or till the 50 per cent capacity norm is in force, whichever is earlier. It will be applicable to Marathi theatre-related programmes. Bangar said, “The Covid pandemic has affected all industries including theatre. It is an important part of Maharashtra culture. Hence, we have decided to give it a boost by charging just 25 per cent of the regular rates for booking.” The state government has allowed auditoriums to open with 50 per cent capacity. Obviously, it will be difficult for the organisers to match the revenue with the costs due to reduced patrons and increasing the ticket rates is also not feasible at present The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has also decided to reopen its two auditoriums with an exemption of 75 per cent on its basic rent for those organisers charging ₹300 per ticket. Those charging more than ₹400 per ticket won’t be given a discount. The Acharya Atre auditorium in Kalyan and Savitribai Phule auditorium in Dombivli have been shut since March 23 in the wake of the pandemic. “The organisers will have to follow all the social-distancing norms while they organise a programme,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-kalyan-dombivli-civic-bodies-reduce-rentals-by-75-for-theatre/story-NqyXLObnhSYSC9wnuD771O.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Former Himachal CM Shanta Kumar supports ‘one nation, one election’||Veteran BJP leader Shanta Kumar on Friday said the Prime Minister’s call for ‘One nation, one election’ needed to be urgently implemented in order to save public money. “The Prime Minister’s suggestion will help save public money as Lok Sabha and Assembly polls will be held together. Under the present system, the country is always in the middle of some election. This slows the pace of development. Bihar elections ended recently and now West Bengal assembly polls are round the corner,” he said. The two-time Himachal chief minister said, “India is at the top of Global Hunger Index. In a country where 16-crore people sleep on an empty stomach, spending such a huge amount on elections should be considered a crime.”He said the issue was also raised when Atal Behari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister. “The only objection that was raised was what should be done in case a government is brought down with the help of a no-confidence motion.” Former vice-president Bhairon Singh Shekhawat had suggested that whoever brings the no-confidence motion should also move a motion to form alternative government.“He suggested that if the no-confidence passes the floor test and motion for alternative government is defeated the assembly should be dissolved for the remaining time and President’s Rule should be implemented,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/former-himachal-cm-shanta-kumar-supports-one-nation-one-election/story-tluQj6DLErVp6OUE59g56L.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Hema Upadhyay murder: Court in Mumbai issues warrant against father of accused||The sessions court on Friday issued a bailable warrant to Ramadhar Sukhai Rajbhar, father of Vijay Rajbhar, one of the accused in Hema Upadhyay murder case, for not producing the tempo used in the crime before the court. “We sought warrant as Vijay’s father Ramadhar failed to appear before the court and also did not make any submission about production of the tempo or its photograph before the court,” said special public prosecutor Vaibhav Baghade. Hema and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani were allegedly smothered with a chloroform-laced cloth at Vidhyadhar Rajbhar’s warehouse on December 11, 2015. The killers packed the bodies in cardboard boxes and dumped them in a Kandivli sewer. The prosecution alleged that the Vijay’s tempo was used for taking dead bodies. The police, during investigation, seized the tempo in front of the independent witnesses. After the investigation on October 21, 2016, Rajbhar was allowed to take custody of his son’s tempo. The court had, however, imposed strict conditions wherein Rajbhar was asked to execute indemnity bond of ₹5 lakh. The court also said, “He [Rajbhar] shall not transfer, or create third-party interest over the above referred tempo and shall produce the same as and when required by this court or the police station concerned.” The prosecution is examining independent witness before whom the tempo was seized. During recording of evidence, the court asked that the tempo be produced for identification and summons were issued to Rajbhar. He, however, informed the court that Vijay’s wife had sold the tempo. In view of this, the court asked Rajbhar and prosecution to obtain photographs of the tempo. The prosecution, on Friday, informed the court that no photographs of the tempo were taken. Meanwhile, Rajbhar remained absent from court on Friday. Hence, the warrant was issued by the court on the request of the special public prosecutor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/hema-upadhyay-murder-court-in-mumbai-issues-warrant-against-father-of-accused/story-Py67JCIGKYGx8SOVr0y8uN.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Legal rights of farmers are being violated by BJP: Himachal Congress chief||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Rathore on Friday condemned the action taken by the BJP government in Haryana to stop farmers from marching towards Delhi saying that the saffron party is violating the legal rights of farmers by suppressing their voice. In a statement, Rathore said the anti-farmer policies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have forced the farmers to raise their voice. “Farmers who serve the nation by providing food have now become the victim of these oppressive and anti-farmer polices of the government who are trying to enslave them by implementing such laws,” he said.He said the farmers are worried about their future and their concerns are completely reasonable. “Farmers as well as people of this country have the statutory right to speak up and agitate against any decision of the government,” Rathore said, adding that this agitation will be the reason for downfall of the egoistic and authoritarian government at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/legal-rights-of-farmers-are-being-violated-by-bjp-himachal-congress-chief/story-VJ2uuOPKopwdJgjTtacPCN.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||New promotion scheme: Fissures begin to appear between GMCH-32 faculty members||Rift has started to emerge between the doctors with the implementation of the new designation upgradation scheme at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32.The members benefitting from the new policy and supported by the Faculty Welfare Association said few people with vested interests had been spreading rumours, while the opposite group blames that their seniority has been compromised due to the scheme’s implementation. On November 9, the GMCH-32 had implemented Time Bound Designation (Up-gradation) Scheme, 2020, under which an assistant professor is eligible for designation as an associate professor after five years of regular service as an assistant professor and an associate professor is eligible for designation as a professor after four years of regular service through Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) or designated associate professor under the TBDS. However, the designated associate professors under TBDS would be considered for designation as professors only after the regular associate professor through UPSC is designated as professor under TBDS in the same department. The faculty welfare body and doctors who have been promoted under the said scheme have said that they support TBDS completely. “The faculty welfare body wishes to state that due to some vested interest of very few faculty members, rumours are being propagated everyday. The TBDS is for the benefit of entire faculty of GMCH, as many members are facing stagnation for more than 10-15 years,” the faculty body said in a release. It further added that the association would like to state that TBDS has been promoted by the ministry of health for all medical colleges in the country where time-bound promotion is not included in the recruitment rules. It does not affect the seniority of any faculty member selected through UPSC, it said. However, the opposing doctors, mostly appointed through the UPSC, have made representations to the hospital as well as the UT administration stating that super-confidentially and retrospectively implementing TBDS 2020 which is based exclusively on four-member committee’s recommendations contravenes the principle of natural justice. “Redesignating faculty from 2008 along with the grant of experience (amounting to promotion) without any criteria (APAR/research publications/interviews) makes merit a casualty which will have far-reaching implications,” another group of doctors in a representation has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/new-promotion-scheme-fissures-begin-to-appear-among-gmch-32-faculty-members/story-zNulqyUeyIfGF3mOuWequI.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||HPPSC staffer burnt alive in house fire in Theog||A Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission employee was burnt alive after a fire broke out at a house in Tarpunu village of Shimla district’s Theog sub-division, police said on Friday.The deceased Ramesh Verma,48, was working as a clerk in HPPSC and was on leave. The mishap took place on Thursday when a house caught fire and it immediately spread to 18 rooms. Although the family living in the house escaped but Ramesh got trapped inside.Superintendent of police Mohit Chawla said the fire was caused due to short circuit. Police along with fire tenders reached the spot and doused the fire. The body was extracted in few hours with the assistance of locals. An investigation is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/hppsc-staffer-burnt-alive-in-house-fire-in-theog/story-vqMUKY0snH5QpjOM06bH5L.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||No provision to create separate Covid wards for VIP’s in HP: Health secretary||The health department on Friday ruled out any possibilities of setting up separate wards for Covid-19 infected VIP’s in Himachal Pradesh.“No provisions to create separate wards for VIP’s can be made. Everyone will have to avail the same facilities,” health secretary Amitabh Awasthi said while replying to media queries on the demand for setting up VIP wards in Covid care centres in the state. “No one in this pandemic can be treated separately,” he added. Awasthi, who faced a volley of questions about the mismanagement in the hospitals and Covid centres in Himachal, admitted to certain lapses but simultaneously gave assurances on improving infrastructure for battling the disease. He said there was no dearth of oxygen in hospitals.He cautioned that the next three weeks are crucial as there has been a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in the state and the situation was similar in other north Indian states including Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Haryana and Chandigarh. He said social gatherings, marriages and political functions after the ‘Unlock’ led to a surge in infections. “The cabinet had discussed about the Covid situation in detail and all ministers were of the view that political rallies will not benefit anyone,” he said.Awasthi said makeshift hospitals in Shimla, Mandi and Nalagarh will be readied within next 15 days. “ We have adequate infrastructure and facilities in the state to treat patients,” he said, adding that civil hospitals in Rohru and Rampur have now been upgraded as Covid Care Hospitals. “It was done so that patients from far flung areas could easily reach these nearby hospitals instead of travelling to Shimla. The government also warned of action against the doctors, paramedics and medics on non-covid duties who were reluctant to treat patients with other diseases. The doctors found negligent of their duty will not be spared and strict punitive action will be taken against them,” Awasthi said amid reports that non covid patients are being sent back without diagnosis from Indira Gandhi Medical Hospital and Deen Dayal Hospital. He said 30 more ambulances have been added from the districts to supplement the emergency services. Besides, instructions have been given to district administrations to hire four wheel drive ambulance in snowbound areas including Shimla, Rohru, Rampur, Kullu, Lahaul & Spiti and Kinnaur districts. “Any complaints about 108 ambulance provider regarding poor response will be dealt strictly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-provision-to-create-separate-covid-wards-for-vip-s-in-hp-health-secretary/story-ri7X9NT4QR3pXxHMCFnI1K.html
28-11-2020||City||₹87 crore to be spent on beautification of Mohali: Balbir Sidhu||To enhance the beauty of Mohali and provide basic amenities to the citizens,₹86.37 crore would be spent on development works in the city, said Balbir Singh Sidhu, Punjab’s health and family welfare minister, while addressing a press meet at MC Bhawan here on Friday. Sidhu, also the Mohali MLA, handed over a cheque of ₹25 crore received from GMADA for the MC to commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. Also present on the occasion were MC joint secretary Kinnu Thind; chief engineer, local government, Mukesh Garg and Kuljit Singh Bedi. As per the agreement of 2017, it was decided that GMADA will pay ₹50 crore every year for the maintenance of parks, but in the past three years, the area development authority only paid ₹9 crore. Sidhu apprised housing and urban development minister Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, principal secretary, housing and urban development, Sarvjit Singh and GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Kumar Agarwal, of the allotment of funds by GMADA to the MC. The minister said that ₹86.37 crore would be spent on development works in various housing societies, upgrading markets, augmentation of main sewer line under AMRUT scheme, installation of 50 open-gym equipment, construction of playground for children, laying of paver blocks, construction of community centre at Phase 3B1, and buying a new tree pruning machine among others. He added that a medical college and 500-bed hospital is being set up at a cost of ₹375 crore in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/87-crore-to-be-spent-on-beautification-of-mohali-balbir-sidhu/story-JqHjHbsawf6nhrb7HXa3oO.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Will bring in ₹1lakh-crore investment in a year: Maharashtra CM||On the eve of the first anniversary of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the Shiv Sena, Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an interview to Hindustan Times on Friday, looked back at his year in office, speaking on varied topics, including his target to attract businesses, the Centre-state relationship and the future of the allies. He also targeted his former ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), over the vindictive politics over the past few months. Edited excerpts: The Opposition has been predicting that your government will collapse any time, but you completed a year. How do you see your tenure as the CM? Let them keep predicting, they are busy and happy doing it. I do not want to spoil that. The time during which we are running the government is different (referring to the Covid-19 pandemic). The world has faced such a situation after a century. Whoever was running the government so far hadn’t faced such a difficulty. You can understand the challenges. You have to see how we are trying to handle the situation. I am coming in front of people and telling them what to do. I am satisfied that the people of Maharashtra consider me a part of their family. We have some goals, which will be completed in the next few years. Do you think the state has got as much co-operation as you would like from the Centre in dealing with the pandemic and otherwise? Even though the party or ideology of people running the government is important, it is the duty of the government either at the Centre or in the state to work impartially without any discrimination. From September, the Centre stopped the supply of things such as PPE kits and N95 masks. It led to an increase in the state’s financial burden by ₹250-300 crore. Also, the GST and tax devolution dues of ₹38,000 crore are still pending with the Centre. Besides, we did not receive expected cooperation in handling natural calamities such as cyclone Nisarg, floods in Vidarbha and incessant rainfall in western Maharashtra and Marathwada. In some cases, the Central teams have not come to assess the damages despite our requests. If the teams have not come, when will we get the assistance? Recently you asked for a national policy for Covid-19 vaccine distribution. Is there a fear of inequitable distribution given the Centre-State equation? We need a plan as there are five companies making vaccines. What is the ideal temperature for storage? How many doses are required? So far, there is no clarity. A few days ago, PM Narendra Modi convened a video-conference, but still there is no clarity over distribution and other details. Do you think the GST system has become a tool for the Centre to corner states? What needs to be done to retain the state’s autonomy? When GST was introduced, we had raised some issues through BMC to maintain its autonomy. Mumbai has a special status in terms of the scale of tax it pays, so the city should get additional help for further development, it is the job of the Centre. If there are any lacunae in the GST, they should be fixed to make it a foolproof system. If it is not possible, then the old tax regime should be brought back till a new system is adopted. If by Centralising something, all (states) don’t get justice, what is the point of doing it? Within months of taking over, the state was faced with the Covid crisis. How does the government plan to revive the financial condition of the state in the coming year? During the budget session, the coronavirus started spreading in the state, so we had to curtail it. Since then, we are battling the financial crisis. While everything was shut, the Maharashtra government signed memoranda of understanding worth ₹50,000 crore. Of the MoUs signed in June, preliminary work on 60-70%, in terms if allotting land etc, of them has been done. The remaining work will also be done in the coming days. We have decided to bring in investment worth ₹1 lakh crore in one year. It is important to note that though the wheels [of economic activities] had slowed down, they had not stopped. We will see the fruits of our efforts in the coming days. What were your government’s major achievements in this one year? We started with a decision on development of Raigad district and allocated funds. Another big decision was farm loan waiver up to ₹2 lakh crore. We introduced Shiv Bhojan [subsidised meal] at ₹10 [per plate]. It is now being given for ₹5. This is a big [decision]. We have fulfilled nearly all promises we made. Farm loan waiver was a big decision. We don’t make announcements of doubling and tripling farmers’ income or say ‘acche din aayenge’. I take them [farmers] into confidence and make them aware of the situation on the ground and go forward. We have a new idea ‘vikel te pikel’ (sow that sells) to make markets available for farmers. Your family has so far run governments with remote control. How was your experience running a coalition government with two parties? Running a government through remote control is a separate thing. Here, we have three parties and the government runs by a coalition. You moved the Metro car depot from Aarey Colony to Kanjurmarg, will this not lead to cost escalation? Secondly, a private developer has claimed rights on the land and there are other issues over the land. How will you overcome these obstacles? These are old issues. Some people claim to study, but their study never ends. We understand the situation immediately and take a decision. People will not regret this decision. They [Opposition BJP] will oppose it, but not the people. I will give a detailed presentation [soon] on what we have done. Moving the car shed to Kanjurmarg could have been done earlier. But committees were appointed unnecessarily and reports were made. What do we want to achieve? The environment is equally important. Show me one city which has a forest right at its centre. It is not just a forest with trees, it has wildlife, complete eco-system, right from microorganisms to leopards. We don’t want to carry out development by destroying life there. Today, we have developed to such an extent that we are not able to show our faces to anybody. We have had to wear masks, this is our development. We are taking the depot to Kanjurmarg and it will be beneficial to more people. No part [of the project] or money will go waste. The Opposition says that PM Modi is upset with you because you became a member of legislative Council after his intervention, but never acknowledged it in public… Such discussions are pointless. I do not want to waste time on such topics. The Governor has still not cleared the MVA’s nomination of 12 candidates to the Upper house of state legislature. Is there another tussle between the government and Raj Bhavan? We had requested him to do it at the earliest. We had written to him to take a decision in 15 days. Like reopening of temples (as governor had written to Thackeray), we expect him to take quick decisions on matters related to democracy as well. Will the MVA contest the BMC and other municipal corporation polls in an alliance? Definitely, we will contest together. The Vidhan Parishad (legislative Council) polls next months are being contested as a coalition. While attacking the Centre over GST and other issues, you took on the BJP government on the political front. It is being said that Uddhav Thackeray is standing up to the Central government led by PM Modi. No, that was never my intention. I work passionately and speak on issues passionately. I never make personal attacks or speak with malicious intent, like they attacked my family with a vengeance… When we were with them, we were good to them, we used to campaign for them without which their ballot boxes would not fill. Now see the manner in which they are attacking our family and the perverted tendency of their politics. I have not stooped to their level and attacked them. Whatever I say is for the good of my people and will continue to do so. Last year during elections, Devendra Fadnavis called you his elder brother and you had called Modi your elder brother… That time, you (Fadnavis) did not see brother’s janam kundali? Now you realised it? We have your kundalis as well. What happened to the plan to give relief to the people over the inflated electricity bills. Has the state backtracked? Firstly, using the word inflated bill is incorrect because during lockdown [physical] meter readings were not done. The average bill of three months was sent to consumers. Everybody, including me, thought that the average amount was high. I want to say here that there was no increase in tariff. All complaints are being looked at. I am told that once the meters are checked, people understand that this is an average bill as per their [past] usage. Even then, if people have complaints, they are being attended to. Do not mislead people with the use of the word inflated. The pending recoveries are worth ₹60,000 crore. We are not getting much help from the Centre, our dues are not being cleared and we are facing a financial crisis. Even though the crude oil prices have come down, the Centre has not slashed thm. We are not doing anything of that sort. There should not be any misunderstanding. The PM has recently spoken about the ‘one nation, one election’ as part of Centralising things. As of now, that plan is on the backburner. It has not come up yet. There are several other issues that need attention as of now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/will-bring-in-1lakh-crore-investment-in-a-year-maharashtra-cm/story-BoqGPbxfA4fa9Y9O3gX9dI.html
28-11-2020||City||Ludhiana: 3 dead, 85 test +ve for Covid-19||Three persons died while 85 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Friday. The contagion has so far claimed 897 lives in the district and infected 22, 542 persons. As many as 20, 768 persons have successfully recovered while 874 persons are still battling it. The dead include a 75-year-old male from Mundian, a 67-year-old male from Patel Nagar and an 82-year-old male from New Shimlapuri.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said 18 persons from other districts and states have also tested positive in Ludhiana in the last 24 hours. He added that on Friday, 147 persons were sent into home quarantine while the samples of 3, 753 suspected patients were sent for testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-3-dead-85-test-ve-for-covid-19/story-HNDW420aIX7KJGzZQPZ6gI.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Cold wave continues in Himachal, Keylong shivers at minus 9.9°C||Minimum temperatures decreased by one to two degrees on Friday as cold wave continued to grip Himachal Pradesh despite the state witnessing a sunny day after receiving snowfall and rainfall in the last couple of days. The state’s meteorological department director Manmohan Singh said the weather is very likely to remain dry till December 2.Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest at minus 9.9°C. Minimum temperature in Shimla was 5°C while it was 1.5°C in Kufri. Manali in Kullu district shivered at minus 1.2°C while Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded 6.6°C and 3.4°C respectively. Minimum temperature in Una was 6°C, Solan 3.4°C, Bilaspur 7°C, Hamirpur 6.8°C, Nahan 12.5°C, Mandi 3.1°C and minus 3.6°C in Kalpa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/cold-wave-continues-in-himachal-keylong-shivers-at-minus-9-9-c/story-Bp3KpqFXLYbcVmnHobYcdP.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Noida authority slaps ₹1 lakh penalty on industrial units for flouting waste management rules||The Noida authority on Friday imposed a penalty of ₹1 lakh against two industrial units for causing pollution and flouting waste management rules.The authority’s health department team, consisting of Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty(OSD); Gaurav Bansal, assistant project engineer, and other staff members reached Sector 60 and conducted a random inspection inside the premises of two industrial units. The teams found that the industrial units were found flouting prescribed waste management rules at their premises.“The two units were found to be mixing the dry and wet waste and dumping it without treatment. Therefore, we imposed ₹50,000 as penalty on each of the violators. Our drive is to encourage bulk waste generators to segregate their waste and treat the wet waste as per rules,” said Indu Prakash Singh, OSD, Noida authority.The Noida authority on November 23 started crackdown against the bulk waste generators.The authority’s health department teams imposed ₹1.35 lakh penalty against three bulk waste generators for flouting rules on the very first day of their campaign.Noida produces around 900 metric tonnes of waste daily. And as per the Waste Management Rules of 2016, the housing complexes or other buildings, which are built on 5,000 square metres of land or above or produce 100 kilograms of waste per day need to treat it at their premises as they are considered to be bulk waste generators. The authority wants all bulk waste generators to follow rules and treat their waste within their own premises.This is the first action to be taken against the bulk waste generators ahead of 2020-21 Swachhta survey. The authority wants to improve on all aspects of urban sanitation so that it can perform better in the cleanliness index, said authority officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-slaps-1-lakh-penalty-on-industrial-units-for-flouting-waste-management-rules/story-htD5gq49SKKShRmsYpFXtO.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Leopard still untraceable: Ghaziabad District magistrate seeks conclusion report in two days||The Ghaziabad district magistrate (DM) on Friday has sought a report from the forest department about the status on the search for the leopard that was spotted in Raj Nagar on November 24 and untraceable ever since. The DM said that he has the officials two days to answer whether the animal has left the area or not. The animal was spotted at the official residence of the vice-chairperson of Ghaziabad development authority on Tuesday morning. “I have given the forest department two days to give conclusion whether the animal is present in the area or left. Further, they have also been asked to give status of the search. People in nearby localities are afraid and we need to assuage them,” said DM Ajay Shankar Pandey. On Friday, a video on social media showed a leopard on the boundary walls of a building. The video was shared widely particularly among Ghaziabad residents. It was later found that it was in Nainital.“That created panic among residents. They are afraid to go for a walk. We have no answers from the officials on whether the animal is still in the area,” said Ajay Sharma, Sanjay Nagar councillor. “Residents cannot keep waiting for days to get reply and need to know the status of the animal,” said Colonel (retired) TP Tyagi, president of flat owners’ federation. District magistrate said that he has directed action against those who shared the video of the animal. “We also deployed drone and also carried out search at the school and nearby areas but the animal could not be traced so far. It seems that it has left the area and probably strayed here from areas like Muradnagar or Dadri. Our teams comprising of about 30 personnel are still searching but we have not come across any trace that preyed some other animal during the stay. It seems that it has left the area,” said Ganga Prasad, conservator of forests (Meerut).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/leopard-still-untraceable-ghaziabad-district-magistrate-seeks-conclusion-report-in-two-days/story-Njl6kGT2AQsnAPOOB1RLeO.html
28-11-2020||City||Ludhiana:Family of ₹39.13 lakh theft accused vacated house a day before||A day after a man fled with ₹39.13 lakh belonging to his employer in Khanna, police say initial leads suggest that the accused had been planning the crime for a long time and his family members may also have been involved in it.Identified as Nihal Vijan, the accused had fled with the cash when his employer, who owners a shop, had sent him to deposit it in the bank. By the time cops raided his rented accommodation in Uchha Vehda area of Khanna, it had already been vacated. As per neighbours, the entire family had left in a Honda city car on Wednesday evening.Inspector Labh Singh, station house officer of Khanna City-2, said Nihal’s brother-in-law had borrowed the car from an immigration consultant who happened to be his friend. The consultant’s role is also being looked into.Father had also borrowed money from his workplace Nihal’s father, Anil Vijan, who worked at a readymade garment shop in Subhash Bazar of Khanna, had also taken ₹15,000 in advance from his employer on Wednesday, citing urgent work. Anil Vijan had not returned to work after Wednesday.The SHO added that a case under Section 408 (criminal breach of trust by clerk or servant) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. More names could be added in the FIR after investigation. The police are conducting raids for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ludhiana-family-of-39-13-lakh-theft-accused-vacated-house-a-day-before/story-XJBsCAhunWD2Lb2eY09xyJ.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Noida experiences cleanest air since September 27||Noida: The city on Friday experienced the cleanest air in the last two months as the wind speed picked up, dispersing pollutants. The air quality of Noida, which was “very poor” on Thursday and “severe” on Wednesday, touched the lower end of the “moderate” category as per the central pollution control board’s (CPCB) air quality index(AQI). While Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida had earlier seen “moderate” air quality even earlier on November 17, the AQI for the three cities was the lowest since September 27. According to the weather analysts, although the northwesterly winds, which flow from Punjab and Haryana and bring in large volume of pollutants, the number of farm fires in these states has reduced. “The wind speed increased on Friday, reaching to almost 15-20 kmph in the afternoon, while it remained around 10 to 15 kmph for the rest of the day. Parts of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh also saw patchy rains. While the instances of stubble burning have already reduced, the rains further washed away the pollutants, due to which the region experienced relatively cleaner air,” said Mahesh Palawat, director, private weather forecasting centre Skymet. He added that the wind speeds may drop slightly over the next two days. According to the CPCB’s AQI, the city recorded a reading of 125 as against 301 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 129 as against 296 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 166 as against 289 a day earlier. As per the records, while the AQI of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida had been under the ‘moderate’ category on November 17 and throughout the first week of October, Friday’s air quality was the cleanest since September 27. The AQI on September 27 was 116 for Noida, 120 for Greater Noida and 140 for Ghaziabad. The city also witnessed a drop in the level of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 in the air. For the past 24 hours, PM 2.5 was recorded at 64.98 micrograms per cubic metres against 170.20 micrograms a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Greater Noida was 63.87 micrograms against 164.01 micrograms a day earlier. The PM2.5 for Ghaziabad was 78.49 against 178.85 a day earlier. According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the AQI is likely to deteriorate slightly within the moderate category. “The AQI is forecasted to stay in the ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category for the next two days. Surface winds are forecasted to decrease by November 30 and the air quality will hover between ‘poor’ to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category,” stated SAFAR in a statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-experiences-cleanest-air-since-september-27/story-zJILG0H1kuioItsqqTN8VN.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Pregnant woman molested by doctor in Dadri, police launch probe||A 26-year-old pregnant woman has alleged that she was harassed by a doctor at an ultrasound clinic in an area under Dadri police jurisdiction on Wednesday evening .The incident came to light on late Wednesday night. The woman in her complaint has alleged that the doctor behaved inappropriately with her during her check-up.“It seemed that he was under the influence of alcohol. When I was getting my ultrasound done, he tried to touch me inappropriately multiple times after which I became uncomfortable. His conduct during the procedure was wrong and unprofessional,” said the woman in her police complaint.The woman later informed a cousin about the whole incident. When the cousin tried to confront the suspect, the doctor allegedly misbehaved with him as well and threatened him with dire consequences, besides assaulting him. The woman later filed a complaint with Dadri police following which a case was registered against the doctor under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.Police officials said that a probe in the matter is underway and it is yet to be confirmed whether the doctor was intoxicated at the moment or not.“It seems that the woman had gone there for an ultrasound and the doctor molested her. Soon after the incident, she filed a complaint and the man was booked. The doctor is absconding and we are on the lookout for him. We will nab him soon,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station.Police officials also said that it seems that the suspect might have a prior criminal record as well but that can only be confirmed once the suspect is taken into custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/pregnant-woman-molested-by-doctor-in-dadri-police-launch-probe/story-lsNBVeLioCOaQlzKaw4NQM.html
28-11-2020||Noida||In less than a year, UP government proposes to roll back powers from Noida, Lucknow police chiefs||In what comes as a body blow to those expecting a full-fledged police commissionerate in Gautam Budh Nagar, the Uttar Pradesh government has sought feedback from the district magistrate (DM) over a proposal to restore certain powers back to them.The commissionerate system was introduced in January this year with the view of improving law and order in the district. As part of the process, power conferred by sections 133 and 145 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was transferred to the commissionerate from the DM. Lucknow was the other city to get a commissionerate with similar provisions.While section 133 provided for procedures in urgent removal of unlawful obstruction that harms the health or physical comfort of the community or construction that may cause conflagration or explosion; section 145 deals with disputes arising out of land and water bodies between the individuals or groups.UP additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that since both these sections deal with disputes related to land, it comes under the jurisdiction of the lekhpals who is a district officer. “As lekhpals directly report to the DMs, we have proposed to restore these powers to the DM. Also, there are lot of pending cases under these sections in both Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar.” However, records over the last two years had a different story: Between January 1, 2019 and January 12, 2020 (when the power was vested with the DM), only four notices were served to the parties under section 133 and action was taken in 13 other cases. Since the introduction of police commissionerate on January 13, six notices have been served and actions have been taken in 22 cases so far under this section. There has been no action based on section 145 under both regimes during the period.Unlike the full-fledged police commissionerates in Delhi and Mumbai, the ones in Noida and Lucknow do not have powers of issuing gun licences, excise permits and imposition of the National Security Act (NSA). The proposal to return these powers were conveyed to the DM in a letter dated November 10 from the state home department. When contacted, neither the DM Suhas LY nor police commissioner Alok Singh wished to comment on the matter.Deliberate weakening of system: Former copsFormer UP DGP Vikram Singh termed the proposal “weird” and suspected that certain officials were out to deliberately weaken the system. “The commissionerate system provides unified organisational command structure and the power to manage problems created by urban growth such as encroachments, anti-social activities and drug peddling among others,” he said. “This is how the police can use their professional understanding to improvise according to ground realities. The consequences of reducing the rights of UP police commissioners by withdrawing their powers under sections 133 and 145 of CrPC will be catastrophic. Instead, attaching Ghaziabad and other neighbouring metropolitan areas to GB Nagar police commissionerate, is the need of hour.” He said that without giving full powers to the police commissionerate, controlling crime will remain a mirage. “I am really surprised that proposal has been initiated. Their hands are virtually tied as they do not have the power to act against criminals under the Arms Act. In a bona fide police commissionerate system, the power of allocating and cancelling the arms’ license is vested with the police commissioner of police. If they don’t get these powers, the police system becomes weaker and can never be up to the expectation of the people,” Singh said. Singh further pointed out that under the new system, the responsibility of maintaining law and order must be vested with the CP for more clarity on the chain of command as well as for better accountability. “A bona fide CP serves as single-point of responsibility when it comes to law and order as he is directly and completely accountable to the state government. It should never be dependent on different authorities,” he said. Former Delhi CP Ajai Raj Sharma agreed. “It is a retrograde move against a system that has proved its worth and merit in last 11 months,” he said. Sharma said that the move will boost the morale of criminals. “Property disputes are the main reason behind murders and breach of peace, particularly in rural areas. The chief minister must take a hard call at this juncture,” he said. No difference: Former bureaucratsFormer UP chief secretary Yogendra Narain said the move would hardly impact the police’s autonomy. “The state government began (the commissionerate system) as an experiment in the field of law and order. Like any experiment, it must have a place for rectification to strengthen the system. These are petty issues for the larger canvas of police commissionerate. And even in the execution of these powers (of the DM), police have a bigger role in execution. I personally do not feel anything wrong,” he said. Former Bihar cadre IAS officer Vijoy Prakash feels that it is up to chief minister to take the call. “It’s not about how much power a police officer should be given or how should the governance balance the power. Instead, it is about who can use the powers in the best way for the benefit of common people,” he said. Lawyers, residents weigh inUnder the Police Act of 1861, the district superintendent of police is to report to the district collector. Supreme Court lawyer Rajesh Kumar said that under the commissionerate system, the police commissioner does not report to the DM and also has powers of executive magistrates. “These include issuing orders for preventive arrests or imposition of section 133 and 145 of CrPC. It gives freedom to the police from civil administration and creates an integrated command structure with powers of regulation, control, and licensing,” he said. Resident’s associations in the city also said that the Noida police commissionerate must be given full powers. PS Jain, member, Confederation of NCR residents’ welfare associations (CONRWA) said while government has done a commendable job with the introduction of new police system in GB Nagar, more needed to be done. “The law and order situation can only improve, if the police system has a single power centre. All the powers of traffic encroachment and issuing fine, besides powers under Sarai Act, Arms Act and Gunda Act, must be vested with the CP like other commissionerates of the country,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/in-less-than-a-year-up-government-proposes-to-roll-back-powers-from-noida-lucknow-police-chiefs/story-Ttkos6eIvomwzcTTQFAw1N.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||NTCA approves release of tigress Avni’s cub into the wild: Maharashtra forest department||The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has approved the release of the female cub of alleged man-eater tigress T1 back into the wild at Pench Tiger Reserve, in Nagpur. The decision was taken during a meeting between NTCA and Maharashtra’s forest department on Friday.The cub, T1C2, is now a sub-adult (two-and-half years old) tigress and has been in captivity in a 4.5-hectare (ha) enclosure at Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) since December 22, 2018. T1C2 was captured after T1, popularly known as Avni, was shot dead by a father-son hunter duo after it was said that she killed 13 people in Pandharkawada forest in Ralegaon, Yavatmal. Avni’s male cub (T1C1), which the department failed to capture in 2018, was last spotted in Yavatmal’s Pandharkawada forest area in December 2019, but there have been no sightings since, said the forest department.The release of T1C2 is being planned for this winter. “There was a very positive response from NTCA about T1C2’s release. We are planning her release as soon as possible after we get the minutes of the meeting from NTCA. It will be done in winter as it is the right time for the release of such tigers in the wild,” said Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), Maharashtra. A senior forest official, requesting anonymity, said three locations were shortlisted for release: Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) in Gondia, Gadchiroli; Pench Tiger Reserve in Nagpur; and Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati. “We narrowed down to Pench as the most suitable area for the tigress’ release as there is a high prey base, the animal is already used to the area, and the staff is better trained than other areas. NNTR was not chosen as it has too many villages and does not have a good prey base for tigers.”NTCA officials could not be reached for comment.T1C2 was initially to be released into the wild post-monsoon in 2019, but the frequency of kills did not meet NTCA’s standard operating procedure for tigers in the wild. However, on July 3, during a meeting chaired by Kakodkar with forest officials and the committee constituted in November 2018 to oversee the cub’s capture, it was decided the cub was fit for release.“T1C2 is presently healthy and continues to show all traits of a tigress that can hunt and kill in the wild as well as learnt how to mark her territory. We are confident she will be able to survive well on her own,” said Kakodkar.10-YEAR-OLD BOY KILLED IN LEOPARD ATTACK AT BEEDA 10-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Kinhi village, Ashti tehsil in Maharashtra’s Beed district on Friday. Forest officials are trying to trap the animal. The incident took place when the boy, Swaraj Bhapkar, was playing at his uncle’s farm. The leopard attacked him and dragged his body a few metres away from the farm. Bhapkar is the 24th human kill by leopards in 2020, the highest in at least 10 years. The year has also recorded 159 leopard deaths in Maharashtra, which is the highest in five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/ntca-approves-release-of-tigress-avni-s-cub-into-the-wild-maharashtra-forest-department/story-l2mjnbS43ncPfC3FuZQWKJ.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Greater Noida court denies custody of dogs to abusive owners||The district and sessions court of Surajpur in Greater Noida denied custody of three dogs to its owners while hearing a case of animal cruelty. Observing that if handed back to the owners the pets could be subjected to barbarism and cruelty again, the judicial magistrate Shashank Gupta said the dogs will continue to live under the care of a city-based NGO. In August, a 30-year-old Nigerian who lived in a rented apartment in a Greater Noida highrise with his wife was arrested and a case was registered against him under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. This happened following a viral video that purportedly showed the man thrashing his brown American Pitbull Terrier in his apartment’s balcony. Police took his dogs – a male pitbull, a female pitbull and a Labrador pup – and gave them to People For Animal (PFA) to care. While the suspect was later granted bail, his wife approached the court in September seeking custody of the three dogs. “It has been observed that if the custody of animals is given back to the applicant then there is possibility of animals being subjected to barbarism and cruelty. The animals are being given proper care at the NGO. Thus the court denied the appeal of handing the custody back,” read the judgement dated November 24, a copy of which was made available on Friday and seen by HT. “It’s one of the rare case and historic judgement by Honourable Surajpur court denying custody to the abusive family. Precedent has been set against animal cruelty,” said Kaveri Rana, president, PFA- Gautam Budh Nagar. Vishal Gautam, PFA’s legal counsellor said that in most of such cases the animals are often handed back. “In my knowledge, there had been only one case in the state where the custody of a cattle was taken from its abusive owner. This is the first such case in Uttar Pradesh where the custody of dogs had been denied to the abusive owner on base of animal cruelty,” said Vishal Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/greater-noida-court-denies-custody-of-dogs-to-abusive-owners/story-FO6V0zrUoXq7f68Pj5YjgP.html
28-11-2020||City||Fear implication in dowry case, Ludhiana realtor who killed family wrote in his suicide note||A day after it was found that realtor Rajiv Sunda, 60, had ended his life the same day that he had hacked his family members to death with an axe, police have booked his son’s father-in-law and brother-in-law for abetment to suicide.As per the police, Rajiv had left behind a suicide note in which he had alleged that Ashok Gulati, his son’s father-in-law, and Gaurav Gulati, the brother-in-law, were threatening to implicate him in a dowry harassment case.In the two-page note, which has been recovered from his house, Rajiv mentioned that the duo had taken ₹7 lakh from him in the past two years and were demanding ₹10 lakh more. When he refused to give them the money, they allegedly threatened to implicate him in a dowry case. Rajiv further wrote that as the police tend to favour women in such cases, he feared he would be sent behind bars under false charges. So he wanted to end his life after killing his family members. Rajiv also demanded stern action against Ashok and Gaurav Gulati, in the note.Accused refute allegationsAshok Gulati and Gaurav Gulati, who have been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, have refuted the allegations. They said that in fact it was Rajiv who had barred Garima from visiting them, without any reason. Inspector Paramdeep Singh, PAU station house officer, said that on the basis of the suicide note, police have booked the father-son duo under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrests have been made so far.The Sunda family, including Sunita Sunda, 58, son Ashish Sunda, 35, daughter-in-law Garima Sunda, 32, and grandson Suchet, 12, had been found hacked to death in their house on Tuesday morning. The railway police had found a body on the railway tracks the same day, but it was not until Thursday that police found out about it and ascertained that it was Rajiv Sunda’s body.‘Garima had hinted at something untoward happening to her’Garima’s father and brother have told the police that she had hinted that something untoward may happen to her but they dismissed it as a family feud and told her to settle it on her own. “However, we had no idea that she was going to be murdered,” said Gaurav Gulati, her brother.Garima had lost her mother to a cardiac arrest on October 13. She had stayed at her parents’ house for some days after her mother’s death. As per relatives, she had been frequenting her parents’ house even after all the cremation rituals were over. Garima is said to have told her relatives that she had sensed a change in the behaviour of her father-in-law and feared something untoward was going to happen to her. They had pacified her and told her that they would keep in touch with her over phone. Ajay Kumar, a relative, said that on Monday night, they had talked to Garima over the phone and she sounded okay. The next morning they were shocked when Garima’s son Suchet made a frantic call to Ashok, saying that his grandfather was beating them. Before they could reach to their rescue, the accused had already murdered Garima, her husband, son and mother-in-law.The house in Mayur Vihar where the brutal crimes took place remains locked. The neighbours are still in shock over the incident. They said they were aware that Rajiv Sunda was a reserved man but never thought he would kill anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fear-implication-in-dowry-case-ludhiana-realtor-who-killed-family-wrote-in-his-suicide-note/story-XzYX7yr8rrtUC0AzgDdP0M.html
28-11-2020||Noida||Ghaziabad administration may put an end to Covid testing at the borders||The Ghaziabad administration is thinking about putting an end to Covid-19 testing at borders as the administration has come across only a single positive case during the three days of testing, which started on November 24. The figures of the district health department have revealed that out of the 441 tests conducted so far, only a single person tested positive.The testing at the borders started on November 24 and was taken up at UP Gate, as well as two other borders near Delhi’s Dilshad Garden. The officials said that since the results are not encouraging, it will no longer be feasible to carry out the tests. “The testing is being carried out at the borders as of now. But, we have achieved hardly any success. We will ask the teams to conduct tests for another couple of days and will relocate them to other areas. The positivity rate of such random testing is very less, which is similar to the positivity rate of the post-festival focussed testing, which was taken up on the directions of the government,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “We will be increasing testing only in high-incidence areas. Our post-festival testing strategy is to check the spread of infection in places that already have a high incidence rate,” he added. Under the focussed testing strategy, between November 19 to November 30, the heath teams have taken up 11,288 rapid antigen samples, which yielded only 96 positive cases with a positivity of about 0.85%. “The positivity rate of the focussed/targeted testing during the pre-festival period was also very less at about 0.38%. Likewise, the positivity rate during the post-festival targeted testing was hardly any better. On the other hand, the positivity of rapid antigen testing is ranging from 1.5% to 3% on a daily basis at our testing centres,” said an officer from the health department, who wished not to be named. “As per our analysis, most of the positivity or positive cases are found in urban areas like Indirapuram, Vaishali and Sahibabad, where population density is high and people are moving about for work on a daily basis. During the focussed testing in slum areas, we did not find a single case in three days,” the officer, said. The 96 positive cases in the post-festival focussed testing were found in areas like Vaishali, Indirapuram, Sahibabad, Kavi Nagar and Crossings Republik, while no cases were detected in urban slums, Dasna jail or observation homes. “Even if the test results in focussed testing have shown low positivity, it shows that infection is concentrated only in certain pockets. As such, increased testing and surveillance are needed in these areas. The officials should therefore increase testing and focus on high-incidence areas,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. The residential segments of Indirapuram, Carte (Shastri Nagar, Chiranjeev Vihar etc), Sahibabad-2 (Rajendra Nagar, Lajpat Nagar etc), Raj Nagar and Vaishali have emerged as top five contributors to the Covid-19 tally in Ghaziabad district as per the mapping done on directions of the UP government for focussed surveillance. The five segments contribute about 56.82% share of 1,260 Covid-19 cases, which have come in during the 10-day period between November 11 to November 20. The mapping was done on directions of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/ghaziabad-administration-may-put-an-end-to-covid-testing-at-the-borders/story-LjvDyMOut561hKUOUbVyUK.html
28-11-2020||Noida||GBN farmers stopped at EPE amid heavy police presence||Many farmers in the district going to Delhi were stopped by the Greater Noida Police at the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on Friday afternoon as the national capital had closed its borders to protesters since the previous night.Farmers in Haryana and Punjab called for a ‘Delhi chalo’ movement on November 26-27 against the farmers’ laws enacted last month, which they claim threaten the minimum support price (MSP) system. Last night and Friday morning, these protesting farmers were met with water cannons, police barricades and tear gas near the Haryana-Delhi border.Uttar Pradesh farmers too had been responding to the call and the state police put up barricades to prevent a large presence on the UP-Delhi border as well. On Thursday, a small group attempted to go to Delhi, but was stopped at Pari Chowk. On Friday, farmers from Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Gautam Budh Nagar reached the Eastern Peripheral Expressway around 11.30 am.“We were stopped near the Sirsa village where police had set up barricades on both sides to keep us from going forward and forcing us to set up camp there itself,” said Sunil Pradhan, media coordinator, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).Tractors, cars and other vehicles were also parked at the Expressway forcing police to divert traffic from the Sirsa village exit of the expressway towards the next entry point. Traffic was only lightly affected and Noida Police tweeted that traffic was smooth across the DND, Kalindi Kunj and Chilla bordersA large contingent of police was deployed at the expressway.“PAC forces were deployed as a precaution. Traffic was slow but moving continuously due to checking on both sides of the border. But there were no security or law and order concerns but we will continue to remain on alert nonetheless,” said ADCP, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.At the camps, farmers shouted slogan against the central government and chants “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan”, however there had been no clashes with the police.With the Delhi Police finally relenting and allowing those at the Haryana-Delhi border to enter and protest in the outskirts of the Capital, farmers on the UP site too dispersed to gather more protesters. “We are now being joined by more farmers from Meerut and Muzaffarnagar where there have been protests against the farmers’ policies and we will together proceed to Delhi via NH 9 now that we have been permitted to go to Delhi,” said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson, BKU.Police officials said that the movement was peaceful and there had been no law and order issues.“We stopped them and diverted traffic for the couple of hours that they (protesters) were there. They dispersed around 4pm,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/gbn-farmers-stopped-at-epe-amid-heavy-police-presence/story-T7DQWAW5jshryaHVK0gVrI.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi govt knew of Nov surge in Covid cases, did nothing: Centre to SC||New DelhiThe Union government on Friday told the Supreme Court that Delhi took no effective steps to control the Covid situation despite being aware of an expected surge in November with the confluence of winter, the festival season, and a spike in pollution. The contention drew a sharp reactions from the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which said the Centre was playing “dirty politics”.In an affidavit detailing the circumstances that led Union home minister Amit Shah to personally monitor preparedness in Delhi on account of rising cases in November, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) said, “The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) was aware that the confluence of winter, festival season and pollution were likely to witness a surge in cases. This foreknowledge ought to have led to strict enforcement and IEC measures being instituted well in time. However, this was not done.”On November 15, Shah conducted a joint meeting of officials in the Capital and spruced up efforts to increase medical infrastructure by way of additional ICU beds, ramping up testing facilities, contact tracing, surveillance, and availability of medical workers.Pointing to the alleged pitfalls in the Delhi government’s action observed by the ministry during several rounds of meetings over the past months, the affidavit said the Arvind Kejriwal government was informed in advance by an expert group headed by VK Paul, Member NITI Aayog, that Delhi should anticipate for a surge of around 15,000 cases a day in November and must provide for about 6,500 ICU beds.“Against this recommendation, GNCTD did not take any timely measures to increase the ICU beds from the present level of around 3,500, thus causing a sudden pressure to come on the health and medical infrastructure in Delhi,” stated the affidavit filed by MHA joint secretary Sandeep Kumar Jindal.The MHA accused the Delhi administration of not taking steps to enhance testing capacity, particularly for RT-PCR, which remained static at around 20,000 RTPCR tests for a long time. “Patients who were under home isolation were not properly traced. In addition, house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, quarantining and clinical management were also not done properly, which led to the spread of infection,” the affidavit added.In response, the Aam Aadmi Party termed the central government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court as “unfortunate” and “dirty politics”.The party accused the Centre of not giving adequate funds for Covid-19 management and alleged it was yet to provide at least 550 more ICU beds in Delhi, which they said was assured by Amit Shah on November 15 in his meeting with chief minister Kejriwal and lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal. “Comments of the central government about the Delhi government in its affidavit before the Supreme Court are very unfortunate. It is extremely unfortunate that the central government has chosen to play dirty politics in this critical hour. The affidavit seems to have been drafted by a BJP spokesperson, rather than by the Union government, which is meant to work in collaboration with the states at the time of a pandemic. The affidavit is also factually incorrect,” AAP said in a statement.It added, “However, the Delhi government is worried about the well-being of its people and will continue to work together with all governments and all agencies as it has been doing so far. We hope that the central government will also refrain from playing dirty politics. Mr Amit Shah (had) promised to provide 750 ICU beds within 72 hours in the meeting held on 15 November. Till date, only 200 beds have been provided. We hope the Centre will provide the rest of the beds soon.”“The central government has deprived Delhi of all funds (that have been) provided to other state governments during this epidemic on the flimsy premise that Delhi is a Union Territory. Therefore, we hope that the central government will do something concrete for Delhiites rather than play blame game,” AAP said.The Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter.Delhi government officials, who did not wish to be identified, said the government had scaled up tests from around 20,000 per day to around 60,000 per day in September when the city witnessed a sharp spike in cases.The Capital at present is going through a third surge. While the highest number of cases in a day (8,593) was recorded on November 11, the highest deaths in a day (131) were on November 18.“Overall positivity in Delhi is coming down since 7 Nov. This is 8.65% now as compared to 15.26% on Nov 7. For the last 7 consecutive days cases are less than 7,000,” Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet on Friday.Jain shared data that showed that between November 1 and 25, a total of 1,314,385 Covid-19 tests were conducted in Delhi – of which 457,683 were RT-PCR tests and the rest rapid antigen.According to figures made available by the ministry in the affidavit, with 9.2 million Covid-19 cases of which 0.44 million are active, India is faring “remarkably well” in restricting the spread. “Recovery rate has gone up to 93.7%. Average cases per day have reduced by 50% since the past eight weeks. Our case fatality rate remains low at 1.46% compared to global average of 2.36%…We will continue making efforts to reduce fatality rate to less than 1% and accelerate our efforts in reducing the positivity rate which stands at 6.9%,” the affidavit stated.This was largely attributable to 10 states that constituted 77% of the active case load for the country. Delhi figures at the third place constituting 8.5%to the national tally. Maharashtra leads with nearly 19%, Kerala (14.7%), followed by Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-govt-knew-of-nov-surge-in-covid-cases-did-nothing-centre-to-sc/story-x1H53GG4itHgqffVQETK5N.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||After govt no to police request, AAP leaders camp at Burari farmers’ protest site||The Delhi government on Friday rejected Delhi Police’s request to convert nine stadiums into temporary prisons as farmer groups demanding the roll-back of three contentious farm laws reached the Capital. This was the first time in recent years such a request was turned down, police said. Later in the day, when a gathering of protesting farmers was allowed at the Nirankari ground in north Delhi’s Burari, leaders of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) were spotted, helping with basic arrangements ranging from food and drinking water to setting up temporary toilets.On Thursday, when Delhi Police stepped up security at the borders to stop the protesters from approaching the city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had spoken out in support of he farmers, upholding their constitutional right to peacefully protest and urging the Centre to roll back the laws.The three laws are the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. AAP had voted against the Bills earlier this year in both the Lok Sabha (in which the part has one MP) and the Rajya Sabha (three MPs).A large number of protesting farmers are from Punjab, where AAP is the principal opposition party and its lone Lok Sabha MP is from that state.On Friday, Delhi’s home minister Satyendar Jain said in a letter to Delhi Police, “The demands of the farmers are justified. The central government should accept them. It is a peaceful protest. It won’t be appropriate to jail farmers for that. Peaceful protest is a constitutional right of every Indian citizen. They cannot be jailed for that. We deny the Delhi Police’s application for permission in this regard.”A copy of the letter was shared by AAP on its social media handles.Senior government officials said Delhi Police had sought permission from the Delhi home department through a letter on Wednesday. Jain later told the media, “Jailing them isn’t the solution to the issue. Their demands must be accepted.”Soon, several other leaders of the party weighed in.AAP leader Harpal Singh Cheema, who is Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly, said, “Arvind Kejriwal was the only chief minister across the country who led a ‘dharna’ at Jantar Mantar against the three anti-farmer agriculture laws. Arvind Kejriwal had demanded an immediate repeal of the laws. I thank him for today’s decision.”AAP’s Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj said: “It is the constitutional right of farmers to protest. It’s beyond imagination how the central government could think of jailing them for that.” The ruling party’s Rajendra Nagar MLA Raghav Chadha was also at the Nirankari ground, making arrangements.“While you can see the BJP government using water cannons on those who are responsible for feeding each and every one of us, the Arvind Kejriwal government has made arrangements of drinking water tankers for our farmers. The Delhi Jal Board appointed nodal officers to ensure proper supply and arrangement of drinking water for the peaceful protestors at Burari ,” said Chadha, who is also vice-chairperson of the Delhi Jal Board.Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot directing officials to set up temporary toilets and sheds in the open ground for the farmers and ensure Covid-related regulations are followed.BJP MLA Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, said: “The BJP understands farmers better than any other party. AAP should look at the condition of farmers in Delhi. In Delhi, farmers are charged road tax for tractors, which are considered commercial vehicles. Most states exempt farmers from such taxes. The Delhi government has promised 50% over MSP for wheat and paddy. They should tell Delhi farmers how much wheat and paddy have the government procured in the last few years at the MSP. The Delhi government charges Rs 8 per unit for water connections used for irrigation, whereas other states provide subsidy on such bills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/after-govt-no-to-police-request-aap-leaders-camp-at-burari-farmers-protest-site/story-FPfd9AEXHiHa1vD3XxgUZM.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Central Railway filed 200 cases against people for using fake IDs to travel in Mumbai locals||The Central Railway (CR) registered 200 cases of people using fake essential employee identity cards to travel by local trains between June and November 20. In addition, 43,516 cases of ticketless commuting were also detected in suburbs and outstation local trains on CR between June and November. Of the 43,516 ticketless commuters, 39,516 cases were detected on local suburban railway network. The zonal railway also recovered ₹1.50 crore in fines from ticketless commuters. One fake ticket checker was also apprehended by railway authorities.The number of cases of commuters travelling with fake identity cards and without authorisation has increased since June. Local train services resumed for essential services employees on July 15 and identity cards of commuters are checked before entering the railway stations.Specially abled and cancer patients have also been allowed to travel by local trains. Women and lawyers are also allowed to travel by local trains but in a stipulated time period.“Intensive and special ticket-checking drives against irregular travel in suburban and outstation trains are being conducted. Central Railway appeals to the passengers to travel with proper and valid railway tickets,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/central-railway-filed-200-cases-against-people-for-using-fake-ids-to-travel-in-mumbai-locals/story-DAG0L9CpGUARMUAgTxgZwK.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Traffic crawls at Delhi borders with Haryana as police intensify checks||Traffic crawled in many parts of Delhi on Friday after Delhi Police closed several border points with Haryana in view of the ‘Delhi Chalo’ march by farmers who are protesting the farm bills. The Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Kalan borders that connect Haryana were closed for traffic movement due to the demonstration and commuters were asked to take alternative routes, Delhi traffic police said. Vehicles were also diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal Road. Taj Hassan, special CP (traffic), said the traffic situation was chaotic on highways passing through the Singhu Border and Tikri Borders. “These two are main arterial roads, so the traffic was bound to be badly impacted,” Hassan said. In contrast, border routes connecting Delhi and UP were less affected. “Since there is checking at all border points, traffic movement has been slow in those places,” said Hassan. The officer said motorists could still enter Haryana through the Rajokri, Mahipalpur and Auchandi borders route or the Eastern Express Peripheral Highway towards Kundli. Even on borders opened for motorists, there was heavy deployment of police, which were checking each vehicle before allowing entry. This exercise slowed down traffic at the borders and adjoining arterial roads, with vehicles lining up at checkpoints. Even within the city limits, police check points were set up around Dhaula Kuan, Peeragarhi, Punjabi Bagh and Vasant Vihar. While the closure of the Singhu and Tikri borders heavily impacted motorists, it were poor labourers who suffered the most as they walked long distances in the absence of any public transport. “We were travelling from Panipat to Delhi for work and had to walk nearly 30 kilometers,” said Santosh Singh, a labourer who crossed the barricades at the Singhu Border on foot with a group of other men and women. At the Sirhaul border, Gururgam and Delhi police eased checking to prevent traffic congestion after a traffic snarl of more than two kilometres was reported from both sides of the expressway. Traffic congestions were also reported from the borders connecting Gurgram from Kapashera, Aya Nagar and Mandi in the morning. Astha Modi, deputy commissioner of police (headquarters), said, “There was a jam at the border on both sides on Friday morning after which we spoke to Delhi Police and decided to remove the barricades. Nishant Kapoor, a daily commuter to Gurugram, said, “Police should have checked only suspected people. They were checking the identity of all commuters due to which traffic piled up on the stretch.” Another daily commuter to Delhi, said the traffic situation at the Sirhaul border is an everyday affair and for the last three years, the situation has almost remained the same. “Even if there is no fresh development, the stretch witnesses congestion, barricading or no-barricading,” said Ankita Singh. The police said they had deployed 928 personnel at 123 checkpoints across the city connecting nearby districts with the state and Delhi. In Noida, many farmers in the district going to Delhi were stopped by Greater Noida Police at the Eastern Peripheral Expressway on Friday afternoon as the national capital had closed its borders to protesters. “We were stopped near Sirsa village where police had set up barricades on both sides to keep us from going forward and forcing us to set up camp there itself,” said Sunil Pradhan, media coordinator, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/traffic-crawls-at-delhi-borders-with-haryana-as-police-intensify-checks/story-7AypDDmNmbhV8P9FKdc3jL.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Seaplane to return to the Maldives month after operations begin, service temporarily suspended||Less than a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the seaplane service from the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to Kevadia, the service has been temporarily suspended due to maintenance issues in the seaplane. The aircraft — a 19-seater Twin Otter 300 — will be sent back to the Maldives on Saturday as it is the property of a Maldivian company, said sources in the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA). Launched on October 31, the seaplane service between the Sabarmati riverfront and Kevadia was aimed at boosting tourism to the Statue of Unity. It is the first seaplane to operate under the government’s Udey Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) project. The service is being operated by Spice Shuttle, a fully-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet, which wet-leased the seaplane from Maldives Island Aviation Services (MIAS). MIAS is owned by the government of Maldives, making both the aircraft and its crew the property of a foreign entity. A spokesperson for SpiceJet confirmed the seaplane service has been suspended. “Seaplane operation has been temporarily suspended due to mandatory aircraft maintenance. Since the maintenance facility (dry and wet dock) is still under construction at Ahmedabad, the aircraft has to be sent to our lessor’s facility at Maldives. The operation will resume once the aircraft is back. The maintenance facility at Ahmedabad should be ready soon which would ensure that future maintenance is done here itself.” the spokesperson said.The airline further clarified that the maintenance had been planned beforehand although seaplane services had to be suspended for two days in the first week of operation, due to maintenance issues. “We didn’t take any bookings beyond November 27 as this was pre-planned,” said the spokesperson. Sources in MoCA said the Maldivian aircraft may be replaced. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) did not comment on the matter.Aviation safety consultant captain Mohan Ranganathan said, “No aircraft goes for maintenance within one month of flying, which means that they did not get the paperwork done as required.” Raising questions about whether due process was followed while acquiring clearances for the service, he further said, “It is obvious that the facility was initially inaugurated for publicity. While giving all the permits to an airline, the authority has to ensure that the company is financially viable and that crew and maintenance staff is available. Unless this is confirmed in writing by the airline, approvals are not given. This implies that the aircraft did not have a proper certificate of airworthiness (CofA).” SpiceJet has been conducting seaplane trials in India since 2017. While under the first phase, trials were conducted in Nagpur and Guwahati, the second phase involved trials held at Mumbai’s Girgaum Chowpatty. The airline had earlier said it had secured 18 seaplane routes under UDAN, including services between Ahmedabad and Kevadia; Agatti and Minicoy; and Agatti and Kavaratti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/seaplane-to-return-to-the-maldives-month-after-operations-begin-service-temporarily-suspended/story-3Duw033CXlQHHU0QtGDM4I.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||17 teachers, volunteers in door-to-door survey test +ve , says association||Seventeen teachers and volunteers engaged in the Delhi government’s door-to-door Covid-19 survey in Bawana have tested positive for the disease over the past few days, the Delhi MCD teachers’ association said on Friday. The association said they have written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, alleging that all those roped in for the survey were neither provided with adequate safety kits nor was enough precaution taken during the training sessions where people crowded together.The association demanded safety equipment and exemption for people over the age of 50, pregnant women and those serious co-morbidities -- and threatened to withdraw from the survey if their demands are not met.The Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to requests for a comment.Ramnivas Solanki, general secretary of the association, said samples of those deployed for the survey in Bawana in North district were taken on November 24 by district health officials and the report confirming 17 of them positive came on Thursday evening.A Delhi government teacher who tested positive said, “Three teachers from my school were infected. The training of teachers for the survey on November 19 was conducted in a small school playground where around 200-300 people gathered. There was hardly any space for social distancing. A few days later, I started having symptoms like cold and fatigue. The government should not put us at risk this way.”The Delhi government had on November 20 started a door-to-door survey to screen people for Covid-19, encourage more testing, and to ascertain the number of high-risk individuals, including the elderly, pregnant women, and those with comorbid conditions. The survey is expected to cover around 5.8 million people – more than one-fourth of Delhi’s total population of around 20 million – mainly in more than 4,500 containment zones and localities in 11 revenue districts.According to the association, as many as 15,000 teachers of government schools and 13,000 from municipal schools are involved in Covid-related duties. Civil defence volunteers and home guards too have been involved.“We were given masks, sanitisers and a pair of gloves. When we are going house to house, in narrow lanes during the entire day, a mask alone is not enough. I bought a face shield and a box of gloves myself. However, I believe coveralls must be provided,” said a volunteer, who did not wish to be named. Solanki said teachers have been deployed for Covid work without proper safety measures. “Municipal teachers have not been paid for four months and are still working. The government cannot put the families of so many people at risk as it defeats the purpose of the survey itself,” he said.North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Friday said the Delhi government must first conduct Covid tests of teachers, etc., before deploying them for survey work. “There is fear among the teachers and other volunteers as well as their families who are at risk. Prior tests must be carried out,” said Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/17-teachers-volunteers-in-door-to-door-survey-test-ve-says-association/story-ToKary4IuB57byNsKuOXPN.html
28-11-2020||Kolkata||Rahul Gandhi seeks opinion from Bengal leaders on alliance with Left against TMC, BJP||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday held a virtual meeting with leaders of the West Bengal unit and sought their opinion on allying with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and its Left partners for the assembly elections due in about five months. Gandhi also sought reports on party’s poll preparedness in the state. Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior state leaders took part in the meeting. “Rahul Gandhi asked for our opinion on an alliance against the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). We conveyed our thoughts to him. That is all we can say right now,” Chowdhury told HT on Friday night. Also read: China says first Covid-19 case reported in Wuhan, doesn’t mean virus originated here“The issue of sharing seats with the Left will be discussed at a later stage,” he added. The Congress and the Left had contested the assembly polls as allies in 2016 but could not make a dent in the vote bank of the TMC. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, they did not have an alliance and lost major chunks of their vote share. While Congress managed to retain two Lok Sabha seats, the CPI(M) lost all. Over the past two years, many Congress and Left legislators have defected to the TMC and the BJP. Commenting on TMC’s heavyweight leader Suvendu Adhikari quitting the cabinet on Friday, Chowdhury said, “Whether he will join the BJP is up to him. I am happy to see chief minister Mamata Banerjee being paid in her own coins. She engineered defections in our party over and over again to weaken us. History has a nasty habit of repeating itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/kolkata/rahul-gandhi-seeks-opinion-from-bengal-leaders-on-alliance-with-left-against-tmc-bjp/story-JGnOymzbs7F5ppEFemDasL.html
28-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 6,000 cases for third consecutive day; curbs extended till December 31||Maharashtra recorded more than 6,000 Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day, with 6,185 infections taking the state’s tally to 1,808,550 on Friday, as the government extended the existing curbs till December 31. While the state’s active cases increased to 87,969, which are 4.85% of the total infections, the toll rose to 46,898 as 85 fatalities were reported on Friday. Of the 85 deaths, 56 were from the past 48 hours, 25 are from the past week and four from the period before last week.In November, the state has so far reported 127,916 cases, with a daily average of 4,737. While this is lower than last month, which had a daily average of 9,423, infections have surged. The state reported 6,159 cases on November 25, followed by 6,406 cases November 26. Daily infections rose to more than 5,000 since November 18, after an average of 4,228 cases reported every day between November 1 and 17. Also read: Covid-19: Only women, no children allowed in Mumbai’s local trainsThe state reported 34,024 cases in the first week of this month, 29,932 in the second week, 29,865 in the third week and 34,095 in six days of the fourth week.“There is no exponential growth in fresh cases as of now. The rise in cases is because of more number of tests, which had reduced to under 50,000 during Diwali. We have increased per day testing to between 90,000 and 100,000, and so the cases have increased by around 2,000,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.Health experts had already expressed concerns about cases rising after Diwali, and the state government has directed local authorities to be vigilant and be prepared for a potential second wave of Covid-19. However, the government is yet to decide if another lockdown or further restrictions need to be imposed to control the situation.Also read: Covid-19: In Mumbai, number of people not wearing masks almost doubled in last 2 weeks, says BMC“Everything depends on the numbers. We will have to impose fresh restrictions only if exponential growth in daily cases is seen,” said Tope.Meanwhile, the chief secretary on Friday issued an order extending existing curbs till December 31. “In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 2 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the powers conferred under The Disaster Management Act, 2005, the undersigned, in his capacity as Chairperson, State Executive Committee, hereby issues directions that the guidelines issued vide orders dated September 30, 2020, and October 14, 2020, to operationalise ‘Mission Begin Again’ for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening, will remain in force till 31 December, 2020, for containment of Covid-19 epidemic in the State and all Departments of Government of Maharashtra shall strictly implement these guidelines,” read the order.The state has gradually opened most places and activities, with the exception of schools, colleges, swimming pools and local trains for general public. Large religious, political, social and cultural gatherings, too, are not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-6-000-cases-for-a-third-consecutive-day-curbs-extended-till-december-31/story-D1YEieM2t2hDch5yAsMw1J.html
28-11-2020||Education||SSC aspirants stranded as Metro curtails services to Delhi from NCR cities||Commuters faced a tough time on Friday as Metro services between Delhi and NCR cities were curtailed in view of the second day of the farmers’ “ Delhi Chalo” protest. While trains from Delhi were allowed to go to NCR cities, no train from these cities was allowed to enter the national capital. A DMRC official said, “Regular services will be available on all lines on Saturday.”With tension escalating at Tikri Border in west Delhi, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) completely shut its stations on the Green Line between Inderlok and Mundka. “Entry & exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Tikri Border, Tikri Kalan and Ghevra stations on Green Line are now closed,” DMRC tweeted Friday morning. But normal services resumed after 5.30pm on all corridors, including those from NCR cities to Delhi.On Thursday, the Metro had informed that trains from NCR cities to Delhi will remain suspended on Friday. “As advised by Delhi Police, Metro services will be available only from Delhi towards the NCR sections (on November 27). However, Services from the NCR stations towards Delhi will not be available due to security reasons till further notice,” the DMRC statement read.Ravi Kumar, a DU student who had to go to Noida for his SSC exam, tweeted to DMRC to allow students the use the Metro from NCR cities. “You are requested to allow entry of candidates who are going to give exam in NCR region…they have to return to their home city Delhi. Entry from NCR to Delhi should be allowed to only who carry valid ID card or proof so that students may not suffer,” Kumar tweeted.Satendra Siwal, a metro user, also tweeted that several SSC aspirants have exam centres in Noida and they won’t be able to use the Metro to return to Delhi. Throughout the day, several Metro users were enquiring about whether train services from NCR cities will be available on Saturday.The following sections on the seven corridors were shut on Friday till 5.30pm: Dilshad Garden to Major Mohit Sharma Rajender Nagar section on Red Line; Sultanpur and Guru Dronacharya stations on the Yellow Line; and Noida and Vashali commuters turned as section from Noida City Centre to New Ashok Nagar and Vaishali to Anand Vihar were shut.On the Inderlok to Mundka corridor (Green Line), services were not available between Tikri Kalan to Brig. Hoshiar Singh station. Similarly, on the Violet Line, there was no train between Badarpur Border to Mewala Maharajpur section. However, DMRC officials said regular service was available on the Airport Line and the other corridors. On the Magenta Line, no service was available from Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh to the Botanical Garden station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/ssc-aspirants-stranded-as-metro-curtails-services-to-delhi-from-ncr-cities/story-9h6TGdnP7FU03utXaKAyHK.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||Severe to moderate in two days: Winds clean Delhi air||With strong winds and stubble fires in Punjab and Haryana coming to a close, Delhi’s improved drastically on Friday, falling from the severe zone to the moderate zone in just two days. In fact, the air quality in at least eight stations improved to satisfactory on Friday, a rarity for the city during this time of year. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data shows that Delhi’s overall AQI on Friday was 137, considered to be in the moderate zone. From Wednesday, when the AQI was in the severe category, at 413, it improved to 302 (very poor) on Thursday, according to CPCB recording. An AQI in the range of 0-50 is considered ‘good’, 51-100 ‘satisfactory’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’, 301-400 ‘very poor’ and 401-500 ‘severe’.In Lodhi Road, Aya Nagar, Pusa, Shadipur, Alipur, North Campus (Delhi University) and Indira Gandhi International Airport monitoring stations, the AQI scale turned light green, denoting satisfactory air quality, at different hours of the day. The level of PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) at 6pm was 62ug/m3, just two notches above the acceptable standard. The levels of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) also fell to 122.3ug/m3 at 6pm on Friday. In India, the safe standard for PM 10 is 100ug/m3. IMD scientists said that even though the wind direction continued to be north-westerly, travelling from Punjab and Haryana, the impact of stubble fires were next to negligible on Friday on Delhi’s air, said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring research centre. He added that high wind speeds from Thursday night, which continued through Friday, helped improve the city’s air significantly. Union ministry of earth sciences’ air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), data shows that on Friday 136 fires were spotted over Punjab and Haryana, and its contribution on the Capital’s PM2.5 levels was around 2%. “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday night was also around 8kmph, which is rare because winds tend to slow down at night. During the day too, the winds have been favourable for the dispersion of pollutants,” Soni said. Soni also said the air quality is expected to remain between moderate and poor range till November 30, after which it is forecast to deteriorate. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the wind speed on Friday had reached 15kmph and wind speeds are expected to be high on Saturday too. “From November 30, the wind speed is likely to slow down. Now, because a western disturbance is passing the winds have picked up speed, but it will slow down again,” he said. Srivastava said the temperature in Delhi and NCR is also expected to fall in the coming days because of the continuing snowfall in the regions of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh and parts of Uttarakhand. On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official recording for the city, was 10.2 degree Celsius. The maximum temperature was 27 degree Celsius. “From Saturday, the minimum temperature will start reducing by one or two degrees and reach around 7 degree Celsius by November 30,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/severe-to-moderate-in-two-days-winds-clean-delhi-air/story-1FsyYIu28G6TBLYXOxzsoJ.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||DDA notifies change in land use of plot in city forest for Ravidas temple construction||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has notified the change in land use of a plot in Jahanpanah City forest in South Delhi’s Tughlaqabad to facilitate the building of Sant Ravidas temple . The land will now be handed over to the devotees of Guru Ravidas for temple construction.As per the Gazette notification, the land use of a 400 square metre plot has been changed from “recreational” to ”public and semi-public”. The change is land use was approved by the DDA in September in a meeting chaired by Delhi’s lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, who is also chairman of DDA.The DDA officials said after all the necessary approval, the land use has been changed in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021.In August last year, the DDA had demolished the temple, located at the city forest, in pursuance of a Supreme Court order. This had led to larges-cale protest by the devotees of Guru Ravidas in Delhi and several parts of north India. In November 2019, the Supreme Court had allowed construction of the temple at the same location.A DDA official said the process to allot the land to devotees will be initiated once they register themselves as a society or committee. “According to rules, the land can only be allotted to a committee and there is no committee as such registered at present,” the official said, on condition of anonymity.MR Balli, general secretary of the 11-member committee that was constituted following the Supreme Court order, said the devotees are in the process of registering themselves as a society under the Societies Act. “Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a delay in getting the society registered as our members are spread across the country. But we will very soon get it done, as we want the temple to be rebuilt at the earliest,” he said.He further said, “DDA officials had told us that they have initiated the process to change the land use. But we are not aware of the notification being issued.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dda-notifies-change-in-land-use-of-plot-in-city-forest-for-ravidas-temple-construction/story-7cySrHAPwNtRU0OStQhAcO.html
28-11-2020||Delhi||DTC to procure 1,250 low-floor buses||The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) on Friday paved the way for the procurement of 1,250 low-floor AC buses with its board deciding to award the contract to two prominent automobile manufacturers -- JBM and Tata Motors -- in a 70:30 ratio, senior government officials said.The induction of the buses will begin after the proposal receives the approval of the Delhi cabinet, officials said.The DTC had last inducted buses in 2011. Currently, it has a fleet of 3,762. Other than that, the cluster buses in Delhi – operated by concessionaires – have a fleet size of 2,839. The cluster bus fleet has witnessed an increase over the past few years, government records showed.In November 2019, the Supreme Court had observed that at least 11,000 buses are needed to cater to Delhi’s population of over 20 million.“These 1250 BS-VI compliant air-conditioned buses would be equipped with real-time passenger information systems, CCTV cameras, panic buttons, GPS along with features for differently abled. Bharat Stage (BS) standards are emission standards that regulate the output of air pollutants from motor vehicles,” the Delhi government said in a statement.A senior official said both companies had previously qualified the technical evaluation stage of the tender floated by the DTC .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/dtc-to-procure-1-250-low-floor-buses/story-BNXPaRK1vEYydEWW523d3O.html
28-11-2020||Education||High scorers of Delhi govt schools felicitated||To encourage vocational education, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday felicitated at the at the Delhi secretariat students of Delhi government schools who scored above 90% marks in class 12 Central Board Secondary Education (CBSE) exams.“It is necessary to change the attitude of society towards vocational courses. These courses provide excellent employment and business opportunities and yet they are looked down upon. You should be proud of your achievements,” he said.The education minister also said these courses will be linked with degrees in Delhi’s upcoming Skills and Entrepreneurship University. “Once vocational subjects in schools open the way to university degrees, the importance of these subjects will increase significantly. This change in the perception will greatly benefit students,” he said.Tushti Arora, a student of a government girl’s school in Ashok Nagar, said, “I took up office management because I want to become an entrepreneur, and understand how to run an office. I want to support my father who runs his handicrafts business, and take it to the next level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/high-scorers-of-delhi-govt-schools-felicitated/story-pTQ1XWMTrXBCuxTsNxKO7J.html
28-11-2020||City||Farmers’ protests: Traffic jams cripple life in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi||Massive traffic jams were witnessed in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi on the second day of farmers’ agitation on Friday.The commuters were stuck for hours at the Zirakpur highway, and those heading towards Dera Bassi focal point were a harried lot as the police also kept the entry to the flyover closed to vehicular traffic.The entire traffic approaching the Patiala crossing was diverted on the road beneath the flyover causing a bottleneck, leading to miles-long queues of stuck vehicles. This blockade also resulted in a jam on the Panchkula side.The road was closed following the farmers’ call for agitation and movement towards New Delhi from Punjab, passing through Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru.In anticipation of another surge of farmers leading to deterioration of the law and order situation on Zirakpur to Lalru highway, the police barricaded the highway keeping alternate routes The entry borders at Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru were sealed where serpentine queues of vehicles could be seen for miles till late at night. Mohali police sealed the border with Zirakpur at 9.30am on Thursday, which was not opened for vehicular traffic till Friday; traffic movement on the Zirakpur flyover was also seized and no vehicle was allowed to go past the flyover or towards Ambala.The incoming traffic from Ambala was diverted at Dera Bassi towards Panchkula to reach Chandigarh. Similarly, the outgoing traffic from the Airport Road at the Patiala crossing was diverted towards Zirakpur where it was further diverted towards Panchkula-Nada Sahib-Barwala to flow on the Yamunanagar expressway to reach Ambala and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-protests-traffic-jams-cripple-life-in-zirakpur-dera-bassi/story-XreURJuVtBZ9MfqhbCTRlL.html
28-11-2020||City||Buddha Nullah pollution: BJP councillors accuse Ludhiana MC of misleading NGT, stage protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillors and leaders slammed the municipal corporation (MC) for not taking concrete steps to deal with pollution in Buddha Nullah and accused them of misleading the monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over the existing condition of the stream. The councillors also staged a protest and raised slogans against the civic body at the micro forest developed by MC at the banks of Buddha Nullah near Chand cinema on Friday. A group of councillors including Inder Aggarwal, Parabhjot Kaur, Surinder Atwal among others visited Buddha Nullah to apprise the monitoring committee of ground reality. However, they accused the MC officials of changing the route of the NGT team so that the BJP councillors could not meet them.Leader of BJP councillors Sunita Rani said, “The civic body is doing nothing to improve the condition of Buddha Nullah and swings into action a few days ahead of the NGT team visit. Illegal fish markets have been set up alongside the stream and no concrete action is being taken against violators even when they dump the waste into the nullah. The fish market was removed from the area just before the NGT team’s visit.”Former deputy mayor RD Sharma said, “Garbage is accumulated in the nullah at different points and even the banks are not clean. The MC swung into action only two days ago and got a few areas cleaned where the team had to visit. However, nothing concrete is being done to provide a long-term solution to stop the dumping of waste into the stream.”The MC officials, however, said that the NGT team decided the route plan. The government is working to reduce the pollution levels of Buddha Nullah and has planned a Rs 650-crore project for the same. Despite repeated attempts, MC Commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal could not be reached for comment. Former senior deputy mayor launches campaignFormer senior deputy mayor Parveen Bansal along with his supporters have initiated a campaign to reduce the pollution in the nullah. Bansal said that they will also take up the matter with Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat over the issue.Bansal said, “During my tenure, I had removed encroachments alongside the nullah. However, the MC has done nothing after that. Now, we have initiated a campaign, Buddha Nullah- A mission. We will also involve the public and ask for their suggestions through social networking sites. These suggestions will be put in front of Union minister Gajendra Shekhawat.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/buddha-nullah-pollution-bjp-councillors-accuse-ludhiana-mc-of-misleading-ngt-stage-protest/story-pbMFtgmB858NKJcRd6lFLP.html
28-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s day temperature rises, night gets colder as skies clear up||After 5.3mm rain in the city on Thursday, the sky remained clear on Friday, allowing the maximum temperature to increase to 25.8°C from Thursday’s 21.7°C.However, with the cloud cover leaving, the minimum temperature dropped below 10°C again, settling at 9.1°C on Friday against 13.5°C the day before.“This was expected after Western Disturbances (WD) left the region. Clear skies are likely for the next few days, so the minimum temperature may drop further. For now, rain is not on the cards,” said an official at the India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.In the next three days, the day and night temperatures are expected to remain around 24°C and 9°C respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-s-day-temperature-rises-night-gets-colder-as-skies-clear-up/story-fAjgEv07fhh3NwzYxBETYO.html
28-11-2020||Pune||NCP MLA Bhalke critical, admitted to Pune’s Ruby Hall Clinic||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) member of legislative assembly (MLA) Bhalchanda Bhalke is admitted at Ruby Hospital for post Covid-19 treatment. His condition is stated to be critical, according to the hospital spokesperson. NCP leader Sharad Pawar met Bhalke at the hospital on Friday afternoon. Ruby Hospital’s Dr PK Grant said, “Bhalke is admitted for post Covid-19 treatment. His condition is very critical and we are trying our best to improve his health.” Grant confirmed that NCP leader Pawar visited the hospital and sought details about the medical condition of Bhalke. Bhalke is the MLA from Mangalwedha assembly constituency from Solapur district. He was tested Covid-19 positive on October 30. He recovered, but later developed kidney-related problems. Bhalke is a third time MLA from Malshiras Pandharpur assembly constituency. He quit the Congress in 2019 and tried to join the BJP, but was unable to get a seat. He contested the election on NCP ticket and won it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-mla-bharat-bhalke-critical-admitted-to-pune-s-ruby-hospital/story-h25K1d2zQ5hh44tqcGngPL.html
28-11-2020||Pune||Leprosy detection drive in Pune hit by Covid cases overload||The district administration is launching a special drive to detect unreported leprosy cases in the district under the “Leprosy-free Pune” programme. The annual drive was affected this year as the administration was handling Covid-19 cases. With the district machinery overburdened with the coronavirus situation, detection of new leprosy cases and providing medication and treatment to existing patients were not carried out. Timely treatment provides relief from future complications for patients. While more than 600 new leprosy patients could be detected in the district during last year (2019-2020), this year only 118 new cases were reported.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), zilla parishad said, “As per the guideline by the health and family welfare department, central ministry, to avoid complications for patients suffering from leprosy, timely detection and treatment is essential. It is also important to prevent any more social boycott or misunderstanding regarding leprosy. To prevent further spread of leprosy, we will conduct a door-to-door survey to detect patients having initial symptoms and also provide free medication to existing patients who could not get regular medical attention due to the pandemic.” Dr Hukumchand Patole, assistant coordinator, health department (leprosy), said, “The detection and reporting of leprosy cases have been hampered and so this survey will help us find those cases which are unaware or are not reporting to us. If they are detected on time then under various schemes the government provides free timely treatment and medications too. Due to the Covid pandemic, the staff which is responsible for detection were unavailable and also rural hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid hospitals.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “Early detection and timely treatment can help in eliminating leprosy. It is a shame that we have not been able to eliminate the ailment even in 2020 when the goal was set to eliminate this disease back by 2018. Leprosy was always considered a tropical disease and so it was never prioritised. During surveys, we found that even kids were infected, which is why we could never meet our goal.” District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “I appeal to residents to coordinate with the squad during the survey. It is important that patients are detected on time and they receive the right treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/leprosy-detection-drive-in-pune-hit-by-covid-cases-overload/story-N2Yv5L3xShgsGUCfvx6QXK.html
