30-11-2020||City||Mohali industrial area’s upkeep stuck in red tape||Eight months after the Mohali municipal corporation House unanimously rejected a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for maintenance and development of certain parts of the Industrial Area falling under the civic body’s jurisdiction, the Punjab government has failed to take any decision on it. The handover of the maintenance work of Phases 8A and 8B of the Industrial Area from Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) to the municipal corporation (MC), which began a year ago, has also been caught up in a bureaucratic maze.Both the developments have hit the maintenance of industrial areas, with the condition going from bad to worse.In September last year, an SPV was notified under a Government of India scheme for the maintenance of industrial areas in Phases 4, 5, 7, 8, 8A, 8B, 9 and 9 (extension). To generate the revenue, it was to collect property tax and water supply and sewerage charges, which earlier went to the MC. In the House meeting last December 27, the councillors rejected this, stating that if the proposal is allowed, similar demands would start coming from other bodies.A ray of hope was seen for Phases 8 and 8A earlier this year, but even that has come to naught. “We have handed over a list of 24 employees to the MC. They will work under the MC, which will pay them the salaries,” said a senior PSIEC official. However, MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said the list of employees was incomplete. “We asked PSIEC to give all details, including service records and pay scales, of employees. We are hopeful of starting the maintenance work soon,” he said.It has been almost two decades since industrial focal points were created in Mohali, but basic amenities are still elusive. In absence of proper eating joints and recreational spots in Phases 7, 8, 8A and 8B, which are being projected as an IT hub, most professionals have no choice but to depend on roadside eateries. Roads are in a dilapidated condition and get waterlogged every time it rains. Wild growth is rampant in every nook and corner. Even as ₹12 crore have been collected as property tax in the past three years, only ₹3 crore have been spent on development.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industry Association, said: “The situation has gone from bad to worse. We held a meeting with the principal secretary, local bodies, who said the MC has been asked to consider the SPV but no response has been received. We urge both the MC and PSIEC to carry out maintenance work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mohali-industrial-area-s-upkeep-stuck-in-red-tape/story-FeSJ9BMvf1vGst7AHNGHAN.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||178 test positive for Covid-19, three succumb in Chandigarh tricity area||Three people succumbed to Covid-19 while 178 tested positive for it in the tricity on Monday. Mohali district reported 93 cases and two deaths, followed by 67 cases and one death in Chandigarh. In Panchkula, there was no casualty, while only 18 people tested positive.A 54-year-old man from Sector 37 died at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, taking Chandigarh’s toll to 277. The UT has reported 17,409 cases so far, of which 1,062 are active. As many as 16,070 patients have recovered, including 144 discharged on Monday. In Mohali, 78 patients were discharged, taking the number of those cured to 13,121. Of the 15,469 cases so far, 2,069 remain active. The number of fatalities stands at 279. Panchkula’s infection tally has climbed to 8,697. While 8,083 patients have been cured, 127 have died, leaving 487 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/178-test-positive-for-covid-19-three-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-area/story-X8NZ7SeqClefKPM0uaKUZL.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||No hike in parking rates in Chandigarh, for now||The imposition of hiked parking charges on hourly basis in Chandigarh is likely to be pushed to December end. With contractors yet to offer all smart features in parking lots, the municipal corporation is preparing to issue fresh instructions, granting them another month. “The contractors have not yet offered all smart features mandated as per terms and conditions. So, they cannot charge new hiked rates. We will be issuing a letter to them on Tuesday in this regard,” said SK Jain, additional commissioner, MC. Earlier, in October, the MC had directed parking contractors to offer all smart features at 89 parking lots being run by them within one month. New parking charges were contingent on that, and were expected to kick in from December 1. “While we will not be charging new parking rates from December 1, we will meet MC officials to discuss the issue on Tuesday. We have installed most of the smart features,” said, Vikas Pandey, manager, Pashchatya Entertainment Pvt Ltd, the contractor for Zone 2. Some of the smart features that are to be offered include e-ticketing, HD night-vision CCTV cameras at exit/entry points, smart card based daily and monthly passes, provision for e-payment, LED display of real-time occupancy at entry points, and online booking of parking space through app. Notably, the MC, succumbing to the contactors’ threat of withdrawing from parking management, in its General House meet held on November 27 had decided to allow licence fee relaxation for September, October and November, ranging from 45% to 65% of actual fee. In the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the MC had already given a complete licence fee exemption for April and May. The civic body had then allowed the contractors to deposit 35-45% of the actual allotted fee from June 1 to August 31. Charges depend upon parking durationAfter the new rates kick in, parking fee for the first four hours will remain the same as the flat rates charged right now: ₹5 for two-wheelers and ₹10 for four-wheelers.Thereafter, these will be doubled to ₹10 and ₹20, respectively. The charges will further be doubled to ₹20 and ₹40, respectively, if vehicles are kept parked beyond 12 hours. However, there will be free entry for pick and drop in the first 10 minutes.At Elante Mall, Piccadily Square Mall and Fun Republic, flat rate of ₹20 and ₹40 will be charged for two- and four-wheelers, respectively. All parking lots will also allow day passes for multiple entries besides monthly passes.Parking lots in the city have been divided into two zones: 32 in Zone 1 and 57 in Zone 2. The MC had auctioned both zones for around ₹10 crore annually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/no-hike-in-parking-rates-in-chandigarh-for-now/story-rIIerWzKzXCGXdo6QzXu9K.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees 20% surge in Covid cases in November||The number of Covid-19 cases saw around 20% jump in November as compared to October, though fatalities dropped by 20% in the same period in Chandigarh.November also accounted for around 17% cases and 18% deaths reported in the city so far.In the first three weeks of the month, the number of cases saw an upward trend, climbing from 549 in the first to 955 in the third week. However, the number dipped to 835 in the last week. In contrast, the number of deaths reported in the last week was highest, rising gradually to 17 from five in the first week.Meanwhile, even as the number of deaths has been on a decline from 106 in September to 64 in October and 51 in November, there has been no dip in the overall fatality rate. “The impact of the infection rise in mid-November may have resulted in more deaths in the last week of the month,” said Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.On the rise in infections in November, he said it was expected, but the numbers are not that alarming.“We can comfortably say that apprehensions regarding the spurt in infection due to festivals did not have much impact on the Covid-19 situation in Chandigarh. There are no widespread infections and no big clusters, and the number is less than what was expected,” he said.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department, said increased testing has helped contain infection spread.“All containment zones as well as dispensaries have been covered one by one. Hubs of activities, such as bus stations and railway stations, are also being covered for testing,” he said.Sources said the target of conducted at least 35,000 in November has been achieved, which is much more than 6,000 tests conducted in October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-20-surge-in-covid-cases-in-november/story-t1Ur6rddinaCJVqk0pR42M.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Man alleges extortion by cops; police deny allegation||A Barola-based man has alleged that he was stopped by two policemen, who extorted ₹5,000 from him for carrying sand in his tractor. The police officials have denied the allegations.The man, identified as Satish Kumar who works as a transporter to supply materials to construction sites, took to social media to allege that a sub-inspector and constable deployed at the Sector 49 police station had extorted ₹5,000 from him before letting him off. He also claimed that police in the area were targeting tractor and mini truck drivers for extorting money.Taking cognisance of the matter, senior police officials ordered a probe in the case and an assistant commissioner of police in Zone 1 was asked to lead the investigation.“We contacted the man who had made these allegations. It appears that the incident had occurred on November 5, although the claims were made yesterday. It seems that the man was only stopped by our cops, who asked him about his destination. No money was exchanged, and after the policemen received answer, they allowed the man to pass,” said ACP 3, Vimal Kumar Singh, who was conducting the probe.He said that allegation of money being extorted is completely false and the sub-inspector and constable were only doing their job. The man has also allegedly denied during questioning that he was asked for money, said the ACP.Police officials said that the victim only made the claims after he was asked by a friend to do so. For now, no action is being taken against Kumar for making false allegations.On November 22 as well, a man on social media had alleged that a cop in Sector 63 was taking bribes from people on two-wheelers. The claims were later found to be false and it was proved that he was issued a challan for not wearing a mask in public and a helmet while driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/man-alleges-extortion-by-cops-police-deny-allegation/story-IMtvaQpeVoXuKucZjTLSAM.html
30-11-2020||Noida||3 held for smuggling cattle in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Three men were nabbed by the Greater Noida police for allegedly transporting cattle for sale illegally via the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. Police recovered 37 buffaloes from them.Police officials said the animals were intercepted following inputs from a Haryana-based animal lover.“Based on the inputs, the vehicle was stopped with the help of a PRV on a stretch of the expressway opposite Atai Muradpur village and three men were apprehended,” said Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer, Ecotech 1 police station.The smugglers were identified as Waseem and Ruddar, natives of Ajmer and Bharatpur in Rajasthan and Mohammad Murtza, a native of Jammu and Kashmir.Police found 36 female and one male buffalo cramped in the bed of the truck in which the suspects were moving. The animals were rescued and the vehicle was seized.The SHO said the animals were being brought from Haryana for sale in the district.Police personnel said the suspects claimed the animals were theirs but they did not have valid documents.“The three seemed to be working alone but we will be on the lookout for any other people involved with them. They don’t have any prior criminal history,” said Kumar.They were booked under relevant sections of the prevention of cruelty to animals act at the Ecotech 1 police station. The men were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/3-held-for-smuggling-cattle-in-greater-noida/story-kS7Q0ndf41F2I9SXVZUVPN.html
30-11-2020||Dehradun||Bickering in Uttarakhand Congress over CM candidate for 2022 polls||Bickering is on in Uttarakhand Congress over who will lead the party as the chief ministerial candidate in the 2022 assembly polls. The Congress, on Monday, issued a statement saying state Congress president Pritam Singh will lead the party in the 2022 Assembly elections. The development came after some senior Congress leaders, including Rajya Sabha member Pradeep Tamta, senior Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal, Dharchula MLA Harish Dhami, former Almora MLA Manoj Tiwari, projected former chief minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat as the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the forthcoming assembly polls in 2022. This has not gone well with the Congress state president Pritam Singh and his supporters. Congress state vice president Suryakant Dhasmana issued a statement on Monday, making it clear that Pritam Singh will be the captain of the party in the 2022 elections. “No change is happening in the Pradesh Congress Committee and no leader has been projected as the chief ministerial candidate by the party as of now. Right now, the focus is on strengthening the party at the grassroots level and raising main issues faced by the people in the state like unemployment and price hike”, said Dhasmana. Dhasmana said that Pritam Singh will lead the party in 2022 elections and is already on a tour of the state, working at the forefront, meeting with the party leaders and cadre in different districts. Also read: Indian-American Neera Tanden named in Joe Biden’s top economic team“Our job right now should be to work for making Congress victorious in the elections. Who will be the chief ministerial candidate should be left to the party high command. If we start a debate over this now, it will send a wrong signal to the people that all we care about is who will be the CM candidate”, he said. When questioned about the developments, Harish Rawat said he will do whatever the party high command in Delhi tells him. “If they don’t want me here, I am ready to move away from the Congress affairs in the state. All my actions here are inspired by the doing what is good for the party in the long run,” he said. On him being projected as the CM candidate by some senior party leaders, he said, “This is their view. My job is to work in best interests of the party in the state in the long run”. The infighting in the state party unit is raging ahead of the elections, especially at a time when the party is trying to strengthen itself at the grassroots level. Recently, some Congress leaders even indirectly attacked Harish Rawat, blaming him for the 2017 election loss. Rawat responded by saying, “They are those who were just getting born when I tasted first electoral loss and was then preparing to fight next. However, there are also some old ones, who have never fought any election nor got the Congress win in their wards, but counting my electoral losses… I want to tell them that I have been at the forefront of election campaigns from 2002 to 2019. These statistics masters ought to stop counting my wins and losses and move forward”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/dehradun/bickering-in-uttarakhand-congress-over-cm-candidate-for-2022-polls/story-5R3p1QJz6mw4XHPEAE7TwM.html
30-11-2020||City||Data centre project will catalyse investments by IT companies in Greater Noida, say officials||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Monday said that it is flooded with proposals from several IT companies seeking land for their projects in Sector Knowledge Park V since October when it allotted 20-acre plot for a data centre in the sector. Authority officials said that they have readied at least 100 acres of land for the use of IT companies. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, on Sunday had laid down foundation stone for the Rs 6,000 crore data centre project in Knowledge Park V from Lucknow through a virtual event. Greater Noida authority chief executive officer Narendra Bhooshan said that it was a ‘historic event’ as it would attract IT companies to set up their units in the city. “Right after we allotted the land for data centre project, there is an excellent response from IT companies, which want to buy the land and set up units in this city in the same sector. We have readied at least 100 acres of land for the use of IT companies,” said Bhooshan. The officials said that it has readied the land by cancelling the allotment to old companies. “We cancelled the allotment to companies, which were paying the land cost in instalments. We want to allot land to big reputed companies with an aim to generate jobs and fuel local economy. As of now, we cannot disclose the names of big companies as the discussions are underway. But if the negotiations are successful, then projects which are bigger than data centre will be set up in near future,” said Bhooshan. According to the Greater Noida authority, it gives priority to companies in allotment if any company wants to invest more than Rs 100 crore in a project. “If any company’s investment is more than Rs 100 crore, then we allot land in 10 days like we did in the data centre case. The investors should feel the comfort of ease of doing business in Greater Noida,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/data-centre-project-will-catalyse-investments-by-it-companies-in-greater-noida-say-officials/story-IgcBLaIaDuTsAGEznUYCjK.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Farmers protesting outside national capital are not terrorists: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena continued its attack on the central government over protesting farmers and said that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi used farmers to “pave the way” to come into power and now he must “support” them. Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that farmers protesting outside the national capital are not terrorists and the manner in which the force is being used against them, is uncalled for.Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for five days against the new farm laws. The farmers fear that the new laws will allow the corporates to control prices and take away their minimum guaranteed earnings.Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Raut said that the farmers are protesting in a peaceful manner and it is an example for the world. “If such force would have been used along Line of Actual Control (LAC) then Chinese would not have entered the Indian territory… PM Modi should support the farmers; merely holding talks with them will not help. When you were paving the way to come in to [power] in Delhi, that time your slogans said that injustice against farmers will not be tolerated. Today, what is happening on the Delhi border in Haryana? Farmers are not terrorists,” Raut said.In the Sena mouthpiece Saamana, the party said that using water cannons on protesting farmers when the cold wave is sweeping parts of north India was “cruel”. The editorial also said that the BJP is raking up the Khalistan issue to start their “politics” in Punjab.“Our farmers are being treated as terrorists and are attacked on Delhi borders while terrorists are killing our soldiers on the border in Kashmir. BJP wants to vitiate the atmosphere and it also invites anarchy. Khalistan is a closed chapter for which Indira Gandhi and General Arunkumar Vaidya laid down their lives. BJP is not unnecessarily raking up the Khalistan issue, but it wants to spark the issue and start its politics in Punjab,” the editorial in Saamana said.The editorial published on Monday said that giant statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat will be shedding tears at the treatment meted out against the farmers. It further added BJP is using all tools to destabilise the government of the opponents in all non-BJP ruled states including Maharashtra but the same “determination” is not seen while battling the enemies of the country.Commenting on the use of Central agencies by BJP-government against political rivals in the country, Sena said, “ED (Enforcement Directorate) and CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) should be given an opportunity to prove their valour. Every time bullets don’t work. At Delhi’s border, our farmers are called terrorists, while terrorists are entering the Kashmir border and Ladakh. At such times, ED and CBI should be sent to the borders. There is no other option...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/farmers-protesting-outside-national-capital-are-not-terrorists-shiv-sena/story-ixCDziFtC9mX9rfIrUaFSL.html
30-11-2020||City||Noida: Apartment owners suffer as developer ‘refuses’ to hand over maintenance||NOIDA: Residents of Sunshine Helios in Noida Sector 78 are at loggerheads with the developer over handing over of maintenance to the apartment owners association (AOA)Residents alleged they are suffering for years as the developer has not handed over maintenance, flouting the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh apartment act 2010 despite multiple orders in this regard. But the developer says he has not handed over the maintenance because a dispute among two groups of residents is pending in the Allahabad high court.Residents have now decided to approach the Noida authority and the UP government for justice. According to section 14(2) of the UP apartment act 2010 and section 17(2) of UP real estate regulatory authority, it is the joint responsibility of the promoter and apartment owners to form an association. The promoter will get the association registered when a certain number of apartments necessary to form an association, or 33% of apartments, whichever is more by way of sale, transfer or possession, have been handed over to owners, provided the building has been completed along with infrastructure services and completion certificate obtained from local authority, the rule says.The Noida authority’s group housing department had on November 12 ordered handing over maintenance as per rules to the elected AOA. But instead of obeying the orders, the developer filed an application with the state government’s office in Lucknow, residents said.“The developer misled officials of the industrial department with submitting wrong facts in Lucknow to delay the hand over and continue harassing us. As the per UP apartment act 2010, maintenance should be handed over within a year after AOA gets elected. But the developer is flouting all norms to charge exorbitant fee and make profit,” said GS Sidhu president of AOA of Sunshine Helios in sector 78. In response to a letter of the promoter of Sunshine Infrawell Private Limited on November 26, Anand Kumar Singh under secretary the UP government, asked the Noida authority to submit a report on this issue (of hand over of maintenance) in three days. On Sunday, residents in a meeting decided to meet the authority officials and write to state government over the delay in handover of maintenance. “We will meet authority officials and write to the UP government in this matter because the developer does not want to us have basic amenities, that include electricity supply, drinking water and others,” Sidhu said.According to the authority, the developer had obtained completion certificate in 2017 and started offering possession to apartment owners.“However, it has only executed registry of only 120 flats out of total 406 flats. At least 1,500 people are living in this society and most of them without property title because the developer is yet to pay Rs30 crore financial dues to the authority without which registry cannot take place. The developer is harassing us in multiple ways,” said Ashish Panda, general secretary of AOA Sunshine Helios.Before this, UPRERA had on June 12, 2019, asked the developer to hand over the maintenance to AOA. But the developer allegedly did not follow the order at that time too.The Noida authority too said the developer is not obeying to orders.“We had resolved the matter as per UP apartment act 2010 provisions, asking them to hand over maintenance to AOA. We will send a report on this to the state government as per directions,” said Rajesh Kumar, officer on special duty of the Noida authority.The promoter said he cannot hand over the maintenance to AOA because the matter is sub-judice in the Allahabad high court. “Two groups of apartment owners had last year filed a case in the Allahabad high court over maintenance. And the same matter is still on trial. We cannot hand over maintenance until the court gives a final verdict on the issue. We are happy to hand over as per court orders and as per law. But let the court decide the matter. We are providing all quality services to apartment owners,” said Harendra Yadav promoter of Sunshine Infrawell private limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-apartment-owners-suffer-as-developer-refuses-to-hand-over-maintenance/story-4y1Pp9kmBlfM9SoeqcVV3M.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Delhi Police places concrete barriers at UP Gate to prevent farmers from entering Capital||The Delhi Police on Monday placed reinforced cement concrete barricades at the UP Gate border near Ghazipur in order to prevent any damage to the iron grille barricades by the protesting farmers, who are camping below the UP Gate flyover in Ghaziabad. The farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have been camping below the UP Gate flyover since Saturday, when they were stopped from entering the national Capital to protest against the farm bills that seek to liberalize farm trade in the country. There have been nearly six attempts in the past three days, when groups of farmers led by BKU supporters have charged at the iron grille barricades and brought them down in a bid to enter Delhi.Further, BKU supporters have marked the road near the Delhi border with the sign, “Dhaara 288”, which they say indicates that no outside person is allowed in the area where they are protesting. A portion of the road has been cordoned off with limestone dust by the protesting farmers.“Dhaara 288’ indicates that there is no confrontation, and the police as well as the farmers will remain at their respective places. We do not intend to confront the police are waiting for the government for talks. It is likely to take place on December 3. We are not obstructing the traffic and will continue to stay here,” said Rakesh Tikait, spokesperson of BKU, told reporters at UP Gate on Monday. He added that they will continue their stay till government holds talks with them along with other farmers’ associations. “The Delhi Police have placed heavy cement concrete barriers which cannot be removed easily as compared to other types of barriers. In Ghaziabad, the protest has remained peaceful and the traffic diversion is already in place. There is no law-and-order situation at the UP Gate and our personnel are deployed at the site,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (City 2). The farmers at the site have come from various districts of Uttar Pradesh, including Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Amroha, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and others. In view of the protests near the UP Gate, the district officials have also made provisions for traffic diversions. Commuters coming from Indirapuram, Noida and proceeding towards Delhi have been asked to take the NH-9 flyover at UP Gate, bypassing the protest site.A senior officer of Delhi Police, who wished not to be named, said cement barriers have been placed at Ghazipur border to stop farmers from entering the Capital with their vehicles. “Since the farmers have also called for blocking Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad borders, adequate measures are being taken to prevent any untoward incident,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/delhi-police-places-concrete-barriers-at-up-gate-to-prevent-farmers-from-entering-capital/story-S1BsqT9MMfPGa5BoG8eQoK.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Traffic month comes to an end in Noida, over 53,000 vehicles fined||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police have fined 53,607 vehicles for various traffic violations in November, observed as the traffic month in the state. The police have also collected ₹23.74 lakh in fines, officials said. According to officials of the traffic police department, the figures are highest in the state in terms of the number of vehicles challaned.“The violations have been more in the rural belt of Greater Noida as compared to the city areas. The figures are also significantly higher than the other months because of the increased focus on road safety,” said Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).The officials said that the aim of the traffic month is to create awareness among public to follow traffic regulations for their own safety. “The challans cover everything from not wearing a helmet or seat belt to speeding or wrong side driving, signal violations, etc. But we had special focus on polluting vehicles this year in light of the poor air quality,” said the DCP.During the month, the department also disposed of 555 online and offline challan-related complaints. Multiple awareness drives, including those for the environment, Covid and traffic rules through street plays, eye check-ups and other means, were conducted. For the winter months, 380 vehicles were fitted with reflectors, the officials said.The police also said that 250 new recruits for the traffic department were provided training for traffic management.“The month is like a review for the entire area. There was a daily audit of all problem areas and issues in the district. We are now working on ensuring that black spots in the district reduce significantly,” said Saha.In Ghaziabad, there were 30,280 e-challans while Rs 44.88 lakh was collected in fines. According to a statement from the district police, an awareness vehicle was also used which covered several areas in the city and distributed pamphlets and posters among the public. Most of these fines were for two wheelers not using helmets (11,842) and wrong side driving (4,052), the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/traffic-month-comes-to-an-end-in-noida-over-53-000-vehicles-fined/story-ESuhbnzwmAKXogN6r1xkiP.html
30-11-2020||Noida||2 inter-state chain snatchers, 2 jewellers held by Noida police||Noida: Four men, including two inter-state chain snatchers and two jewellers, were arrested by Noida police on Sunday night and Monday morning, and stolen chains and gold was recovered from them.The prime suspects, Monu and his accomplice Vipin, who is also his relative, had robbed a jewellery shop owner of his gold chain at gunpoint in Achher market in Greater Noida. Vipin had been nabbed following a police encounter with sector 24 police on November 23.On Sunday night, Monu and another accomplice, Anil, were intercepted by Noida police near the Adobe crossing. They were both injured in a police chase after they tried to escape. Police recovered a stolen motorcycle, two countrymade pistols and parts of two gold chains and melted gold from them.“Monu has 11 cases of chain snatching against him in Hyderabad and spent two years in jail there. He has at least 29 more cases in Gautam Budh Nagar and we are looking for more in nearby districts. Anil has at least 11 in our district,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.Police said the gang snatched chains and sold stolen goods to jewellers.“One such jeweller is Bulandhshahr-based Kailash to whom they have been selling chains since 2011. Kailash had gone to jail once previously in 2016. He was working with Monu in Hyderabad but had managed to escape when he was caught. He and another jeweller Ved Prakash were arrested today following inputs from the snatchers,” the DCP said.Police officials said after the Beta 2 incident, the men had snatched a chain from a woman buying vegetables in sector 93 on the same evening. The bike that had been recovered in the encounter on November 23 had been stolen from sector 58 on November 9.Parts of chains recovered from them were snatched from a woman near the sector 11 mother dairy on September 25 and from another woman in A block Sector 22 on September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/2-inter-state-chain-snatchers-2-jewellers-held-by-noida-police/story-oE25bi0GaZKZtDyeltw8oO.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Noida authority plans to revive Yamuna embankment road project||The Noida authority has planned to revive the Yamuna embankment road project proposed to decongest the Noida expressway, officials said. The authority had deferred work on a 15-km stretch of the Yamuna embankment road due to fund crunch in 2016, said the officials. “In 2016, the authority postponed the work on this project due to fund crunch. Now, the authority may take up the work if all goes well because it will help decongest the existing Noida-Greater Noida Expressway,” said Vijay Rawal, project engineer, Noida authority.According to the officials, the project has become all the more important because the UP government has directed the Noida and Yamuna expressway authorities to find out new routes to provide additional connectivity from Delhi to Jewar, where an airport project is to be completed by 2023-24.This 15-km stretch is part of the 26-km embankment road that starts from Noida’s Sector 94 near Kalindi Kunj barrage (on Delhi-Noida border) till Sector 150 near Noida-Greater Noida border. “The authority may construct it because it is important to provide an additional connectivity to motorists who travel to Noida’s sectors 15, 16, 17, 128, 135, 150, 151, 168, among others, along with some areas of Greater Noida,” said another official, not authorised to speak to media.In March 2016, the authority had sent the detailed project report for this 15-km road project to the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi for financial vetting. The 15-metre wide road had an estimated cost of Rs 275 crore for construction as per the DPR, said the officials. “Since then, the authority has not asked the IIT-Delhi to send its report due to fund crunch. But now due to the proposed Jewar airport, the authority may work on this soon,” said the official, adding that the 11-km stretch of the embankment road was already constructed and opened to public in June 2014.Residents have welcomed the authority’s move to revive the project. “We have been demanding for this additional connectivity for a long time, as we have to face traffic jam during peak hours on the Noida expressway. The proposed road will provide relief from traffic congestion,” said Prempal Singh, a resident of Sector 135.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-authority-plans-to-revive-yamuna-embankment-road-project/story-SKG8cG7JyZ95nXHsoH1tMP.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Old tree guards damaging trees in Indirapuram, environmentalists raise concerns||Ghaziabad:Many full-grown trees planted along footpaths of Indirapuram and other areas are getting damaged and need immediate intervention as the iron grilles of tree guards, which were not removed, have merged with the trunks. Environmentalists say such negligence is causing damage to trees and brings to light the apathy of agencies in properly maintaining and protecting trees. Such trees are found near ATS Advantage high-rise in Indirapuram. Residents of the area have taken to social media, urging authorities to immediately intervene. @TheSPSingh tweeted pictures of several trees and asked the Ghaziabad development authority to remove the “metal cages.” “Such instances are common in the city. It happens when agencies are lax in paying attention towards the environment and trees. It generally happens that once a tree is planted, it is covered with tree guards made of iron grilles. Over a period of time, these need to be removed but it is hardly done. As a result, when the trunk of the tree grows, the iron grilles merge into the trunk, and leads to damage and stunted growth,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. “Another form of damage is caused when the concrete cement tiles are placed close to the base of the tree and it hardly gets any space to grow. Such instances are prevalent across the city. The agencies even do not have a proper tree survey in the city to ascertain the number of trees,” he said. Vikrant Sharma, another city-based environmentalist and a resident of Raj Nagar Extension, said about 250 tree guards were removed by residents with the help of GDA. “These tree guards were about two years old and were hindering the growth of trees. So, we roped in residents and asked them to adopt one tree. The cost of removing the tree guards, getting them repaired and putting them to protect new plantation is about Rs 200-250 per tree. So, this way, we got the old tree guards removed and used them to protect new trees,” Sharma said. He said trees such as neem, sheesham or jamun, etc., generally require tree guards for about three years and thereafter these need to be removed. “But there is hardly any focus of agencies towards these issues. In fact, removal of old tree guards and using them again for new plantation will save a lot of cost. In my opinion, if old tree guards are removed timely and repaired before putting them to protect new plantation, one tree guard can be used for at least three times. I think residents should also come forward for the protection of trees in their vicinity,” he added. Santosh Kumar Rai, secretary GDA, said the issue could be the result of laxity on the part of area inspectors. “I will seek a report from them and ensure that such old tree guards that are damaging trees in Indirapuram are removed at the earliest. We will not only get the issue checked up near the ATS highrise but will also ask our officials to check other areas as well,” he, added. Municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said that he will get the problems checked in areas under the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/old-tree-guards-damaging-trees-in-indirapuram-environmentalists-raise-concerns/story-6P4iKEXr0Ia0bAojWoJmVM.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Noida: November records nearly 5,000 new Covid cases||NOIDA: If the new Covid-19 cases per month are any indication, the trend of spread of the viral disease since September has been more or less similar in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. However, unlike other months, the number of cured cases is greater than new Covid-19 cases detected in November. According to the district health department figures, as many as 4,854 new positive cases were detected in November, which is greater than the cases detected in October. Even the deaths due to Covid-19 were the same in both the months, i.e. 15. However, as far as the number of cured Covid-19 patients is concerned, it was more than new positive cases in November as 4,933 patients (79 more than fresh cases) were cured in this month. Despite increased sampling this month, the frequency of cases remained more or less same with respect to the new cases detected in October. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said with all economic activities resuming after the nationwide lockdown, the main aim of the administration now is to reduce the case fatality rate (CFR), while simultaneously increasing the scale of testing. “It’s a positive sign that despite increasing the testing, the number of new cases in the district is on a fixed trend. We have adapted ‘track, test and treat’ method for checking the spread of Covid-19. As a result, GB Nagar’s CFR is continuously on a receding trend. It has now gone down to 0.36%, which is much better than national figure of 1.64% and the state’s 1.39%,” Suhas said. Claiming that GB Nagar’s testing rate is the best among all districts of north India, the DM also said that the district’s testing rate per million per day is over 1,750, which is nearly 160 more than other best districts in north India. “All factories and other industrial establishments are strictly following the safety protocols as per the advisory issued by us. Over 10 teams, with the help of district industries department, have been constituted to inspect whether safety protocols are being followed in workplaces and factories,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that to check the Covid-19 spread in the district, daily testing has been increased and rapid antigen kit testing camps are being organised regularly at different places in the district. “Besides ramping up testing, the district has stepped up monitoring of patients in home isolation. The health department’s surveillance teams have started implementing stringent containment rules. Early hospitalisation of patients needing medical support and efficient infection control at health care facilities are our top priorities,” Ohri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/noida-november-records-nearly-5-000-new-covid-cases/story-2n49IUSfuGc9UrgjjrIUOM.html
30-11-2020||Noida||Over 12,000 ‘superspreaders’ found Covid positive during focussed testing before Diwali: Data||Focussed testing on “superspreader” groups across Uttar Pradesh before Diwali has revealed that most of the positive cases were found among the staff deployed at chemist shops, nursing homes, religious places, sweets shop, along with street vendors . The officials of the state government on Monday said that they conducted about 8,74,619 tests, of which 12,290 persons were found to be positive. The focussed testing was carried out between October 29 and November 12, which yielded a positivity rate of about 1.41%. The highest positivity was found among the staff members of chemist shops and nursing homes, which had the positivity rate of 2.63%. A total of 62,786 tests were conducted in this group, which resulted in 1,650 positives. Positivity rate among staff members of religious groups stood at 2.12% with 1,14,976 tests which resulted in 2,438 positive cases. Among street vendors, a total of 1,17,767 tests were conducted that revealed 2,275 positive cases with a positivity rate of 1.93%. The positivity rate among the staffers at sweet shops was also high at about 1.82% with 1,19,143 samples being tested, out of which 2,172 people were found to be positive. The second round of focussed testing after Diwali was ordered between November 19 to November 30. “With focussed testing, we were able to timely isolate people and prevent the further spread of infection. The groups tested during the drive were those who come in contact with a large number of people on a daily basis. All precautions must be observed till the time a vaccine becomes available,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). The lowest positivity, ranging below 1%, was found among other targeted groups, such as fruit and vegetable vendors, restaurant staffers, auto drivers, beauticians, those deployed at malls, electronic shops and automobile workshops. In Uttar Pradesh, a total of 1,93,22,658 samples have been tested since March, resulting in 5,43,888 positive cases till November 30. “Despite a low positivity rate, the focussed testing has helped us to isolate infected people on time. This has also helped in checking the spread of infection. However, we are still taking all precautions and will keep a check on such groups in the coming days. People are also advised to take all precautions while coming in contact with such high-risk groups,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, who, on Monday, also extended the prohibitory orders in Ghaziabad till the midnight of January 20, 2021.“We have also received fresh guidelines on Monday in which there is special focus on containment and surveillance activities. All the directions received in this regard will be strictly followed, considering the ongoing winter season. We have to deal with more cases coming in with symptoms of influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory illness during this time,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. UP government issues fresh containment guidelinesIn fresh guidelines issued on Monday, the state government has also authorised the district administration to impose local restrictions, such as night curfew, based on local assessment in order to contain spread of Covid-19 infection. UP chief secretary, RK Tiwari, issued the guidelines and asked officials to strictly enforce containment plan, surveillance and Covid-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing and mask discipline. The guidelines stated that only essential services will be allowed in containment zones and strict perimeter control will be required to enforce containment. This will be followed by intensive house-to-house surveillance and testing as per protocols. The recently issued directions have also defined that areas having one positive case will be subject to containment for a radius of 50 metres while that in form of cluster will be for 100 metre radius. It is directed that such zones will be subjected to effective surveillance and testing, apart from contact tracing. The chief secretary has also directed that about 80% of the contacts of positive patients should ideally be traced within 72 hours of a person testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/noida/over-12-000-superspreaders-found-covid-positive-during-focussed-testing-before-diwali-data/story-qnQ2MXOtBcFAGgysOb6D2J.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||November 2020 third warmest in over 10 years for Mumbai||According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), this year, November was the third warmest in the city, in over a decade. Cooler conditions are expected in Mumbai from the third week of December.KS Hosalikar, deputy director-general, IMD, said, “Minimum temperatures this November did not show any declining trend. The trend has been similar over the past three to four years. However, the maximum temperatures during November exhibited a very good decreasing trend in south Mumbai and the suburbs. As per climate models, temperatures in Mumbai are expected to drop from the second fortnight of December.”The Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded minimum temperatures below 20 degrees Celsius only twice in November (19.2 degrees Celsius on November 10; 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7). For the rest of the month, the minimum ranged between 20 and 24 degrees Celsius, making it the third warmest November since 2009. The highest maximum temperature this year for the season was 36 degrees Celsius on November 15 and 17. The all-time highest day temperature for November was 37.6 degrees Celsius on November 4, 2018. This year, the temperature in November equalled the lowest minimum recorded in 2018 (19.2 degrees Celsius). The warmest November since 2009 was last year, when minimum temperatures remained at or above 20 degrees Celsius all month.From 2009 to 2020, lowest minimum temperatures have hovered between 14 and 19 degrees Celsius. The all-time coldest November day was on November 19, 1950 when the minimum dropped to 13.3 degrees Celsius. At the Colaba weather observatory, representative of the south Mumbai, the highest maximum temperature was 35 degrees Celsius on November 14 and the lowest minimum temperature did not drop below 22 degrees Celsius (on November 11).On Monday, the minimum temperature recorded at Santacruz was 22.2 degree Celsius, which is 2.3 degrees above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature stood at 23.5 degrees Celsius, which is 1.5 degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was at the normal mark in south Mumbai (33.2 degrees Celsius) and 1 degree Celsius above normal in the suburbs (34.6 degrees Celsius). Humidity levels were 90% in south Mumbai and 73% in the suburbs.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) was at 99, falling under the satisfactory category, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). None of the 10 locations in Mumbai were in the poor category. Worli had the cleanest air with the AQI at 43 (good). An AQI of 97 (satisfactory) has been predicted for today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/november-2020-third-warmest-in-over-10-years-for-mumbai/story-IY4ZL6NsXRA0raIDnOCkwM.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cricket Academy win Panna Lal Memorial (U-21) Tournament||Riding high on Aayush Sikka’s blistering unbeaten knock of 69 runs, the Chandigarh Cricket Academy beat Champions Cricket Academy (Green) by six wickets in the final of the second edition of the Late Shri Panna Lal Memorial Under-21 Cricket Tournament organised at the Indus Valley Cricket Academy at Dera Bassi on Monday. Batting first, Champions Cricket Academy (Green), Kharar, put up a total of 202 runs for the loss of nine wickets in 40 overs.Batsman Sukhman Singh had the highest score of 60, followed by Sahil Kumar with 25 and Kalish Thakur with 22 runs. For the Chandigarh team, Anmoldeep Singh took three wickets. He was assisted well by Luvpreet Saini (2 for 29), Anurag Sharma (1 for 41) and Nehal Pajni (1 for 25). In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy achieved the target in 35.5 overs for the loss of four wickets, with Sikka playing a stunning unbeaten innings of 69. Naman Bansal with 36 runs, Arjun Azad with 34 and Nehal Pajni with 32 runs also contributed to the chase. While Sikka was named man of the match, Bansal and Saini were named best batsman and best bowler of the tournament, respectively. Former Ranji Trophy cricketer Sanjay Dhull, coaches Girish Bhanot and Nagesh Gupta gave away the prizes to the winners and the runners-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/chandigarh-cricket-academy-win-panna-lal-memorial-u-21-tournament/story-yTrVl48fTxkHFP6ibaBTQJ.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||‘Asia can lead world in economic development’||The 21st century belongs to Asia, which can lead the rest of the world in economic development and many other facets of life, said Suresh Kumar, IAS, chief principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister on Sunday.Speaking at the plenary session on: Asia – United in Diversity, of the Horasis Asia Meeting 2020 held virtually, Kumar outlined the diverse ways of governance and livelihood in Asia, saying it will dominate the world economy in times to come.About the Covid19 pandemic, he said it had affected all sectors of the economy and all facets of people’s lives, but was most satisfactory that Asia had been able to contain the pandemic. Horasis Asia Meeting 2020 was aimed at getting the region’s senior leaders from business and government to develop solutions to deal with the Covid crisis and shaping a durable economic system after the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/asia-can-lead-world-in-economic-development/story-OzeSlg6F6QHJuF66evutDM.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Museum of Trees opens on Guru Nanak’s Prakash Utsav||A work in progress for the last 10 years, the Museum of Trees was finally inaugurated in Chandigarh on Monday by Punjab governor and UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. With a unique collection of 12 genetic copies of trees sacred to the Sikh religion planted here, its opening was timed with the 551st Prakash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev. Built over five acres on the Hallomajra-Panchkula route, the park’s development work began in 2010 by the Chandigarh Nature and Health Society (CNHS), an NGO that received a Rs 69 lakh grant for this purpose from the ministry of culture in 2009. The park, however, will not open to public as yet as some staff members have tested positive for Covid-19.The park is the brainchild of retired IAS officer DS Jaspal, chairman of the CNHS and author of Tryst With Trees – Punjab’s Sacred Heritage.“During one of my postings I first got to know how some gurdwaras are named after trees. Gurudwara Amb Sahib in Mohali is a case in point,” he says.The book features 59 Sikh shrines in India and Pakistan named after 19 species of trees. Unfortunately, however, some of the trees are now very old or not being cared for properly.That is why these have been genetically preserved at the museum. The way it’s done is that first cuttings of the sacred trees are obtained. After taking root these are then transferred to a mist chamber and from there moved to a net house and planted, says Jaspal.The process can take four to five months for a healthy tree and a couple of years d amount of time for old or dying trees.Those taking a round of the museum will see a living sacred trees section with 12 cuttings brought from gurdwaras in Punjab, including the Dukh Bhanjani Ber tree of the Golden Temple and the ber tree of Babe di Ber from Sialkot, Pakistan. The dead sacred tree section has details of the ones that have ceased to exist.The museum also plans to add a cutting from the ber tree planted by Bhagat Singh at his village in Bangey, Pakistan, in defiance of British rule. Jaspal is also attempting to get cuttings from Nagasaki, Japan, and Chernobyl, Ukraine, which have survived nuclear calamities.AAP protests Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has criticised the administration for promoting the museum as a “commercial venture.” AAP member Chandrawati Shukla has said that the building in which the museum is housed will be used for weddings and corporate events according to the administration’s website, a practise which should not be encouraged.When asked to comment, Amanbir Singh, CNHS joint secretary says, “The website was made sometime back and hasn’t been updated. We have never hosted or intend to use this place to host any weddings or engage in any commercial activity which goes against the policy of the UT administration.”Due to Covid-19 safety concerns entry of visitors to the museum is likely to be restricted, adds Jaspal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/museum-of-trees-opens-on-guru-nanak-s-prakash-utsav/story-4w0BGLs0VwOq9VyIMFkWPM.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||Schools to remain shut till December 10, government to provide tablets for e-learning||The state directorate of school education on Monday issued a directive extending the closure of both private and government schools in the state for students and teachers till December 10. To ensure that students of government schools do not lose out, the state government is mulling distribution of tablets to students of classes 8-12.Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Saturday had said that schools in the state will remain shut for 10 more days in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Previously, the state education department had ordered the closure of all government and private schools in Haryana till November 30 as Covid-19 cases among school students started to spike, after physical classroom sessions for classes 9 to 12 had resumed on November 2. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday had said that the state government had plans to provide free tablets to students of classes 8-12 studying in government schools for digital education in view of Covid-19. Students belonging to various social groups, including minorities and backward groups, would be covered as part of the scheme, Khattar had shared. Under the scheme, tablets with preloaded content such as digital books, test banks, videos and other reference materials for various classes, as per the syllabus of government schools, will be shared with students. The tablets will have to be returned once the student completes class 12. While digital divide has been a challenge across various sectors across the state, its impact was exacerbated in Nuh, which happens to be among the most backward district in the country, as per the NITI Aayog. During the lockdown, the Nuh district education department has started neighbourhood schools in various villages where local teachers are being asked to teach small groups of children, while complying with physical distancing norms in view of the twin challenges of poverty and internet connectivity in the region. Anup Singh Jakhar, district education officer (DEO) Nuh, said that education blocks across the state that were considered backward would benefit from the scheme. “There are certain blocks that are considered backward on the educations front. Nuh is among them. This scheme would benefit students since the lack of smartphones and internet access is a huge setback for online learning here,” said Jakhar. He said while detailed instructions regarding the distribution of tablets had not been shared so far, the district could implement the scheme on the lines of a book bank scheme that was started last year, wherein books were shared with students on a temporary basis. “Last year, we had purchased books for students in classes 9 to 12 and created a book bank. Students used the books throughout the year and returned them at the end of the academic year. We can adopt the same approach for tablets. Students can return the tablets after graduating,” said Jakhar. He said that the step would aid the learning process in the region since physical classes had been suspended once again in view of rising Covid-19 cases. Lack of smartphones and the internet was a major factor behind the disruption of lessons, Jakhar said. “Students are grappling with various issues ranging from the lack of smartphones to internet access. Many children have moved out along with families and connecting with them has been difficult,” said Jakhar. Educationist Gowri Ishwaran said that while the move was a good starting point, implementation on the ground would be a key factor in determining the success of the initiative. “While the lack of internet access can be a limiting factor, having preloaded content is better than having nothing. Right now, private schools are having seamless online classes whereas children in the rural areas are being left behind. The initiative is a step in the right direction and it can be perfected over time to plug gaps,” said Ishwaran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/schools-to-remain-shut-till-december-10-government-to-provide-tablets-for-e-learning/story-LEwzzhZtqhd1xgi1ZvRZ8K.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||500 cops to enforce mask discipline in residential areas||Police have deployed 550 personnel in residential areas where maximum violations of mask rule in public places are being reported, officials said on Monday.Around 2,000 people across the city have been fined for not wearing masks. A majority of the fines were reported residential areas in Sector 57, Sushant Lok, South City-1, Palam Vihar, Bus Stand, Sadar Market, Sector 5 and Sector 10, said police.Police commissioner KK Rao has directed officials to penalise those found not adhering to Covid-19 protocols in public places. He has asked the personnel to visit all parks and sector market areas to ensure that everyone is following the protocol. “We have been receiving complaints from residents that people are not taking proper precautions and are not wearing face masks. There have been multiple tiffs reported at several parks over this issue,” he said.Police said they have penalised 120,000 people for not wearing masks till Monday.Usha Kundu, the assistant commissioner of police, headquarters (HQ), said, “There have been more than 20 tiffs in different residential areas where people feel offended when asked to wear masks. Many have fought with residents’ welfare association members (RWA) and abused them for asking them to put on masks.”Police have asked RWA members to place masks in parks, markets and community centres for people who are not wearing one. Rao said they have distributed more than 1 million face masks so far and are now giving nearly 200,000 masks to RWAs. These masks have been stitched and are washable.Police have also requested RWAs to announce recorded messages on mask discipline through loudspeakers in the residential areas to spread awareness.There are also 40 teams of city police, comprising 1,600 police personnel, who have been directed to visit banquet halls, restaurants and hotels, where small-scale gatherings are being organised. Area wise, station house officers have been directed to keep an eye on functions and social gatherings. Those found at events without masks are being penalised on the spot, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/500-cops-to-enforce-mask-discipline-in-residential-areas/story-4ClXjf9jOfnvbstjXrcbEJ.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||Active cases up in Haryana over last month, Gurugram among worst hit||The consistent upward trajectory of Covid-19 cases has put Haryana among five states that are reporting rise in the active caseload, according to the union ministry of health and family welfare. The active transmission was the highest in the National Capital Region (NCR) districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Rewari, Sonepat and Hisar – in the last one month. Data shows there has been a nearly 45% increase in active cases from October 29 till November 29. Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan are the other worst-affected states.In case of Haryana, patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus showed a spike in 22 districts but the ones bordering the National Capital wore worst affected.Data shows that on October 29, the number of active cases in the state was 11,014, which had increased to 19,916 by November 29. This is despite a recovery rate of almost 90%. During the same time, figures collated through the Gurugram health bulletin show that the district contributed 30% to the state’s case load, with 3,303 active cases on October 29. It increased by one percentage point (to31%) on November 29, with active cases doubling to 6,160 cases. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, health department said, “In the last few days, the state has started showing a decline in the active cases.”At the district level, health officials said reporting of new infections has now reached a plateau. “The number of new coronavirus cases might be high but in one week, we have seen a plateau as cases are fluctuating between 600-800. It can be seen through the declining weekly test positivity rate,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. To lower down the numbers further, the state health department on November 28 conducted a mass testing exercise by administering more than a lakh Covid-19 tests in a day. 25,000 tests were done in Gurugram. Considering the sample size, test results of the last two days show that only 973 new infections have been reported. Until Sunday, test results of 13,087 samples were awaited, including 5,091 collected on Sunday. Going by the district health bulletin, 494 new cases were confirmed on Monday based on the pending samples. At least 5,565 samples were collected on Monday and the test results are awaited for 6,861 samples. With infections currently showing a weekly positivity rate of seven percent, the Covid-19 tally is likely to cross 50,000 this week. On Monday, the count stood at 49, 592. Out of these, 6,265 are active cases. With four new deaths, the toll has also reached 292, of which 224 deaths are due to co-morbidity and 68 without co-morbidity. At least 441 patients are hospitalised and 5,809 are home isolated. Only 15 positive cases are in district Covid care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/active-cases-up-in-haryana-over-last-month-gurugram-among-worst-hit/story-oaBF9WLppuFM8e5PJjrjVO.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||State, districts prepare for post-vaccine vigilance||Following recent orders from the ministry of health and family welfare, the state health department has started taking steps to monitor “adverse events”, which may be experienced by recipients of the expected Covid-19 vaccine. As per the Centre’s instruction, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, has been appointed as the nodal authority for adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) surveillance in Haryana. Officials also confirmed that AEFI committees at the state and district level will be revamped to include appropriate experts, including physicians and pharmacologists. The World Health Organisation defines an adverse event following immunization (AEFI) as “any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunization and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine.” These may range from minor adverse events (AEs), such as fever, dizziness and muscle pain, which are recorded side effects of vaccines already in use, to moderate or severe AEs that may require hospitalisation, such as seizures or death. The latter, officials and experts pointed out, are extremely rare — and even more rarely associated with vaccine use, given the stringent safety guidelines that govern vaccine trials. “Nevertheless, AEs are to be expected with any medicine or vaccine. Even if a patient experiences redness or swelling where the injection is administered, it is counted as an AE. The task of an AEFI committee, which already exists in Haryana at both state and district level, is to track these occurrences and determine their causal relationship with the vaccine. Usually, minor events are assessed at a district level while moderate and severe events are assessed at a state level every three months, as part of the Universal Immunisation Programme for children and pregnant mothers. However, for Covid-19, district-level committees will be trained to assess moderate and severe AEs locally as well,” said Dr Virender Ahlawat, the National Health Mission’s deputy director for immunisation in Haryana. Given that a large volume of people is likely to receive a Covid-19 vaccine, the number of ensuing AEs is also likely to be higher than in existing immunisation programmes, which are targeted to a much smaller portion of the population. The state AEFI committee typically conducts causality assessments for moderate and severe AEs every three months. However, Ahlawat added that a Covid-19 immunisation campaign would require such cases to be assessed more frequently. “We do not really have a sense yet of what events may be reported after a Covid vaccine is introduced. We have to be more vigilant than usual and will conduct causality assessments monthly. At a district level, task forces have already been created and told to set up AEFI management centres, where vaccine recipients will be able to report any untoward symptoms,” Ahlawat said. Officials also said that AEFI committees in Haryana will be revamped in coming weeks to include appropriate experts. “At the moment, since the UIP is targeted mainly toward children, pharmacovigilance committees feature experts in maternal and child health. Physicians and public health experts who have a broader experience in pharmacovigilance will have to be appointed to these committees. PGIMS, Rohtak, will soon nominate an expert member to the state AEFI committee, following which we will begin training officials in districts,” Ahlawat said. At PGIMS Rohtak, investigators are already carrying out AEFI surveillance among at least 370 people who have received doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, currently in Phase III of vaccine trials. “There are three aspects to such vigilance. The first is we keep the patient under observation after administering the shot. The second is that we monitor them remotely through follow ups. Now, in Phase III, we have also asked the patients to maintain a daily diary in which they log their physical conditions. This is then shared with the data safety management board for scrutiny,” said Dr Dhruv Chaudhry, state nodal officer for Covid-19 management and co-principal investigator on the Covaxin trials at PGIMS Rohtak. He said that so far, among trial participants at PGIMS, no moderate or severe AEs have yet been reported. AEFI surveillance data from the trial will be shared with the pharmacovigilance cell at PGIMS Rohtak, which will appoint an appropriate expert to the state AEFI committee. “Our learnings will be shared with the state health department and we will advise them on creating an AEFI protocol for Covid-19. The finer details will ultimately rest on which vaccine is administered to the public at large,” said Chaudhury.A senior official in the state health, member of Haryana’s AEFI committee, said on the condition of anonymity, “Adverse event surveillance will be a huge challenge. In Haryana, for example, the state AEFI committee is usually running on a backlog of a few months at the least. A lot more manpower will be required to sift through the data when a vaccine for Covid-19 is finally rolled out. It is a positive step that these measures are being taken months before the campaign begins, so that AEFI surveillance can be strengthened to a good degree by then.”Addressing the issue of vaccine distribution, officials said that they will be able to fine-tune protocols for AEFI surveillance on the basis of high-risk groups who will receive the vaccine first, including frontline workers and elderly individuals with comorbidities. As reported on November 28, the district health department has identified at least 24,971 frontline healthcare workers in the district for priority vaccination against Covid-19. With vaccine delivery expected to commence early next year, officials said they are preparing for a scenario in which demand is going to outstrip supply. “It is still too early to say when a vaccine will be readily available for all,” said Dr Naresh Garg, district immunisation officer, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/state-districts-prepare-for-post-vaccine-vigilance/story-RZJZ2rY5XdsO2EkWnEGQQJ.html
30-11-2020||City||Man robbed of his car at gunpoint in Sector 86||Five unidentified armed men allegedly robbed a 35-year-old businessman of his car at gunpoint in Sector 86 after driving him around for over an hour on Sunday night. The police said the suspects intercepted his car and attempted to fire a gunshot in the air to intimidate the victim when he tried to flee with his car, said the police. According to the police, the alleged incident took place around 9.30 pm when the victim, a resident of DLF New Town Heights in Sector 86, was returning home after buying vegetables from a nearby market. The police said he had reached near Kakrola village, when a speeding Maruti Esteem car, in which the five suspects were seated, blocked his path, forcing him to stop his vehicle. Vishal Kumar, station house officer(SHO) of Kherki Daula police station, said that four of the suspects alighted from their car and walked up to the victim’s car— a Maruti Celerio. One of the suspects pointed a gun at the victim and asked him to hand over the keys. “When he objected, two of them pulled him to the rear seat and assaulted him. One of the suspects then got behind the wheel of his car and drove towards Bilaspur. The other suspects in the Esteem followed the victim’s car,” he said. “Four of the suspects took him towards Bilaspur and called his wife informing that her husband had met with an accident and asked her to arrange ₹1 lakh for treatment,” said Kumar. The suspects took rounds of the area for more than an hour and snatched ₹5,000 along with his mobile phone. They then left him in Bilaspur and fled away with his car,” said the police. The police said they are checking the footage from CCTV cameras in the area to identify the suspects. Kumar said the victim has an online business of toys and lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 86. A case was registered under sections 392 (robbery), 379 B (punishment for snatching) and 365 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code(IPC) and section 25/54/59 of The Arms Act at Kherki Daula police station on Monday, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-robbed-of-his-car-at-gunpoint-in-sector-86/story-Gv4tyj448lnQsUQhJNmKGI.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||Man beaten to death for demanding salary||A 30-year-old man working at a hotel in Sector 14 was brutally assaulted by his colleagues and employer, when he demanded his salary four days ago, the police said. The victim was taken to a government hospital in Sector 10A, where he succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. No arrest had been made till Monday evening. The police said the deceased was identified as one Hoshiyar Singh, who had come to Gurugram from Bulandsehar in Uttar Pradesh in search of a job. Two months ago he got the job of a cook and cleaner in a hotel in Sector 14 that also provided him with food and lodging. Surinder Singh, station house officer(SHO) of Sector 14, said that Singh did not receive any salary for the past two months. He had requested the hotel owner to pay him as he wanted to send money home. “On November 26 night, after work he once again went to the employer and requested him to pay his salary. This allegedly agitated his employer, who called other employees and asked them to beat him up,” he said. Singh sustained severe injuries all over his body and on head. He was taken to Civil Hospital in Sector 10A and was later referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. Umesh Singh, elder brother of the deceased, said that his brother lived in a rented room in Rajiv Nagar and his neighbour, who also works for the same hotel, informed him on November 27 that his brother’s condition was critical and that he had been brutally assaulted by the hotel staff and employer. “My brother was harassed and tortured for the past two months. His only fault was that he asked for his salary. We are six brothers and, during Covid-19, we all lost our job and were facing financial issues at home. We hardly have money to make ends meet,” he said. The family reached the hospital on Saturday and found Singh in an unconscious state. The police said the statement of victim could not be recorded as he did not regain consciousness and died while undergoing treatment on Sunday night. A case under sections 302 (murder), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered against the hotel owner and four staff members at Sector 14 police station. The body was handed over to the family members on Monday after post-mortem examination, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/man-beaten-to-death-for-demanding-salary/story-gy58GC5YUECEn1csCkLIyI.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||Fire department decides to deploy fire tenders across nine key spots in city||To reduce response time, ensure swifter dousing of fire and make rescue operations effective, the Gurugram fire department is planning to deploy fire tenders across nine key points in the city, said officials on Monday.Presently, fire tenders are situated in the city’s four fire brigades in sectors 29, 37, Bhim Nagar and Udyog Vihar.Fire department officials said that the four locations do not provide proper coverage of the city, resulting in fire tenders often taking more than 25 minutes to reach far-off locations, such as Golf Course Extension Road, Badshahpur-Sohna stretch, and Dwarka Expressway.Fire department officials have identified Vatika Chowk, Palam Vihar, Rajiv Chowk, Mahavir Chowk, Kherki Daula toll plaza, Hero Honda Chowk, Ghata T-point, Basai Chowk, and Dwarka Expressway as the key spots for placing fire tenders. As per officials, the placement of fire tender at Vatika Chowk is likely to becoming the first such measure.“A private mall in Badshahpur, near Vatika Chowk, has approached us to use their space for positioning a fire tender so that response time in reaching areas along Golf Course Extension Road and Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) is reduced significantly. No formal approval is needed in this matter and we are looking to station a fire tender at the spot by January next year,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).The lack of quick response has proved to be fatal in the past. In October 2018, it took firemen more than 15 minutes to reach a condominium in Sector 69, located around five kilometres from Vatika Chowk, which resulted in the death of a 33-year-old woman.Kashyap said that at least two firemen and a driver are needed to be stationed near each fire tender in eight-hour shifts.“For the Vatika Chowk initiative, we will allot nine staff members on a rotational basis. However, since we are heavily understaffed, we cannot stretch our resources more than this. A proposal has been sent to the Haryana fire directorate in Panchkula for hiring around 40 new staff members and is awaiting approval. Upon their induction, we will place the newly inducted firemen and existing staff members along with the fire tenders at the remaining key areas,” said Kashyap.As per fire department officials, Gurugram has a requirement of at least 400 personnel to oversee fire rescue operations. The Gurugram fire department currently has exactly half this manpower.Recently, on Diwali, the fire department had adopted a similar strategy of placing fire tenders across various points in the city, which proved to be beneficial.On November 14, a fire tender located at Vatika Chowk reached the site of fire in Sector 50 within three minutes instead of the usual 20-25 minutes.Satyawan Samriwal, assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO), who was transferred to the Sonipat fire department on Friday, had earlier prepared this strategic plan. As per Samriwal, in urban areas such as Gurugram, the response time should not exceed 15 minutes and be ideally be under 10 minutes.“The city has expanded extensively over the past 10 years, especially in the newer sectors (58-115) and areas located along SPR and the Dwarka Expressway. The existing fire brigades are far removed from these areas and the response time is nearly double than the ideal time limit. Hence, a plan had been compiled to place fire tenders at strategic locations to address this problem,” said Samriwal, adding that the fire department had discussed the option of stationing fire tenders at community centres with the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and a few private developers as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/gurugram/fire-department-decides-to-deploy-fire-tenders-across-nine-key-spots-in-city/story-caQ5mpUFVsl8qNWDg3anGM.html
30-11-2020||City||Fatal mishap on Sherpur Chowk prompts NHAI to get cracking on foot overbridge||Nearly two weeks after three persons, including a pedestrian, were killed in an accident near the busy Sherpur Chowk, the National Highway Authority of India has expedited completion of the nearby foot overbridge, which has been hanging in balance for months.The iron structure of the overpass was ready, but gathering dust next to the road for long. Following the fatal mishap, it was recently erected and is expected to be made accessible to pedestrians by December end, to help them safely cross the National Highway-44.“A report on the number of accidents that took place near the Sherpur Chowk in the last three years was tabled before the NHAI officials, following which directions were issued to build a foot overbridge there,” said Navdeep Asija, traffic adviser to the state government, who also carried out a survey on black spots on NH-44, which connects Jalandhar to Panipat.Member of Punjab Road Safety Council, Rahul Verma, said the absence of a foot overbridge posed grave danger to pedestrians wishing to reach either side of the highway near Sherpur Chowk.“Work on the pedestrian overpass was lying unfinished, and after much pressure and persuasion, its completion has started now. Still, it does not feature a ramp for the convenience of the elderly and cyclists. However, we have been told that it will be added to the design,” Verma added.Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Gurdev Singh had recently also highlighted 91 black spots on NH-44 that require immediate attention. “Among these, 12 black spots are the deadliest, including the one at Sherpur Chowk, where hundreds of pedestrians risk their lives each day to reach either side of the highway. Besides, we had also demanded foot overbridge with ramp on Tibba Road, Jail Road and near Green Land Public School. NHAI has been advised to take certain road safety initiatives for the rectification of black spots,” the ACP said.Apart from these stretches, pedestrian overpasses are also required at various spots in Basti Jodhewal, Khanna and Mandi Gobindgarh that also have the busy highway passing through.For Satish Chauhan, a resident of the Salem Tabri area, risking life is a routine. “We have no option. There is no subway or pedestrian overpass nearby. So, each day we scale the fencing to reach the other side of the highway,” he said.Without giving much details, NHAI project director for NH-44 Virendra Kumar said foot overbridges were coming up at many locations as part of the highway project that started in September 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/fatal-mishap-on-sherpur-chowk-prompts-nhai-to-get-cracking-on-foot-overbridge/story-QCitQdUyICqqHSexR0CpMK.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases, deaths in November down 50% from October in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday added 3,837 fresh Covid-19 infections to push its tally to 1,823,896 and 80 fatalities to take the state’s toll to 47,151. In November, the state saw a significant drop in the number of cases and deaths in comparison to October (around 50% drop) and September. State health department officials said the positivity rate in November was lower than in April when the first wave was picking up. Active cases, however, are on the rise again in the state, keeping authorities alert.In October, Maharashtra had recorded 293,960 Covid-19 cases, which dropped by 50.5% in November to 145,490. Fatalities reported in October were 7,249, which dropped by 49.09% to 3,690 in NovemberThe drop in cases and fatalities is even sharper when compared to September. In September alone, Maharashtra recorded a whopping 591,905 cases and 12,079 fatalities, which means there was a 75.42% drop in cases and 69.45% fall in deaths in November. “Besides that, the positivity rate in this month [November] was 7.7%, which is lower than April’s positivity rate, which was 8%,” said Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.Of the fatalities reported on Monday, 35 occurred within the past 48 hours, while eight deaths occurred in the past week. The remaining 37 deaths were before a week, the health department said. The case fatality rate (CFR) stood at 2.59%. Mumbai, meanwhile reported 646 fresh Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths to push the tally and toll to 283,467 and 10,884, respectively. The active caseload in the city stood at 15,473. Mumbai’s CFR is 3.84%.The state’s active cases had dipped to 78,272 on November 20 and since then, they have increased. Between November 20 and 30, the active caseload in the state rose by 15.69% to 90,557. The state health department had alerted the district administration earlier this month, warning it of a potential second wave of Covid-19 infections after the festive period. However, so far, there has been no significant increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. The district and municipal authorities, however, remain on guard. “So far, there is no significant increase in cases. Whatever increase is seen it is due to ramped-up testing. Besides that, all districts are testing potential ‘superspreaders’ to get an early sign for a potential second wave,” Awate added.The district and civic authorities are identifying “superspreaders” in the population, or people who have maximum social contact in the community, and are testing such people on priority. These include bus conductors, street vendors, milkman, among others, who are likely to come in contact with 10-15 people daily due to the nature of their work. “Not just in Mumbai and urban centres, all districts are testing a category of people who have a higher contact with people on a daily basis,” he said. Monday’s lower case count was attributed to lower testing on Sunday, which reflected on Monday’s data, Awate said. In the last 24 hours, 51,962 samples were tested, according to the figures of the health department.Pune district reported 522 fresh cases and four fatalities, where Pune city reported 179 cases and one death, while Pune rural parts saw 184 cases and two deaths. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 159 cases and one death. Nagpur district reported 224 new cases, of which 178 were from Nagpur city. The district reported seven deaths. Nashik district reported 324 fresh cases, with Nashik city clocking 170 cases and three deaths, while Nashik rural reported 152 cases and four deaths. Malegaon reported two cases and one death. Solapur rural saw 156 new cases and five deaths. So far, Maharashtra has tested 10,856,384 samples and has a positivity rate of 16.8%. Monday also saw recoveries of 4,196 patients, taking the total tally of recovered patients to 1,685,122. The recovery rate in the state stood at 92.39%. Currently, 535,530 people are in home quarantine and 6,354 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-cases-deaths-in-november-down-50-from-october-in-maharashtra/story-B9JczojyheJu9Xy5OIpk3J.html
30-11-2020||City||Road rage: 10 booked for murder bid on civil engineer in Ludhiana||A civil engineer landed in hospital after he was assaulted by a group of men in a road rage case in Sarabha Nagar. The victim, Amit Sharma, 28, of Sunet village, suffered severe injuries on the head in the attack that took place on November 22 and is recuperating at a private hospital.Police booked 10 men for attempt to murder on Sunday after Sharma was fit to give his statement.Five of the accused are Onkar Singh, alias Jetha, of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, Kabir Dhaliwal, Rajan Kumar, Prince Kang and Shubham Bhatia, while five remain unidentified.Sharma told the police that he and his friends, Ratanpal Singh and Harjinder Singh, visited Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar for snacks on November 22. On the way, their motorcycle rammed into a singer’s, which led to a quarrel. As onlookers intervened, they dispersed. Minutes later, 10 masked men appeared there and attacked him and his friends with sharp-edged weapons, before fleeing.His friends rushed him to the hospital, where the police were informed.ASI Balvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim was not fit to record his statement for a week. On Sunday, the police recorded his statement and registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons), 506 (criminal intimidation), 341 (wrongful restraint), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every members of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/road-rage-10-booked-for-murder-bid-on-civil-engineer-in-ludhiana/story-Rtls9axUebhajaSddvPWSN.html
30-11-2020||City||Eight booked for assaulting finance firm’s employees in Ludhiana||The Sidhwan Bet police have booked eight residents of Bhumal village for thrashing two employees of a finance company on Sunday.The accused have been identified as Satpal Singh, his wife, Sarbjit Kaur, son Harshdeep Singh, and relatives Charanjit Singh, Vijay, Sunny, Gurdeep Singh and Kamal of Bhumal village, Sidhwan Bet.The victim, Jagmel Singh, of Jhordan village, Hathur, said he worked as an assistant branch manager at a finance company in Sidhwan Bet. Sarbjit Kaur had secured a loan from the company against the assurance of repayment through monthly instalments. However, she did not fulfil her commitment despite repeated reminders. On Sunday, he, along with his colleague, Bhupinder Singh, visited Kaur’s house, where she summoned her husband and relatives and assaulted them.ASI Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the accused had been booked under Sections 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) and 149 (every members of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sidhwan Bet police station. They will be arrested soon, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/eight-booked-for-assaulting-finance-firm-s-employees-in-ludhiana/story-1B0powQnS5LJLhhHISI0rJ.html
30-11-2020||City||Head-on collision between two trucks leaves driver dead at Ludhiana’s Southern Bypass||A 49-year-old truck driver was killed and another suffered injuries in a head-on collision between two trucks at Southern Bypass near Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar in the wee hours of Monday. According to police, the mishap took place after the other truck driver tried to dodge a pothole on the road.The deceased has been identified as Surjit Singh, of Deenewal village, Tarn Taran district.The accident led to a major traffic jam on the road, which was cleared after police reached the spot.Sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO, Sarabha Nagar police station, said one of the trucks, loaded with sand, was going towards Doraha, while Surjit was driving in the opposite direction. According to preliminary investigation, the truck loaded with sand tried to escape a pothole and came in the middle of the road, causing a collision with Surjit’s truck.The impact of the crash killed Surjit on the spot, while the other driver also suffered injuries and has been admitted to a hospital.The SHO said they got to know of the accident after commuters informed the police on Monday morning, following which cops rushed to the spot and got the trucks removed from the road. The injured truck driver, who remains unidentified, has been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence following a complaint by the victim’s relatives, who arrived from Tarn Taran.The body was handed over to them after autopsy at the Ludhiana civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/head-on-collision-between-two-trucks-leaves-driver-dead-at-ludhiana-s-southern-bypass/story-rOvsDfvyBqY0LkY64mS89K.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Social activist Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi, granddaughter of Baba Amte, dies by suicide in Chandrapur||Social activist Dr Sheetal Amte-Karajgi, 42, granddaughter of legendary social activist Baba Amte, died allegedly by suicide at her Anandwan residence in Chandrapur district, around 125km from Nagpur, on Monday. A medical doctor specialised in disabilities, Amte-Karajgi was the chief executive officer and board member of one of India’s leading non-profit groups, Maharogi Sewa Samiti, Warora. The samiti, founded by Baba Amte, has created livelihood opportunities for several marginalised people, especially for those afflicted with leprosy, orthopedically handicapped, vision and hearing-impaired individuals and tribal populace since 1949. “We are in deep shock. There was a disagreement among trustees of Anandwan ashram. But we had come up with a solution, which was also agreed upon by Sheetal. Her taking the extreme step is unfortunate,” said Magsaysay award winner and Amte-Karajgi’s uncle, Dr Prakash Amte. Amte-Karajgi had recently raised some questions about the functioning of Anandwan ashram and levelled allegations about the certain “irregularities” in Maharogi Sewa Samiti, controlled mostly by her family members, particularly her father, Dr Vikas Amte, and Dr Prakash Amte. She had uploaded a video on social media last week talking about the “irregularities”, but removed it within two hours. A few days ago, the samiti’s trustees removed her from the board. According to people in the know, ashram members were opposed to Amte-Karajgi’s and her husband’s, Gautam Karajgi, an engineer and management expert, ideas of “bringing in a corporate culture” into Anandwan ashram. Last week, trustees of Maharogi Sewa Samiti — Dr Vikas Amte, Dr Prakash Amte (both sons of Baba Amte, a recipient of the Ramon Magsaysay Award and Padma Vibhushan, who died in 2008) and their wives, Dr Bharati Amte and Dr Mandakini Amte — issued a clarification, saying all allegations levelled by Amte-Karajgi were baseless and misleading. “We are committed to working in strict adherence to the innate values and ethics laid down with which the institution was formed. We abide by legal and moral values through transparency, while carrying forward the works of the ashram,” they said, appealing to people not to believe in “misleading propaganda”. They also claimed that Amte-Karajgi was “mentally stressed and frustrated”. According to sources, on Monday, the doctor was rushed to a civil hospital at Warora, where she was declared dead on arrival. “We have sealed the house and sent the body to Chandrapur Civil Hospital for post-mortem,” said Nilesh Pande, sub-divisional police officer, Warora. Amte-Karajgi was fairly active on social media and had tweeted till around eight hours before her death. In her last tweet, Amte-Karajgi had posted an abstract painting on canvas, titled, “War and Peace”. Amte-Karajgi was also the founder of “Mashaal” and “Chirag”, the exclusive leadership training programme for motivating medical professionals across India. She recently set up a centre called “Nijbal”, which worked towards prevention of disabilities; primary, secondary and tertiary education; vocational training; employment support; various types of counselling; sports, medical and physical rehabilitation services. She was also engaged in an ambitious project of making Anandwan a one-of-its-kind “smart village” in the country, by making it technologically efficient, economically productive and environmentally sensitive. In January 2016, she was selected by the World Economic Forum as “Young Global Leader 2016” and later, was selected as a member of the World Economic Forum Expert Network on Humanitarian Response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/social-activist-dr-sheetal-amte-karajgi-granddaughter-of-baba-amte-dies-by-suicide-in-chandrapur/story-t1AL5aiJqmEBJ3v7gXN1tJ.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||20 projects inaugurated at Ludhiana’s Dhandra, Thakkarwal villages||MLA Kuldeep Vaid inaugurated 20 development projects at Dhandra and Thakkarwal villages on Monday. He was accompanied by Dhandra sarpanch Gurjit Singh, former sarpanch Manmohan Singh, BDPO Dhanwant Singh Randhawa and other officials.Speaking on the occasion, Vaid said that during the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev last year, the Punjab Government had announced a grant of Rs 1 crore each for all villages visited by the first Sikh guru. He said that both Dhandra and Thakkarwal villages received a grant of Rs 1 crore each, and today, a total of 20 development projects (eight in Dhandra and 12 in Thakkarwal) were inaugurated.The projects to be undertaken at Thakkarwal village include construction of different parks and gyms for men and women, construction of village ring road, boundary wall of cremation ground, repair of civil dispensary, two anganwadi centres and construction of solid waste management plant. The projects at Dhandra village include renovation of village park, road for proper connectivity to the historical Gurdwara Sahib, construction of village ring road, cremation ground, renovation of pond, bus queue shelter, sewerage line and plantation.Addressing the media, Vaid said that to provide city-like facilities to the villages, the state government, with support from the Centre, has started the Shyama Prasad Mukherji Urban Mission. He added that the Dhandra cluster has got approval under this mission in which 21 panchayats/villages/colonies have been included and these areas will get modern facilities.The MLA said that work under this mission has been going on in full swing. The residents of areas falling under Dhandra cluster are being provided facilities such as sewerage, roads and solar lights, he added. Besides, other development projects that were left incomplete due to shortage of funds will also be completed under the mission, for which Rs 100 crore will be spent, he added.He said that development works including construction of rural huts, development of cremation ground, bus stop, library, children’s park and primary smart school, besides laying sewerage lines in eight villages have been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/20-projects-inaugurated-at-ludhiana-s-dhandra-thakkarwal-villages/story-rs6ypOmpOb9wrZr0f9mhnL.html
30-11-2020||City||Gurdwaras in Ludhiana see outpour of devotees on Gurpurb||A sea of devotees thronged city gurdwaras to celebrate the 551st birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev on Monday.While many devotees were seen wearing masks, there were some disregarding the social distancing norms. On the other hand, gurdwara authorities had made all necessary arrangements and were adhering to government guidelines on Covid.Beside the scarf to cover the head, the gurdwara authorities had maintained enough stock of face masks that were distributed to those without masks.Manager of Gurdwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha in Sarabha Nagar Paramjit Singh said that they had made arrangements well in advance. “We had kept 500 face masks which were given to devotees who had not got their own ,” he said.President of Dukh Nivaran Sahib Gurdwara, Pritpal Singh Pali, said that they had followed all directions of the health department. “We had made necessary arrangements for offering langar and maintained adequate social distancing. Besides, devotees were asked to sanitise their hands frequently,” said Pali.People were seen following social distancing at Baba Deep Singh Gurdwara in Model Town.However, there were many who were seen without masks or wearing it improperly with nose exposed.President of Gurdwara Singh Sabha Mai Nand Kaur in Ghumar Mandi, Jaswinder Singh, said, ”We cannot stop anyone from visiting the gurdwara. Only thing we could do is spread awareness. On our part, we had sanitised the premises and deputed staff to spray hand sanitiser.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/sea-of-devotees-throng-gurdwaras-in-ludhiana-on-gurpurb/story-yvuWT6m6wKXiM2XxXZGnOI.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana district education officer Swaranjit Kaur retires||District education officer (secondary), Swaranjit Kaur, retired on Monday. A function was organised at government senior secondary smart school, Punjab Agricultural University, for her farewell . Principals of 65 government school took part of the event. Many of them shared their memories with Kaur. They also handed over mementoes to her and wished her a happy retired life. Applauding her efforts, the school principals said she has been very cooperative and the work at the district education office was streamlined during her tenure. Kaur has served at the education department for 32 years. She started her career as lecturer at government senior secondary school, Dakha, in 1988. In 2010, she was promoted as principal of government senior secondary school, Manuke, and then at GSSS, Bhutta.In 2017, she was deputed as the district education officer, secondary. Kaur played an important role in increasing enrolment at government middle, high and senior secondary schools. In the last three years, students from the district have topped the state in the PSEB Classes 10 and 12 board exams and also clinched top positions in other scholarship exams. She was also honoured by education secretary Krishan Kumar on Teacher’s Day. Kumar said that Kaur performed her duties efficiently and Ludhiana district has shined during her stint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/ludhiana-district-education-officer-swaranjit-kaur-retires/story-fautKvaCVMelrU0ZvaJS5K.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s winter session likely to be curtailed to two days||After the Parliament cancelled its winter session, the Maharashtra legislature, too, is expected to either cancel its winter session or hold it for just two days, down from the traditional duration of two weeks. The state government is also considering holding the budget session in Nagpur and Mumbai, in two parts, so as to fulfil a condition in the Nagpur pact that at least one session of the state legislature should be held in the second capital of the state every year. The pact was announced when Vidarbha region was included in Maharashtra at the time of formation of the state.The final decision over the session is expected to be taken in a meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) of the state legislature on Thursday or Friday.The state government during the BAC meeting earlier this month decided to not hold the winter session in Nagpur as organised every year, owing to the expected spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. The government had also decided to take a call over dates and the duration of the session by reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state. “The government will have to hold it for at least two days to get the supplementary budget passed for additional burden of health expenditure. In such a scenario, cancelling it altogether would not be possible. The RT-PCR tests [gold standard of Covid-19 detection] for those attending the session will be made mandatory if it is being held even for two days. As such, we will need a couple of days for preparation and it would not be possible to hold it from December 7 as was scheduled earlier,” said an official from Mantralaya.On splitting the budget session into two parts, another official said, “As per the Nagpur Pact of 1953, one legislative session has to be held in the second capital of the state. Although it could be made an exception, holding one of the sessions in Nagpur becomes politically important, especially for parties like Congress, which has a strong voter base in Vidarbha. But holding it for a full duration of five to six weeks in Nagpur would not be possible. By presenting the budget in Nagpur legislature, the remaining business could be shifted to Mumbai by taking a break of a week. The budget session is expected to begin in the second half of February.”“We have made preparations. The date and the duration will be decided during the BAC meeting,” said Rajendra Bhagwat, secretary, state legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-s-winter-session-likely-to-be-curtailed-to-two-days/story-nAfH5cK8nZ8MUKeUZTJhYP.html
30-11-2020||City||Himachal logs 10 deaths, 515 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh on Monday recorded 515 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s tally to 40,518 while the death toll mounted to 635 as ten more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 183 were reported in Shimla, 98 in Kangra, 63 in Solan, 41 in Mandi, 39 in Bilaspur, 34 in Kullu, 26 in Una, 19 in Sirmaur and 12 in Chamba. There are 8,289 active cases in the state while 31,548 people have recovered till date. As many as 855 recoveries were recorded on Monday. A total of 5,29,355 tests have been conducted in the state. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with 7,256 cases and is followed by Mandi where 6,612 people have tested positive till date. Kangra has 5,233 cases, Solan 4,985, Kullu 3,622, Sirmaur 2,624, Una 2,140, Hamirpur 2,088, Bilaspur 2,075, Lahaul-Spiti 1,075 and Kinnaur 844.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/himachal-logs-5-deaths-136-fresh-covid-19-infections/story-IyPsuGi61raRG1S7uNUXhO.html
30-11-2020||City||Don’t ignore the voices of farmers: Himachal Congress chief Rathore to Centre||Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kuldeep Singh Rathore accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi led-central government of provoking farmers of the country. He said the central government should hold an interaction with the farmers without any conditions instead of ignoring them as their ongoing movement can cause huge constriction on food grain supply in the country.He criticised the Modi government and said, “BJP’s attitude towards farmers’ protest against the new agricultural laws is not justified. Under these new laws, the government has upset the market system and benefited the capitalists by putting welfare of farmers at stake.”He said that on one side, people are suffering due to Covid-19 pandemic and on the other hand, farmers are suffering due to policies of the central government.“The Centre has pushed the country into a major crisis by imposing anti-farmer laws,” he added.Meanwhile, he expressed concerns over the rising covid cases in Himachal, “Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur keeps patting his own back and making big statements at the time of nationwide lockdown as Himachal did not have a single case of coronavirus.”“When Congress kept asking him to keep strict vigil on the state borders and conduct Covid-19 tests efficiently, he was talking of making Himachal a quarantine destination. And now, because of his ignorance, Himachal has emerged as one of the worst hit state in country,” he said.HPCC also distributed Covid-care equipment at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Hospital, Ner Chowk, Mandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/don-t-ignore-the-voices-of-farmers-himachal-congress-chief-rathore-to-centre/story-0C2zXcr03OYwrsjleu9zIN.html
30-11-2020||City||Those criticising govt should instead visit Covid-19 wards: Himachal health minister||Himachal Pradesh health minister Rajiv Saizal on Monday visited the Indira Gandhi Medical College Hospital (IGMC) to meet patients infected from the virus at the Covid-19 ward. Saizal along with medical superintendent Janak Raj and other staff members spent almost an hour at the ward. He said the state government will honour corona warriors on completion of its three year term next month. “Those attacking the government should visit the hospital themselves instead of criticising the arrangements. We will provide them safety kits,” Saizal told mediapersons. “My purpose was to gain firsthand account from the patients. I spoke to each one of them and they expressed satisfaction over the facilities provided in the ward,” he said while expressing gratitude to nurses, doctors, paramedics and medics.“The medical staff is doing a wonderful job and their efforts deserve appreciation from each one of us. It’s difficult to wear a PPE kit the entire day and serve the patients, he said adding that the prefabricated Covid-19 hospital will be readied within next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/those-criticising-govt-should-instead-visit-covid-19-wards-himachal-health-minister/story-21LVlcpuGgFs9h4gdpum8K.html
30-11-2020||City||J&K school board employee first to get premature retirement notice under new rules||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has decided to prematurely retire an employee, the first such case in the Union territory, over a month after new rules were framed to fire government staffers after he/she has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age.The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education (JKBOSE) has issued a notice to one of its class-iv employee Fayaz Ahmad Siraj to retire from services as he has completed 27 years of service on October 14.Siraj has been allowed three month’s pay and allowance in lieu of three month’s notice.JKBOSE chairperson Veena Pandita, while issuing the order on November 27, stated that it was in the “public interest” to do so. “Now, therefore in exercise of the power conferred by Article 226(2) of the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulation, the Chairman Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education hereby gives notice to Fayaz Ahmad Siraj, orderly that he having already completed 27 years’ service on 14-10-2020 shall retiree from service with effect from forenoon of December 1, 2020,” wrote Pandita.Pandita did not respond to calls and messages for a comment. In last week of October, the government had brought some changes in the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Service Regulations. It had decided that the government can, if that was in the public interest, to retire any public servant after he has completed 22 years of qualifying service or attained 48 years of age. The exception to this rule is the employee working on a post which is included in Schedule II of these rules.The authorities will have to give notice to the government servant at least three months before the date on which he is required to retire or three months of pay and allowance in lieu of such notice.The government had said that the broad criteria to be followed by the review committee, while making the recommendations for such retirement, are doubtful integrity of the government servant or if he/she is found to be ineffective in his/her work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/j-k-school-board-employee-first-to-get-premature-retirement-notice-under-new-rules/story-EqMGhHpkDGqzAy1oshKPiK.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Meet 25-year-old Syed Areej Safvi, first Ladishah girl from Kashmir||For hundreds of years, Kashmir’s Ladishah, a form of folk genre, was dominated by men till modernity and militancy in the valley triggered its decline. Now a woman has emerged on the scene and caught the imagination of youth.Syed Areej Safvi, 25, has apparently become the first woman in Kashmir to write and perform Ladishah – a form of satire in verse, making commentaries on social and political conditions in the society. It is a type of folk ballad with humour forming an essential part of its presentation.Areej was introduced to this cultural form when she saw Ladishah being broadcast every Sunday on an Urdu TV news channel. It was penned by Kashmiri journalist Rajesh Raina and performed by Rajendra Tikoo. Apart from her love for Kashmir culture and language, the immediate trigger to write and perform Ladishah herself was brought after the constitutional changes which nullified the special status of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year.“I always wanted to do something for Kashmir and its culture and language. I love listening to Ladishah personally. Mostly I would follow Rajendra Tikoo ji performing Ladishah every Sunday. And I wrote my first Ladishah in December 2019 on PSA (Public Safety Act) being used against Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti,” Areej said.“Ladishah has social messaging. It is an alternative opinion about issues in the society and I am very passionate about this and want to do more on public speaking and social activism,” she said.Ladishah is traditionally performed on stage, in street plays wearing traditional dress like a turban and playing an instrument with hands – a small thin iron rod with iron rings which would make a ringing sound. The person would sing critical commentaries using a comical tone and tenor to bring home the point while taking on the establishment or the people. Areej has adopted the content along with the tone and tenor but does not use the instrument so far. While the traditional Ladishah used the platforms of open stage, theatre and then TV and radio, Areej uploaded her videos on her YouTube channel, occasionally wearing a traditional Karakuli cap over her headgear. The videos are becoming popular among the youth.“After I uploaded the videos, I realised that I am the first female to do this. Iwas expecting a huge backlash but on the contrary I got huge support. There have been hate messages, people who try to pull me down but usually I ignore them,” she said.Areej, a resident of Old City’s Alamgari Bazar, graduated in humanities and is pursuing post graduation in psychology. From the very beginning she says that she has been interested in writing, particularly Urdu language and poetry. She has been commenting on issues and writing Gazals before dwelling into the genre of Ladishah.Her themes are not only social but even political, criticising not only society but even the establishment. She has performed Ladishah on arrest of journalists, 4G internet ban, VPN, women’s issues, extravagance in marriages, among others. The only child of her parents, she said that her father and mother have been supportive but there are people in the extended joint family who are not comfortable with her choice.“It needs huge courage and patience to do anything in our society. I love this so nothing can stop me. There are people who are not okay with what I am doing but I am trying to convince them about my choice,” she said.She said that she was getting messages from youngsters particularly women. “There are people who now say that if she can do this we can also pursue our choices. There have been women who texted me and said: ‘Thank you very much, now our parents also think that we can do whatever we like’,” she said.ZareefAhmad Zareef, a 77-year-old satirical poet of Kashmir who retired as cultural officer of J&K government, said that he had only witnessed men performing Ladishah.“I had not seen any woman in Ladishah till now. It is a forward movement. Ladishah has been a traditional character of Kashmir culture and if Areej really wants to turn her interest into an art, if a new chapter of this art form has to begin, she has to wholeheartedly adopt this, including its instrument,” he said.Those associated with writing Ladishah say that it had gone into oblivion due to the situation in Kashmir valley. Zareef, who has been writing Ladishah for Doordarshan and theatre before the militancy erupted in the valley in 1989, said that the art form has been in decline.“Before militancy, we used to have drama as well as Ladishah regularly at Tagore Halland also at drama clubs in old city,” he said.He said that Ladishah has been part of Band Pather – folk theatre of Kashmir performed in open spaces even during the time when Kashmir was ruled by Maharajas. “Band Pather with its live performance and special costumes used to be a form of entertainment for the kings and commons from old times. And when there was a need for a break during the performance, a Ladishah would come out to present its solo performance,” he said.He said that Ladishahs were critical but full of humour. “If people wanted to convey their problems to the king, Ladishah would present it humorously so that it makes him aware of the issue but does not annoy him at the same time,” he said.He said that Ladishahs would go from village to village and visit the city to perform.“In villages, he would be given rice while in cities he would get some bucks for his performance,” he said.Some cultural experts say that Ladishah was hundreds of years old and was impromptu.Dr Rafiq Masoodi, former secretary cultural academy and former additional director general Doordarshan, said that Ladishah is the purest form of Kashmiri folklore.“As per experts like MY Taing, Ladishah is over 1500 years old. It is all unscripted like Wanwun (Kashmiri women singing rhythmically on special occasions like Eid),” he said.He said that it was part of Bhand Pather but later progressed as it developed its own costume.“Ladishah would visit from door to door and compose his creation on the spot depending on the surroundings and then collect offerings. That has been the beauty of Ladishah,” he said. However, he believes that it should not be modified to make it modern. “Acting should not be mixed in it. Things get lost after mixing,” he said. “I saw Areej performing and gave her my blessings. I also gave her some suggestions which she accepted,” he said.Some feel that the reach of new technology is helping these types of traditional practices to reach youth.RajeshRaina, 49, a senior journalist who has been writing Ladishah weekly for a newschannel for the past eight years, said that this art form was dying, particularly after the introduction of TV, radio and cinema.“Ladishah is close to my heart from the beginning but broadcast media like TV and radio gave it a blow. Now there was some interest among the new generation with the percolation of digital media,” he said.He said that his interest in Ladishah was triggered by his fascination for this form since childhood. “I used to watch Ladishah on stage in Akingam which was my maternal home. From childhood it was in my mind and when I joined a TV channel as an editor I decided to introduce it. I have been writing Ladishah for the past 8-9 years mostly on current issues but unfortunately we are not able to incorporate much humour as every other day sad things happen in Kashmir,” he said.He said that Areej performing Ladishah was an encouraging sign.“Ladishah was a male dominated genre but now a girl from Kashmir is coming forward which is a big thing. People are also appreciating that girls are now coming forward to even adopt Ladishah. We should encourage her,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/meet-25-year-old-syed-areej-safvi-first-ladishah-girl-from-kashmir/story-pnOwb98iNuIZv7TbuZ9DVJ.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||November 2020 third-warmest month for Mumbai in over 10 years||November ended up being one of the warmest months over the past decade for Mumbai. The weather bureau on Monday said cooler conditions are expected owing to a drop in temperatures for Mumbai from the third week of December.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Santacruz weather observatory, representative of the suburbs and Mumbai, recorded the minimum temperature below 20 degrees Celsius only twice this month at 19.2 degrees Celsius on November 10 and 19.7 degrees Celsius on November 7. For the rest of the month, the minimum temperature ranged between 20 and 24 degrees Celsius, making November 2020 the third-warmest month in over a decade.However, last year was the warmest November in over a decade since 2009 when the minimum temperature did not fall below 20 degrees Celsius at all. The second warmest month was 2010 when the minimum did not drop below 19.4 degrees Celsius. November 2020 equalled the lowest minimum recorded in 2018 of 19.2 degrees Celsius.Also read: ‘Messing up Hindutva’ - BJP on Sena leader’s azan chanting competitionKS Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD said, “the minimum temperatures this November did not show any declining trend this year. The trend has been similar over the past three to four years. However, the maximum temperatures during November exhibited a very good decreasing trend in south Mumbai and the suburbs. As per climate models, temperatures in Mumbai are expected to drop from the second fortnight of December.”Over the past 12 years, from 2009 to 2020, the lowest minimum temperatures have hovered between 14 and 19 degrees Celsius. The all-time coldest day for the month was on November 19, 1950, when the minimum temperature dropped to 13.3 degrees Celsius.Last month, the maximum temperature was 36 degrees Celsius on November 15 and 17, the highest temperature for the season at Santacruz. However, the maximum temperature has been 37.6 degrees Celsius on November 4, 2018, the all-time highest day temperature for the month.At the Colaba weather observatory, representative of south Mumbai, the highest maximum temperature was 35 degrees Celsius on November 14 and the lowest minimum temperature did not drop below 22 degrees Celsius (on November 11). “The morning nip, however, during the first two weeks of the month was pleasant,” said Hosalikar.On Monday, the minimum temperature recorded at Santacruz was 2.3 degrees above normal at 22.2 degree Celsius. At Colaba, the minimum temperature stood at 23.5 degrees Celsius, 1.5 degrees above normal. The maximum temperature was at the normal mark in south Mumbai at 33.2 degrees Celsius, and 34.6 degrees Celsius in the suburbs, which was 1 degree Celsius above normal. Humidity levels were 90 per cent in south Mumbai and 73 per cent in the suburbs.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 99, falling under the satisfactory category, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). None of the 10 locations in Mumbai were in the poor category. Worli had the cleanest air with the AQI at 43 (good). An AQI of 97 (satisfactory) has been predicted for Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/november-2020-third-warmest-month-for-mumbai-in-over-10-years/story-cmf6RO3A6uLIKmJvmALoGM.html
30-11-2020||City||Pune reports 522 new Covid cases, 4 deaths in 24 hours||Pune:The state health department, on Monday, reported 522 fresh Covid-19 cases with four Covid-related deaths in 24 hours in Pune district. The district has reported 3.53 lakh Covid-19 cases, of which 3.25 lakh have recovered, and 7,481 is the death toll for Pune district. A total of 19,861 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 184 new cases taking its final count to 83,718. Two Covid-related deaths puts the death toll at 1,951, according to the state health department. Pune city reported 179 new cases on Monday taking its total count to 1,80,478 with one Covid-related death on Monday taking the death toll to 4,231. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 159 new cases taking its final count to 88,891. One Covid-related death on Monday put its death toll at 1,265. The recovery rate in the state is 92.39%. Also, 3,837 new cases were reported on Monday taking the total cases to 18.23 lakh. Currently 5,35,530 people are in home quarantine across the state, with 6,354 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-reports-522-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-in-24-hours/story-EuGIc9Ub8nHxOj4a7rwDpM.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||A divine gift that will always be treasured||In 1972, renowned artist MF Husain gifted a painting of Guru Nanak Dev to his friend art gallery owner Kuljit Singh Butalia. It was the auspicious day of Gurpurab, the birthday of the first Sikh Guru, Guru Nanak Dev Ji.Husain made this painting within a few hours. “My father had gone to the Gurudwara on Guru Purab to pray. Husain got to know about it. So, when my father came back and went to his art gallery, Husain came there and surprised him with this beautiful gift,” shares Sumeet Man Singh, Butalia’s daughter.Sumeet tells us that the painting was kept in their Gallery, Gita Art Gallery, which was set up in 1964, in the Oberoi Hotel, New Delhi. Later, the gallery was moved to the third floor of their home when the hotel was renovating its arcade. It now proudly hangs in their home. “It is the only Guru Nanak Dev Ji painting Husain ever made. My dad was a good friend and he often travelled to Mumbai to meet him,” says Singh.“I had seen him as a kid…at exhibitions, he used to be there and he would be in this space and suddenly he would produce a painting! It would just leave us awe-struck. The strokes were so clear and so fast that it was a sight to see,” adds Singh.The family got many offers to sell the painting but it was a cherished gift that they never thought of giving to anyone. “We got so many offers but there was no question of selling it ever,” says Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/a-divine-gift-that-will-always-be-treasured/story-WxUTCWCHBbupE7sI3yYXkO.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Higher reaches of HP likely to get snow on Dec 6||The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh are likely to receive another spell of snow on December 6 even as dry weather has been forecast for the middle and lower hills and the plains.Manmohan Singh, director of the state’s meteorological department said clear weather was expected up to December 5 with only isolated places in Kinnaur, Chamba, Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti districts getting snow and rain on December 6.As the weather remained mostly dry throughout the state during the last 24 hours, both minimum and maximum temperatures fluctuated by one to two degrees. Minimum temperatures in state capital Shimla and Kufri were 10.2°C and 10.4°C, respectively.Prominent tourist destinations of Manali, Dharamshala and Dalhousie recorded lows of 4°C, 8.4°C and 9.9°C, respectively. In other places, Una had minimum temperatures of 7°C, Solan 4.6°C, Bilaspur 7°C, Hamirpur 7.2°C, Nahan 12.3°C, Mandi 6°C and Kalpa 1.2°C. Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district was the coldest place in the state with a low of –2.6°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/higher-reaches-of-hp-likely-to-get-snow-on-dec-6/story-cGaLuLKwwyMrIyDyFVee9J.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana among 3 states for test run of Centre’s Co-Win software||The Union ministry of health and family welfare will conduct the test-run of Co-Win software first in Haryana and two other states due to their preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccination programme, an official spokesperson said on Monday. In this connection, Haryana government has set up a state-level steering committee, district and block-level task force as per the directions of Central government ahead of the test run. State fully prepared for vaccination programme: Chief secyHaryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan, who attended a video conference regarding Covid-19 status and vaccine programme chaired by Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, said the state government is fully prepared for the vaccination programme. The chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories also attended the video conference. Vijai Vardhan said adequate resources are being made available and assured that there will be no shortage of cold storage chains and other logistic facilities during Covid-19 vaccination in the state. It was informed in the meeting that data related to Prioritised Population Groups for Covid-19 vaccination has been uploaded on Co-Win software and the test-run of this software will be performed in Haryana, Rajasthan and Telangana. The spokesperson said Rajiv Gauba directed that the state governments concerned to meticulously ensure the implementation of new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) at the ground level. He also instructed to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour campaign. The Directors General of Police of the states concerned were also directed to strictly implement the norms of wearing masks and impose penalty on violators. Haryana chief secretary stated the state government has submitted 96% data of the staff working in government health sector such as doctors, para medical staff etc, besides about 51% data of the staff in private health sector to the ministry of health and family welfare for prioritising population groups for Covid-19 vaccination programme. He said 100% data will be uploaded within a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-among-3-states-for-test-run-of-centre-s-co-win-software/story-gCUUwQjeN5eLZgvSfGdvyJ.html
30-11-2020||City||Women artistes rally for farmers through street plays, songs||Thousands of farmers protesting against agriculture laws have found support from a few Punjabi women artists. The artists are giving progressive messages to farmers through songs and street plays at Kundli and Bahadurgarh borders of Delhi during Dilli Chalo call of 31 farmer unions.Prominent Punjabi singers Kanwar Grewal and Harf Cheema are performing songs and extending their support to farmers’ agitation.Jagjit Kaur popularly known as Nikki, 32, hailing from Bhawanigarh town of Sangrur, has been performing songs of revolutionary Punjabi poet Sant Ram Udasi, Avtar Pash and Raj Kakra. She spends the entire day participating in the march and sleeps in a tractor-trolley in night.“‘My songs present our history which gives us motivation,” said Jagjit.Jaspreet Kaur Jassi, 28, a research scholar from Punjabi University, Patiala, has been associated with agitation for two months. She reached the Kundli and performed her songs whenever she got time. “We have a history of resistance in Punjab. I sing the songs of our progressive poets and lyricists,” she added. Reshma Chauhan, 33, along with her husband Ranjit Chauhan performed four street plays in a day. The four-member team of Azad Rangmanch Barnalais staging street plays to support the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/women-artistes-rally-for-farmers-through-street-plays-songs/story-cNJA90bDl2MQ3CTDdh8iDN.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi government slashes price of RT-PCR test to Rs800||The cost of a reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for detection of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease in Delhi has been slashed by almost 67% to Rs 800 per test, state health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday.As per the latest order issued by the state health department on Monday, RT-PCR tests from all private laboratories in Delhi will cost Rs 800, whereas home collection of samples will cost Rs1,200. Until Sunday, the cost of an RT-PCR test was capped at Rs2,400 irrespective of whether a person visits the laboratory or testing centre or gets the test done at home. All Covid-19 tests in all government establishments will, however, continue to be free, Jain said while making the order public. Also read | Plan to vaccinate around 25-30 crore people by July-August, says Harsh VardhanThe order came after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Twitter earlier in the day that his government is planning to reduce rates of Covid-19 testing in Delhi. “I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in government establishments, however, this will help those who get their tests done in private labs,” he wrote on Twitter.On June 18, the Delhi government had capped the price of all Covid-19 tests in private labs at Rs 2,400. The decision was taken in a DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and attended by Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot and other top officials from the Delhi Police, administration and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Prior to the Rs2,400 cap, the cost of a Covid-19 test was Rs4,500 if the private labs collected the sample and used their own kits; Rs3,500 if the government collected the samples and the private labs used their kits to test it; and Rs2,200 if the government collected the sample and provided the test kit as well. While the government paid these charges to the private labs, residents across Delhi were charged a flat rate of Rs4,500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/covid-19-delhi-government-slashes-price-of-rt-pcr-test-to-rs800/story-oOmPuqRRgJla3vcSfqXaFK.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana’s khap bodies come out in support of agitating farmers||Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s new farm legislations, Haryana’s khap bodies have extended support to the agitating farmers and announced plans to reach Delhi on Tuesday. A majority of bodies representing around 90 khaps spread mainly across the eight districts of Sonepat, Jhajjar, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Dadri, Jind, Hisar and Kaithal and dominated by the Jat community have expressed solidarity with the protestors.Surajmal, president of the Sheokand khap, which dominates 22 villages in the Uchana Kalan constituency represented by Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala , expressed his opposition to the farm laws and said they had made arrangements for food, milk and accommodation for the Punjab farmers when they passed through Jind district last week.“Many people associated with our khap have joined the farmers’ protest at the Tikri border and we are conducting village level meetings to appraise people about the consequences of these laws on agriculture. The other khap volunteers will reach the Tikri border in the next two days. We had voted for Dushyant during the assembly polls against the BJP candidate Prem Lata because of the BJP’s anti-farming policies. But after the poll results Chautala switched sides and we were expecting him to speak in our favour but he did not do so. He had reached Parliament on a tractor to protest against the Motor Vehicle Act in 2017, but now he fails to stand by us . I want to ask him as to what happened to him and his tractor,” Surajmal added.Meeting on December 1Bijender Sheoran, head of the Sheoran Khap which dominates 25 villages of Badhra constituency represented by Dushyant’s mother Naina Chautala, said he had called for a meeting of the khap body on December1 at Badhra.“We are farmers first and then heads of khaps. Our group has announced support for the farmers. We disapprove of the BJP leaders’ claim that the protesting farmers are Congressmen. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is lying when he says that the farmers of the state stayed away from widespread protests and were not marching towards the Tikri and Singhu borders to join the agitation. Despite belonging to the Devi Lal family, our MLA Naina Chautala has not spoken a single word in our favour. Now, we have realised that she and her son have no sympathy with farmers and they want kursi (chair),” he added.Chautala’s Jannayak Janata party is an ally of the BJP in Haryana.Kuldeep Malik, president of the Gathwala khap, said the Centre and the Haryana government were attempting to create hurdles in the way of the agitating farmers“ The Haryana government has stooped to such lows that it has booked over 12,000 farmers all across the state’s police stations for entering Haryana during their Delhi Chalo march . Our khap has full solidarity with the farmers and our people will reach the Kundli border tomorrow. The Union government should hold talks with farmers unconditionally and solve their grievances,” he added. Independent MLA Sangwan resigns from BoardMeanwhile, the Independent MLA from Dadri, Somveer Sangwan, who is supporting the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, has resigned from the chairmanship of the Haryana Livestock Development board.Addressing a meeting of Sangwan Khap at Dadri, the MLA said he had resigned as chairman of the board to extend support to the agitating farmers.“ The people belonging to our khap will reach the Tikri border with a cavalcade of tractor trolleys on Tuesday,” he added.Sangwan is reportedly said to be close to Haryana CM Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/haryana-s-khap-bodies-come-out-in-support-of-agitating-farmers/story-GP6MHQiHnia0t5it4J514N.html
30-11-2020||Pune||45K students from Pune region eligible for FYJC admissions in second round||PUNE At least 45,000 students have enrolled online for first-year junior college (FYJC) or Class 11 admissions from Pune division in the second round of admission.The admissions started from November 26 after a gap of two months.In Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area from 304 junior colleges, a total of 1,07,030 seats are available for Class 11 for this academic year. Out of which 30,544 students have confirmed their admissions in the first round. And for the remaining 76,486 seats a total of 1,00,787 students have now registered online.Now after scrutiny of online forms and preference given by the students, 45,307 students are eligible to get admission in this second round.Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, said, “The admission process has begun and students can now login to complete the process. Those students had filled the forms through Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) quota, they will be automatically transferred to the open category in the software. If students want to do any changes in their forms they have time till December 1.”“On December 3 and 4 all the forms will be scrutinised and on December 5 the merit list will be declared. After which the further admission process will continue,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45k-students-from-pune-region-eligible-for-fyjc-admissions-in-second-round/story-v66eLHRy4MZhcbE3JlWdyL.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Student groups demand action against SPPU staff for manhandling undergrad||PUNE Student unions and organisations in the city have demanded strict action against security staff of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) for allegedly manhandling a Bachelor of Science (BSc) student.They have threatened to organise protests in case the administration fails to act promptly.Aditya Tangade Patil, a final year Bachelor of Science (BSc) student from Abasaheb Garware College, has claimed that he was manhandled when he came to the examination department to check about the discrepancy in his results.“I had appeared for exams through online mode and scored first class with distinction marks in all subjects except one in which I got zero marks. On November 18, I had complained about it officially to the SPPU’s examination department to get a revised mark sheet,” he said.Since November 18 he was constantly taking follow-up about the issue, but on November 25 when he didn’t get much response from the examination department officials he went to meet Mahesh Kakade, director of the board of examination and evaluation. While talking to Kakade he started video shooting the conversation on the mobile phone, then Kakade stopped him and told security staff to take him out of the office. After which they allegedly manhandled him and took him out of the office premises.“We met SPPU vice-chancellor and demanded strict action against those security guards and also Kakade who has threatened the student. We demand immediate action or will hold protests,” said Kalpesh Yadav, city president, Maharashtra Navnirman Vidyarthi Sena.Somnath Lohar, member, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) students wing, said, “On Saturday, we protested outside the vice-chancellor’s office and demanded strict action against the people involved.”Kakade said, “Video shooting inside the examination department is prohibited, so I told him to stop and asked our security guards to take him out of my office, but I don’t know about what happened later.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/student-organisations-demand-action-against-sppu-staff-for-manhandling-student/story-xrQLgaYUHEJ3LtqCYLZJ9O.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Shimla’s crematorium overwhelmed by Covid-19 deaths||With Covid-19 deaths on the rise, the funeral pyres burn the entire day at the crematorium at Kanlog on the busy Dhalli-Tutikhandhi bypass near Shimla. Caretakers at the cremation facility are struggling to cope. “I’ve been here for two decades but never have I come across such a situation,” says Jeevan Singh, 34, the caretaker at the crematorium, built 22 years ago by Rotary Club, Shimla, and run by the local Sood Sabha. On an average, three bodies used to be brought daily for the last rites but of late the numbers have doubled. The crematorium has only four platforms to cremate bodies, including the Covid-19 fatalities. As a result, non-Covid dead are cremated before 10am and those who succumbed to the virus are brought after that. Also read: Farmers’ protest: Amid fears of Covid-19 spread, medical camp set up at Singhu border“It’s difficult to handle the rush because it takes four to five hours to cremate a body. Two weeks ago, we had to do the last rites of nine people who died of Covid-19 in single day. Just imagine our plight,” says Jeevan Singh, who lives with his wife and three-year-old son in room adjoining the crematorium. “Now I fear for my life and the health of my family,” he says, donning the personal protection equipment (PPE) kit. NOT PAID FOR THREE WEEKS The Shimla municipal corporation pays ₹1,000 per body cremated to the caretaker. However, the two caretakers at the crematorium say they have not been paid for three weeks. “I believe God sent us for the service of mankind but at the same time the authorities should realise the risk to our lives,”says Bhima Ram, the other caretaker who belongs to Banjar in Kullu district. Till date, 164 patients have died due to Covid-19 in Shimla’s two main hospitals, Indira Gandhi Medical College and Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. Of the total coronavirus deaths, 116 were from Shimla district and the rest were referred to the IGMC and DDU from other districts. “Nearly 90 patients were brought dead or died within 48 hours of admission which don’t come within the purview of the hospital deaths, indicating their delayed coming to hospital and improper referral”, says IGMC senior medical superintendent Janak Raj. A majority of the Covid-19 fatalities were cremated in Shimla. MC’S HELP SOUGHT TO BUILD PLATFORMS The Sood Sabha has written to the Shimla Municipal Corporation, seeking help to build more platforms for the last rites. “I have urged the MC to help build more platforms in the open space on either side of the crematorium in view of the rising Covid fatalities. Otherwise, it will be difficult to handle the situation in the coming days,” says Sanjay Sood, the president of the Shimla Sood Sabha. According to sources, people are hesitant to bring the bodies of their relatives in case of non-Covid deaths, citing improper sanitisation. It is learnt that the sanitation van can’t reach the crematorium’s platforms. GAS CREMATORIUM DEFUNCT In 2007, the Sood Sabha set up a gas-operated crematorium at Kanlog. It cost about ₹60 lakh and was imported from the United States but is lying defunct since 2014 due to a technical snag. A few local residents were trained to operate it but people prefer wood for the last rites hence it lay in disuse for a long time and developed a snag. In view of the rising number of Covid fatalities, the Sood Sabha has now sought the government’s help to fix the gas-operated crematorium. “Last time when it developed a snag, we brought a mechanic all the way from Florida. We had to pay him ₹5 lakh but the machine broke down again. We’ve asked the government if arrangements can be made to repair it locally. We will bear the cost,” Sood said. Almighty Blessings, a non-profitable organisation in Shimla, has volunteered to run the gas-operated crematorium. “We can run the crematorium if the machine is rectified,” says Sarabjeet Singh Bobby of the NGO that does free funerals and runs free canteens at IGMC and Kamla Nehru Hospital. Bobby says some people were so poor that they couldn’t even afford wood for the cremation. It costs between ₹3,600 to ₹5,000 to cremate a body. COVID DEATHS PEAKED IN SHIMLA IN NOVEMBERMay: 2 June: 2 July: 1 August: 5 September: 34 October: 40 November: 80||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/shimla-s-crematorium-overwhelmed-by-covid-19-deaths/story-KdWVii6vEuCNRPrlCj6CVL.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Central Railway revises timings of 10 special trains from Pune||The Central Railway (CR) has revised and rescheduled timings of various special trains which had started during the festive season of Diwali. Timings of ten special trains have been revised starting December 1, of which three trains originate from the Pune railway station. According to the information given by the officials, Pune-Danapur special – Daily express (train no. 02149) will leave Pune at 9.05pm on December 1 and will arrive at Danapur at 2.20am on the third day. Similarly, return train from Danapur (train no. 02150) will leave Danapur at 11.10pm on December 1 and will arrive in Pune at 4.40 am on the third day. Another train, Pune – Jaipur special express (train no. 02939) will leave Pune at 5.30pm on December 1 and reach Jaipur on the next day at 2.40pm. Then, train no. 02940 will run every Tuesday and Saturday at 12.20am and reach Pune, the next day at 8.05am. The Pune-Jabalpur special express train’s (train no. 02131/02132) schedule has been extended till December 29. Timings, halts and composition of both the trains of Pune-Jabalpur-Pune special express train will remain the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/central-railway-revises-timings-of-10-special-trains-from-pune/story-PiGSNBHIVZPTOxULPl90QM.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Skimmer found in co-op bank ATM in Camp, case registered||A case of cheating was registered at Lashkar police station in an incident where a video of a local police inspector warning people of skimming methods was used by fraudsters to rob people’s card credentials. The video showed how machines allow fraudsters to steal your card information exist in plain sight and look just like the slot where a card is inserted. The device that looks like the slot is called a skimmer. The ATM where the skimmer was installed belonged to a local co-operative bank that has an ATM near the Lashkar court located in Camp - merely 500 metres away from the Lashkar police station. “The bank contacted us when they realised there was something wrong. We went there with experts and conducted a search. There was a skimmer on the card slot and a curved surface with a camera in it attached above the panel where you input the PIN. The panel is just the right size to fit the area and the skimmer is just rightly made a little bigger to fit the card slot and if you’re not looking for it, you may never find it,” said senior police inspector Ashok Kadam of Lashkar police station who is investigating the case. The video of the skimmer being pulled from over the actual card slot of senior police inspector Ashok Kadam was shared on social media by the likes of Anil Deshmukh, state home minister; and actor Riteish Deshmukh. Incidentally, just after the video was shared widely, an assistant sub-inspector of Pune police fell victim to card cloning bid and lost Rs 1, 30,000 in the process. The card is believed to have been cloned after the information was stolen through a skimmer in a locally-based ATM. “We have registered a case and are on a lookout for suspects in both these cases,” said PI Kadam. “A few weeks ago, we arrested a person in a similar case. During Diwali, as people shop and spend cash, we had issued awareness warning through various modes which I’m sure has led to some prevention,” said senior police inspector Rajkumar Vaghchaure of cyber police station. These skimmers are mostly seen in ATMs which are remotely located and less frequented by people, according to PI Vaghchaure. If the camera that captures the PIN can be detected in time, further use of stolen data can be prevented. “People have to be very careful while entering their card credentials in places like the ATM, restaurants, petrol pumps - ensure that nobody is looking at or has access to your pin,” said PI Vaghchaure. The ATM card cloning has been a method of cheating people of their hard-earned money for years. Along with card cloning, other forms of cybercrime activity has gone up manifold according to a threat report published by McAfee, a device to cloud cybersecurity company. According to the report, India was among the top 10 countries that were targeted for various kinds of cyber-attacks. Globally, the company’s threat dashboard recorded a 605 per cent increase in Covid-19 related attacks in the second quarter compared to the first quarter. HT INTERVIEWHT spoke to senior police inspector Ashok Kadam on precautions that citizens must take to save themselves from skimming. What is skimming? Skimming happens when the digital data of a card is stolen. That data can be used to make another similar card - cloning. Using the PIN, whoever has access to card information, can withdraw money. The second part is - installing a camera over the space where you input the PIN. How to save oneself from this? Two small things should be followed to save yourself from skimming. Whenever you visit an ATM, the part where the card is inserted, try to move it. If it moves even a little, do not insert your card. It is quite probable that it is a skimmer. And, secondly, to prevent the camera from capturing your PIN, cover your hand while entering the PIN. Why did your video strike such a chord with so many people? There have been a few cases. There was a recent case where a police staff lost over Rs 1 lakh from his bank account even though he had never given his card to anyone and had not shared his pin with anyone. His card had been cloned. There were 24 different transactions. Sometimes, when the withdrawal amount is less than Rs 10,000, you do not get an SMS of the transaction. So, the transactions were of less than Rs 10,000. Common people value their hard-earned money and it is a sensitive issue for them. When I released the video, it provided a way of preventing theft of that very money. When the home minister tweeted the video, it reached a far bigger audience.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/skimmer-found-in-co-op-bank-atm-in-camp-case-registered/story-8TOHa4m02tjudrlDJPPo1N.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Udayanraje Bhosale accuses Sharad Pawar of delaying Maratha reservation||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Udayanraje Bhosale said that Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar deliberately kept the quota issue pending for decades. Bhosale, a descendant of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji, said that those from earlier generations only looked at the Maratha community as a vote bank and did not bother to give reservation to the community. He said that if the current dispensation cannot resolve the Maratha reservation issue, then those in power should resign. Bhosale was speaking in Satara while addressing a press conference on Sunday. The Supreme Court recently stayed the implementation of the Maratha quota law and referred petitions challenging the law to a larger constitution bench. Bhosale, without naming Pawar, said that the then chief minister during Mandal Commission did not press for inclusion of Maratha community in the OBC category, an issue that is haunting the Marathas today. “If those who are from an earlier generation and were in power when the Mandal Commission recommended reservation to OBCs had recommended the Maratha community then, we would have got reservation,” said Bhosale. It was Pawar who headed Maharashtra between 1988 and 1991 while the Mandal report was implemented in 1990. Bhosale said that those leaders are still in power and should resolve the issue without any delay. “He knows everything about the issue. It is high time that he resolves it,” he added. Plan to march to Mumbai: Maratha outfitsMaratha outfits have decided to step up its protest for reservation to the community in education and jobs. Various Maratha outfits held a meeting in Pune on Sunday where they decided to take out march from December 8 if the MVA government does not resolve the issue of admissions and jobs to Maratha youths. Rajendra Kondhre, convenor, Maratha Kranti Morcha, said that the way government has handled Class 11 admissions and jobs in Mahavitaran was unjust. “We would like to warn the government to resolve the issue of FYJC admissions and recruitment in Mahavitaran by December 6. Otherwise, we will march towards Mumbai (Vidhan Bhavan) and members of the community from each district will join the march,” said Kondhre.As per Kondhre, they plan to march to the Vidhan Bhavan as the government plans to hold the winter session of the assembly during the same period.Reacting to NCP leader and minister in MVA cabinet, Chhagan Bhujbal’s remarks that OBCs will fight the efforts if there are plans to disturb their quota, Maratha outfit leaders said that Bhujbal should restrain from making such statements. Bhujbal, minister for food and civil supplies, on Saturday had said that any move to carve out reservation from the Other Backward Class quota would be opposed. “The OBCs (Other Backward Classes) account for 54% of the population and their reservation should be left untouched. If needed, we shall come together and fight against any move to cut into the OBC quota,” Bhujbal had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/udayanraje-bhosale-accuses-sharad-pawar-of-delaying-maratha-reservation/story-hHsmXQU9YUF8dJP2jMZH1M.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Pune-based SII likely conduct trials for those under the age of 18||Serum Institute of India (SII), which is a front-runner for providing Covid-19 vaccine to India, might begin a separate trial study on those aged below 18 years to understand the safety and efficacy of Covishield vaccine against Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection.During an online interaction with journalists Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer (CEO), SII, said, that the institute might consider initiating separate trials for children which will start only after a few months. “A separate trial study among children and adolescents would likely delay the vaccination process for this age group even after the vaccine is approved for administering among adults,” he said.The safety and efficacy of the vaccine are being studied only in the adult age group.He said, “Not now, but maybe in future we are looking at doing a trial for those under 18 years. We have to do that after the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is proven on adults which is the same for all candidates, be it the US or UK.”Poonawalla said that the vaccine has proven its efficacy. He said, “As we found that there were zero hospitalizations among those who got infected, as in there were no severe symptoms. We also found that the sterilizing immunity as in the infection rate of a vaccinated person who got infected was reduced by 60 per cent which is an indicator of a good vaccine especially against Covid-19 which is highly infective.”Experts stress on the need for a separate trial study for those aged under 18 until which the vaccination for children should not be carried out. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who chairs the Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “The current age group for which the phase two and three trial studies are going on does not include either those below 18 or even those above 60 years of age. There are two schools of thought where one might say that no separate trial is necessary while another might say that it is necessary to understand its efficacy, whether vaccinated kids would act as a transmitter and also if the vaccine would work the same way as it works for adults when it comes to hospitalization or severity of symptoms.”“Currently they do not have any data for that age group and such data needs to come out first which needs to be peer-reviewed by the scientific community before any solid conclusions can be made until then such statements are only superficial,” he said.Dr Tushar Parikh, consultant neonatologist and paediatrician, Motherhood Hospital, said, “It is always prudent to confirm vaccine efficacy and safety in children separately as their immune system is developing and it may not respond in the same way. Side effect profiles may be different. So once the safety and efficacy are confirmed in adults I hope that there will be trials in children to confirm safety and efficacy.”“Fortunately children are less severely affected by Covid -19 so priority is developing adult vaccines. Normally it takes ten years for a vaccine development trial study to be completed. However, in this scenario things are happening at record break timings as multiple processes are being conducted simultaneously and so it would be difficult to say as to how much delay would this cause,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-based-sii-likely-conduct-trials-for-those-under-the-age-of-18/story-PovfutyG9f492iqs67i84K.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Pune dist: Virus shows serious impact on comorbid patients across all ages||A detailed analysis of Covid-19 cases in Pune district who reported comorbidities has shown that the impact of the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid-19 infection has been severe across age groups and not just senior citizens. Among the age groups, it was found that a significant proportion of comorbid patients from the age group of 60 years and above and 45-60 years needed hospitalisation and/or were declared dead as the associated risk factors proved to increase the severity of the symptoms.Experts have now said that the administration must focus on these vulnerable age groups as now they have the data following the state survey.The data visualised as per reporting done by labs and surveillance officers on lab module of Covid-19 India portal showed that of the total comorbid patients who were hospitalised, 46 per cent belonged to the age group of 60 plus years of age while 39 per cent belonged to the 45-60 years of age and 14 per cent were those below 45 years. While among the deceased who had comorbid conditions, 65 per cent of them were from the age group of 60 plus age group, 29 per cent were from the age group of 45-60 years and six per cent in the age group of less than 45 years of age.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee (MCDPCTC), said, “We have seen that comorbidity has a severe impact on Covid-19 patients across all ages. The administration now has extensive data on comorbid patients which was found during the state survey under ‘My family, My responsibility’ which they must use to keep a track of these comorbid patients.”“During the first wave, we found that even those aged below 40 were seriously impacted and had to be hospitalised. The administration needs to also prepare for beds and ventilators according to the number of comorbid people who are more vulnerable than others,” he said.The data also states among the comorbid patients, 65 per cent of them are from the age group of above 60 years while 29 per cent are in the age group of 45-60 years of age. While a major chunk of comorbid deceased is from senior citizens group a significant number is also from the age group of 45-60 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/pune-dist-virus-shows-serious-impact-on-comorbid-patients-across-all-ages/story-VtKIQLdFse6FDmZXrIM06I.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to repair century-old Tansa water pipeline at Lower Parel||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has undertaken the mammoth task of repairing leakage in a century-old 1450 mm-wide water pipeline at Gawde Chowk on Senapati Bapat Road in south Mumbai that runs approximately 100 kilometers to bring water to the island city, straight from the Tansa dam in Thane district. The most challenging aspect of repairing the leak is that this water main is buried over 25 to 30 feet under the ground, with a British era storm water drain, a sewage line, and TATA Power’s high voltage power line running right above it, in the middle of a busy street in Lower Parel. The leak in this Tansa main was detected 10 days ago on November 18, after which staff from BMC’s hydraulics department began excavation work around the area. After excavating up to 30 feet, the team spotted the leak on the underside of the pipeline. It was temporarily repaired by driving a wooden wedge and a patch screw jack under it, without shutting water supply through the pipeline to the surrounding areas.Also read | CBI, Enforcement Directorate should be sent to borders: Shiv Sena takes dig“It is not possible to dig any deeper as we have already hit hard rock at approximately 30 feet exactly below the leakage point,” a senior civic officer of the hydraulics department said. Now, permanent repairs to the pipeline will now be undertaken on December 2 and 3, and water supply to parts of Elphinstone Road, Prabhadevi, Dadar, and Mahim will be affected partially during this time.Jeevan Patil, assistant engineer of the water works department (emergency repair cell, Worli) said, “This work is challenging as it needs to be carried out underground. Over the past ten days, we carried out plan A to immediately plug leakage, but beyond a point, it is not possible to fix the pipeline with this method. Now, we are moving to plan B to work inside the pipeline. So far, all the work has been done without damaging any other parallel line such as the sewage line, the storm water drains, or the Tata Power high-voltage live line.”As part of plan B, BMC has now dug two 24-inch manholes on top of the pipeline, at a depth of 15 feet. While submersible pumps will be ascended through one manhole to draw out the water from the pipeline, the hydraulics team will use the other manhole to access the pipeline and repair it.A BMC press release said on Monday, “The main valve on the aqueduct [pipeline] will be closed after 8am on December 2, after which both manholes will be cut and the water in the aqueduct will be completely drained. A full inspection will then be carried out inside the aqueduct. The repair work will be started by estimating the extent of damage to the aqueduct due to the leak and the number of leaks. The work is planned to be completed by 3pm on December 3.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-repair-century-old-tansa-water-pipeline-at-lower-parel/story-6RpM9l56svpIUnWBdccL1O.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||‘Free’ mask, Rs 200 fine in Mumbai for rule violators: BMC||To encourage Covid-19-appropriate behaviour among residents of Mumbai, the city civic body has decided to provide ‘free’ masks to those found without face cover in public and also collect a fine of Rs 200 from them.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a release on Sunday said from April till November 28, it took action against 4.85 lakh citizens for not wearing masks in public places and collected over Rs 10.7 crore as fine from them.The BMC said when an offender, after being fined, goes ahead without a face mask, the objective of implementing the Covid-19 prevention protocol remains unfulfilled.“Therefore, in order to fulfill the objective, the citizen concerned will be provided a free mask and charged a penalty of Rs 200,” it said.The relevant penalty receipt will also mention about the free mask, it said.To curb the spread of infection in the post-Diwali season, the civic body has increased inspection drives in the city, with the violation of mask rule attracting a penalty of Rs 200.From April till November 28, the maximum number of 32,010 citizens without masks were fined in the K-west ward, which includes areas like Juhu and Versova, a BMC official said, adding that Rs 63.39 lakh was collected as fine from them.Besides sanitisation of hands and maintaining social distance, regular use of mask is necessary for controlling the spread of coronavirus infection, he added.Till Sunday, Mumbai city reported a total of 2,82,821 Covid-19 cases and 10,865 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/free-mask-rs-200-fine-in-mumbai-for-rule-violators-bmc/story-WZ6oaDYkd8Z6g6AEVOz24I.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Pakistan always attempts to create tension, stay united to thwart its designs: Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday paid obeisance at Gurdwara Ber Sahib at Sultanpur Lodhi to mark the conclusion of the 550th birth anniversary celebrations and usher in the 551st Prakash Purb of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak Dev. The chief minister inaugurated development works to be carried out at a cost of Rs 40 crore in the holy city. He laid the foundation stones of six projects, including a Rs 20-crore sewerage treatment plant, a Rs 3-crore sub divisional administrative complex, a Rs 9.5-crore SMART school and the Rs 6.5-crore Qila Sarai conservation project. Also read: Farmers’ protest: ‘Why did you try to stop them in Haryana,’ Amarinder Singh questions Khattar’s Covid-19 concernsAddressing the gathering, Capt Amarinder Singh said: “Some people are trying to divide the country and it’s high time we follow in the footsteps and observe the teachings of Guru Nanak to maintain peace and make our country strong. We are all children of the Almighty. As the Guru preached that no one is Sikh, Hindu or Muslim, we are all humans only.” The chief minister attacked Pakistan and said: “Our neighbour always attempts to create tension in the country. Its designs can be thwarted if we stay united.” Later, he left for Dera Baba Nanak to pay obeisance. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and cabinet ministers attended the state-level function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/pakistan-always-attempts-to-create-tension-stay-united-to-thwart-its-designs-punjab-cm/story-fI9XZ5Fe9aPgtxfIbP0aIM.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||RT-PCR tests for Covid could be cheaper. Arvind Kejriwal issues orders||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday ordered bringing down the rates of the RT-PCR tests, the most reliable diagnosis to detect the presence of the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“I have directed that the rates of RT-PCR tests be reduced in Delhi. Whereas tests are being conducted free of cost in government establishments, however, this will help those who get their tests done in private labs,” he wrote on Twitter. Kejriwal, however, did not mention details of the revised price category and from when they will become effective. The government had earlier capped the price of all Covid-19 tests, whether from a government or private centre, in Delhi at Rs 2,400. The decision was taken in a DDMA meeting chaired by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, and attended by Kejriwal, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot and other top officials from the Delhi Police, administration and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Prior to the Rs 2,400 cap, the cost of a Covid-19 test was Rs 4,500 if the private labs collected the sample and used their own kits, Rs 3,500 if the government collected the samples and the private labs used their kits to test it; and Rs 2,200 if the government collected the sample and provided the test kit as well. While the government paid these charges to the private labs, residents across Delhi were charged a flat rate of Rs 4,500.The decision to further reduce the test comes at a time when the national capital is logging a little less than 5,000 infections daily. On Sunday, Delhi recorded 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, the second consecutive day the city logged fewer than 5,000 infections, despite conducting more than 64,000 tests, indicating that the third and the sharpest wave of the disease in the Capital could be trending towards a decline.Also, under the revised policy, district administrations are expected to, inside containment zones, to conduct RT-PCR tests on all residents aged above 60, pregnant women, and individuals with comorbidities, irrespective of symptoms or direct contact with active cases, according to senior government officials aware of the new policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-govt-slashes-price-of-rt-pcr-tests-for-covid-19-in-delhi/story-y5JnoRFJ0ocSAI5881BRiK.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||South Delhi parks to have fruit, milk stalls soon||Parks under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will soon have kiosks selling fruit, milk and basic confectionary items, as per a proposal passed by the corporation’s standing committee recently. The proposal aims to boost revenue of the corporation which has been hit because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “The proposal will be put before the House to be passed in the next meeting. Initially, parks with a bigger area will be selected for the scheme,” said a senior official, who did not wish to be named. Vendors will be provided temporary sheds of 4.5×2.5 metres within the parks. They will be allotted a fixed time in the morning and evening for business, the official added. Also read | South civic body ties up with NTPC to set up solar panels, e-charging stationsAs per the proposal, the space will be given on a minimum reserve price of Rs8,600 per site per month in the central and south zones while in the west and Najafgarh zones, the reserve price will be Rs7,000. “The space will be given for a maximum period of seven years. Bids for the same will be held,” the official said. The winning bidder will have to pay three months’ license fee in advance, he added. There are over 6,000 parks, including ornamental and general, under the SDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/south-delhi-parks-to-have-fruit-milk-stalls-soon/story-WzTIjjPmaMERpctTgz1EPO.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai airport gears up to transport, manage vaccine||With various pharmaceutical companies working out ways to procure Covid-19 vaccine, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) is set to deploy a dedicated task force to facilitate advance planning and collaboration between the airport and all the stakeholders (airline customers, supply chain partners, regulatory and governmental bodies, vaccine distributors). Along with stringent security arrangements, the task force is set to manage the required temperature, reduce dwell time with prior special approvals from regulators. It will also create a cold chain for vaccine movement from the manufacturing facility to the end distributor.Mumbai airport will also see a round-the-clock customer service cell dedicated to Covid-19 vaccine export-import (EXIM) consignments in order to address customer queries, pre-alerts and status updates.Also read | PM Modi to interact with three teams working on vaccine todayCSMIA spokesperson said in addition to the existing infrastructure and developments at the airport, flexible slots for ad hoc charter operations will also play an important role in seamless facilitation of storage and transportation of the vaccine. As the country’s largest airport gateway for pharmaceutical EXIM movements, the existing infrastructure at CSMIA offers a continuous temperature controlled movement and processing of pharmaceutical goods through the airport, which will be vital for the storage and transportation of the vaccine.CSMIA spokesperson said the airport has state-of-the-art facilities, such as Asia’s largest temperature controlled export pharmaceutical excellence centre with an annual handling capacity of 350,000 tonnes. “Spread over an area of 4,000sqm, this facility has a total of 140 unit load device (ULD) storage positions and 50 power outlets for charging active containers. Additionally, the airport will also host six dedicated truck docks for round the clock cargo acceptance and quick turnaround of trucks, two release gates for ULD exit, two X-ray machines, six cold chambers offering 2-8 degrees storage for 12 main deck ULD’s, CCTV surveillance and electronically monitored temperature management system with alarm alerts and power backup,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/covid-19-mumbai-airport-gears-up-to-transport-manage-vaccine/story-mXJmuoqSZcoQhKjjNsY2IM.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi: Farmers’ protest enters fifth day, traffic disrupted in city||The ongoing protests by thousands of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws entered the fifth day on Monday, with the protestors threatening to block all five entry points to the national capital. Rejecting the Centre’s offer to hold talks once they move to the Burari ground, the farmers said they will not accept any conditional dialogue and have called a meeting to discuss their next course of action later in the day. Farmers, who had reached Nirankarai Samagam Ground in Burari on Saturday, continued their protest there.Traffic continued to be disrupted in the city due to the protests. Taking to twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police on Monday alerted commuters to take an alternate route since Singhu and Tikri borders continued to remain closed. “Singhu Border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk & GTK road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GTK road, NH 44 & Singhu borders,” it tweeted.In another tweet, it said, “Tikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement. Available Open Borders to Haryana are following Borders Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala Jhatikera, Badusari, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8,Bijwasan/Bajghera, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah had appealed to the farmers to shift to the Burari ground and had said the Centre was ready to hold discussions with them as soon as they move to the designated place.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Concrete barriers come up at Ghazipur, Delhi-Ghaziabad border A meeting of over 30 farmer groups was held to discuss Shah’s offer for talks before the scheduled date of December 3 once they move to Burari in the city, but the thousands of protesters had refused to budge and spent another night in the cold at the Singhu and Tikri border points. Their representatives had said that Shah’s condition that they shift the protest is not acceptable and claimed Burari ground is an “open jail”. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla in a letter to 32 farmers organisations sent on Saturday cited the cold conditions and the Covid-19 outbreak and said the farmers should move to the Burari ground where adequate facilities have been made for them. “As soon as you shift to the ground at Burari, the very next day a high-level committee of union ministers will hold talks at Vigyan Bhavan with the representatives of all farmers unions, with whom dialogue had taken place earlier,” he had said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-farmers-protest-enters-fifth-day-traffic-disrupted-in-city/story-Cj7JidWZe579WBbm5cYTZK.html
30-11-2020||Jaipur||Covid: Rajasthan imposes night curfew between Dec 1 and 31 in 13 districts||In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation, Rajasthan government has imposed a night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am within urban limits of 13 district headquarter towns of Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar from December 1 to 31.The Rajasthan government said in an order, “All markets, workplaces and commercial complexes will be closed by 7 pm so that the staff and others reach back home by 8 pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the District Collector in this regard.”However, the state government order will not be applicable on - factories with production of continuous nature, factories having night shift, IT companies, chemist shops, offices related to essential emergency services, marriage related gathering, any workplace related to medical services, passengers coming or going to transport terminals.Movement of trucks and other goods carrier vehicles and persons employed for loading and unloading goods will also not be affected by the night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/jaipur/covid-rajasthan-imposes-night-curfew-between-dec-1-and-31-in-13-districts/story-6Je2ZrDFJooX7W7E60k8XN.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Concrete barriers come up at Ghazipur, Delhi-Ghaziabad border||Delhi Police on Monday morning placed concrete barriers at Ghazipur, Delhi-Ghaziabad border after farmer leaders said they will block more highways connecting Delhi apart from Singhu and Tikri borders where they’ve been camping since Friday. On Sunday evening, a brief ruckus was also reported from Ghazipur border where farmers tried to push the police barricades but were placated by their leaders.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said cement jersey barriers have been placed at Ghazipur border to stop farmers from barging in with vehicles. “Since farmers have called for blocking Delhi-Ghaziabad, Delhi-Gurugram and Delhi-Faridabad borders also, adequate measures are being taken,” the officer said.Also read | Protesting farmers’ forum rejects early talks offer, sit-in to continue at Delhi bordersPolice said they are closely monitoring the situation at Delhi-Gurugram, Delhi-Noida and Delhi-Faridbad border areas also and that the security is being maintained as required. On Sunday, farmer leaders camping at Singhu Border since Friday held a press briefing and announced that they will block three more borders in order to be heard.These farmers had marched up to Delhi on Friday but were not allowed to enter the city, leading to violent clashes between them and the Delhi Police. The same day, police allotted them the Sant Nirankari ground in Burari to continue their agitation but they turned the offer down, asking for Ramlila Maidan, which is closer to the Lutyens Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-protest-concrete-barriers-come-up-at-ghazipur-delhi-ghaziabad-border/story-QGkxwqhNZB2lYBqS1iXjPO.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Delhi AQI deteriorates further, stays in poor category at 294||Delhi’s air quality deteriorated to the far end of the poor category on Monday morning. The city’s air quality index (AQI) at 6am was 294. On Sunday, the average AQI was 256. Government agencies have forecast air quality to deteriorate further over the coming days due to a likely dip in temperature and gradual reduction in wind speed. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have forecast below normal minimum temperatures in parts of north and northwest India, including Delhi, this winter.“The minimum temperature is likely to remain between 6-8 degrees Celsius over the coming week. Usually, such a drop in temperature is observed from December 20-22, but this year it is likely in the first two weeks of the month itself. It may impact air quality, as wind speed is likely to turn calm around December 4-5,” said a senior IMD scientist. The scientist added that the wind speed, which at present is 8-10kmph, is set to reduce from December 2 onwards, which may result in a plunge in the air quality. According to the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the Union ministry’s air quality forecasting wing, the share of stubble burning to the city’s PM 2.5 levels on Sunday rose to 6% from 4% the previous day. “The ventilation conditions are likely to slow down from December 2 onwards and air quality is likely to deteriorate to very poor zone thereafter,” the SAFAR bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-deteriorates-further-stays-in-poor-category-at-294/story-gSSl5XXknLVO4GGqoXxPYP.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Capital adds fewer than 5k Covid-19 cases for second day||Delhi on Sunday recorded 4,906 new Covid-19 cases, the second consecutive day the city logged fewer than 5,000 infections, despite conducting more than 64,000 tests, indicating that the third and the sharpest wave of the disease in the Capital could be trending towards a decline.Delhi also recorded 68 more Covid-19 deaths, taking the toll beyond 9,000. The city last recorded a triple-digit figure of deaths in a single day on November 24, with 109 fatalities, according to government data.The test positivity rate on Sunday was recorded at 7.64%, lower than levels over 15% in mid-November. “Number of cases and deaths go further down – it’s going down since 7 Nov. The Delhi government is working very hard. Our doctors, nurses and all other Corona warriors are working round the clock. I urge you all to continue to observe all precautions,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Sunday.According to government records, Delhi recorded the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day (8,593) on November 11, and on November 18, the city recorded the highest number of deaths (131). The overall test positivity rate was 15.33% recorded on November 15 – the highest since June 27 (15.37%) – and it has been on a decline since then. The Delhi government’s bulletins carry data pertaining to tests carried out the previous day.“To understand the peak of the third wave, we should look at the peak positivity rates of RT-PCR tests, antigen tests and overall tests. This happened on Nov 7, when the positivity rate of RT-PCR tests was as high as 30.2%, antigen tests was 8.4% and overall positivity rate was 15.26%. This when the overall tests were quite high at 50,754 on Nov 7 and the number of new cases was 7,745,” a statement by the Delhi government said.“In comparison, although the new cases on Nov 10 was 8,593, it was because the tests reached a record of 64,121 for any day in November, but the overall positivity rate had already declined to 13.4% and positivity rate for RT-PCR tests had also declined to 27.8%. The high positivity rate for Nov 14 (15.3%) was an aberration because of the extremely low testing at only 21,000 tests because it was the day of Diwali and even then, the RT-PCR tests positivity rate on Nov 14 (26.7%) was continuing to show a declining trend,” it added.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said that the current trends suggested that the “outbreak” was on “perpetual decline”, even as he emphasised on increasing RT-PCR testing capacity in the city.Sunday’s health bulletin recorded 64,186 total Covid-19 tests of which 29,839 were RT-PCR tests, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 detection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/capital-adds-fewer-than-5k-covid-19-cases-for-second-day/story-mV9GMNkPNwiUL4EgT30QoI.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Delhiwale: Sunder’s reality show||Seen Downtown Abbey, the series on an aristocratic family and their servants, in 19th century England? Who would have imagined that it would take a historical necropolis to put up its Delhi adaptation — but in the form of a free reality show.Renovated into a complex of gardens, Sunder Nursery has emerged as a theatre to witness the domestic manners of Delhi’s super-rich—only they can afford full-time maids and nannies to accompany them in their walks and picnics. Unlike in other parks, here they truly display their at-home manners in full public view, to the advantage of those of us who can never crash into their houses.This reportage is drawn from many excursions over several months, at different times, in the garden. One evening a regal-looking (head up, back straight) white-haired lady was walking with what seemed to be her two little grand-daughters, along with two dogs and five other people, who were dressed in grey. These five were obviously members of the household staff. The two men were each carrying a dog. Two of the three women were walking fast to keep up with the little girls. The third woman was carrying the lady’s handbag — which she was obliged to open frequently to hand over the ringing mobile phone to the mistress.One wondered about the lady. How wealthy might she be? One wondered more about her staffers. Are they enjoying the outing, or taking it as part of their day-job’s drudgeries?Another woman seems to be coming to the park every day. Her all-male staff, in dull-coloured safari suits, busily coordinate on phone with the chauffeur to bring the car in front of the gate the instant she exits.Overall, the in-the-park dynamics between the employers and the household staff tends to be mutually respectful. The staffers are identifiable, mostly because of their uniforms, or because they tend to walk a little bit behind their employers. While the employers talk to each other in English, they switch to Hindi when turning to the alert staffers.This weekend afternoon, a young couple is picnicking with their child. Everything is looking expensive about them, from the blue jeans they both are wearing to the kid’s toys, and from the disposable plates to the sandwiches. The couple’s two maids are preempting their every need, including when the man reaches out for the water bottle. As the evening nears, they get up to leave. The couple walks away with the child, while the maids dispose off the garbage in the nearest bin (a task that their male employer did offer to do, but which they politely refused). For the first time in the entire afternoon, they are chatting to each other, and laughing, and looking relaxed. Maybe because their shift is ending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/delhiwale-sunder-s-reality-show/story-yrXFXhOaywCRlLnLcIWFbL.html
30-11-2020||City||Strength of farmers likely to increase on Delhi border||The strength of farmers is likely to increase at the Haryana-Delhi borders in the coming days as the movement of farmers from Haryana and Punjab continued for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday. On Thursday, farmers had broken the barricades put up by the Punjab and Haryana governments on the NH 44. The Haryana government’s subsequent lifting of blockades gave a boost to several other farmer leaders and they have also planned to reach Delhi. “We are uniting farmers from different parts of the state and will soon reach Delhi to give strength to the protesting farmers,” said Ratan Mann, BKU (Tikait) state president. He said the number of farmers will increase in the next two days as hundreds of members and leaders of farmer unions, who were detained by the government earlier this week, have been released and they will also reach Delhi with more farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/strength-of-farmers-likely-to-increase-on-delhi-border/story-aEjPReAvFGdIGzzWVTnHGM.html
30-11-2020||City||45-year-old woman falls into Vashi creek, rescued by Navi Mumbai cops, fishermen in 15 minutes||The life of a 45-year-old woman, who had fallen into Vashi creek on Sunday, was saved by local fishermen and Navi Mumbai Police within 15 minutes. According to police, at 12.40pm, they received information about a woman who had fallen from the Vashi bridge into the creek. The woman, later identified as Ghatkopar resident Laxmidas Katarmal, was going to her daughter’s house at Koparkhairne, Navi Mumbai, in a rickshaw. She stopped at the bridge to throw the Nirmalya (flowers used in religious rituals) in the creek. Suddenly, after experiencing dizziness, she fell from the bridge. The police immediately alerted the local fishermen. A police officer said, “We were patrolling at near the bridge when we heard locals shouting that a woman had fallen from the bridge. We immediately alerted the fishermen near the creek and they took two boats to save the woman’s life. One of the fishermen jumped into the water to rescue the woman. We rescued the woman within 15 minutes of the incident,” a police officer said. Senior inspector Sanjiv Dhumal from Vashi police station that the woman is undergoing treatment at an Airoli hospital and her family has been informed about the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/45-year-old-woman-falls-into-vashi-creek-rescued-by-navi-mumbai-cops-fishermen-in-15-minutes/story-h38MyvsMHZkMobSu3s8d7K.html
30-11-2020||City||Farmers reject Amit Shah’s proposal for talks||Farmers, who are protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws at the Singhu and Tikri border for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday, rejected Union home minister Amit Shah’s proposal for early talks, once they moved to a designated protest site.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Kadian) president Harmeet Singh Kadian said the representatives of several farmer organisations had rejected the Home minister’s proposal for early discussions.“We have decided not to shift to the Burari ground in the national capital and stay put at the borders. We came to know that Burari ground is an open jail, not a ground. The farmers want to protest at the Jantar Mantar. We will block Delhi from five entry points. If we are the terrorists, the workers and leaders of the ruling party should not consume food and milk produced by us,” he added.He said the unions have asked the central government to withdraw these black laws, FIRs registered against them and release farm leaders arrested during the farm agitation.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre’s agriculture laws stayed put at the Singhu and Tikri border points for the fourth consecutive day on Sunday amid heavy police presence even after being offered a north Delhi ground to hold peaceful demonstrations.Several khap bodies on Sunday held a meeting at Rohtak and decided to reach Delhi on Monday to extend support to the agitating farmers, said Dadri’s independent MLA Sombir Sangwan, who heads the Sangwan khap and is believed to be close to the Haryana CM, has also pledged to support the farmers. “The Haryana government had misbehaved with farmers and we will reach Delhi to support farmers. The union government should intervene into the matter and clear farmers’ doubts,” he added.The farmer union members held a press conference later in the evening and said that they won’t allow any politician to get on the stage during the agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/farmers-reject-amit-shah-s-proposal-for-talks/story-MfQBRnydFYgEb4mLkXkoRK.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Two businessmen arrested for firing at Mumbai builder for failing to repay loan taken from duo||Bandra police on Sunday arrested two businessmen for allegedly threatening and firing at a 59-year-old builder, who failed to return the money he had borrowed from them. The accused, identified as Farhan Sayyed, 30, and Faiyaz Qureshi, 33, had given the builder, Nasir Shaikh, a loan of Rs45 lakh at 10% interest before the lockdown was imposed in March. Owing to the lockdown, Shaikh was unable to return them the money at the promised time. The complainant told the police that he had sought time to return their money, as he was facing cash crunch owing to the lockdown. On Saturday around 6pm, the two accused asked the builder to meet them at Chapel Road in Bandra (West) and threatened him. The accused, who were carrying firearms, opened fire at the builder to threaten him, said the police. He did not suffer any injuries in the incident. “We recovered two empty cartridges from the spot. After their arrest, the accused claimed that their intention was to threaten the builder and not to kill him,” said an officer from Bandra police station. Shaikh, who filed a complaint against the two businessmen, told the police that he knew the duo for many years. During the demonetisation in 2016, Qureshi had introduced Sayyed to the builder. Shaikh had helped Sayyed exchange his old currency with the new ones. Following Shaikh’s complaint, Bandra police registered a case under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Indian Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/two-businessmen-arrested-for-firing-at-mumbai-builder-for-failing-to-repay-loan-taken-from-duo/story-VPhro9WcQa3rlVlHlpKJdM.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Won’t respond to Amarinder’s unconstitutional language: Khattar||Dismissing the language his Punjab counterpart Captain Amarinder Singh reportedly used against him as “unconstitutional”, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday lashed out at the former and said that one CM should not use such language against another CM. Khattar also said that if the Covid-19 pandemic turns into a catastrophic situation due to farmers’ agitation, the Punjab government will be fully responsible for it. A war of words has erupted between the two neighbouring CMs after Khattar said that Capt Amarinder Singh did not respond to his repeated telephone calls, while the Punjab CM had accused Khattar of spreading lies.“The use of unconstitutional language does not suit any chief minister. One chief minister should not use such language about another chief minister,” Khattar said while speaking to reporters in Hisar, pointing out that he does not need to react to such language. “The public is already condemning the language used by the Punjab chief minister on social media. It is not in my values to behave like this,” Khattar added. Responding to queries of mediapersons after a rally organised under the chairmanship of Haryana Vidhan Sabha deputy speaker Ranbir Singh Gangwa in Hisar, Khattar said in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, everyone should fulfil their responsibility. “But it is surprising that at such a time the Punjab government has exhibited irresponsible behaviour and created such a situation,” he said. Reiterating that it was not true that he did not try to speak with the Punjab chief minister, Khattar said the current farmers’ movement was entirely sponsored by the Punjab Congress. He said precautionary measures regarding the protest were taken by Haryana government so that Covid-19 pandemic does not take catastrophic proportions. “The Union home minister has said that he will hold talks with the protesters. As soon as the protesters gather in Burari field, an appropriate solution will be found by negotiating with them,” he added. In response to a query regarding the forthcoming Panchayati Raj elections, the chief minister said that if there is a unanimous decision for filling the posts by direct elections, then the Haryana government is considering a plan to give special grants to the respective areas for development works. It will probably be announced before the election, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/won-t-respond-to-amarinder-s-unconstitutional-language-khattar/story-on32xDa81VUkvw1uyILVQM.html
30-11-2020||City||AAP accuses actor Deep Sidhu of raising pro-Khalistan slogans||A day after the video of actor Deep Sidhu joining the farmer protests went viral on social media, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh accused the actor of raising pro-Khalistan slogans during the agitation.In a tweet, Singh said, “The man who is standing in this picture (with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sunny Deol and another man) is raising slogans of ‘Khalistan zindabad’ during farmers’ protests. Now, it is clear that BJP is making attempts to defame farmers’ agitation with the help of its own people. The PM should clarify what relationship he has with the man who is demanding Khalistan.”Sidhu had hit the headlines when a video of him trying to convince the Haryana police to allow them to proceed to Delhi started making the rounds of social media.“Ye inquilab hain. Ye revolution hai. If they don’t understand the seriousness of this matter, it will define the political structure and the geopolitics of India as well as South Asia,” he is heard saying. “It is going to be very sad for them. If you take away farmers’ land then what do they have left? Only debt?”The actor meanwhile said on a digital platform that he has no affiliation with any political party but he had campaigned for BJP candidate Sunny Deol during the parliamentary polls.“I have a close relationship with Deol and I had canvassed for him in the Gurdaspur constituency. I am fighting with my farmer brothers against these black laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/aap-accuses-actor-deep-sidhu-of-raising-pro-khalistan-slogans/story-2KnluuZPkm47lOadCJyZVM.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai court sends Shiv Sena MLA’s close associate to judicial custody till Dec 9 in money laundering case||A city court remanded Amit Chandole, a business associate of Shiv Sena Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Pratap Sarnaik, in judicial custody till December 9 on Sunday. Chandole was arrested on Wednesday by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case related to security services giant Topsgrup – owned by Rahul Nanda. After the completion of his three-day custody, ED officials produced him before the holiday court. However, the court did not agree to ED’s extension of Chandole’s custody and instead sent him to judicial custody. The counsel for the central agency has confirmed the development. ED had in its previous remand application alleged that Topsgrup had obtained a contract for providing security guards for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) projects in collusion with Pratap Sarnaik through illegal means by a “well-thought out strategy”. The agency has claimed that the aim of these illegal manoeuvres was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the number of contracted security guards deployed at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this “active role and criminal conspiracy”, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract and sometimes, the money used to be transferred to the account of a third person, said ED. Chandole accepted the receipt of cash from Topsgrup for the MMRDA projects, ED claimed. Therefore, part of the amount received by Topsgrup from MMRDA appears to be proceeds of crime, said ED. The Sena leader had termed ED’s actions as an outcome of vendetta politics. “The day I moved a privilege motion against (actor) Kangana Ranaut and (Republic TV editor-in-chief) Arnab Goswami, and spoke about reopening the Anvay Naik (suicide) case (in which Goswami is an accused), I knew what would happen. I am a Shiv Sainik and a fighter who has reached this far. (Chief minister) Uddhavsaheb Thackeray has made me the spokesperson to put forward the party’s views. Today they [ED officers] told him [Vihang] your father speaks a lot on Ranaut and Goswami. I will continue to speak wherever Mumbai, Maharashtra or its police are maligned. I have done nothing wrong in my business,” he has said last week after ED raided his properties and questioned his son. Sarnaik on November 25 quarantined himself citing Covid-19 guidelines after returning to the state from Goa. He has asked ED for a week’s time to join the investigation. The agency said others people linked to Sarnaik’s businesses would also be soon asked to join the probe. Earlier, Nanda had also denied all the allegations. “Pratap is a very old friend and has not invested a single penny in my business or company ever. He or Sena have nothing to do with Tops. This is absolutely absurd,” he said. ED’s money laundering probe is based on a first information report (FIR) registered by Mumbai’s Yellow Gate police on October 28 on the direction of 16th metropolitan magistrate court against Nanda and his family members. The case was recently transferred to the Mumbai Police economic offences wing (EOW) for further investigation. The complainant filed by Ramesh lyer, the former chairman of Topsgrup, alleged that Nanda and others diverted huge funds from the firm’s accounts to various accounts in India and overseas. He further alleged that these funds were utilised by Nanda and others for their personal purposes such as purchasing property. The security firm was thus defrauded of Rs175 crore. Iyer and Topsgrup’s former director of finance Amar Panghal, in their statements, said that in 2014, a contract was signed by Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd with MMRDA, according to which 350-500 guards had to be deployed at project sites on a monthly basis. While only 70% of the guards were actually deployed, the firm billed MMRDA for all the guards and charged the authority for their salaries and provident fund, ED stated before the court. The duo reportedly informed ED that huge cash amounts were withdrawn from the bank accounts of Topsgrup Services & Solutions Ltd and given to a former top executive. In financial year 2017-18, an amount of around Rs92 lakh was handed over to the executive and there was an arrangement with two persons, one of whom was Chandole who got a monthly share of profits earned on the MMRDA contracts. In addition, a fixed commission of Rs50,000 per month and Rs500 per guard deployed was being paid to Chandole and the other man by the top executive, said ED. As per the details provided by lyer, from May 2017 to June this year, the amount aggregating to Rs2.36 crore has been shared as commission. Of the said amount, Rs90 lakh was paid through bank transfers to Chandole and the other man. As per lyer, all these amounts are still being paid from Topsgrup’s bank accounts and a commission of around Rs7 crore has been paid to the duo since 2014 when the contract with MMRDA was initiated. During the course of investigation, the top executive’s statements were recorded on November 24 and 25, in which he purportedly said that Nanda acquired a United Kingdom (UK)-based firm, Shield Guarding Company Limited, in 2014 for around Rs200-250 crore. On the pretext of meeting the expenses of overseas company, Nanda used to allegedly siphon off money from the Indian company for his and his family’s personal expenses, including buying several immovable properties in Dubai and the UK.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-court-sends-shiv-sena-mla-s-close-associate-to-judicial-custody-till-dec-9-in-money-laundering-case/story-XUdqLM4ApZsHZFW0J6qvCJ.html
30-11-2020||City||Maharashtra CM reviews Mumbai coastal road work; tunnelling to begin in January||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday reviewed the ongoing coastal road project between Princess Street Flyover and Worli. Thackeray was accompanied by Mumbai suburbs guardian minister and state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray and urban development minister Eknath Shinde. The CM directed officials to complete the project within the deadline of July 2023.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, workers are currently lowering India’s biggest tunnel boring machine (TBM). Around 20% of the work for the coastal road has been completed. “CM visited three sites and inquired about the progress of the coastal road project. He directed us to complete the work on time and was satisfied with the overall progress. The actual tunnelling work for the project is expected to start by the first week of January and is likely to get completed by the start of the year 2023,” a BMC official said.The TBM will drill the 3.4-kilometre (km)-long twin tunnels partially running under the sea between Girgaum and Malabar Hill, as part of the 9.98-km-long coastal road between Priyadarshini Park and the Worli-end of the Bandra Worli Sea Link.The TBM will operate 25 metres (m) below the surface at Girgaum and 75m below the surface at Malabar Hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-cm-reviews-mumbai-coastal-road-work-tunnelling-to-begin-in-january/story-D0wHkjpu6IgYyVysMetq5M.html
30-11-2020||City||Has Maharashtra Congress failed to capitalise on advantage?||A year after forging alliance with the Shiv Sena, along with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) to form the government in Maharashtra, the Congress’s state unit sees an opportunity to regain its lost ground. However, the party organisation seems to be lacking in its efforts to regain ground. The Congress’s performance in the government, too, has been lacklustre, observers believe. After bagging 17 seats in the 2009 Lok Sabha from the state, its tally dropped to two seats in the 2014 general elections. It further reduced to a single seat in the next general polls. Likewise in the Assembly elections, the Congress came down to 44 seats in 2019 from its tally of 82 seats in the 2009 state elections. Its worst performance was in 2014 when it won just 42 seats in the state. Its tally in Vidhan Sabha had never dropped below 50 in the state’s 14 Assembly elections, where the grand old party was formed 135 years ago. Party workers and leaders were demoralised and did not expect any good to happen. Just ahead of the Lok Sabha and Assembly polls last year, its prominent leaders such as Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil and Harshavardhan Patil defected to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for greener pastures. In 2019 state polls, the party managed to retain its seats, but was pushed to the fourth position, with the NCP winning 12 seats more than the Congress. Then came an offer from the Sena and the NCP to join hands to form government in Maharashtra. State Congress leaders convinced the national leadership that joining the coalition government would give them a chance to regain lost ground and rebuild the party organisation in Maharashtra. However, one year later, this does not seem to be happening. The only benefit the Congress got is that its legislators did not join the BJP. A senior NCP minister, making his observations, said, “The ministers from the Congress hardly have any impact in their respective departments, as compared to the ministers from the NCP and Sena. The blunder by energy minister Nitin Raut from Congress on the excessive electricity bills is expected to cost the government dear. Its other ministers, including relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar and medical education minister Amit Deshmukh could have performed better during the natural calamities (the flood and Cyclone Nisarg) and the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The party also lacks coordination among its own ministers.” Former chief minister (CM) and current public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan recently said in an interview that Raut should have restrained from making announcements of waiver from excessive bills. He had to take a u-turn after the state decided against any such waiver. Political analyst Pratap Asbe said, “The party should have better coordination with its other two allies and must also understand that it has an opportunity to gain the lost glory.” Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat refuted the claims that the party is in slumber. “The decision about reducing the stamp duty has helped in the real estate sector’s revival and we had record registrations of properties. As far as the electricity bills are concerned, the cost of waiver was between Rs1,000 and Rs2,400 crore, which was beyond capacity for the state exchequer to bear. We have better coordination between the three ruling parties and raising concerns over the share from the budgetary allocations could not be termed as clashes.” Congress leaders feel that they had held effective agitations over the farm laws recently and have been pushing for state’s own law to negate the ‘anti-farmer’ provisions in the central laws. The party has also decided to focus on regaining power in local bodies, which has been the strength of its base in rural parts of the state. After 2014, the Congress had lost power in many district councils, municipal corporations and other local bodies. In terms of the corporators in the district council, the party had slipped to the third position. It now aims to regain the councils. The state leadership also believes that power helps in maintaining control of the cooperative sector. As many as 27 of the 34 district councils and 15 of the 27 municipal corporations will go into polls in the next two years. Thorat said any political party’s ultimate aim is to gain power, as it helps strengthen the party base and empower the workers. “We will benefit in the district council and municipal corporation elections to be held in next two years because we are in power in state,” he said. After Congress’s poor show in the Assembly polls in Bihar, especially in the Muslim-dominated Simanchal, the Maharashtra BJP claimed that the grand old party had to face defeat owing to its alliance with the Sena in Maharashtra. There are questions being raised if the party will face a similar reaction from the Muslim voters in Mumbai in the upcoming BMC elections. “I don’t think that results in Bihar elections had anything to do with the alliance in Maharashtra. In fact, Muslims are happy that Sena has fallen apart from BJP. This will help the Congress,” said Asbe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/has-maharashtra-congress-failed-to-capitalise-on-advantage/story-Nb7evodpPeApsArJqkX5yJ.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 forced drug cartels to change modus operandi, say anti-narcotic agencies||The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted drug trafficking and forced international drug cartels to change their modus operandi to send drugs in India, said officials in central and regional anti-narcotics agencies.The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown in many countries across the globe have directly impacted the drug cartels in their international movement as air traffic between many countries have still not resumed.“The logistics of drug cartels and its syndicates have changed considerably since the pandemic. In the pre-Covid era, the Colombian or other drug cartels were using carriers from South American countries such as Bolivia, Venezuela, Brazil and Colombia. They were using people from these countries as cocaine is basically produced in this belt of South America,” said a senior official from the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) requesting anonymity. Earlier they would send mules from these countries to Sao Paulo in Brazil and then to Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, from there the drugs used to be pushed into Mumbai, added the official.Now, as there are lesser flights due to pandemic, the cartels are using people from countries like as Guinea, Malawi and Ghana and are sending them to Addis Ababa and then to Mumbai.“One of the prime reasons is that the cartels are finding it tough to arrange visas and other logistics for carriers from South American countries, and have switched their operations to West Africa,” added the official.The official further said that earlier the rackets were sending mules who would conceal the drugs stuffed in capsules in their body. Last year dozens of foreigners, mostly women, were arrested by officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) at the Mumbai airport while smuggling drugs inside their body. Now the trend has been to meticulously conceal drugs in cavities made in the baggage or trolleys.“The cartels have also increased the quantity for smuggling drugs because their other routes are closed. The recent arrests of a Malawian national and Republic of Guinea national and subsequent seizure of cocaine worth ₹24 crore from them is the biggest seizure of cocaine being smuggled in India through air route this year. There are less flights operating, so they are smuggling in huge quantity to recover the losses they faced during lockdown,” the senior DRI official said.Cargo-related drugs trafficking have also been impacted as cargo movement has slowed down because of Covid-19, he added.KPS Malhotra, deputy director (operations), NCB, said the pandemic has drastically changed the functioning of drug cartels. “As there were restrictions on air passengers, cartels have increased their operations through couriers and maritime routes. As a result of this, there was surge in successful crackdown by anti-narcotics agencies involving drug trafficking through couriers. For bigger quantity, they smuggle through the sea and for smaller quantity they use couriers,” Malhotra said.“The business for drug traffickers has become very lucrative now, as after months of lockdown, there is high demand of drugs in the market. And the cartels are desperately looking for opportunities as their stocks are lying as it is,” Malhotra said.A DRI official said another modus operandi which drug cartels have recently started is to identify poor people who have medical conditions and wish to travel abroad for treatment. “Under the guise of medical tourism, cartels have started using people who face medical conditions to smuggle drugs,” said another DRI official. “It becomes easy for racket members to use people looking for medical tourism as their carriers, as chances of them getting caught or coming under scanner is less considering their genuine medical history,” added the official.NCB officials also said that the pandemic has thrown challenges for anti-narcotics agencies when it comes to deal with domestic drug cartels. “There has been spike in cases of seizure cannabis and opium sourced from the states like Orissa and Andhra Pradesh. Due to lockdown, inward drug trafficking has increased by many folds. Huge quantities, such as 10,000 kilograms of cannabis, are being seized every month,” Malhotra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-forced-drug-cartels-to-change-modus-operandi-say-anti-narcotic-agencies/story-iYTzfh89HhT1H7mFSsSkRM.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Has Maharashtra deputy CM Ajit Pawar regained position in NCP a year after failed coup?||After his first and an unsuccessful attempt to split the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) a year ago, Ajit Pawar returned to the party fold and was also made deputy chief minister within a month Before his failed coup, he was seen as a political heir of NCP chief Sharad Pawar. He was also undisputed number two after the senior Pawar. Despite his attempt to sabotage the new political coalition, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was formed and the partners are now celebrating one year office. The question doing the rounds is – Has Ajit Pawar regained his old position? Opinions are divided in the NCP as well as in political circles, although there is consensus among all that the NCP chief’s authority remains intact not just in the party but also the MVA. Analysts say Ajit’s mistake was forgiven by the NCP supremo, but no legislator will leave the party along with him until Pawar is politically active. They also say that senior Pawar is clearly in control of the party and directly communicates with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on various matters, rendering Ajit’s role to that of just another minister from the NCP. Ajit’s close aides in the party, however, insist there is no change in his position in the party as he was convinced to come back and given deputy chief ministership, the second position after the chief minister in the state government. He is also part of all decisions taken by the party leadership. On November 23, 2019, Ajit Pawar brought what was called a political earthquake in Maharashtra by extending support to the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and swearing-in with Fadnavis as his deputy, at a time when his political mentor and uncle Sharad Pawar was planning to form a three-party government by bringing Shiv Sena and Congress on board. The government lasted barely 80 hours as most of the NCP legislators refused to side with the rebel faction led by Ajit Pawar and expressed their loyalty to the party chief. Ajit, too, returned to the party and a month later was sworn-in again in the same position in the Thackeray led MVA government. He could extend support to the BJP as he was elected as leader of the legislative party unit, thus was replaced by Jayant Patil, state NCP president, soon after the revolt and is yet to get back the position even after a year. “He (Ajit Pawar) is still number two in the party, if not, he wouldn’t have been appointed as the deputy chief minister. He got the portfolio of his own choice and is leading the party in the state government. Even after his revolt, he was convinced to come back and most senior leaders were involved in that process,” said a close aide of Ajit. “He also ensured that two of his close confidantes — Sanjay Bansode and Dattatray Bharne — were made ministers. Bansode was also part of the rebel faction that had extended support to the BJP last year,” said another NCP leader, requesting anonymity. Ajit came to prominence when around 60 out of 62 MLAs signed a letter extending their support to him for the post of deputy chief minister in 2010, forcing Chhagan Bhujbal to vacate the position. Ajit remained in that position till 2014, when the Congress and NCP lost to the BJP-Shiv Sena. His popularity in the party can be gauged that he was welcomed by NCP leaders on his return. He also addressed a gathering of all the legislators at YB Chavan on the very first day on November 27. “He (Ajit Pawar) made a mistake by leaving the party but rectified it and was forgiven by the NCP chief. But his mistake also brought an advantage to MVA partners as the President’s rule was lifted overnight. If he (Ajit Pawar) wouldn’t have made that mistake, the President’s rule would have continued for another two-three months and an elected government would not have to come to power so early,” said Nawab Malik, party spokesperson and state minority affairs minister. Political analyst Pratap Asbe said, “There is no doubt that Ajit Pawar has got his position back in the party and his popularity has also not gone down. But he will have to live with a blot on his image forever. It has also become clear that no legislator will leave the NCP along with him, if he makes another attempt, until (Sharad) Pawar is politically active. No one knows what is going to happen after that.” “Pawar made him the deputy chief minister but he himself is playing a crucial role in deciding major policies of the MVA government by discussing them directly with the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. With this, he has limited Ajit Pawar’s role to another cabinet member in the Thackeray government. In contrast, Ajit Pawar was de-facto in the previous Congress-NCP regime during 2009-14,” said Abhay Deshpande, political analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/has-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-regained-position-in-ncp-a-year-after-failed-coup/story-tBu0MwiHyj08StbPbiqDcM.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cracking down on peddlers will not stop drug supply, say experts||Since August 26 when the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) registered a case to probe the drug angle into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, the agency has continued its crackdown against the usage of drugs in the film industry. Meanwhile, the recent Supreme Court (SC) ruling, that confessions under section 67 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act is not admissible as evidence, could prove to be the Achilles’ heel for NCB when the cases reach trial stage. This, in turn, would hinder the efforts of the agencies to crack down on the supply chain or producers who supply drugs to Mumbai. Legal experts opine that a case cannot stand trial on the basis of a confessional statement alone, and the agency will have to corroborate every arrest with substantial evidence. “Confession statements of co-accused have to be corroborated with other substantial evidence. On its own it cannot be considered as evidence against another accused. With this recent Supreme Court ruling, agencies have to gather other supporting evidence, without which the case would become weak,” said Pradeep Gharat, noted criminal lawyer and special public prosecutor in various high-profile cases. Incidentally, an NDPS court in Mumbai, while releasing Paul Bartel, an Australian national arrested by NCB, on bail, noted, “In the absence of any substantial material, taking into account the fact that no contraband was recovered from the accused and except the statements of co-accused and WhatsApp messages, there is no substantial evidence to treat the accused as peddler/supplier of drugs.” Gharat said that WhatsApp chats, too, cannot be considered as a material of evidence. “Both the confession statement and WhatsApp chat have to be independently corroborated,” Gharat said.Senior counsel Mihir Desai opined that the police have a right to arrest any accused on the basis of a prima facie evidence gathered during the process of investigation. “Confessional statement and WhatsApp chat can be considered as prima facie evidence but they are not enough. It has to be independently corroborated. The agency has to gather further strong supporting evidence while submitting a charge sheet for trial. In the absence of which, the case would become weak and may not yield positive results for prosecution,” said Desai. Only time will tell if the cases registered by NCB against the likes of actor Rhea Chakraborty will stand the test of trial. “Little is known about the corroboratory evidence NCB has gathered to arrest Rhea Chakraborty and others. Chakraborty’s case will be decided by the trial court based on the merits of the evidence gathered by the investigating agency,” said a retired SC judge on condition of anonymity. Senior police officers are clear that arresting small time peddlers will not root out the drug menace prevalent in the city. “Law enforcement agencies have not achieved any major success in busting an entire supply chain or unearthing a link to drug trafficking cartels operating out of Himachal Pradesh, Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh which primarily focus on producing weed or hashish,” said a senior IPS officer, requesting anonymity. “When it comes to hashish, the supply chain is primarily controlled by the Russian or Israeli drug mafia. Hashish fetches a lot of money unlike marijuana whose production and supply is controlled by locals from different parts of the country. Unless we dismantle these drug syndicates, the supply in to the city will continue,” he added. “If a well-coordinated major crackdown doesn’t happen on the drug’s supply chain or the core source unit of drug manufacturers, then the flow of drugs into the city will continue as always,” said former Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) chief KP Raghuvanshi. He added, “A peddler is a very small unit. They are rather the victims. Most of them start as consumers and end up as peddlers. They peddle primarily to fulfil their need to consume and then to make small monetary gains.” Former director general of Maharashtra Police, PS Pasricha, also said that peddlers are the last unit in the drug chain before the consumers. “They don’t run the drug business. Police agencies should focus more on busting the entire supply chain. Only then, the actual supply of drugs would stop in city. But city police’s often don’t prefer going after suppliers as they work in set format and are bound with too many restrictions, jurisdictional issue being the biggest reason.” Central agencies such as NCB and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) are entrusted with going after the big fish of the narcotics industry. In India, majority of domestic as well as international narcotics syndicates, especially those trafficking cocaine and heroin, penetrate metros like Delhi and Mumbai. Delhi and Mumbai have always been their hot favourites.In Mumbai, cocaine is ferried mostly by persons of African origin who are hired by Colombian and other South American drug cartels. Most cocaine peddlers and smugglers who have been arrested in Mumbai by NCB and anti-narcotics cell (ANC) belong to African countries, especially Nigeria which is known to be a key transit point for Colombian drug cartels, said an IPS officer from the Mumbai Police. KPS Malhotra, deputy director, operations, NCB, said, “Narcotics trafficking is a network crime. To bust a supply chain, law enforcers keep on looking for intelligence thread linked to the entire chain at any level — right from consumers to the manufacturer or cartel runners. The majority of cartels, especially the domestic ones, keep on changing their methods, locations while the members stay off the radars of NCB or other law enforcing agencies. The groups would set up some makeshift facilities in interiors, cook drugs and then dismantle everything. Despite this, efforts are always put to derail their plans.” Explaining the challenges faced by law enforcers with respect to taking on cartels operating domestically and trafficking synthetic drugs, a senior DRI official said, “Busting cartels or factories manufacturing synthetic drugs is challenging because India’s chemical-pharmaceutical industry is very huge and monitoring is not rigorous. Drug prepared in factories does not require state of the art equipment or set up. Ephedrine and mephedrone can be prepared using basic chemicals and equipment and the raw material required for their preparation are legally available in both chemical and pharmaceutical industries.” Data or intelligence sharing is another serious problem because of which drug cartels manage to remain off the radars. “The pace at which data or intelligence is shared among all the stakeholders of anti-narcotics works and the pace at which cartels run, there is a considerable gap,” the DRI official said. The Central government has shown their intent to work in this direction and recently revamped the NCORD (Narco Coordination Centre). The government has also constituted an apex committee under the Union home secretary to support the coordination mechanism under NCORD to enable focused resolution of policy and operational issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-cracking-down-on-peddlers-will-not-stop-drug-supply-say-experts/story-yaYRKKtqP8QFWTAR8ALP8M.html
30-11-2020||Patna||Grand Alliance likely to contest Rajya Sabha by-election in Bihar: Report||The opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar is likely to throw its hat in the ring for the Rajya Sabha seat, which has fallen vacant upon the death of former Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, sources in the five-party coalition said on Sunday.The BJP-led NDA, of which the late leader’s Lok Janshakti Party has been a constituent, has fielded former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who will file his nomination papers on December 2.Paswan’s son Chirag, who currently heads the LJP and had burnt his fingers recently by going solo in the assembly polls, sought to downplay the cold-shoulder received from the NDA, saying “the seat belonged to the BJP. It is for the party to decide whom to field in the by-election”.Paswan had got elected, unopposed, in a by-poll last year necessitated by his cabinet colleague Ravi Shankar Prasad winning the Patna Sahib Lok Sabha seat.However, the RJD, which heads the Grand Alliance, had on Saturday indicated that it was not willing to give a walkover to the NDA.In a statement, the party’s spokesman Shakti Yadav had said “the BJP has acted out of spite (‘khunnas’) by denying the seat to the LJP. Had the late Ram Vilas Paswan’s party been allowed to contest, we would have considered supporting their candidate even though his party is not our alliance partner”.Meanwhile, sources in the Grand Alliance said the feelers have been sent to Chirag that he consider fielding his mother Reena Paswan from the seat and assured him of its “full support”.The offer appears to have put the 37-year-old LJP president in a bind as agreeing to the offer would be tantamount to burning his bridges with the BJP, to which he claims to remain loyal despite his brinkmanship, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for whom he expresses unreserved admiration.The LJP chief has been maintaining that his misadventure in the recent elections stemmed from the conviction that there was resentment in the state against Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his JD(U).Numbers in the state assembly, too, appear to be in favour of the NDA, which now includes smaller parties like VIP and HAM. The ruling coalition has 125 MLAs in the 243-strong assembly as against only 110 of the Grand Alliance.The opposition coalition, which hopes to rally along parties like Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM which has five MLAs, is of the view that such a contest would be a win-win situation as even if Reena Paswan were to lose, the NDA would end up angering a large section of Dalits.Sources in the Grand Alliance also said that if Chirag did not come out with a positive response, the coalition might still go ahead and field its candidate for the seat, engaging in yet another trial of strength with the ruling NDA.Filing of nomination papers will come to a close on December 3. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is December 7 and voting is scheduled on December 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/patna/grand-alliance-likely-to-contest-rajya-sabha-by-election-in-bihar-report/story-34r2W9txX5iHn9rxJYHQkK.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees under 6,000 Covid cases for a 2nd day in a row; toll goes past 47,000||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 5,544 Covid-19 cases, second day in a row of over 5,000 infections after three straight days of 6,000-plus, which took the tally to 1,820,059, The state reported 85 deaths on Sunday, taking the toll past 47,000 to 47,071, at a case fatality rate (CFR) of 2.59%. Of the 85 fatalities, 39 were in the past 48 hours, 25 in the past week and 21 before the past week, the state health department has stated. There are now 90,997 active Covid-19 cases in the state. In the past ten days, Maharashtra has scaled up its daily number of Covid-19 tests, at a daily average of 83,930, up from around 50,000 tests in the second week of November. The daily average of tests had dropped to 44,470 during November 11-17. So far, 10,804,422 tests have been conducted in the state, with a positivity rate of 16.85%. In the past 24 hours, 82,224 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the state, with a positivity rate of 6.7%. On Saturday, 86,598 tests were conducted in the state; on Friday 88,627 tests were conducted. Also read: Covid-19: Private doctors await help from Maharashtra governmentA senior officer from the state health department said, “The government is identifying ‘super-spreaders’ in the population, or people who have maximum social contact in the community, and is testing such people on priority. These include hoteliers, vendors, street vendors, state and city bus conductors, who are likely to come in contact with at least 10 to 15 people per day due to the nature of their occupation.”Regarding further scaling up daily testing the in the state, the officer said “The government does not have a target as such, but plans to conduct enough tests to gauge even the slightest increase in cases in the state.”State health minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday that district authorities have been directed to go for aggressive testing in a bid to contain the spread of the virus. “We have asked them to conduct tests at their full capacity. We want to take the daily testing to 150,000 tests,” he said. Despite the increase in daily tests, the number of Covid-19 infections reported daily has not seen a dramatic spike. The officer quoted above said, “The state’s daily positivity rate is hovering around 7%. The number of cases has shown some increase due to Diwali, but they have not increased proportionately to the increase in number of tests. In fact, before Diwali, Maharashtra had a daily positivity rate of around 10%.” State health officials have attributed this to people following Covid-hygiene to a “large extent”, and to herd immunity. Also read: Citizens fined for violating Covid-19 norms in Mumbai to be given masks for free: BMCIn the backdrop of the success in containing the number of cases even after Diwali, the state authorities have hinted that there would not be another lockdown in the state. Tope said that he personally feels no need of any further lockdown, although they may think of imposing stricter restrictions on health protocol. Maharashtra’s recovery rate is 92.36%. While 4,362 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Sunday, 1,680,926 patients have recovered in the state so far.Mumbai on Sunday reported 940 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 282,821, and total deaths to 10,865. There are now 15,615 active cases in Mumbai. Meanwhile, among the various corporations within the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai), Kalyan-Dombivli reported 180 cases and three deaths, Navi Mumbai also reported 180 cases and four deaths, Thane city reported 161 cases and Thane rural reported 84 cases, while Panvel city 51 new cases.Pune district reported 781 new cases. Of this, Pune city reported 237 new cases and 5 deaths, taking the total number of cases to 83,534, and total deaths to 1,949.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-under-6-000-covid-cases-for-a-2nd-day-in-a-row-toll-goes-past-47-000/story-KumqkKkNkmKk58T089ntvK.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Year after losing 2-month-old son in Mumbai hospital mishap, UP couple welcomes child||A year after losing their child in a mishap at civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital at Parel, Pannelal Rajbhar and his wife found a reason to celebrate in the midst of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. In August, the Rajbhars welcomed their second child. But even as the family is trying to restart their lives, the horror of the past continues to haunt them. It was in first week of November last year that Uttar Pradesh (UP) resident Rajbhar had brought his two-month-old son Prince to KEM Hospital after he was diagnosed with a congenital heart disease and pneumonia in his home town Varanasi. Prince was kept on oxygen support at the hospital’s paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and electrocardiogram (ECG) nodes were attached to his chest. On November 7, early in the morning, the nodes of the ECG machine caught fire owing to a short circuit. The fire burnt the infant’s left hand and left side of his face. The child sustained 22% burn injuries and his left arm had to be amputated. He died on November 22, 2019, during treatment. After the death of their son, the couple returned to their hometown. Meanwhile in January, the Rajbhars found a new hope after the couple learnt of a second pregnancy. As the fear of losing their second child played in their minds, the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic across the country in March only added to their anxieties and worries. “We were extra careful this time. We followed up with doctors every month to avoid any pregnancy-related complications and to ensure better health of the child,” said Rajbhar, who is now at Varanasi, taking care of his three-month-old son, with his wife Sandhya. The couple have christened their second child Shashank after consulting a priest for his safety. “Though, we are trying to move on with our lives, last year’s horror continues to haunt us. Sometimes, I wake up at night to check on my son. Even if he sneezes, I rush him to a hospital,” said Rajbhar. HT had reported that Rajbhar regretted and mourned on the fact that the family did not have a single photograph with Prince. This time though, Rajbhar captured several photos with his second son since his birth. Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had given them a compensation of Rs10 lakh, the family is still waiting to get justice. Bhoiwada police had registered a first information report (FIR) under section 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life) of the Indian Penal Code and then added section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) to the case after Prince died. However, the police submitted a closure report in court in October this year, stating that they did not find any conclusive evidence to place responsibility on anyone for the incident. A police officer from Bhoiwada police station said, “We had sent the equipment for analysis but we didn’t find any fault with it. We have filed a report on it.” The National Human Rights Commission is yet to submit their verdict on the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/year-after-losing-2-month-old-son-in-mumbai-hospital-mishap-up-couple-welcomes-child/story-3ecxSC0CLeaqnMPxYQyiNO.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel price hike hits motorists in the absence of local trains||Petrol and diesel prices continued to surge with petrol price inching towards ₹90 for one litre on Sunday. The rise in the fuel price is affecting citizens more as they are depending more on own vehicles in the absence of local trains. In Mumbai, petrol was priced at ₹89.02 for each litre while diesel cost ₹78.97 a litre on Sunday.The gradual rise in fuel prices in the city started from November 21 and it may cross ₹90 per litre in the coming week. On November 21, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹88.09 and diesel was priced at ₹77.34. On Saturday, petrol and diesel were priced at ₹88.81 and ₹78.66 for each litre, and on Friday these were priced at ₹88.58 and ₹78.38, respectively.Petrol Dealers Association stated they expect fuel prices to decrease in the coming days. “Earlier, fuel prices used to fluctuate on crude oil prices, but now the government has kept the policies aside. The government wants money and the fastest-earning money is through petrol pumps. We expect the prices to decrease in the coming days. During the entire lockdown period till November 15, the prices remained constant but now started increasing,” said M Venkatrao, president, Petrol Dealers Association. “The constant increase in the prices of fuel is not justified. The government should immediately work on controlling the prices. If it keeps increasing this way, then fuel prices will soon cross ₹90-mark.” said Dr Charu Jain, a Byculla resident.Citizens have also pointed that the price came when they have to depend on personal vehicles in the absence local trains. “Local train services are shut for the general public. One does not have a choice but to travel by personal vehicle. The government should work on controlling the price as people are already suffering financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Aamir Shaikh, a Bandra resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/mumbai-fuel-price-hike-hits-motorists-in-the-absence-of-local-trains/story-M5vMw0Pjm1SF4QXaOMBStI.html
30-11-2020||Mumbai||Actor Urmila Matondkar set to join Shiv Sena in presence of Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||After an abrupt end to her political journey started with the Congress, actor Urmila Matondkar, 46, is set to begin her second innings in politics with the Shiv Sena. A senior party leader said that Matondkar will formally join the Sena this week in the presence of party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son and minister Aaditya. The party, according to insiders, has already nominated Matondkar for one of the 12 governor-nominated seats in the state legislative Council. Also read: ‘Which girl from a cultured house would use such language’: Urmila Matondkar slams Kangana Ranaut’s attack on Jaya BachchanMatondkar had contested the Lok Sabha polls from Mumbai North constituency on a Congress ticket in 2019, but lost against Bharatiya Janata Party’s Gopal Shetty. She later quit the party in September 2019, stating her efforts to work for the betterment of the party did not find support and also blamed petty in-house politics. Matondkar will be an additional resource for the Sena to put out its messages on a national level. Party insiders said Matondkar is a well-known face nationally, has a good social connect within Maharashtra and will become an additional voice for the party on various issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/mumbai-news/actor-urmila-matondkar-set-to-join-shiv-sena-in-presence-of-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/story-9bFLuLBgtyeDHFlczCVW7L.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Final station: Pulp fiction on its last legs, say sellers||Back in the 1980s, most train journeys in north India were spent with Sudhir, Sunil, Vijay, or Keshav Pandit solving perplexing crime riddles or with stories about complex human relationships that were the mainstay of the fascinating Hindi pulp fiction created by its most notable authors such as Surendra Mohan Pathak, Ved Prakash Sharma and Gulshan Nanda. Published mostly on recycled thick paper, the novels were low-priced with outlandish titles and kitschy cover art. Long before the mobile phones came to the scene and water started selling in plastic bottles, these books were among the essential travel companions, especially on long train journeys. Besides their amazing popularity, these books had one more thing in common --majority of the sales used to come from book stalls on railway platforms. The genre, however, was struggling to survive with online entertainment taking the centre stage, but with train journeys becoming scarce due to restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, it seems to have received the final blow. The publishers of these books, who are based in Delhi and Meerut--- once the capital of Hindi pulp fiction—say their sales have dropped by 90% compared to pre-pandemic levels. “The coronavirus crisis could mean the end of our story; it was the long railway journeys that had given rise to this genre of fiction in the first place,” says Manish Jain, owner, Ravi Pocket Books, a firm set up by his father in 1965 during the heydays of the Hindi pulp fiction -- mostly racy noir thrillers peopled by spies, corrupt cops, conmen, seductresses, and heist-masters. These railways stalls had helped the publishers like Manish Jain sell millions of copies every year till the early 1990s, keeping the printing presses in east Delhi’s Shahdara busy day and night before the growing popularity of TV soap operas in the 1990s began to severely dent their sales. Over the past two decades, the number of publishers in Meerut and Delhi has come down from over 35 to about eight. Before the pandemic hit, the surviving publishers were bringing out roughly 7 lakh copies a year --- some new, but mostly old bestsellers. “Most of our readers were from UP, Bihar, Punjab, Haryana and MP, who travelled in general train compartments. We were selling about 6,000 copies a month of various titles before the pandemic. No long rail journeys mean no sale for us,” says Rakesh Jain, proprietor of Meerut-based Dheeraj Pocket Books, who has been publishing pulp fiction since 1962. According to Delhi Division of the railways, the combined footfalls at Old Delhi, New Delhi and Hazrat Nizamuddin have come down from 9.75 lakh daily before the pandemic to about 3.2 lakh — a fall of almost 70% . The situation in other parts of the country is much worse, with platforms, once a hive of activities, lying deserted. On Friday afternoon, there were a couple of customers browsing through books at Pankaj & Company, a bookstall at New Delhi railway station. There were a few passengers waiting for special trains on an otherwise empty platform. “ Our sales are down by 80%. I have run a bookstall at the New Delhi railway station for past 38 years, but have not seen platforms so deserted, ” says Manoj Jain who runs the bookstall. The stall has a shelf devoted to Hindi pulp fiction. “Earlier, I used to sell 200 titles every day, now I am lucky if I sell 200 in a month. I have hardly sold a dozen titles in the past few months,” he adds. Somit Banerjee, executive vice president, AH Wheeler, a British-era company which has over 325 stalls across the country on railway stations, says, most of their stalls have remained closed as there is hardly any business. “Many publishers such as Chandamama and Amar Chitra Katha, grew with us. There is no doubt that publishers of pulp fiction too thrived because of us. But now we are focusing on quality fiction,” says Banerjee. “There are about 5,500 people employed with our stalls”. The publishers say they are sitting on a large pile of unsold books. “Before the pandemic, we sold most of our pulp fiction titles on railway platforms in cities such as Lucknow, Varanasi, Ranchi, Patna, Mathura. We were managing to survive somehow, but now we are not sure how long we can continue to publish Hindi pulp fiction titles,” says Manoj Gupta, owner, Raja Pocket Books, a Delhi-based publisher. Gupta becomes cheerful as he takes a trip down the memory lane. “ I remember we had sold about 4 lakh copies of the Kanoon ka Beta by Ved Prakash Sharma in a couple of weeks. In fact, till the 1990s, we routinely sold about 2-3 lakh copies of our top writers, a figure many stalwarts of Hindi literature could not match,” says Gupta. The company set up by his father in 1967 has published some of the biggest names in pulp fiction such as Gulshan Nanda, Rajhans, Ved Prakash Sharma, Surinder Mohan Pathak. In the 1980s, his publishing house, he says, used to bring out 100 new titles. This was made possible by the prodigious output of pulp fiction writers. Most writers, Manoj Jain, says produced anything between 4 to 12 books in a year. “Some of them could deliver a manuscript on demand in 15 days flat,” says Jain. Delhi-based Anil Mohan has 259 titles to his credit. He admits the railway station and, to some extent bus terminals, helped writers like him survive. Like most writers of pulp fiction, he has many railway anecdotes to share. “Until the 1990s, whenever I travelled in north India, I would see many people reading my book in the compartment, and that is what kept us going,” says Mohan. Most of these writers do not get any royalties on the sale as they had sold their manuscripts for one-time payment that could range anything between Rs 50,000 to 3 lakh. “I got paid at least 50,000 for most of my books. I think the railway platforms book stalls had introduced books to millions who would otherwise never visit a bookstall and read a book. They created mass readership for our books,” says Mohan, who in the last week of November announced his new book, his first after five years. Railway vendors say with sale at stalls down like never before, they are finding it difficult to survive. “Our license fee should be revised and charged according to the footfalls at the stations for as long as the pandemic lasts,” says Ravinder Gupta, president, Akhil Bhartiya Railway Khan-Pan Licensees Welfare Association, an association of platform vendors, which also covers bookstalls. “Railway divisions have been asked to revise license fees for all catering stalls, including bookstalls as per decline in a number of outward passengers and trains. Bookstalls have been permitted to sell miscellaneous items, including Covid-related items such as sanitizers,” says Deepak Kumar, Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) Northern Railways. In the meanwhile, it is a bright sunny Saturday afternoon, and Anil Mohan is at his writing desk working on novel number 260. “The pandemic may have stopped trains, but my journey as a writer is far from over,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/final-station-pulp-fiction-on-its-last-legs-say-sellers/story-oDh6GoUK2ulHfCME7rSI9J.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Covid has left students with uncertain future||Rising vaccinationalism, industry wars, and the use of unpublished interim data to declare vaccine successes are fuelling uncertainty about the safety, efficacy and affordability of potential coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines on which the world has pinned its collective hope to reboot businesses, education and travel sooner than later.Prime Minister Narendra’s Modi’s visit to three Covid-19 vaccine production centres in Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and Pune will help reassure people that more than one vaccine will be available in India by early next year. “Vaccine development is in the final stage but we must not lower our guard… Our priority is to save every life. Once we have the vaccines, we will ensure they are delivered to everyone,” said Prime Minister Modi.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia last week said that schools in the Capital are unlikely to open until there is a vaccine. Schools and colleges countrywide have been shut since March because of the pandemic, which has led to irrevocable loss of study time for children, more so for those with no or limited access to digital learning tools.Four in every five children reported facing obstacles to learning, and three in four said they were stressed because of an uncertain future, ambiguity over going back to school, and loss of family livelihoods, according to a report by Save the Children titled A Generation at Stake: Protecting India’s Children from the impact of Covid-19, released on Friday.The report polled parents and children from 46 countries including India, where 1,598 parents and 989 children between ages 11 and 17 years from 11 states and two Union territories (Delhi and Jammu & Kashmir) were surveyed to identify their needs to help fill the gaps. The states included Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Assam, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Karnataka and Telangana.Among migrants, 91% of households reported loss of income and 60% households reported they had no money to pay for food, which led to insecurity and domestic violence. Around 11% of children in the general group and 17% children in the migrants’ group reported violence at home during the pandemic.Economic setbacks for families led to one in 10 children saying they would not return to school or do not know whether they would return to school once the institutions reopen. “Our findings show that the economic shocks endured during the pandemic have led to a rise in violence against both adults and children, increase in domestic chores and caring duties, particularly for girls, and reduced mental health and well-being. The most vulnerable children are becoming the biggest victims of its social and economic impacts,” said Sudarshan Suchi, CEO, Save the Children.The report recommends providing psycho-social support to vulnerable children to help them catch up with learning levels and ensure continuity of education for all after schools reopen. Protection programmes, including schemes announced during the pandemic, need to be made accessible to eligible families and children, with special focus on migrant families irrespective of their native place or place of work, the report said.The developmental impact of school closure on children cannot also be ignored. “Beyond academics, schools provide a space for a child’s social and mental development. Schools are where we meet peers, make friends, learn to form relationships, negotiate, enjoy, support, compromise, find ourselves. Social interactions are essential for social and emotional development, this is where we form a large part of our value system. We must consider schooling holistically, in the context of academics and the development of life skills. Online education has addressed the academics part of it, but it’s the peer interface aspect where we are still struggling. This will continue till students come back to school,” said Dr Samir Parikh, director, mental health and behavioural sciences, Fortis Healthcare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/closure-of-schools-during-the-pandemic-has-caused-seriously-affected-learning/story-MncNNJFHwI6nOS6omiicdP.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Agencies crack down on Covid-19 home isolation violators||A man who was isolating at home after testing positive for Covid-19 was found missing from his house in West Delhi’s Mohan Garden when a civil defence team checked on November 20. His family told the team that the man was out distributing invitation cards for a relative’s wedding. He is yet to be traced. Around 5km away, in Bindapur, at least two members of a family of four, who were supposed to be in home isolation, were allegedly found shopping in the local market. When the civil defence team found them on November 17, they said they had been cured. They had tested positive less than 10 days earlier and the nodal officer said there was no record of them being tested a second time. In Uttam Nagar, near Bindapur, a Covid-19 positive man was found missing from home isolation on November 20. When the field visitor questioned his mother about his location, the patient’s mother allegedly misbehaved with them.The police have registered first information reports (FIRs) against all these alleged violators under section 188 of IPC (disobedience to an order by government servant) which carries a maximum punishment of one month or fine of Rs200 or both.While the Delhi government did not share total figures pertaining to instances of violation of home isolation rules, senior officials in the revenue department asserted that such instances are negligible in proportion to the total number of people isolating at home which has helped the government keep the burden off hospitals even when the capital has witnessed three waves of Covid-19 surge.So far, around 250,000 people in Delhi have recovered in home isolation and as on Sunday 21,337 active Covid-19 patients in Delhi were in home isolation, government records showed.Among few other instances in October, a patient in Dwarka was found attending office in Gurugram, three patients from a family in Palam were found leaving home for evening walks in a local park, and in Janakpuri, a house with three Covid-19 patients was found locked.“The Covid-19 crisis in the city has also led to the formation of neighbourhood groups which are often helpful to patients with delivering essentials and also flag violations at the local level. Most violations are sorted out at the local level and some are flagged to the government officials. In some cases, government officials come across violations on their own during field visits. Generally, first-time minor violators are left with a warning. Cases of repeated violations and those of severe nature have led to FIRs,” said a senior official of the revenue department who did not wish to be identified.Currently, Covid-19 patients in Delhi are assigned 17 days of home isolation, during which teams of the district health department are supposed to periodically check on their health and location – both through phone calls and visits to their homes.Delhi’s revenue minister Kailash Gahlot told HT: “Lakhs of people in Delhi have recovered in home isolation so far and several thousands are currently under home isolation. The home isolation model has succeeded in keeping the burden low on hospitals. People are aware of these facts and instances of violations are very few compared to the humongous scale of the model.”“To further strengthen the model, we ensure that teams call up patients and check on their health as well as the location from time to time. Teams are also entrusted with conducting physical checks occasionally. Such checks and balances were further scaled up earlier this month in the light of the spike in cases,” said Gahlot.Santosh Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), under whose jurisdiction several cases have been filed in the recent days, said that such FIRs are registered whenever the district magistrate’s team brings such violations to the police’s notice. “The DM’s teams have a list of Covid-positive patients. They checks on these people and report violations to us. We take action in all such cases which are brought to our notice,” said Meena. But a lot many similar violations aren’t even brought to the police’s notice, allowing infected patients to visit crowded locations and mingle with unsuspecting people, said senior police officials. A journalist based in south Delhi’s Greater Kailash said when she and her family tested positive last month, they also got a carpenter tested since he was working for them. “Later, during a casual conversation, he revealed that he was going out to work just two-three days after being infected. He said that he did not show symptoms and needed to make the most during the wedding and the festive season,” said the woman who didn’t want to be identified. Resident Welfare Associations (RWA) said that it is not uncommon for them to come across such violations.“The discontinuation of the poster system has given patients the licence to not alert their neighbours about their infection. Earlier, relatives of patients were venturing out during infection period, now patients themselves are walking out,” said Rajiv Kakria, convenor of ‘Save Our City’ campaign, a collective of RWAs, NGOs and activists.Initially, the government used to stick posters outside residences of Covid-19 patients in home isolation. In October, the government had done away with the practise in the light of a petition filed in the Delhi high court which asserted that the posters were in conflict with right to privacy and often led to vigilantism by local resident welfare groups. The government had also sought opinions from experts and they had said that doing away with posters would reduce the stigma attached to the coronavirus disease.On November 3, the Delhi government told the high court that it does not paste such posters any longer.Kakria, who is also a member of the Greater Kailash-1 RWA, said that he himself had seen an infected person loitering out in the neighbourhood during a period he was to be in home quarantine. “It was only after he recovered that he casually mentioned to me that he was infected and assigned home isolation. Until then, we didn’t know of his infection and he was roaming outside carefree,” said Kakria. Jugal Kishore, director and professor of community medicine at Safdarjang Hospital, said the trend was “very dangerous”. “If they could go out while being infected, we could as well tell them that they have been given treatment and they can get back to work. They need to understand that this is a communicable disease and they are exposing others to risk. If word of legal action against a few such offenders goes out, it can help control this problem,” said Kishore.He said that the noticed pasted outside homes of patients was a double-edged sword. “Patients and professionals had rightly pointed out the stigma attached to the measure. But now we are seeing how the absence of such a measure means the neighbours are not able to keep a watch,” said Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/agencies-crack-down-on-covid-19-home-isolation-violators/story-GMKUM0vVInnfHJ0imLRQYI.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Farmers announce blocking highways connecting Delhi with Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad||Agitated over the allotment of Sant Nirankari Ground for their protest, instead of Ramlila Maidan, farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders on Sunday announced that they will gherao the capital by blocking three highways connecting the capital to Gurugram, Ghaziabad and Faridabad. Till Sunday, only Singhu border and Tikri border were blocked by the farmers. The farmer groups from Punjab and Haryana, who had marched up to Delhi on Friday but were not allowed to enter the city, have been camping at Singhu (Delhi-Haryana) border and Tikri border for the past three days. On the same day, the police offered the protestors Sant Nirankari ground to continue their agitation but the farmers refused the offer asking for Ramlila Maidan, which is closer to the Lutyens’ Delhi.On Sunday, holding a press conference at Singhu border, farmer leader Surjeet Singh Phul said they have decided that instead of going to the Burari ground, they will block three other highways leading to Delhi -- Jaipur-Delhi highway that connects Gurugram to Delhi, Hapur-Delhi highway that connects Delhi with Ghaziabad and Mathura-Delhi highway that connects Faridabad to Delhi.Phul said, “Burari ground is an open jail and we will never accept to assemble there. On Sunday, a group of farmers from Uttarakhand who had reached Delhi were taken by the police to Burari ground when they said they want to go to Jantar Mantar. We refuse to go to Burari. We have enough ration to survive for at least four months,” he said.Phul also said that the farmers will allow none of the political leaders to use their stage to politicise their cause. “Regardless of the party, we will allow no politician to address from our platform. We’ve been agitating in Punjab for the past two months and we did not allow any political leader to interfere even there,” he added.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said concerned district units have been informed about farmers’ plan to gherao city. “Proper arrangements are being ensured to minimize the inconvenience to the public. Our teams are assessing the situation and a traffic advisory will be issued to alert commuters, if required. The developments are being closely monitored,” the officer said.Senior police officers at Singhu border interacted with the farmer leaders on Sunday. Joint commissioner of police (northern range) Surender Singh Yadav said, “We requested the farmer groups to remain peaceful as they have been for the past two days. Law and order arrangements are being adequately maintained,” Singh said.At the Burari ground, tents were erected and lights were installed, making space for the protestors to come there and continue their agitation. Small groups of protestors even visited the site on Sunday but returned after seeing less than 100 farmers there.Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya, under whose jurisdiction the Sant Nirankari Ground falls, said a police control room has been set up at Sant Nirankari ground in Burari, to facilitate the farmers and ensure proper arrangements. “We have over 500 Delhi Police officials and paramilitary personnel deployed here. Proper arrangements have been made to facilitate farmers who reach here,” Arya said.The border blockage also resulted in traffic snarls in many parts of Delhi. Traffic police posted real-time traffic situations to alert commuters. In one of its advisories issued Sunday evening, traffic police tweeted, “Singhu border is still closed from both sides. Please take alternate route. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba Chowk and GT Karnal Road.Traffic is very very heavy. Please avoid outer ring road from Signature bridge to Rohini & vice versa, GT Karnal Road, NH 44 and Singhu borders.” (sic)Alerting about the situation due to the blocked Tikri border, traffic police tweeted, “Tikri border is closed for any Traffic Movement. Available open borders to Haryana are following -- Jharoda, Dhansa, Daurala Jhatikera, Badusari, Kapashera, Rajokri NH 8, Bijwasan, Palam Vihar and Dundahera borders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/farmers-announce-blocking-highways-connecting-delhi-with-ghaziabad-gurugram-and-faridabad/story-zK7dWGC3DJfIqb1EFRPvAP.html
30-11-2020||Delhi||Blocked borders fuel concerns of rising price of essential items in Delhi||Barricades, clashes, and a group of determined farmers blocking Delhi’s borders with Haryana, waiting for their grievances to be heard, has hit supplies of fruits and vegetable to the Capital. Traders, however, said there is no shortage yet. But the ripples of the protest is likely to show in the coming days, they warn.It is mostly wholesale supply that has taken a hit with hundreds of trucks not being able to enter the city. According to the Azadpur Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Azadpur, supply in the market dropped by 50-60% in the last two days with trucks from Punjab and Haryana unable to reach the market. Aadil Ahmad Khan, chairman of Azadpur APMC, said, “We usually get 2,000-3,000 trucks in the market. But only 666 trucks arrived on Friday and around 1,000 on Saturday. The supply has been affected by 50-60% in the past few days and will be impacted further if the protest is not called off. The government should talk to the farmers and find a solution. The problem is the same at Okhla mandi as well.”Traders at Azadpur market said the supply of potato, apple and other seasonal fruits has been affected, as these largely come from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir. Trucks with fruits and vegetable supply are stuck at NH-1  and NH-10, the two main links between Haryana and Delhi, at Singhu and Tikri borders, hitting supplies of essentials in Delhi.Meeta Ram Kriplani, president of the Chamber of Association of Fruits and Vegetable traders at Azadpur, said, “Vegetable supply has fallen by 50% and fruits by 70%. The goods are stuck on the highway. These are all perishable items. Vegetables and fruits are supplied all across the country from here. It will impact the business.”While some traders said they are getting supply from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and trying to get bring in goods stuck at the borders using smaller vehicles, others said these perishable items wouldn’t last long. Delhi gets most of its milk and vegetable supplies from Haryana and the situation is likely to get worse in the coming days if the farmers’ agitation continues.“Vehicles are parked on both sides of the road, stretching out for nearly three kilometres,” says Naresh Kumar, a truck driver from Himachal Pradesh. His truck, loaded with apples, has been stranded near the Kundli border for the past two days.Charan Singh, CEO of the Rohtak Vita Milk Plant, said farmers were supplying them 1.10 lakh litres of milk every day as before. However, after consumption of 50 ,000 litres per day at the Rohtak plant, the remaining 60,000 litres sent to the Kundli plant for making milk powder was instead being sent to Pehowa in Kurukshetra because of the blockades. “Our transportation cost and other expenditure has increased,” he added.However, even as an advisory was issued by Sonepat police sometime back asking travellers to avoid NH44 as farmers had blocked it and use NH-71A to reach Delhi via Gurugram, Buana, Narela and Safiyabad, Rajshree Singh, Haryana IGP traffic, told Hindustan Times that there was no blockade anywhere from Ambala to Rai. Police personnel, however, had been monitoring the situation after traffic jams had been reported from Rai, she added.Mohd Sayeed, who deals in potatoes and apples at Okhla Agriculture Produce Market Committee , said that apples are anyway in short supply this year due to the Covid pandemic. “We were expecting supply last week, but the trucks got stuck due to snowfall. Now due to the farmers’ protest, it is going to get further delayed.”Onion trader at Okhla, Haji Yamin, too voiced apprehensions. “Currently, there is no problem at , although we are getting 10-15% less stock. We source onions from Alwar. The ongoing protest has scared the farmers in neighbouring states, who earlier used to come to the mandi directly to sell their produce. Very few farmers from Rajasthan and other neighbouring states are coming to Delhi, as they fear that they will get stuck at the Delhi borders,” Yamin, who is the president of the onion traders’ association at Okhla APMC said.But some traders at APMCs in Delhi are working to maintain the supply chain. Nand Gopal, a trader at Azadpur APMC, said, “Trucks are taking a detour and entering Delhi from Gurugram and other borders. This will not affect the cost of the goods much. But if the situation persists, then it will lead to a problem.” At Ghazipur mandi, traders said the supply of potato and other vegetables has dropped. “If the situation continues, it will be a huge problem. For the past two days, supply in the market is down by 30-40%,” said Ashok Khera, a vegetable trader at Ghazipur. So far there has been no increase in retail prices of fruits and vegetables, as there is currently no shortage of fruits and vegetables in the Capital. Suraj Singh, area manager of Honey Money Top, “We were anticipating shortage of fruits and vegetables in the mandis. But so far it hasn’t happened. Therefore, there is no increase in retail price.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/delhi-news/blocked-borders-fuel-concerns-of-rising-price-of-essential-items-in-capital/story-LoE9mAmLUayo5BHNzLEeSL.html
30-11-2020||City||Andolan belongs to entire country, not just Punjab, says Charuni||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, who had led the Haryana farmers marching towards Delhi to protest against the three Central farm laws, said the ongoing agitation is not just of the Punjab farmers and belongs to the farming community throughout the country. “Farmers from several states are participating in the protest. We have had to face several difficulties and criminal cases were registered against us but it is worrisome that some farmer leaders from Punjab are saying that this agitation is being led by farmers of Punjab only,” the BKU chief said.Urging farmer leaders not to ignore the struggle of farmers from Haryana, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, who are camping in Delhi for the past couple of days and facing FIRs to reach Delhi on the call of Sayunkt Kisan Morcha, Charuni said, “Terming this national-level movement as Punjab’s agitation will only weaken this Andolan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/andolan-belongs-to-entire-country-not-just-punjab-says-charuni/story-MjYsHwu1PcQel5SaJWHTsM.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Khattar’s ignorance towards farmers’ movement shocking, disturbing: Hooda||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday described as “shocking and disturbing” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s reported statement that Haryana farmers were not involved in the current agitation against the farm laws. “The chief minister should clarify if he does not consider the agitating farmers as residents of Haryana? If the farmers of Haryana are not part of the movement, then who did the government lathi-charge in Pipli? Who are the people who were detained by Haryana Police before their Delhi march? Who where are the thousands of farmers against whom the Haryana government has filed cases,” Hooda questioned. The former CM said “the ignorance of Khattar towards such a big movement is shocking and disturbing” and that the state government should know that the farmers of Haryana and Punjab have stood shoulder to shoulder in this movement. “They are also getting support from the farmers of UP, Rajasthan and other states. Ignoring them is an insult to those who work hard to ensure food on our tables. As a responsible Opposition, we fully support the demands of the farmers,” said Hooda.Meanwhile, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumri Selja demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against the agitating farmers and the release of all detained farmers. The HPCC chief said the Centre should hold unconditional talks with the farmers. Haryana Congress leaders said the entire nation stands with the farmers and will fight till the government concedes to the genuine and lawful demands of the farmers. “Until the farmers win this battle, we stand firmly with the demands of the farmers. The attitude adopted by the government to crush the movement is completely undemocratic as every citizen and every class has the right to demonstrate peacefully for their just demands in democracy,” Hooda said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/khattar-s-ignorance-towards-farmers-movement-shocking-disturbing-hooda/story-YdgVKnNW6zBUh7mPYWyfoI.html
30-11-2020||Chandigarh||Blockade of Haryana highways hits supplies to Delhi||The blockade of National Highway (NH) 1 and NH10, the two main links between Haryana and Delhi, at Singhu and Tikri borders for the past two days, has hit supplies of essential commodities, especially vegetables, fruits and milk to the Capital.As Delhi gets most of its milk and vegetables from Haryana, the situation is likely to get worse in the coming days if the farmers’ agitation continues. This will also affect the connectivity of northern states to the national capital. Hundreds of vehicles, carrying essential items, are stuck in the jams on the borders and have been unable to reach Delhi.“Vehicles are parked on both sides of the road, stretching out for nearly three kilometres,” says Naresh Kumar, a truck driver from Himachal Pradesh. His truck, loaded with apples, has been stranded near the Kundli border for the past two days.Delhi’s largest wholesale fruit and vegetable market, Azadpur mandi, has also been impacted by the blockade.“On Friday, we received 2,800 tonnes of fruits instead of regular supplies of 5,500 tonnes; and 5,600 tonnes of vegetables instead of regular supplies of 6,500 tonnes,” said Adil Ahmad Khan, chairman, Azadpur Agriculture Produce Market Committee, while interacting with the media in Delhi. Now most people are travelling on link roads and expressways from Rai in Sonepat district to reach Delhi, but police officials say that people traveling on the expressway are also encountering long traffic jams and it may turn worse in the coming days as farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have also started their movement to join their counterparts from Punjab and Haryana.“After waiting for two days in Chandigarh, we have to reach Delhi by traveling about 100km extra via Mathura road,” said Vikash Verma of Delhi, who had gone to Amritsar along with his family.Meanwhile, at Ambala, things are yet to return to normal as police blocked two borders at Shambhu (Ambala-Patiala) and Sadopur (Ambala-Chandigarh) on Thursday and Friday. Trucks remained lined up on both sides of NH-44.Several migrant groups from Ludhiana were also forced to cross over to Ambala to catch trains and private buses from the Cantonment.HT had spoken to a family of 10 members, including four children, who remained stranded at the border after missing a train for Lucknow.An elderly woman from Ambala who was crossing the border from Patiala on Thursday, said, “They don’t care what people like us have to face.”The borders, however, were opened for farmers and commuters. Talking to Hindustan Times, Haryana IGP Traffic Rajshree Singh said that there is no blockade on NH44 from Ambala to Rai. But now there reports of traffic jams near Rai of Sonepat and cops have been deputed to monitor the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/chandigarh/blockade-of-haryana-highways-hits-supplies-to-delhi/story-lJcQyyHnozNZ2JJPFNYjWI.html
30-11-2020||Pune||Prime Minister Narendra Modi responds to Parbhani sixth grader||Ajay Dake, a class six student from Parbhani, Maharashtra, received a pleasant surprise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the form of a letter. Earlier, Dake had sent a sketch of PM Modi along with a letter. In his letter to the prime minister, he wrote about his love for painting. He stated that painting is his world and a method of expression. He had also expressed his wish to become a responsible citizen and serve the country.PM Modi responded to Dake’s letter and the sketch. The PM admired “Ajay’s exceptional art”.PM Modi in his letter praised the sketch saying “the magical art of painting realises most ethereal dreams on canvas”.The prime minister further wrote, “Your ideas about the country that you have expressed in your letter illustrate the beauty of your thoughts.”PM Modi encouraged Dake that he should utilise his creativity for the betterment of the society.Prime minister added, “I hope you would use your skill to bring awareness about relevant issues among your friends and in the society.”Modi ended his letter with blessings and good wishes for the sixth-grader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/pune-news/prime-minister-modi-responds-to-parbhani-sixth-grader/story-PcFvxWea50GNvhX1QNyQYP.html
30-11-2020||Gurugram||Old Tehsil building — a link to the colonial era — to turn into Mewati Museum||Located along the erstwhile Delhi-Alwar Road, the colonial-era Old Tehsil building in Nuh is expected to get a fresh lease of life with deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala announcing plans to turn the heritage structure into a ‘Mewati Museum’. Chautala had shared plans for the building last Sunday, while addressing a farmers’ gathering in Nuh. The building was constructed by the British in 1872 and is currently being used as an administrative space by patwaris (rural registrars). In 2018, the state department of museums and archaeology had also initiated the process of taking the structure under protection, but the process is yet to be completed. While the preliminary notification was issued two years ago, the final notification is yet to be issued. Once converted, this will be the first government museum in both Nuh and Gurugram. Banani Bhattacharyya, deputy director, Department of Archaeology and Museums, said that the Old Tehsil building is a heritage structure dating to 19th century and demonstrated colonial-era architecture. “The building was constructed in 1872 during the colonial period, as per the details mentioned in records. The construction unit comprises stones and lakhori bricks, whereas lime-surkhi has been used as mortar and plaster. Lakhori bricks have been used in the construction of the building in the central portion and along the arches towards the entrance, whereas stones are used in the bottom,” said Bhattacharyya. The building served as the administrative centre for five tehsils — Gurgaon, Firozpur Jhirka, Nuh, Palwal and Rewari — since its construction. The then-Gurgaon district was rearranged into the five tehsils in 1861, as per the district gazetteer. Locals say that an inscription bearing the year of construction of the structure, placed at the entrance gate, has now disappeared. Over the years, the premises of the tehsil have been whitewashed and a number of modifications made. Two years ago, efforts of demolishing the structure were stopped after a civil suit seeking a permanent injunction on construction and demolition activities was filed.Matloob Khan, 65, the petitioner, said that plans were afoot to demolish the building and make way for newer constructions. “Through newspaper reports, I learned that the government wanted to come up with flats on the premises of the tehsil. As a responsible citizen, I decided to approach the courts so that the destruction of this historical place could be averted. Eventually, the department intervened and the district administration was asked to ensure that the place is left as it is,” said Khan, a professor who lives in the vicinity of the tehsil. The building has fallen into disrepair over the years, due to poor upkeep. Many markers of the building’s heritage ]have been damaged by humans and nature alike. A huge wooden gateway that served as the entrance to the premises was removed in the early 1990s. “There used to be a massive wooden gate at the entrance. I remember seeing it. At some point in time, it was removed. The overall security apparatus existed for a long time. Santris (guards) used to sound a bell/alarm every half hour until a few decades ago,” recalls Khan. The building is spread over 12 kanals and 8 marlas (roughly 2 acres), as per local records. It comprises 30-40 rooms spread across the perimeter of the building. Arches are a recurring element across the rooms and the buildings. The central portion of the building used to serve as the treasury during the British rule and remains locked at present. This portion also houses a jail. In one of the rooms, an abandoned old boat sits like a souvenir from the past. Locals claimed that the boat was used for rescue efforts during floods in 1976. The original court structure where magistrates used to carry out proceedings is also intact. While the interiors of the building are replete with such objects, the outer portion gives a clearer picture of the original architecture, with trees growing through its walls. Most locals in the area said that steps need to be taken for the upkeep of the building. Umar Mohammad, 60, a resident, said that the government could preserve the memorabilia associated with the building. “There used to be a huge wooden gate at the entrance, some 15 feet tall. A massive hand-held curtain used to be present at the court earlier. The government can showcase such remnants to make people understand the history of the region,” said Mohammad. Khan said that the building was a witness to the colonial past and needed to be preserved for the future generations. “It should become a heritage building or a museum with antiquities from the region. Mewat doesn’t have a museum. Turning the building into one can start a conversation around the history of the region.” Bhattacharyya said that the department had been apprised about the proposal of converting the building to a museum. Welcoming the move, she said that the building was an important component of Mewat’s history and needed to be preserved. “The tehsil building is a part of history. It holds an important place in the history of Mewat. Besides, the history and culture of the region can be demonstrated if a museum is made,” said Bhattacharyya. Bhattacharyya said that the department had earlier proposed that conservation plans for the tehsil building could focus on children, particularly girls. “There is a paucity of good schools and libraries in Nuh. We had earlier suggested that whenever the tehsil building is refurbished, we could keep the focus on children. If a museum is made, it can be imagined as a museum for children with libraries and other aspects. This would also encourage awareness and curiosity among children towards their area history,” said Bhattacharyya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/old-tehsil-building-a-link-to-the-colonial-era-to-turn-into-mewati-museum/story-pVVzPfWiaMXgb67ASZkgSK.html
