02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE, CISCE scrap Class XII exams after review by PM||The Class XII examinations of the Central Board of Secondary Education have been cancelled, following a review meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday evening. “In view of the uncertain conditions due to COVID and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that Class XII Board Exams would not be held this year. It was also decided that CBSE will take steps to compile the results of class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner,” said a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office issued after the meeting. However, in case some students wish to take the exams, such an option would be provided to them by CBSE, as and when the situation becomes conducive, said the statement. The same option was offered last year as well. Following the meeting, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations also decided to cancel its Class XII examinations. The issue of all India professional entrance tests such as JEE and NEET was not discussed at the meeting, according to officials present.  Assessment method CBSE is yet to announce its alternative assessment method. A senior CBSE official told The Hindu that one option being considered is grading based on the student’s internal assessment and practical exam scores from Class XII, rationalised according to analysis of the school’s mark distribution in the board exams over the last three years. Another option would be grading based on the student’s final exam scores from Class IX, X and XI. At the review meeting, attended by senior Cabinet Ministers and Education Ministry officials, a detailed presentation was made on consultations held so far and views received from all stakeholders, including State governments. “After extensive consultations, we have taken a decision that is student-friendly, one that safeguards the health as well as future of our youth,” Mr. Modi tweeted after the meeting. States opinion Although some State governments, including Delhi and Maharashtra, had called for the exams to be cancelled, most States had favoured holding a truncated version of the exams, with objective type question papers. About 14 lakh students had registered to write the examination, which was originally scheduled to be held in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cbse-cisce-scrap-class-xii-exams-after-review-by-pm/article34703493.ece
02 June 2021||Kolkata,||TMC, BJP spar over notice to former Chief Secretary||With the Centre issuing a showcause notice to the former West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay under the Disaster Management Act, a war of words erupted on Tuesday between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP. Mr. Bandyopadhyay, who was on Saturday asked to report to Delhi on Tuesday, opted to retire on Monday and was then appointed Chief Adviser to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The showcause notice was sent to Mr. Bandyopadhyay late on Monday. “...by this Act of abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister, who is also the Chairman of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas, Shri Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Chief Secretary, Government of West Bengal, has acted in manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the Central government and is thus violative of Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the letter addressed to Mr. Bandyopadhyay on May 31 read. Even though the State Secretariat, Nabanna, was closed for sanitisation on Tuesday, the showcause notice to the retired bureaucrat created ripples in political circles of the State. ‘Act of vengeance’ The Trinamool Congress leadership described the notice to the former Chief Secretary even after he had retired from service as an “act of vengeance” . “The Centre seems to be guided by the logic that might is always right. This development indicates an ulterior motive on its part to not allow the West Bengal government to function properly during a pandemic and post a natural disaster,” Trinamool Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told The Hindu . Mr. Roy said many issues remained unanswered on why the former Chief Secretary after being granted a three-month extension (on May 24) was summoned to Delhi on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tmc-bjp-spar-over-notice-to-former-chief-secretary/article34703491.ece
02 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Classes begin in schools in virtual mode||The customary fun and excitement associated with school reopening were missing for the second consecutive year as the State-level Pravesanotsavam got under way in the presence of a limited audience at Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill, here on Tuesday morning. Nearly three lakh students who have taken admission to Class 1 took their first step into formal learning on Tuesday. A handful of students, balloons and buntings, flowers on the stage, and the Pravesanotsavam song were some of the bright spots at the function held against the backdrop of COVID-19. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who inaugurated the virtual Pravesanotsavam, held out a message of hope. “The time when students, dressed in new clothes and school bag in hand, return to school is not far,” he told students watching the live telecast of the celebrations on the KITE VICTERS channel in their houses.  With the start of digital classes during the first wave of COVID-19 last year, the State became a model for everyone. This year, going a step further, online classes in which students can directly communicate with their teachers would be introduced in phases. The online classes would include recreational activities such as music, sports, and drawing to relieve students’ anxiety. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty, who lit the lamp at the function, said a study on how students could return to school gradually depending on the pandemic spread would be conducted. Celebrities join in Messages to students by a host of celebrities were telecast at the function. The main Pravesanotsavam was followed by virtual school-level receptions for new entrants. The digital classes for the year kicked off with ‘Kilikonchal’ for anganwadi students. The first two weeks of classes on the VICTERS channel will be on trial bases. Classes for students from 1 to 10 will begin on Wednesday, and that for Plus Two from June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/classes-begin-in-schools-in-virtual-mode/article34703642.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Huge rush for vaccination drive for students travelling abroad||There was a huge rush for vaccination on Monday, when a drive for students set to travel abroad for higher education or work began. On day one, 275 in the category were inoculated. Although the drive was suppposed to begin at 3 p.m., the students gathered at the Bengaluru Central University as early as 9.30 a.m. The personnel managing the drive were taken by surprise, as they were expecting around only 25 to 30 students. The exercise went on till 7.30 p.m. and will continue at the same campus for the next few days. Students, however, have demanded that the government should not allow walk-ins and should give appointments to avoid rush. Deepak Kamath, who accompanied his daughter for vaccination on Monday, said they were glad that the State government had taken up this initiative but was unhappy about crowding and absence of social distance. There was also a need for thorough verification of the documents so that only eligible students are able to avail the benefit, he added. There were complaints that the screening procedure was not adequate and even those without documents were able to get the jab. Authorities in charge of the drive acknowledged that there was a need for better screening. “But there is no way we can verify if students are actually showing us authentic documents,” the official added. Several students, who were travelling abroad for higher education and residing outside Bengaluru, demanded that a similar drive be held in all districts. Draws flak The drive drew flak from doctors and public health experts who said that it was unfair that the gap between two doses was reduced to a month for people under this category, while others had to wait for 12 to 16 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/huge-rush-for-vaccination-drive-for-students-travelling-abroad/article34703529.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu receives 4.95 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines||A day after the Tamil Nadu Medical Department announced that vaccination would be suspended until fresh supplies arrive, the Centre on Tuesday dispatched 4,20,570 doses of Covishield and 75,000 doses of Covaxin for vaccinating people aged 45 and above. Earlier, the State was facing the risk of running out of vaccines in two days. With supplies from the Central government scheduled to reach the State only after June 6, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian and Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan had stated that vaccination would have to be suspended till a fresh lot was supplied. However, the State received a total of 4,95,570 doses of vaccines for those aged 45 and above, taking the stock in-hand to 6.5 lakh, Mr. Subramanian said. With this, the total number of vaccine doses supplied to the State reached 1.01 crore. So far, nearly 90.5 lakh doses had been administered, he added. The vaccines supplied would be dispatched to all districts by Tuesday night, he said, adding, “From tomorrow [Wednesday], 1.5 lakh to two lakh doses will be administered per day... Details of the district-wise distribution of vaccines will be published on the website of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.” While vaccines were being distributed on the basis of the population of each district, with Chennai receiving the highest number of doses, followed by Coimbatore, the Chief Minister advised that priority be given to the western region, which accounted for a slightly higher number of fresh cases. Accordingly, additional doses would be given to districts like Coimbatore, Erode and Tiruppur, the Minister said. “The current stock is adequate for three to four days. The Centre has allocated 42 lakh doses for this month, and will start supplying them gradually,” Mr. Subramanian said. On Tuesday, 98,183 people were vaccinated across the State, including 47,567 in the 18-44 age group. The coverage crossed 90 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tamil-nadu-receives-495-lakh-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines/article34703566.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Will find lasting solution to sea erosion in next five years: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has assured the Assembly that his government will strive to find a permanent solution in the next five years to address the woes faced by those residing along the coast due to sea erosion. “The issues of the coastal belt are of utmost seriousness and extreme erosion has been identified at least in 10 areas across the State,” Mr. Vijayan said replying to a notice for an adjournment motion moved by Congress legislator P. C. Vishnunath in the Assembly on Tuesday. In the first adjournment motion moved in the first session of the 15th Assembly, the MLA sought immediate financial assistance to those residing near the shoreline to overcome the crisis arising out of the repeated natural disasters and sea erosion. Admitting the concerns raised by the legislator, Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian said geotubes-sand-filled sacks made of natural or synthetic fibres would be laid off the shore in Shanghumughom in the capital to check sea erosion. The road to the domestic terminal of the international airport has been closed after a major portion of it was engulfed by the sea. Intervening, the Chief Minister said the “government has still not taken a decision on the issue of laying geotubes.” The Opposition UDF MLAs staged a walkout from the House after the Speaker M. B. Rajesh refused permission for the motion on the basis of explanations given by the Chief Minister, Fisheries Minister and Electricity Minister K. Krishnakutty who stood in for Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/will-find-lasting-solution-to-sea-erosion-in-next-five-years-cm/article34703640.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State’s COVID tally goes up by a lakh in seven days||The State has again reported 104 COVID-19 deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. During the period, 11,303 new cases were reported and the cumulative tally crossed 17 lakh. The tally reached 17,04,388  and the toll increased to 11,034. The tally jumped from 16 lakh to 17 lakh in seven days. The number of recoveries stands at 15,46,617  including 18,257 in the past day and the recovery rate was at 90.74%. The active cases came down to 1,46,737. The positivity rate of the 93,704 samples tested in the past day was 12.06% . West Godavari reported 20 more deaths in a day, followed by Chittoor (14), Anantapur (9), Guntur (9), East Godavari (8), Visakhapatnam (7), Krishna (6), Kurnool (6), Srikakulam (6), Vizianagaram (6), Kadapa (5), Nellore (4) and Prakasam (4). With 2,477 new cases, East Godavari was the only district to see over 2,000 more infections. It was followed by Chittoor (1,536), West Godavari (1,116), Visakhapatnam (985), Anantapur (953), Prakasam (935), Srikakulam (693), Guntur (686), Krishna (647), Nellore (444), Kadapa (323), Kurnool (286) and Vizinagaram (222). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,28,067), Chittoor (1,92,625), Guntur (1,50,581), West Godavari (1,42,088), Anantapur (1,39,251), Visakhapatnam (1,38,157), Nellore (1,18,501), Kurnool (1,15,501), Srikakulam (1,09,677), Prakasam (1,08,041), Kadapa (95,180), Krishna (89,269) and Vizianagaram (74,555).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-covid-tally-goes-up-by-a-lakh-in-seven-days/article34703479.ece
02 June 2021||NELLORE,||Anandaiah resumes making herbal preparations||A day after the Andhra Pradesh government permitted three types of herbal preparations after the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s intervention, ayurvedic practitioner B. Anandaiah on Tuesday began elaborate arrangements for mobilising the ingredients for making the concoctions. Commissioner of AYUSH V. Ramulu had said on Monday the herbal concoctions were not ayurvedic medicines, but were not found to have any side-effects. People could take the preparations as health supplements to boost immunity, he had said. Talks on distribution SPSR Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu, along with SP Bhaskar Bhushan and Deputy Collector M.N. Harendhira Prasad, held hectic parleys on the ways to allow distribution of the permitted variants without any violation of the COVID-appropriate behaviour and the partial curfew in force. “The decentralised distribution of the variants will start from Monday,” YSR Congress Party district president and MLA from Sarvepalli Kakani Govardhan Reddy said after talks with the officials, along with Mr. Anandaiah. Mr. Anandaiah said he would require at least four to five days for procuring the ingredients from various places through a network of volunteers. Security arrangements Nobody should try to visit Krishnapatnam or Nellore for the herbal preparations, Mr. Bhaskar Bhushan said after reviewing the security arrangements at Krishnapatnam and at other places en route, including on the Chennai-Kolkata highway, to prevent the huge rush as witnessed earlier. The variants of the preparation would be made available to those seeking them only through India Post or private courier services after taking orders online, officials said. The distribution would be carried out in close coordination with the revenue and police officials. Mr. Govardhan Reddy thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for acting swiftly and giving the green signal for usage of three variants. The Andhra Pradesh government would take a decision on Mr. Anandaiah’s eyedrop variant variant, which ran into controversy, on completion of the ongoing studies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/anandaiah-restarts-process-for-herbal-preparation/article34703454.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Give details on scheme for orphaned children, says SC||The Union government informed the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the “modalities” of a PM-CARES scheme to fund the education and welfare of children orphaned by the pandemic “need to be worked out”. The government’s explanation in the court came in response to queries on why the scheme was still not available in the public domain. “We do not know how many children will be beneficiaries or how the Government of India is going to implement the scheme announced on Friday,” the court’samicus curiae, advocate Gaurav Agrawal, stated. He said the “scheme was not available, except in press notes”. The Centre has said it would support the education of the children and set up a Rs. 10 lakh corpus fund for them. From what he could gather, the scheme would help COVID-19 impacted children continue their education. It would fund educational requirements, in the form of uniforms, textbooks, etc. The scheme would also offer financial help for their higher education. Each child had a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh, which he/she would get on reaching the age of 23. “This may be so that he or she would have some money when they start on their own… There is also health insurance till the age of 18.” Responding to the submission that the particulars of the scheme were not “available”, Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Centre, undertook to file the details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/give-details-on-scheme-for-orphaned-children-says-sc/article34703489.ece
02 June 2021||Kolkata,||Daily infections in Bengal drop below 10,000; curbs relaxed||The number of daily COVID-19 infections in West Bengal dropped below 10,000 after several weeks with the State registering about 9,424 infections in the past 24 hours. During the second wave of the pandemic, the number of daily infections had peaked above 20,000. This is the first time after the marathon Assembly polls in the State that daily COVID infections have dropped below 10,000. Another new trend that has emerged is that the number of infections in North 24 Parganas, the most populated district, is almost double that of Kolkata. North 24 Parganas has registered 2,028 infections in the past 24 hours, while Kolkata registered 1,032 new cases. The State however, recorded 137 deaths due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. While North 24 Parganas recorded 35 deaths, Kolkata recorded 32 deaths and South 24 Parganas 13 deaths. Meanwhile, in a notification issued by West Bengal government late on Monday the State government has allowed relaxation to grocery shops, construction workers and allowed Information Technology firms to function with 10% capacity. The State health department has also issued a notification directing that doctors be not asked to work more than eight hours. The government order also directs doctors tending to COVID patients be allowed two to three days leave every week. Ambulance cost Along with the government, several voluntary organisation have joined in the fight for COVID-19 reaching out to patients in distress. The Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a voluntary organisation, has started an ambulance service to ferry COVID patients for Rs. 1. “We have realised that getting an ambulance is proving to be a challenge for COVID patients. In many cases ambulance is not available or charge an exorbitant amount. We have ferried several patients either to hospitals or safe homes. Today, our ambulance services came to the rescue of a patient who died of COVID. We helped the family carry the body to crematorium,” Samirul Islam, president of Banglar Sanskriti Mancha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-infections-in-bengal-drop-below-10000-curbs-relaxed/article34703615.ece
02 June 2021||Pune,||With nearly 36,000 recoveries, active cases fall to 2.30 lakh||With 35,949 recoveries on Tuesday, Maharashtra’s active case tally dipped below 2.50 lakh to reach 2,30,681. In its lowest case surge since the second week of March, the State recorded 14,123 new COVID-19 cases. There was a sharp spike in the fatalities, however, with 854 deaths being added to the State’s progressive death toll, of which 340 occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 137 were from the past week. As many as 377 fatalities had been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department. The total death toll has now risen to 96,198 with the State’s case fatality rate climbing to 1.67%. The State’s total cases have touched 57,61,015 while its cumulative recoveries have gone up to 54,31,319 with the recovery rate rising to 94.28%. “Of a total 3,52,77,653 laboratory samples tested thus far, 57,61,015 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 16.33%) have returned positive with over 2.02 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported 1,500 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,18,658. As per the State Health Department figures, 24 deaths were recorded as the fatality toll rose to 12,507. According to district authorities, the active cases have dipped below 27,000 while the death count has exceeded 16,900. Mumbai recorded 830 new cases to take its total tally to 7,06,118 while the active count has declined further to 20,147. As many as 23 fatalities took the city’s toll to 14,849. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur continued to register big surges, with more than 1,300 new cases taking its total cases to 1,15,500 of whom 18,590 are active. Forty deaths saw the toll go up to 3,525. Satara added 1,535 new cases and 28 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,66,938 of whom 20,777 are active. Its death toll has climbed to 3,165.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-nearly-36000-recoveries-active-cases-fall-to-230-lakh/article34703956.ece
02 June 2021||Belagavi,||CID registers FIR after gold disappears from car parked in police station in Belagavi||Investigators of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) have registered a case in connection with the disappearance of gold from a car parked in a police station in Belagavi district. Based on a complaint from Tilak Pujari, a Mangaluru-based gold trader, Inspector Anand Kumar has registered a First Information Report (FIR). This follows the transfer of the case from the District Police to the CID earlier this month. The complainant has in the complaint suspected that police officers may be involved in the theft of property. The complaint stated that Mr. Pujari’s driver and two assistants were carrying 4.9 kg of gold, valued at around Rs. 2.25 crore, in the air bag of his car. They were transporting it from Mangaluru to Upari village in Maharashtra, to be moulded into gold jewellery. Acting on the instruction of senior officers, officers of Yamakanamaradi Police stopped the car. This was on the suspicion that the three persons in the car were carrying valuables without proper documents. Local police officers filed a case related to suspicious movement and carrying of valuables without documents. The car was parked in the Yamakanamaradi Police Station as per the property forwarding clause. The police submitted relevant documents to a court in Sankeshwar in this connection. Then, the court ordered the release of the vehicle on April 16. The car owner realised, within a few hours of its release, that the gold was missing. He submitted a petition to the Inspector-General of Police saying that he had hid the gold in the air bag of the car, as he was apprehensive of highway robbers striking them. “We did not tell the police about it as we were in fear,” he said in the complaint. All these statements are included in the fact-sheet of the FIR, police sources said. A team led by CID Superintendent of Police Raghavendra Hegde is investigating all angles, including the possible involvement of police officers in the theft, CID sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cid-registers-fir-after-gold-disappears-from-car-parked-in-police-station-in-belagavi/article34703589.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID and changing vocabulary of children||In four-year-old Rachel’s world, A is for ‘asymptomatic’, though she stumbles over the word and doesn’t quite understand what it means. Similarly, ‘B’ is not for ‘ball’ but for ‘bath’, and ‘C’ is not for ‘cat’ but COVID. In her world, learning happens via a computer screen, and football or playing catch with friends is something that she has never experienced. While the pandemic has changed the reality of older children and adults, for toddlers this is the only world they know. One where their parents put on masks, and social distancing is the norm. And this is reflected in the nascent vocabulary, which has seen a significant change in the last year and a half — a trend that kindergarten and nursery school teachers have observed. “Listening is the first learning skill that every child develops, which is why they are picking up words related to the pandemic,” said Roopa Aradhya, senior mistress, Kindergarten, Delhi Public School, Bengaluru East. “Children are able to only store a few words. They catch words that are spoken or repeated a lot around them,” she said. In the physical classroom, teachers rely not just on words, but on body language as well to communicate. But, as Ms. Aradhya pointed out, now that classes are virtual, they have to rely on words. Before the pandemic, the first few words that nursery and pre-school students pick up in school were silence, school bus, classroom, and playground. They have been replaced by coronavirus, immunity, isolation, lockdown, mask, sanitiser, pandemic, quarantine, and spread to name a few. Other words like headphones, login and log out, enlarge, and mute — all reflecting virtual learning — have also become part of the popular lexicon among children. Sarah G. said her three-year-old daughter uses words like germs, sanitiser, mask, lockdown “liberally” in her daily conversation. She said that she is often surprised – and often saddened – by how appropriately the words are used. “Besides picking up words after hearing conversations between my parents and me, she also learns words from advertisements when she watches television. Most of the advertisements talk of germs, sanitisation, COVID-19, and she parrots these words,” said Ms. Sarah, adding that children also seem to have picked up the tension and anxiety that’s come with the pandemic. However, Pranothi Banwasi, director, Roots Montessori House of Children, said that while children are picking up newer words in the pandemic, their world itself is becoming narrower due to their limited experience. “However, the vocabulary they would have picked up if they attended school or preschool is missing. The structured learning approach is missing,” she said. Moreover, children are not getting the opportunity to use the words they learn so there is less retention,” she said. According to K. John Vijay Sagar, professor and head of department of child and adolescent psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, children imitate the words that they are exposed to. “First, children start cooing, then they babble, and by the time they are two years old, they start talking in phrases,” he said. But as children are not able to meet and converse with other people or physically play in school, it is important for parents to hone their language development skills. He suggested engaging in activities such as reading from picture books and showing and talking about common objects that can stimulate and lead to maturation of the brain. “Although children repeat words used by parents, they probably are unable to understand and comprehend the meaning of the words,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-and-changing-vocabulary-of-children/article34703531.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,||No testing required prior to discharge of patients: DPH||Patients with very mild, mild and moderate COVID-19 need not be tested prior to discharge, according to the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine. In an official communication to the directors of Medical Education, Medical and Rural Health Services and president of Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said that as per the comprehensive guidelines for management of COVID-19 issued by the State government, there was no need for testing prior to the discharge of patients. However, the Directorate received reports that despite the clear order, certain hospitals and authorities were carrying out RT-PCR tests for deciding the discharge of patients with COVID-19. ‘Adhere to guidelines’ He requested the officials to issue necessary instructions to the hospitals functioning under their control and association members to strictly adhere to the comprehensive guidelines issued by the government and to restrain from taking RT-PCR tests for COVID-19 to discharge the patients. As per the discharge policy, patients with mild/very mild/pre-symptomatic disease at COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) can be discharged after 10 days of testing positive/date of home isolation/date of admission at CCC and no fever for three consecutive days. For moderate cases, patients can be discharged if asymptomatic for three consecutive days or after 10 days of testing positive. For both categories of patients, there was no need to test prior to discharge, and they would be advised to follow home isolation for a period of seven days after discharge. The discharge policy for severe cases is clinical recovery and patient tested negative once by RT-PCR after resolution of symptoms, he added.  For moderate cases, patients can be discharged — if asymptomatic for three consecutive days or after 10 days of testing positive. For both categories, there was no need to test prior to discharge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-testing-required-prior-to-discharge-of-patients-dph/article34703584.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Stand unchanged, says Sidhu after meeting Congress panel||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu appeared on Tuesday before a three-member committee set up by the party to address factionalism in Punjab and asserted that his stand remains unchanged. Mr. Sidhu, who has been openly attacking Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over a Special Investigation Team (SIT) report on the incidents of Guru Granth Sahib desecration in the State, said “truth can be disturbed, but not defeated”. “I came here on the call of the high command and apprised them of the state of affairs in the party. I have brought the voice of the people of Punjab from the grassroots level to the party high command,” he told reporters after meeting the committee members for over an hour and a half. The three-member panel formed to broker peace between different factions in Punjab Congress comprises Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J.P. Aggarwal. ‘Told the truth’ “My stand is and will remain the same and unchanged. Punjab’s democratic right that goes to the government must return to the people in any form,” the Congress leader said. “I have told the truth inside in a bold voice. The voice of Punjab’s truth and its rights have been conveyed to the high command. We have to defeat all anti-Punjab forces.” “The power of the people must return to the people. Every Punjabi must be made shareholder in Punjab’s progress ... Jittega Punjab, jittegi Punjabiyat, jittega harPunjabi [Punjab will win, Punjabiyat will win, every Punjabi will be victorious],” he added. For several weeks now, the cricketer-turned-politician has been attacking the Chief Minister for allegedly not doing justice to those who were involved in the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargari. He also lashed out at the government for failing to indict the Parkash Singh Badal-led Akali Dal government in the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident after protests erupted over the sacrilege issue. Since Monday, the panel has been meeting party MLAs in batches of 25. It plans to meet the Chief Minister before submitting its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stand-unchanged-says-sidhu-after-meeting-congress-panel/article34703862.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra issues revised rates for treatment in private hospitals||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday revised the rates of COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals by dividing the urban and rural areas in to three categories. As per a government notification, Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Bhiwandi and Vasai-Virar), Pune and Nagpur (Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Digdoh and Wadi) have been classified as Category A. While Nasik, Auranagabd, Amaravati, Bhiwandi, Vasai-Virar, Kolhapur, Solapur, Malegaon, Nanded and Sangli are in Category B, the remaining area of State form Category C. The time limit set by the earlier notification for fixing hospital bed rates ended on May 31. As per the new notification, private hospitals have to follow government rates on 80% beds used for COVID-19 patients. On the remaining beds, hospitals can fix their own rates. For regular isolation, hospitals in Category A cities can now charge Rs. 4,000 per day, while it is Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 2,400 for those in Category B and C respectively. This includes medical supervision, nursing, tests, medicines, meals and bed charges. While the rate for COVID-19 test has already been fixed, medicines required for higher treatment have been excluded. The charge for isolation in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) with ventilator is Rs. 9,000 per day at hospitals in Category A, while for those in Category B and C it is Rs. 6,700 and Rs. 5,400 respectively. In case ventilators are not being used, hospitals in Category A can charge a maximum of Rs. 7,500 per day while those in category B and C can charge maximum of Rs. 5,500 and Rs. 4,500 per day respectively. Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said he had received a number of applications seeking revision of hospital rates. “We decided to categorise regions in the State to fix maximum price and the proposal was then sent to Chief Minister,” he said. Earlier, the rates in urban and rural area were identical. “New rates will help patients in rural areas. We have categorised as per the prevalent practice in insurance companies and other private companies who offer various allowances,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-issues-revised-rates-for-treatment-in-private-hospitals/article34703958.ece
02 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Centre sanctions Rs. 369 cr. for developing NHs||The Union government has sanctioned Rs. 369 crore for the overall development of National Highways network in Udupi-Chikkamagaluru Lok Sabha constituency during 2021-22, said MP Shobha Karandlaje on Tuesday. In a statement here, the MP said that Rs. 350 crore was sanctioned for land acquisition to widen NH 169A between Malpe and Udupi and Parkala and Hebri. Another Rs. 19 crore was sanctioned to raise the height of NH 169A near Sitanadi in Hebri taluk and to construct a retaining wall to prevent submergence of the highway during heavy rain and similar work at Nemmaru in Chikkamagaluru district on NH 169 (Mangaluru-Solapur), she said. In another statement, Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat said that he, along with Ms. Karandlaje, had submitted a detailed project report to Union Road Transport Minister Nithin Gadkari on March 23 this year for developing NH 169A (Malpe-Tirthahalli). The Ministry has given concurrence to widen the highway to four lanes between Malpe and Udupi and Parkala and Hebri, he said. The highway has already been made four-lane between Udupi and Parkala. Both Ms. Karandlaje and Mr. Bhat thanked the Union government for its gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-sanctions-rs-369-cr-for-developing-nhs/article34703591.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CAG audit reveals lapses of Rs. 203.97 cr.||Instances of misappropriation, lapses in internal control, loss of Government of India assistance, underutilisation of assets, and shortcoming in implementation of rules and programmes involving Rs. 203.97 crore have been detected in the compliance audit of departments and autonomous bodies under general and social Services in Kerala by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). The report of the CAG for the general and social sectors for the year ending March 2019 was tabled in the Assembly on Tuesday. In the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana–Gramin (PMAY-G) launched in April 2016 to provide ‘housing for all’ by 2022, the CAG found the State had lost Central assistance of Rs. 195.82 crore during 2016-18 due to its failure to attain the physical and financial progress prescribed by the Centre. Monitoring was deficient at various levels of programme management units. The scheme intended to provide houses to 42,431 identified beneficiaries in rural areas. The houses were targeted for completion within 12 months from the date of sanction. The audit revealed that deficiencies in implementation of the erstwhile Indira Awaas Yojana due to non-assessment of housing shortage and lack of convergence, and lack of technical and quality supervision persisted in the implementation of the PMAY-G also. The grama panchayats had failed to ensure selection of eligible beneficiaries in the permanent wait list, assist the old and infirm in construction of houses, identify land for the landless, and converge schemes for access to basic amenities. Irregular sanctioning of houses in the name of male members and failure to facilitate loans to beneficiaries by block panchayats were also noticed. Instances of construction of houses without obtaining building permit and clearance from Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority were seen. The CAG has also found instances where funds released by the State for creating public assets for the benefit of the community were not utilised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cag-audit-detects-lapses-in-keralas-general-social-sectors/article34703448.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IMD increases monsoon rain outlook to 101%||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) expects more rain in the monsoon months of June-September than its April estimate. On Tuesday, it said monsoon rain would be 101% of the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm. On April 16, it said the rain would be 98% of the LPA. In the agency’s parlance, this still constitutes ‘normal’ rainfall, which is anywhere from 96-104% of the LPA. The agency also said in its update that rainfall in the northeast would likely see a 5% shortfall whereas over central India, which constitutes the core rainfed agricultural region, there would be a 6% increase over the usual for the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/imd-increases-monsoon-rain-outlook-to-101/article34703478.ece
02 June 2021||Bhubaneshwar/ Patna,||Odisha, Jharkhand want Centre to procure jabs||Days after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged the Chief Ministers to come together to persuade the Centre to procure and distribute COVID-19 vaccines free for the whole nation, Odisha and Jharkhand have also called for centralised procurement. Both underline the fact that vaccine manufacturers outside India are unwilling to deal directly with the States. After receiving a lukewarm response to its global tender, the Odisha government said on Tuesday that it would be better if the Centre took the responsibility of dealing with the vaccine manufacturers. It said a major hurdle in procurement was the issue of indemnity sought by global manufacturers such as Pfizer and Moderna. According to officials, only the Centre could assure indemnity. According to the State government, manufacturers were willing to deal only with federal-level Central procurement, at this stage. Global vaccine manufacturers would require the Central government’s statutory clearances for supplying to the States, said Odisha Health and Family Welfare Minister Naba Kisor Das in a letter to Union Health and Family Affairs Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday. Flexibility of coverage In his letter of May 31 to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren urged him to provide “free vaccines for beneficiaries of all age groups”. He also requested that the State be given the “freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-jharkhand-want-centre-to-procure-jabs/article34703488.ece
02 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Documents for vaccine sought from those going abroad||In the wake of the State government’s decision to give vaccine on priority to students going abroad for studies and those leaving for employment, the Dharwad district administration has sought candidates to produce the required documents for availing themselves of the benefit. In a press release, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has said that those proceeding to foreign nations for studies are required to produce any three of the following documents: those pertaining to admission in college/university in a foreign country, passport, Aadhaar card and photocopy of Visa and photocopy of flight ticket. Those going for employment are required to produce any three of the following documents: copy of appointment order issued by employer, passport, Aadhaar card, copies of Visa and air ticket. Mr. Patil has said that these documents could be sent by email to covid19dwddc@gmail.com or through WhatsApp on Ph: 9449847648. The WhatsApp number can also be contacted for further details. He said that the officials will, after verification, issue a permission letter for vaccination on priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/documents-for-vaccine-sought-from-those-going-abroad/article34703590.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,||State board students up to Class 8 promoted||The Tamil Nadu Director of Elementary Education has said that students from Classes 1 to 8 in schools under the State board have been promoted to the next class, in accordance with the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. In a set of directions issued to School Education Department officials across the State, the director said officials should inform all government, government-aided and private State board schools under their jurisdiction to promote students from Classes 1 to 8. Section 16 of the RTE Act, 2009, states that no child shall be held back in any class or be expelled until the completion of elementary school, and Tamil Nadu follows a no-detention policy for all the students till Class 8. Education Department officials have further been instructed to direct heads of schools to enter all names of students onto the pass register. Pass on instructions Further instructions should be given to the schools by officials in the respective districts. Since Tamil Nadu is currently under an intense lockdown, further information on when schools can be opened to start the distribution of free textbooks and other resources for students will be announced later, the Department said. Earlier in February, the State government had announced that students from Classes 9 to 11 were declared “all pass”. Revised schedule The announcement came shortly after schools were shut following an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State. The board exams for Class 12 students were postponed and the students are awaiting the revised exam schedule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-board-students-from-classes-1-to-8-promoted/article34703587.ece
02 June 2021||GUNTUR,||Rs. 1,497.62 crore released for disbursal of pension||Social security pensions were on Tuesday disbursed at the doorstep of the beneficiaries by a team of ward / village volunteers in the State. Earlier, the State government had released Rs. 1,497.62 crore for the purpose. The amount was disbursed to the beneficiaries through the Pensioner Biometric Authentication, IRIS Authentication, Real Time Identification of Beneficiary System (RBIS), Pensioner Facial Authentication, and Family Member’s Biometric Authentication in case of failure of the first methods. A total of 2.66 lakhs volunteers were on job for disbursing pensions to 61.46 lakh beneficiaries across the State. To ensure smooth disbursement, the government deployed additional 15,000 welfare education assistants/ ward welfare development secretaries. Call centres were also opened in all districts to monitor the process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-149762-crore-released-for-disbursal-of-pension/article34703450.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking a breather||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/taking-a-breather/article34703486.ece
02 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Total lockdown in 35 GPs from today||Deputy Commissioner of Udupi G. Jagadeesha issued an order on Tuesday imposing total lockdown in 35 Gram Panchayats in the district from 6 a.m. on June 2 to 6 a.m. on June 7. It is to prevent the spread of COVID-19 as these panchayats have 50 and more active cases. However, all medical services, telemedicine facilities, milk collection and supply, farm activities, newspaper distribution and petrol pumps have been exempted from the guidelines. Marriages already permitted can be conducted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/total-lockdown-in-35-gps-from-today/article34703592.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Dasgupta back in RS; shameful, says TMC||A month after he quit the Rajya Sabha to contest the West Bengal elections on BJP ticket, Swapan Dasgupta was renominated to the House by President Ramnath Kovind to fill the seat that fell vacant due to his resignation for his remainder term till April next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dasgupta-back-in-rs-shameful-says-tmc/article34703618.ece
02 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘NSCN(I-M) using new outfit as front in Assam’||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M) could be using a new extremist group as a front for extortion in Assam, officials of security forces engaged in counter-insurgency operations said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nscni-m-using-new-outfit-as-front-in-assam/article34703619.ece
02 June 2021||YADGIR,||Six children being treated for MSI-S||As many as six children in the four to 12 age group have been suffering from Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome (MSI-S), which experts said appears to be linked to COVID-19, in Sindhanur town of Raichur district. They are now getting treatment in a private hospital. Senior paediatrician of Sahana Children Hospital K. Shivaraj confirmed this to The Hindu over phone on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-children-being-treated-for-msi-s/article34703594.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Lowest hospitalisations in Delhi in two months||The Capital on Monday reported the lowest number of COVID-19 patients being hospitalised in the last two months — 182 — as compared to 1,993 admissions on a single day on April 29 during the 61-day upsurge of the second wave of pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lowest-hospitalisations-in-delhi-in-two-months/article34703859.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Apex court stays order on oxygen concentrators||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Delhi High Court verdict that declared the levy of Integrated Goods and Services Tax on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use or as a gift as a violation of the fundamental right to life. The court issued a formal notice on an appeal by the Union Finance Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/apex-court-stays-order-on-oxygen-concentrators/article34703860.ece
02 June 2021||Pune,||First nearby||Maharashtra’s Public Health Department on Tuesday said the State has not seen a dramatic rise in the number of child COVID-19 patients. It said that the percentage of minors losing life to the disease was 0.07% till May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-nearby/article34703953.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Second nearby||The Bombay High Court will continue hearing on June 3 the plea challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel board exams for Class X. A Division Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the decision by the Secondary School Certificate Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-nearby/article34703954.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BRICS will help India in fighting COVID-19, says China Minister||The Foreign Ministers of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) grouping on Tuesday expressed “grave concern” with regard to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Addressing a virtual meeting, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi expressed solidarity with India over the recent surge in COVID-19 cases, and said the grouping was ready to assist the country to fight the pandemic “as long as needed”. The Ministers also agreed on reforming the multilateral system, which was the “first time” that such a consensus was reached, sources said. “The Ministers expressed grave concern over the continuing public health, societal and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic globally. They expressed condolences for lives lost and pledged solidarity with the affected families,” a statement issued after the meeting said. The gathering described the pandemic as one of the most serious challenges before the world, while also highlighting the importance of “respect for territorial integrity” and the “sovereign equality” of states. In his comments, Mr. Wang said, “At this trying time, China stands in solidarity with India and all the BRICS countries. As long as it is needed by India, I believe that all BRICS partners, including China, will provide further support and assistance at any time. We are fully confident that India will certainly overcome the pandemic.” Welcoming the participants, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar recollected the journey that the BRICS Foreign Ministers had undertaken since their first meeting in New York in 2006. India is the Chair of BRICS for 2021, when the organisation completes its 15th year of existence. A joint statement issued after the meeting called for “equitable” access to vaccines, medicines and technologies as well as equipment to deal with the pandemic. “The Ministers reaffirmed the need to use all relevant measures during the pandemic, including supporting ongoing consideration in the WTO [World Trade Organization] on a COVID-19 vaccine intellectual property rights waiver and the use of flexibilities of the TRIPS [Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights] agreement and the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS agreement and public health,” the statement said. The mention of the term “flexibilities” in the joint statement is being viewed as a normative step forward towards greater vaccine equality and availability in the world. Apart from the support at the WTO, the Foreign Ministers also expressed support for the “comprehensive strengthening and reforming” of the UN Security Council, the General Assembly, the UN Secretariat and the Economic and Social Council. The statement also reflected the grouping’s determination to deal with global terrorism and expressed commitment to fully implement the BRICS Counter Terrorism Strategy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brics-will-help-india-in-fighting-covid-19-says-china-minister/article34703402.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Congress CMs question exclusion from GoM||The Chief Ministers of the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh have questioned the Union government’s decision not to include Finance Ministers from the Congress-ruled States in the Group of Ministers (GoM) formed to examine the issue of GST exemption to COVID-19 relief material. Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma is the convener of this eight-member committee. The other members are Ministers from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Kerala, Odisha, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wrote on Twitter, “The Union Government has set up a GoM following the GST Council Meeting of May 28th, 2021. A deliberate attempt has been made to keep the principal Opposition party, the Congress, that has three members in the GST Council out of the GoM.” ‘It’s deliberate’ Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the exclusion of the Congress was against the spirit of cooperative federalism. “Congress-ruled States are also part of the GST Council, so why have they been omitted out of this committee,” he asked. It was “deliberate” and to ensure that the Centre got to have its way, he alleged. Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has been one of the first leaders to raise the necessity of holding a GST Council meeting to rationalise the tax on supplies needed for the pandemic. West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra, too, had raised this issue. Both have not found space in the committee. The Ministers of the Congress-ruled States had recently proposed that for all goods needed to deal with COVID-19, the GST should be only 0.1%. The GoM has to examine GST waiver for vaccines, medicines, medical-grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, test kits, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy equipment, ventilators, and so on. It has to submit a report by June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-cms-question-exclusion-from-gom/article34703424.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NCPCR tracks data on orphans||Bal Swaraj, an online tracking portal of a national child rights body, shows details of nearly 10,000 children in the country in immediate need of care and protection. They include children aged between zero and 17 orphaned or abandoned during the COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) informed the Supreme Court that these children ran a high risk of being pushed into trafficking and flesh trade. It said it had received several complaints of government authorities illegally transferring details of children to private entities and NGOs. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose is suo motu examining ways to protect children who have suffered personal loss and trauma due to the pandemic. “The cataclysmic COVID-19 pandemic devastated the vulnerable sections of society… there are a number of children who have become orphans due to the demise of either the breadwinner of the family or of both their parents,” the court’s amicus curiae , advocate Gaurav Agrawal, said. Immediate care On May 28, the Bench directed the Centre to state welfare measures for the children orphaned by the pandemic. The NCPCR, represented by advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, and the States were asked to compile data identifying children in need of immediate care. District authorities were asked to immediately cater to the basic needs of food, shelter and clothes to orphaned and abandoned children. “The district authorities are directed to upload the information of children who have become orphans after March, 2020 on the portal “Bal Swaraj” before tomorrow evening [May 29],” the Bench had ordered. Bal Swaraj records the details of 9,346 children who are in need of care and protection as of May 29. Of this, children who have lost either parent are 7,464, those orphaned and abandoned are 1,742 and 140 respectively. The portal shows that children aged between eight and 13 form the highest age bracket who are in dire need of help. There are 3,711 of them. The NCPCR affidavit also provided Statewise data on the total number of children orphaned, abandoned or having lost a parent since March 2020 when the pandemic first hit the country. Interestingly, West Bengal authorities have provided the details of only one child while Delhi has listed only five children on the NCPCR portal as of May 29. District authorities of Uttar Pradesh have listed 2,110 children orphaned, abandoned or lost a parent. Tamil Nadu lists 159 children, Kerala 952, Bihar 1,327, Maharashtra 796, Karnataka 36, Andhra 116, Haryana 776, Jammu and Kashmir 375 and Gujarat 434, among other States as of May 29. The NCPCR said the uploading of data on the Bal Swaraj portal was an ongoing process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncpcr-tracks-data-on-orphans/article34703439.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Court in Dominica to hear Choksi case today||Lawyers for fugitive businessman and diamond dealer Mehul Choksi and the public prosecutor in Dominica filed written submissions at the Eastern Caribbean Supreme Court on Tuesday, ahead of a hearing on Wednesday on whether he will be deported. As Indian investigators watch the outcome of the hearing carefully, lawyers are expected to argue over whether Dominica is prepared to implement the International Red Corner Notice in India’s favour, and whether his citizenship will be a factor in the court’s decision. Mr. Choksi’s lawyers are asking the court that if he is deported, he should be sent back to Antigua and Barbuda, where he is already facing an extradition trial as well as a case to revoke his Antiguan citizenship, but enjoys protection from immediate deportation to India. “My client, Mr. Mehul Choksi, is citizen of Antigua and is entitled to all constitutional protections under the Antiguan Constitution and all remedies available to him under law, which he has even successfully availed,” Mr. Choksi’s lawyer in India Vijay Aggarwal told The Hindu , alleging that Mr. Choksi had been “abducted” from Antigua by a group of individuals led by a woman, who had befriended him on false premises. While Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne has said Mr. Choksi remained an Indian citizen as he has not completed the renunciation process, Mr. Aggarwal pointed out that “as per Section 9 of the Citizenship Act, a person would cease to be an Indian citizen the moment he acquired the citizenship of any other country,” as Mr. Choksi did, when he received Antiguan citizenship in 2017. Later, he and his nephew Nirav Modi, who are accused of defrauding the Punjab National Bank of Rs. 13,500 crore in bad loans, fled India, and are being pursued by the Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation. “From our perspective, we need to prove that irrespective of his Antiguan citizenship, the crimes that he is alleged to have committed were committed when he was an Indian citizen and at least before he acquired Antiguan citizenship,” said Rupin Sharma, senior IPS officer and author of a book on extradition procedures. Case of injuries Mr. Aggarwal, however, made it clear that the manner of Mr. Choksi’s appearance in Dominica, exhibiting bruises and injuries, would be part of the plea in the Dominica court, as they would make the case that he was forcibly taken from Antigua. “All these theories of Mr. Choksi fleeing from Antigua voluntarily is opposed to common sense. Firstly, he has a stay in his favour in Antigua. Secondly, I have been informed that his passport is in Antigua only, so nobody will try to escape without having his passport in his pocket. Brutal marks on his body and the passport factor now establishes abduction claims,” Mr. Aggarwal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-in-dominica-to-hear-choksi-case-today/article34703409.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccination rate is key to lifting lockdowns: ICMR||Unlocking of the country has to be done patiently and guided by the number of vaccinations done for the vulnerable population, Balram Bhargava, Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said at the Health Ministry press conference on Tuesday. Currently, India has just managed to suppress the second wave but it can resurface at any time, he added. “To open up, areas have to clock a less than 5% positivity rate for a week and also over 70% of the vulnerable population should be vaccinated. There is no shortage of vaccination in India, and we are among the select few countries in the world which are manufacturing vaccines. India will quicken its vaccination rate in June and by July-August, we will be in a position to offer one crore doses in a day. The aim is to have the population vaccinated by December,” Dr. Bhargava said. NITI Aayog member (health) V.K. Paul said the government was re-looking at COVID-19 in children and new facts had emerged about post-COVID infection, including multi-system inflammatory disorder of children. “We will be issuing a revised guideline to manage paediatric COVID and any post COVID complications. The infrastructure is also being geared up to ensure that we are able to cater to the requirements of children if that scenario arises,” he said. Dr. Paul added that currently there was no change in COVID vaccination doses and there is no proposal to provide a single dose to people. Faster insurance process Meanwhile, the Central government on Tuesday announced a new system of processing the insurance claims under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) — Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19’. “Claims will be certified by the District Collector and after approval claims are to be settled in 48 hours,” said a release issued by the Health Ministry. The Ministry said the States and other stakeholders had been raising the matter that the processing of the insurance claims was getting delayed. This latest order is aimed at cutting down delays and further streamline and simplify the processing of the insurance claims. This new measure comes after the extension of the scheme for one year from April this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-rate-is-key-to-lifting-lockdowns-icmr/article34703436.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT orders U.P. govt. to take action on illegal sand mining||Following a plea alleging illegal sand mining in Hamirpur district, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to take remedial action for the same. Taking note of an earlier order passed by the Tribunal, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “...this application stands disposed of with a direction to the Chief Secretary, U.P., and District Magistrate Hamirpur, to look into the matter and take remedial action following due process of law.”  Earlier, in a similar matter, the green panel had said, “The Environment department may also develop an appropriate mobile app for receiving and redressing the grievances against the sand mining, including connivance of the authorities, and also a mechanism to fix accountability of the officers concerned. Recommendations of the Oversight Committee for the State of U.P.…may be duly taken into account.” “The mechanism must provide for review at the level of the Chief Secretary at least once in every quarter, in a meeting with all departments concerned in the State. The Chief Secretary, U.P., may ensure further action in the light of the report of the Oversight Committee,” the Bench said. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Suresh Kumar who alleged sand mining in a “submerged water area” in Hamirpur district in violation of existing laws and guidelines.  The Environment department may also develop an appropriate mobile app for receiving and redressing the grievances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ngt-orders-up-govt-to-take-action-on-illegal-sand-mining/article34703651.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC stays order on oxygen concentrators||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed a Delhi High Court verdict that declared the levy of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use or as a gift as a violation of the fundamental right to life. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah issued a formal notice on an appeal filed by the Union Finance Ministry that the High Court encroached on policy by quashing the May 1 notification, which imposed a 12% IGST on concentrators imported for private use or as a gift. Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal said the GST Council was scheduled to meet on the issue on June 8. “A decision has already been taken in the 43rd meeting of the GST Council on May 28 to constitute a Council of Ministers so that COVID-19 related items are exempted. The High Court entered into the area of policy...” he submitted. He explained that the IGST earlier was 77%, which was brought down to 28% and again to 12%. The High Court decision ought to be stayed to provide a clear field for the council to take a decision on COVID-19-related equipment. Unconstitutional: HC In its decision, the High Court had classified oxygen concentrators as life-saving devices during the pandemic. It said charging the IGST was unconstitutional. It had called the citizens’ struggle to get oxygen during the second wave as a “George Floyd moment” in a different context and setting. Desperate citizens were crying out “I cannot breathe” while being “chased and driven by the merciless novel coronavirus”. The Bench held that oxygen concentrators should be treated on a par with life-saving drugs. The High Court decision had come in a petition filed by a senior citizen, whose nephew had shipped him a concentrator as a gift. The court initially asked the government to consider temporarily dropping the 12% GST levied on such imports altogether, citing the shortage of oxygen in the second wave of the pandemic. The Finance Ministry refused to comply, stating that if the petitioner’s argument about Article 21 was accepted, “it will lead to absurd consequences and interpretations, wherein citizens will be seeking exemption from property tax, since housing is an essential facet of Right of Life … or exemption from taxes imposed on several food items since Right to Food has been held by the Supreme Court to be a part of Right of Life under Article 21”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-order-on-oxygen-concentrators/article34703417.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. nod to resume supply of oxygen for industrial use||The government has temporarily permitted the resumption of oxygen supply for industrial use by several sectors, including firms producing oxygen cylinders, copper, aluminium, steel as well as exporters and food processing units. Infrastructure projects and micro, small and medium enterprises have also been allowed to use liquid oxygen. In April, as the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic surged, the Centre had invoked the Disaster Management Act to limit oxygen supplies for industrial use, and subsequently strengthened the curbs by directing all oxygen stocks to be diverted for medical purposes. On Monday, the Home Ministry informed the Commerce and Industry Ministry that it may allow usage of liquid oxygen to specified industries ‘on temporary basis subject to ensuring adequate supply of liquid medical oxygen to hospitals and other medical purposes as per demands of States and Union Territories’. The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) had urged the Home Ministry to consider resuming oxygen supplies for micro, small and medium enterprises, infrastructure projects, exporters, food processing units, as well as continuous process industries such as furnaces, refineries, steel, aluminium, copper processing plants, etc. that require continuous power supply. Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla has approved the proposal, and asked the DPIIT to also ensure that adequate supply is available for the defence forces and industries such as ampules and vials, pharmaceuticals, oxygen cylinders, PSA oxygen plants and neutral glass tubing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-nod-to-resume-supply-of-oxygen-for-industrial-use/article34703432.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||DM Act is of 2005 vintage, was first enforced during pandemic||Hours before he retired on May 31, former Chief Secretary of West Bengal Alapan Bandyopadhyay was served a show-cause notice by the Union Home Ministry under Section 51 of the Disaster Management (DM) Act, 2005, punishable by imprisonment of up to two years or a fine or both. The Section pertains to “punishment for obstruction” for refusal to comply with a direction given by the Central government. The DM Act, 2005, came into existence after the 2004 tsunami. It was invoked for the first time in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. On March 24, 2020, the Centre, through the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) headed by the Prime Minister, invoked the provisions of the Act to streamline the management of the pandemic, empowering district magistrates to take decisions and centralise other decisions on the supply of oxygen and movement of vehicles. The Act has been extended across the country till June 30 and it is enforced by the Home Ministry.  The officer, by abstaining himself from the review meeting taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at cyclone-affected Kalaikunda in West Bengal on May 28, “has acted in a manner tantamount to refusing to comply with lawful directions of the Central Government and is thus violative of Section 51 (b) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the notice to Mr. Bandyopadhyay said. The Section prescribes “punishment for obstruction” for refusal to comply with any direction given by or on behalf of the Central government or the State government or the National Executive Committee or the State Executive Committee or the District Authority under the Act. It says that violation shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term that may extend to one year or with a fine or both upon conviction. It adds that if “such refusal to comply with directions results in loss of lives or imminent danger thereof, shall on conviction be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years”. According to Meeran Chadha Borwankar, former Director-General of the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D), Section 51 of the Act has two important caveats. “Under the Act, the action on the part of the person has to be ‘without reasonable cause’ and ‘failure of an officer to perform the duty without due permission or lawful excuse’. I am sure the Chief Secretary had ‘reasonable cause’ and ‘lawful excuse’ for not attending the meeting,” he said. Earlier use Through the particular provision, the Home Ministry made spitting in public a punishable offence in April last year. The guidelines issued by the Ministry under the DM Act, binding on the States, made “wearing of face masks in public places mandatory”. On March 30, 2020, when thousands of migrants gathered at the Anand Vihar railway station in Delhi due to the sudden announcement of the countrywide lockdown, two Delhi government officers were suspended and two others were served show-cause notice by the Centre under the Act for dereliction of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dm-act-is-of-2005-vintage-was-first-enforced-during-pandemic/article34703414.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Panel had warned MHA on Lakshadweep||The Parliamentary panel on Home Affairs, headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma, had warned the Union Home Ministry to ensure that any decision on the development of Lakshadweep is taken after consultations with all stakeholders and elected representatives. Mr. Sharma said in his letter to the Home Minister that the Parliamentary Panel, in its report tabled in March this year, had pointed out that while the development of the islands was necessary, decision-making should follow a thorough process. The latest rules, framed by the Lakshadweep administrator, Praful K. Patel, have put the island dwellers in a tizzy. Among his many decisions are banning the sale and consumption of beef and relaxing restrictions on liquor. “The MHA may hold periodic meetings on development of Lakshadweep as it is a highly eco-sensitive region. The MHA may take up matters of structured planning and overall economic development with the UT administration, agencies concerned, member of Parliament of the UT and other elected representatives. This will also help in finding a way forward and amicable solution to the developmental problems of the UT,” the standing committee had said in its report. Mr. Sharma has urged the Home Minister to intervene. “The Ministry of Home Affairs may urgently appoint a panel of experts to examine all the developmental issues, instead of leaving it entirely to the administration,” he wrote. ‘Violation of rights’ The draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, which gives unhindered power to the administrator to remove or relocate islanders from their property without their consent and without giving justification for the proposed activities, is another big point of contention. This is a violation, Mr. Sharma said, of “Right to Livelihood,” a fundamental right. “Large scale of acquisitions of land, in total disregard of the interest and demand of the people of the island, will adversely affect their livelihood, particularly of the fishing communities,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/panel-had-warned-mha-on-lakshadweep/article34703421.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Swapan Dasgupta back in RS; shameful, says Trinamool||A month after his resignation from the Rajya Sabha to contest the West Bengal poll on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ticket, Swapan Dasgupta was renominated to the House by President Ramnath Kovind to fill the seat that fell vacant after his resignation, for his remaining term till April 24 next year. Mr. Dasgupta lost the Tarkeshwar seat to his Trinamool Congress rival, Ramendu Sinharay, by a margin of over 7,000 votes.  Mr. Dasgupta was forced to resign after the Trinamool Congress pointed out that he should be disqualified from the Upper House for contesting the election despite being a nominated member. Trinamool’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, told The Hindu, “I do not think it has ever happened in the history of the Rajya Sabha that a person who resigned just a month back is renominated by the President of India. The government is setting a bad precedent here by throwing all parliamentary norms out of the window.” Mr. Ray termed it a shameful act. “He was sent to West Bengal, protected as a leader of the BJP. After losing the battle now, he is being rehabilitated by the backdoor. The BJP, it seems, does not have educated people to run the show, so they are holding on to the ones they have,” he said, adding that it was an insult to the office of the President. “The nominated posts are to be occupied by persons of eminence. And now, the President is forced to nominate a person who fought on a BJP ticket just a month back.” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said on Twitter, “I think this is the FIRST time since the Rajya Sabha came into being in 1952 that such a thing has happened.”  The government is setting a bad precedent here by throwing all parliamentary norms out of the window Sukhendu Sekhar Ray Trinamool Congress||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swapan-dasgupta-back-in-rs-shameful-says-trinamool/article34703422.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC questions Centre on not prioritising youth for vaccination||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday questioned the Centre’s vaccination policy for not prioritising the younger population over older people, saying “it is the younger people who are the future of this country”. Justice Vipin Sanghi said, “I can speak for myself ... You have announced the vaccination policy for 18- to 44-years-old persons now but you don’t have vaccines. Then why do you have to announce and make a declaration when you don’t have the vaccines?” “We have to invest in the future and we are sidelining them. So many young people have lost their lives. It is the younger people who are the future. We are on our way out. I don’t understand this policy at all,” he said. The Bench pointed out that many young persons have succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave as they were not prioritised in the vaccination policy. “The 80-year-olds aren’t going to carry this country forward. They’ve lived their lives,” the court said, adding, “Ideally, we should be able to save everyone but if we have to choose, we have to save younger people.” When the Centre’s counsel said only “God could help us” now, Justice Sanghi said, “This is the area where gods can’t help us ... the facts and figures are in front of us.” The High Court’s observation came while directing the Centre to frame a policy on prioritising mucormycosis patients when it came to administering liposomal amphotericin B, which is currently in short supply. Mucormycosis cases Noting that the shortage of liposomal amphotericin B has been continuing for over two weeks, leading to fatalities, the court said it was high time that the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) came out with guidelines on the use of the drug. “...There is a shortage of 66%. The cases of black fungus are showing an upward trend. The number of active cases on May 31 was 753 in Delhi and the same is at 792 today,” the court noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-questions-centre-on-not-prioritising-youth-for-vaccination/article34703415.ece
02 June 2021||Srinagar,||Police file chargesheet against Parra of PDP||The police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) youth president Waheed Parra, hours after Special Rapporteurs of the United Nations raised his arrest. An official said the chargesheet was filed in a case related to “his clandestine connections with different Pakistani terrorists and secessionist organisations”. Meanwhile, Special Rapporteurs of the United Nations (UN) have sought a response from the Centre on an alleged series of human rights violations in Jammu and Kashmir, including the arrest of Mr. Parra and two others. The report also highlighted “brutal torture in reprisal” for Mr. Parra’s participation in a virtual meeting with diplomats from the UN Security Council (UNSC). The report claimed that he was subject to abusive interrogations after his arrest that lasted from 10 to 12 hours at a time. In the comments, Mr. Parra reportedly “raised the alarm about the Government of India’s actions in J&K, its treatment of Muslim minorities, and the recent border tensions with China”, the letter said. “He was held in a dark underground cell at subzero temperature, was deprived of sleep, kicked, slapped, beaten with rods, stripped naked and hung upside down.” The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) did not respond to a request for comment. The communiqué said that Mr. Parra’s arrest raised concerns as it came three days after he filed his nomination for the District Development Council poll, indicating the rapporteurs felt the actions were politically motivated. The report said that after the UNSC meeting, Mr. Parra received threats from NIA officials. The two other cases raised by the UN body included the alleged custodial killing of 23-year-old shopkeeper Irfan Ahmad Dar, who was arrested on September 15, 2020, and the alleged disappearance of Naseer Ahmad Wani after an Army raid on his house on November 29, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/police-file-chargesheet-against-parra-of-pdp/article34703427.ece
02 June 2021||Chennai,||1.29 lakh new cases and 3,163 deaths registered||India recorded 1,29,436 new COVID-19 cases and 3,163 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,83,03,271 cases and 3,35,073 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 26,513 new infections, followed by Kerala (19,760) and Karnataka (14,304). Maharashtra recorded 854 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (490) and Karnataka (464). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19.25 lakh samples were tested in the country on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday), which is 2.42 lakh more tests than those conducted on Sunday. However, it is 1.33 lakh less tests than those conducted on the previous Monday (May 24). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 8.6% on May 31 compared to 12% recorded a week before. About 27.8 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday, which is 17.62 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours and 2.93 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. Over one in three new cases recorded around the globe are in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/129-lakh-new-cases-and-3163-deaths-registered/article34703444.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID and the changing vocabulary of children||Moreover, children are not getting the opportunity to use the words they learn so there is less retention,” she said. According to K. John Vijay Sagar, professor and head of department of child and adolescent psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru, children imitate the words that they are exposed to. “First, children start cooing, then they babble, and by the time they are two years old, they start talking in phrases,” he said. But as children are not able to meet and converse with other people or physically play in school, it is important for parents to hone their language development skills. He suggested engaging in activities such as reading from picture books and showing and talking about common objects that can stimulate and lead to maturation of the brain. “Although children repeat words used by parents, they probably are unable to understand and comprehend the meaning of the words,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-and-the-changing-vocabulary-of-children/article34703532.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Odisha, Jharkhand want Centre to procure jabs||On the issue of asking States to procure vaccines on their own, Mr Soren said it “stands against the principle of co-operative federalism”. Mr. Soren said, “It is requested to provide to the State free vaccines for all age groups and also give us freedom to define priorities for vaccination coverage,” adding, “this would help in achieving the target of full vaccination in a timely manner.” While the Naveen Patnaik government said it did not want free vaccines for the 18-44 age-group, it also demanded flexibility in distribution as it planned to do away with online registration issues to help the poor and people in rural areas. Mr Soren also highlighted the difficulties in procuring vaccines. “Jharkhand is putting all efforts to procure directly from the available manufacturers. However, the supplies against the orders placed continue to remain extremely limited and it ultimately depends on allocations made by the Central government, ” he said. Echoing the lukewarm response from suppliers, Odisha Minister Das said, “There has been limited response to the [State’s global] tender ... The Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech have not participated in the pre-bid meeting. It is understood that at their present capacity they won't be able to provide vaccines on a scale required by the States.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-jharkhand-want-centre-to-procure-jabs/article34703396.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New chief at Andaman and Nicobar Command||Among a series of top-level appointments in the armed forces on Tuesday were the new Commanding-in-Chief of the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the Eastern Army Commanding-in-Chief, the Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff and the Director-General of the Assam Rifles. Lt. Gen. Ajai Singh assumed charge as the 16th Commanding-in-Chief of the Andaman and Nicobar Command (ANC), the only tri-service command of the armed forces based at Port Blair. His predecessor, Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande, who relinquished charge on May 31, took over as the General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Eastern Command based in Kolkata. “A fifth generation Army as well as cavalry armoured corps officer, with family service of over 162 years since September 13, 1858, Lt. Gen. Ajai Singh is an alumnus of The Lawrence School, Sanawar and National Defence Academy [NDA] and Indian Military Academy [IMA],” a Defence Ministry statement said. Lt. Gen. Pradeep Chandran Nair took over as the 21st Director-General of the Assam Rifles. In a series of changes in the Navy, Vice-Admiral Ravneet Singh took charge as the Deputy Chief of the Naval Staff from Vice-Admiral M.S. Pawar, who superannuated on May 31. Vice-Admiral Sandeep Naithani assumed charge as the Chief of Material of the Navy from Vice-Admiral S.R. Sarma, who superannuated on May 31. Vice-Admiral Sreekumar Nair took over as the Director-General, Naval Projects (DGNP), Visakhapatnam, while Vice-Admiral Dinesh K. Tripathi assumed charge as Chief of Personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-chief-at-andaman-and-nicobar-command/article34703398.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘China’s population norms serve as warning for India’||China’s decision to relax its two-child norm and allow couples to have three children must serve as a warning for India that coercive population strategies can be counter-productive, say experts. After enforcing one-child and two-child policies to control its population over the past four decades, China on Monday announced that it will allow couples to have a third child as it stares at a fast ageing population. India, on the other hand, has been toying with the idea of population control measures through a two-child norm, which found a mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Independence Day speech two years ago. “India can learn from China’s failed experience of enforcing coercive population policies. Population control measures, however stringent, have landed China in a population crisis and in India it will be worse,” says Poonam Muttreja of the Population Foundation of India. “We will end up with the same issues of an ageing population and very few people to take care of them in another three decades. In Sikkim and Lakshadweep, we are already facing the same challenge of an ageing population, shrinking workforce and an increase in sex selective practices given that they have low fertility rates.” India has long been concerned about curbing population “explosion”, but needs to focus its attention on population stabilisation instead. “India has done very well with its family planning measures and now we are at replacement level fertility of 2.1, which is desirable. We don’t need any coercive measures. But we need to sustain population stabilisation because in some States, including Sikkim, Andhra Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka, the total fertility rate is way below replacement level, which means we will experience in 30-40 years what China is experiencing now,” says Niranjan Saggurti, Director, Population Council of India. Replacement level fertility is the level of fertility at which a population exactly replaces itself from one generation to the next.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinas-population-norms-serve-as-warning-for-india/article34703400.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||TMC, BJP spar over notice to ex-Chief Secretary||However, Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, demanded action against Mr. Bandyopadhyay and targeted the Chief Minister, accusing her of trying to “to destroy India’s federal structure”. “Theatre of the absurd is playing out in West Bengal. For the sake of her own ego, to destroy India’s federal structure and protect the Chief Secretary for his indiscipline, (non-MLA) CM @MamataOfficial. Didi is bringing disrepute to the CM office and the Constitution of India,” Mr. Adhikari said on social media. It was the presence of the Nandigram MLA at the meeting called by the Prime Minister to review the situation on May 28 in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas that had irked the Chief Minister. Ms. Banerjee had repeatedly raised the point that from a PM to a CM meeting, the agenda was changed, and BJP leaders and Union Ministers were made to join the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-bjp-spar-over-notice-to-ex-chief-secretary/article34703407.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||IMD increases monsoon rain outlook to 101%||Rainfall over the northwest would be ‘normal’ though this is a wide range from 92-108% of the LPA and that in the southern peninsula 93-107% of its normal. Seasonal rainfall is most likely to be below normal over the northeast (<95%) and above normal over central India (>106%), the update noted. “This year we expect a good monsoon and especially over the core agricultural region,” M. Mohapatra, Director General, IMD, said at a press conference on Tuesday. The latest global model forecasts say the sea surface temperatures at the Equatorial Pacific conditions are unlikely to significantly rise. There are also ‘negative’ IOD (Indian Ocean Dipole) conditions over the Indian Ocean during the monsoon season. Put together, they mean that these larger climate factors are, as of now, unlikely to have a significant influence over the prevailing monsoon. “As sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Oceans are known to have strong influence on the Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these Ocean basins,” the statement said. The monsoon was to have arrived in Kerala on May 31 but the IMD, on May 30, said its advent would be delayed to June 3 because windspeeds and cloud formation over the Kerala coast hadn’t picked up yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/imd-increases-monsoon-rain-outlook-to-101/article34703410.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Give details on scheme for orphaned children’||The court asked Ms. Bhati to detail the mechanism for identifying the beneficiaries of the scheme and the method to monitor the flow of benefits to the children. The court further agreed with Mr. Agrawal’s suggestion to initially focus on the welfare schemes available for COVID-19 orphaned children in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Mr. Agrawal explained that these States were ahead in their compilation of data about children orphaned by COVID-19 and he would start with them while giving other States time to compile information within their own jurisdictions. The court is hearing an application filed by Mr. Agrawal, who placed on record a report in The Hindu about the plight of children in the pandemic. He said the pandemic had wreaked havoc on the lives of many children who have either lost both parents or guardians to the virus. Quoting the newspaper report, he said there had been a marked increase in child trafficking, especially of girls. The government had an obligation to protect children, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/give-details-on-scheme-for-orphaned-children/article34703411.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE, CICSE scrap Class XII exams after review||Faced with the second wave of the pandemic in April, the Centre then cancelled Class X exams and postponed Class XII exams, promising a review of the situation by June 1. A large section of students and parents had called for Class XII exams to be cancelled, and took their plea to the courts as well. On Monday, the Centre told the Supreme Court it would announce a decision by Thursday. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had advocated for cancellation, congratulated “students of class 12 for making your voices heard” in a tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-cicse-scrap-class-xii-exams-after-review/article34703412.ece
02 June 2021||Pune,||‘No dramatic rise seen in cases among minors’||Maharashtra’s Public Health Department on Tuesday said the State has not seen a dramatic rise in the number of child COVID-19 patients. It said that the percentage of minors losing life to the disease was 0.07% till May 2021. According to the health department data on minors from November 2020 to April 2021, the percentage of those infected in the age group of 0-5 years was 1.3%, that of 6-11 years was 2.4%, and 12 to 17 years was 4.1%, with the total being 7.8%. According to officials from the Health Department, the percentage has remained in this range for all months. “The increase in absolute numbers is due to the increase in the total number of infections from all age groups,” the official said. Commenting on the reports of the increase in number of infections among minors in Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra, the department said in March 2021, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district was 18,669, out of which minors were 1,631 (8.74%). In April 2021, the total number of patients were 77,344, out of which minors were 7,607 (9.83%), and in May 2021, out of a total of 80,785 patients, the minors were 9,416 (11.65%). As per the data, the percentage of minors getting infected by COVID-19 in November 2020 was 6.9% of the total infections. In December 2020 and January 2021, it was 6.3% and 6%, respectively. In February, March and April of 2021, the percentage was 7.26%, 6.78% and 8.38%, respectively. Additional Chief Secretary (Public Health), Dr. Pradeep Vyas, said the State government has already formed a task force of paediatricians. “The State government is working at improving infrastructure at the hospital level and setting up the required machinery to combat the possible outbreak of the virus among minors,” he said. Ahmednagar District Collector Rajendra Bhosale said the district was adequately prepared to tackle a possible “third wave” of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-dramatic-rise-seen-in-cases-among-minors/article34703442.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘2020-21 darkest economic year in 4 decades’||The financial year of 2020-21 has been the ‘darkest’ year of the economy in the past four decades and the Narendra Modi government should heed the advice of economists to avoid its repeat, the Congress said on Tuesday.  Separately, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter, “PM’s hall of shame — Minimum GDP. Maximum Unemployment”. “The current state of the economy is no doubt largely due to the impact of the pandemic but it has been compounded by the ineptitude and incompetent economic management of the BJP-led NDA government,” said former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram. He alleged that advice of economists had been rebuffed, world-wide experience ignored, suggestions on cash transfers and fiscal expansion were turned down and ‘hollow packages” like Atmanirbhar fell flat. “We had pointed out that what the economy needed was a strong dose of stimulus, including increased government expenditure, direct transfers of cash to the poor and liberal distribution of free rations. Our pleas fell on deaf ears, and the result is a negative growth of 7.3%,” he added.  Mr. Chidambaram said many industry bodies, including the CII and FICCI, had pleaded for fiscal expansion, including cash transfers to the poor, and cited the RBI’s monthly review flagging the ‘demand shock’ and its consequences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2020-21-darkest-economic-year-in-4-decades/article34703419.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rajnath speaks to Australian Minister||India remains fully committed to implementing a comprehensive strategic partnership with Australia and both sides look forward to convening a Ministerial 2+2 dialogue at the earliest opportunity, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday after a telephonic conversation with his Australian counterpart Peter Dutton. Both Ministers reviewed the defence cooperation between the two countries in the backdrop of the current regional situation and they acknowledged the momentum it had achieved following the upgrade of the partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership in June 2020, a Defence Ministry statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-speaks-to-australian-minister/article34703425.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IUML challenges in SC govt order on citizenship for non-Muslim refugees||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has challenged in the Supreme Court a May 28 government order inviting non-Muslim refugees from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, residing in India, to apply for citizenship. An application urged the court to stay the order. It said the order delegated the power to grant citizenship by registration and naturalisation to Collectors of certain districts. The Union Home Ministry’s order was a clever way to implement the “malafide designs” of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iuml-challenges-in-sc-govt-order-on-citizenship-for-non-muslim-refugees/article34703395.ece
02 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Weather delays rescue operation in Meghalaya coal mine||Rain and slushy conditions have delayed the rescue operation at a coal mine in Meghalaya, where a dynamite blast led to the flooding of a pit trapping five labourers more than 500 ft below. The incident happened on Sunday. Four of the trapped labourers – two unidentified – are from Assam and one is from Tripura. “We have requisitioned a crane the miners were using for the rescue personnel... We have also placed pumps to drain out the water from the mine, but the weather is playing spoilsport,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weather-delays-rescue-operation-in-meghalaya-coal-mine/article34703403.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC asks Air India to reinstate pilots with back wages||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed Air India (AI), the national carrier, to reinstate with back wages several pilots whose services were terminated with effect from August 13. Justice Jyoti Singh gave the direction on petitions filed by over 40 Air India pilots who have been terminated from service. Many of the pilots had resigned due to non-payment or delayed payment of their salaries. They later withdrew the resignations before the six-month notice period was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-asks-air-india-to-reinstate-pilots-with-back-wages/article34703404.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Justice Mishra appointed NHRC chief||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday formally appointed Justice Arun Kumar Mishra as the Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). Justice Mishra's name was recommended by a high-powered selection panel consisting Prime Minister Narendra Modi; Union Home Minister Amit Shah; Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, Harivansh; Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla; and the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/justice-mishra-appointed-nhrc-chief/article34703406.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Step up security for SII CEO, suggests Mumbai HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday suggested that the Maharashtra government do a rethink on security for the CEO of vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India, Adar Poonawalla, saying, “He is playing a very substantial role.” A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Abhay Ahuja was hearing a petition filed by advocate Datta Mane seeking Z plus security for Mr. Poonawalla as he is allegedly being threatened by States and businessmen to supply the COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield. The petition also sought a direction from the court to register an FIR against those threatening Mr. Poonawalla. Appearing for the State government, Deepak Thakare told the court that Mr. Poonawalla has already been provided with Y category security. The court then asked about the number of police personnel deployed for his security and added that the concerns raised in the petition must be taken care of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/step-up-security-for-sii-ceo-suggests-mumbai-hc/article34703430.ece
02 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||COVID-19 patients lying naked on hospital floor in Odisha, probe ordered||A high-level probe has been ordered after disturbing photographs of patients, including a woman, lying naked on the floor of a washroom and bed in a COVID-19 hospital in the tribal-dominated Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district went viral. The video clips and photographs were apparently shot by an attendant of a patient at the dedicated COVID-19 hospital at Bankisole near the district headquarter town of Baripada. The Mayurbhanj administration had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Kalinga Institute of Medical Sciences last year. After a brief closure, following the first wave, the hospital started functioning again when COVID-19 cases rose. “I had taken my father to the hospital on May 19 and stayed there to look after him. I found people losing lives lying in the washroom. People were unable to have food and could not go to the washroom. They were losing lives without proper care. Hospital staff were visiting the ward occasionally. Four people lost their lives between May 19 and 29,” said Ajit Sahu, a resident of Baripada, who shot the video. Mr. Sahu, whose father passed away, said, “draped in PPE kit, doctors would see patients twice a day, but there was not enough staff to give care to everyone.” A delegation of citizens, under the banner of Ame Mayurbhanjia , met Mayurbhanj Collector Vineet Bhardwaj and apprised him of the situation. “We got to know that the condition of patients was extremely distressing. They were lying naked everywhere. Some were found sleeping over food,” alleged Bibek Patnaik of Ame Mayurbhanjia . Collector’s statement Mr. Bharadwaj inspected the hospital and issued a statement saying all patients were mostly satisfied with their treatment. they were receiving. “The allegation of neglect by doctors and nurses was inquired into and found as false and baseless. The patient had a neurological problem and was going through alcohol withdrawal symptoms,” the statement said. However, despite claims by the district administration, video clips and photographs showed many patients, including a woman, lying naked in the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-patients-lying-naked-on-hospital-floor-in-odisha-probe-ordered/article34703437.ece
02 June 2021||Pune,||BJP MLA booked for flouting pandemic norms at daughter’s pre-wedding event||A BJP MLA from Maharashtra has been booked along with 60 others for violating COVID-19 norms after a video clip of him celebrating and dancing at his daughter’s pre-wedding function surfaced online. A case was registered against Mahesh Landge, a two-time MLA from Bhosari in Pune’s Pimpri-Chinchwad area, on Monday night. The police said all physical distancing and safety norms were flouted. According to police officials, the ceremony was organised on Sunday evening at the MLA’s residence in Bhosari. After the video went viral and was broadcast on a number of vernacular channels, the police started conducting a probe into the incident. As per rules, only 25 persons are allowed in such ceremonies. “This too was ignored,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mla-booked-for-flouting-pandemic-norms-at-daughters-pre-wedding-event/article34703440.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Railways loads record 114.8 million tonnes freight in May||The Railways on Tuesday said it loaded the highest ever freight of 114.8 million tonnes for the month of May. The loading stood at 114.8 million tonnes, 9.7% higher than 104.6 million tonnes in May 2019. “Despite the COVID challenges, freight figures continue to maintain the high momentum in terms of earnings and loading in May. On mission mode, the Railways’ freight made the highest-ever loading for May,” said a statement by the Ministry of Railways. It also said that a total of 22,916 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen have been delivered to States so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-loads-record-1148-million-tonnes-freight-in-may/article34703445.ece
02 June 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Indonesia Tamil Sangam’s gesture||Members of the Indonesia Tamil Sangam has donated medical equipment and materials worth Rs. 10 lakh to the Government Medical College Hospital here for supporting COVID-19 patients. Five oxygen concentrators, 1,100 one-time use beds and blankets, 1000 diapers and 8,330 sets of gloves were among those donated. Collector D. Rathna, who received the equipment, thanked the members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indonesia-tamil-sangams-gesture/article34704013.ece
02 June 2021||B. Tilak ChandarMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for disclosure of materials used in sanitary napkins||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday sought response from the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to governments to issue directions to sanitary napkin and diaper manufacturers to disclose the materials used on the wrappers. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Ayyaa of Palayamkottai. He said that materials used to manufacture the sanitary napkins and diapers must be disclosed and mentioned on the wrappers of the product to ascertain whether the product was safe. People fall for advertising, cost and packaging instead of analysing the importance of hygiene, he said. The petitioner said that governments have announced and implemented menstrual hygiene schemes. Though the schemes were progressive, it was necessary to note the ill-effects due to poor quality of sanitary napkins. Toxins such as dioxin and trihalomethane were used. This could lead to diseases such as cancer, infertility, hormonal imbalance and multiple menstrual disorders, he claimed. The sanitary napkins and diapers must be made out of fully biodegradable and chemical-free components to protect the health of the user, the petitioner said. He sent a representation to the government, but no steps were initiated in this regard, he said. He sought a direction to the governments to make it mandatory for manufacturers to mention the materials used. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that the petitioner had flagged an important issue. The court directed the Centre and the State to file a counter affidavits in the case. The court said that it wanted to ascertain the parameters in place. The case was adjourned till July 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-disclosure-of-materials-used-in-sanitary-napkins/article34703658.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases drop under 3 lakh||The State’s daily COVID-19 case count dipped to 26,513 on Tuesday, bringing its active caseload below the 3 lakh-mark. However, the toll due to the infection remained high, as 490 more people, including a 105-year-old woman, succumbed to it. Presently, 2,96,131 people are under treatment for COVID-19. As many as 31,673 people were discharged after treatment, as recoveries continued to exceed new cases. Chennai registered the most number of discharges, as 4,232 people were discharged after treatment. Coimbatore continued to top the table with 3,332 people testing positive. The district’s active caseload marginally rose to 40,570. In Chennai, 2,467 people tested positive, while Chengalpattu recorded 1,106 infections. Apart from this, districts in the western region — Erode (1,653), Tiruppur (1,338) and Salem (1,140) — continued to report more than 1,000 cases each. Daily cases dropped under 1,000 in Tiruchi (987). The new cases took the State’s tally to 21,23,029. A total of 24,722 people have died due to the infection so far. Of the 490 deaths, Chennai recorded 58. There were 50 deaths in Chengalpattu, followed by 32 in Coimbatore. There were 26 deaths in Tiruvallur, 21 in Tiruchi and 20 each in Cuddalore and Dindigul. Thirty-six districts reported deaths while Sivaganga recorded no death. The 105-year-old woman from Thanjavur who died had systemic hypertension and died on May 31 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Six people in their 20s succumbed to the infection. In the last 24 hours, 1,67,397 samples were tested in the State, taking the total figure to 2,78,42,512. A day after the Health Department announced that the vaccination drive would be suspended until fresh supplies arrive, the Centre dispatched 4,20,570 doses of Covishield and 75,000 doses of Covaxin for vaccinating persons aged 45 and above. On Tuesday, 98,183 people were vaccinated. This included 47,567 people in the 18-44 age group. With this, the State’s vaccination coverage crossed 90 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-drop-under-3-lakh/article34703841.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An effective plan to control the pandemic||The city has once again set an example for the State and the country in containing the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, like it did during the first wave. The second wave saw a huge spike in cases, with the health infrastructure getting overwhelmed by the first week of May. However, the experience gained from the first wave, along with an efficient pandemic prevention plan put in place by the Greater Chennai Corporation helped bring things under control. Hospitals, which faced severe bed shortages at one point of time in May, have been able to breathe easy with the reduction in the intake of patients and the availability of a large number of beds. While the lockdown helped, the implementation of the ‘Revised Micro-Plan for COVID-19 Management’ by the Public Health Department from May 19 played a crucial role. The civic body’s learnings from the past year — surveillance, contact tracing and containment activities — combined with an integrated pandemic management of organising fever camps in hotspots, vaccination camps by tying up with residential welfare associations and big companies, and the conversion of care centres to health centres have worked well on the field. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the rolling out of a modified plan from the one used for the first wave helped in containing the pandemic early, which could have otherwise spiralled out of control. He said in the second wave, the civic body took all-out efforts to understand every single case with the revised plan, and a key component involved making private hospitals, clinics and scan centres share details of patients with local officials. Through these arrangements, several fever cases, which would otherwise have remained untraceable, were detected early. Since Mr. Bedi took charge, the Corporation has been engaging in several containment activities, consisting of both active and passive surveillance. The daily review meetings conducted by senior officials also helped greatly, Mr. Bedi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/an-effective-plan-to-control-the-pandemic/article34703568.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Grief counselling to help the bereaved||Coping with the loss of a loved one is difficult and has only become tougher in the time of COVID-19. In a bid to reach out to families who have lost a relative to COVID-19, the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, is all set to extend grief counselling on campus. A team of five psychiatrists and a social worker in psychology will be available to help, according to R. Jayanthi, Dean of the institution. “Grief counselling is crucial. We can help by counselling people to gain acceptance of the news of a relative’s sudden loss, especially in such stressed-out conditions. If done professionally, we can help them overcome overwhelming grief. It will be handled by our professor of psychiatry,” she said. The service will be available at a desk where the hospital has also put up a LED screen to inform the health status of patients diagnosed with COVID-19 and undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). “One of the main necessities for attenders was to know the patient’s condition. The Chief Minister had convened a State-level NGO coordination committee meeting. Soon after this, we had volunteers. We installed a LED screen to give the status of patients in the ICU. We have 200 beds on four floors,” Dr. Jayanthi said. On the LED screen, the name of the patient, along with their clinical status, is displayed. This was meant only for critically ill bed-ridden patients, while others communicated to their families over phones, she said, adding: “We are updating the information twice a day — at 8 a.m. and 3 p.m. We are soon planning to update every hour. We have categorised patients as stable, critical and very critical. This is only basic information. If families want more information, we have dedicated phone numbers. They can call or send a SMS from their homes. We have supporting volunteers from The Banyan through the committee, who will get the information about the patients and pass it on to the families,” she said. Dr. Jayanthi said the services were on a dry run as of now, and would be launched by the Minister for Medical and Family Welfare shortly.  Grief counselling is crucial. We can help by counselling people to gain acceptance of the news of a relative’s sudden loss, especially in such stressed-out conditions. It will be handled by our professor of psychiatry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/grief-counselling-to-help-the-bereaved/article34703578.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cannot keep extending lockdown: CM||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 could not be extended endlessly and people’s cooperation was needed to put a full stop to it soon. “We cannot keep extending the lockdown and there has to be a full stop to this soon. And that is only in the people’s hands. There can be an end to the spread of COVID-19 only if the restrictions are followed completely,” Mr. Stalin said in a video message released on Tuesday. As a result of the intense lockdown, the spread of COVID-19 has been on the decline in Chennai and other major cities in Tamil Nadu gradually, he said. Chennai, which was reporting about 7,000 cases a day earlier, was only reporting about 2,000 the past few days, he said. “It will reduce further in the next few days. Cases were increasing in the western region, including in Coimbatore. This, too, has been coming down in the past two days,” Mr. Stalin said. “Due to the efforts taken, patients do not have to struggle to find a bed now. There is no oxygen shortage at all. Beds are vacant in several hospitals,” he said. Even if just a few people violate the lockdown norms, we will not be able to realise its complete effect, he said. “It is only because of the failure to put a full stop to the first wave that we are facing a second,” he said. People have to realise that the lockdown (imposed now) was the only option to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Chief Minister said, requesting people to make use of the mobile vegetable shops and ration shops that have been allowed to function by the State government during the lockdown. Livelihoods affected Acknowledging that livelihoods of certain sections had been affected, Mr. Stalin recalled the distribution of financial assistance extended to the people. While the first instalment of Rs. 2,000 had been distributed, the second (amounting to Rs. 2,000) would be distributed soon, he said, adding that economist Abhijit Banerjee had appreciated the move of the Tamil Nadu government. During the past three weeks, since his taking over as the Chief Minister, the State government had been focusing on improving the State’s medical infrastructure, he said. Over 3 lakh people were being vaccinated in a day and RT-PCR tests were being carried out on over 1.7 lakh people a day across Tamil Nadu. Recalling his recent visit to Coimbatore, wherein he entered a COVID-19 ward at the ESI Hospital donning a PPE suit, Mr. Stalin said his visit should make people cautious against COVID-19 and push them to follow the lockdown restrictions. Tamil Nadu needs to overcome the pressure on its fiscal health and medical infrastructure in the second wave, he said, reiterating the need for people to strictly follow lockdown restrictions.  Cases were increasing in the western region, including in Coimbatore. This too has been coming down in the past two days M.K. Stalin Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cannot-keep-extending-lockdown-cm/article34703832.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Marriage lost its meaning due to recognition of live-in relationships’||The Madras High Court has observed that the present generation must understand that marriage is not a contract to be broken at the drop of a hat, but a sacramental event in a person’s life. The court said: “Of course, the word sacrament has no meaning after the coming into effect of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act of 2005 that approves live-in relationships.” Justice S. Vaidyanathan further lamented that “unfortunately,” there was no law such as the Domestic Violence Act for men to proceed against their wives. The observations were made while quashing the suspension of a government veterinarian on the basis of a complaint lodged by his wife, accusing him of domestic violence, just four days before the couple was granted divorce by a family court. ‘Cruelty, desertion’ The judge pointed out that the writ petitioner’s wife had initiated proceedings under the Domestic Violence Act against the veterinarian before an additional mahila court in Salem in 2014. Thereafter, in 2015, the petitioner preferred a divorce application before the family court in Salem and sought divorce after accusing his wife of subjecting him to cruelty and deserting him voluntarily. The family court found force in the grounds raised by the writ petitioner and granted divorce on February 19, 2020. However, four days prior to the verdict, the petitioner’s wife sent a complaint regarding domestic violence proceedings to his employer, and it led to the Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services suspending the petitioner from service on February 18, 2020. Disapproving of the conduct of the complainant, the judge said the timing of the complaint “clearly shows that she had anticipated the divorce order and created unnecessary trouble to the petitioner”. Stating that the suspension of the writ petitioner was unwarranted, the judge ordered that he should be reinstated in service within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/marriage-lost-its-meaning-due-to-recognition-of-live-in-relationships/article34703588.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Higher borrowings seem inevitable for State govt.||With the exact impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on Tamil Nadu’s economy yet to be known this year, the State government may have to increase its borrowings for managing its fiscal health. According to the 15th Finance Commission’s recommendations, the fiscal deficit has to be within 4% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) for 2021-22. If the State government goes beyond its planned borrowings, the fiscal deficit is bound to go up, for which it has to seek the Centre’s approval. As per the Interim Budget presented by the previous AIADMK regime in February, the plan was to borrow Rs. 84,686.75 crore, by keeping the fiscal deficit at 3.94% of GSDP. The DMK government, which has completed barely 25 days in office, may not be in a position immediately to levy new taxes, increase user charges and drastically reduce revenue expenditure. It will only be left with the option of increasing its borrowings. There is one way by which the government can reduce its borrowings to some extent, if it comes forward to take up reforms in the power sector, as the 15th Finance Commission has allowed an additional borrowing of 0.5%. But the power sector reforms are like a “hot potato” for political parties in Tamil Nadu, where free power supply to farmers has been in vogue since 1984. Issues discussed On Monday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin discussed issues concerning the finances of the government with Finance Minister Palanivel Thiaga Rajan and officials. After the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the overall tax domain has largely shifted away from the reach of the States. Stamp duty and registration, sales tax and excise on liquor and the motor vehicles tax are the three broad components of the State’s Own Tax Revenue (SOTR), and though the government can make use of them for increasing revenue, the principle of limitation also operates vis-à-vis the components. Under normal circumstances, there will be a certain amount of increase in revenue even in the absence of a hike in taxes or charges. But with the second wave of the pandemic, a fall in revenue looks imminent. For example, as per the Budget Estimates worked out by the government prior to the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, the SOTR for 2020-21 was expected to be about Rs. 1.34 lakh crore. [It was later revised to Rs. 1.09 lakh crore]. As per a provisional estimate, the revenue netted last year was about Rs. 1.06 lakh crore. This meant that the gap was about Rs. 28,000 crore. It remains to be seen whether the State would see a similar drop in revenue this year as well if the pandemic continues. Also, any new government would like to convey to the people that it is serious about implementing its electoral promises, which would, naturally, lead to an increase in revenue expenditure. For example, the current government has almost completed the distribution of Rs. 2,000 to each ration cardholder. It has to carry out yet another round. In total, the provision of Rs. 4,000 to all ration cardholders as cash support for people hit by the pandemic will cost nearly Rs. 8,300 crore. Expenditure can be reduced in a limited way by weeding out some schemes that may not be relevant. According to an expert, there is enormous scope for improving the efficiency of tax collection, which can shore up revenue.  The DMK government, which has completed barely 25 days in office, may not be in a position immediately to levy new taxes or increase user charges||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/higher-borrowings-seem-inevitable-for-state-govt/article34703835.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||518 people affected by mucormycosis, 17 have died||As many as 518 people have been affected by mucormycosis in Tamil Nadu so far, and of these, 17 have died, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. The Minister launched a special mucormycosis screening centre at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). Steps are also being taken to establish similar screening facilities in all government medical college hospitals in the State. He told reporters that the centre would enable the early identification of patients affected by mucormycosis. “A total of 120 beds have been earmarked at the RGGGH for patients diagnosed with mucormycosis. A similar special ward has already been set up at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate,” he said. A 13-member committee will look into the causes of mucormycosis, including the role of steroid use in patients diagnosed with COVID-19, and the possible contamination in industrial oxygen, he said. According to a press release, presently 112 patients with mucormycosis are admitted to the RGGGH. Endoscopic nasal surgical debridement has been performed so far in more than 30 patients, and vision saved in two by administering intraorbital amphotericin injection. Early detection of mucormycosis has prevented complications and mortality, the release said. At the special mucormycosis screening outpatient diagnostic centre at the RGGGH, patients with early suspected symptoms will be examined by ENT specialists, an ophthalmologist, a general physician, a diabetologist and a nasal endoscopist, while a fungal examination will be done by a mycologist and a microbiologist. Such a comprehensive facility for diagnostic evaluation and further management of mucormycosis is a first in the State, the release added. The hospital has also installed an LED board to display the health status of patients diagnosed with COVID-19, who are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, MP Dayanidhi Maran, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and dean of RGGGH E. Theranirajan were present. DPH advisory The Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has issued an advisory on mucormycosis. All medical practitioners and institutions have been requested to follow-up all COVID-19 patients after discharge for the occurence of mucormycosis and report cases to local health authorities. DPH, as part of preventive measures, has advised that the use of steroids should be strictly according to State guidelines for the management of COVID-19 and the duration of treatment with steroids should not exceed 10 days, unless clinically indicated. Oxygen humidifiers should be cleaned every day and filled with sterile water/distilled water. Appropriate infection control measures should be followed. At the hospital level, each case of mucormycosis should be audited to identify the source of infection, and infection sites should be tagged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/518-affected-by-mucormycosis-in-tn-17-dead/article34703693.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 2,400 additional traders enlisted for doorstep deliveries||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Tuesday increased the number of passes for traders by more than 100% by issuing them to more than 2,400 additional traders for doorstep delivery in one day. A total of 13,022 vehicles have been permitted to sell groceries and carry out doorstep deliveries of essential commodities to residents. On Tuesday, the Corporation introduced doorstep delivery of groceries in various parts of the city. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said more than 4,600 supermarkets, wholesale outlets and local stores received passes for doorstep delivery of groceries by Tuesday afternoon. “We have issued passes for 7,486 push carts and two-wheelers. As many as 5,536 passes for big vehicles have also been issued,” he said. The civic body, with support from other departments, has also started regulating prices of vegetables, ensuring that there was no major increase in prices during the lockdown. The traders have also supported the initiative. The prices of vegetables in the retail market did not registered any major change on Tuesday. For instance, the retail price of potato increased marginally at Rs. 25 per kg on Tuesday, when compared to Rs. 23 per kg on Monday. The wholesale price varied between Rs. 14 and Rs. 16, according to data shared with the Corporation. Residents have been requested to report issues pertaining to any major rise in prices to Corporation helpline 1913. They can contact shops using the numbers given on http://covid19.chennaicorporation.gov.in/covid/groceries/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-2400-additional-traders-enlisted-for-doorstep-deliveries/article34703570.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai will continue to simmer||June started off on a warm note as the mercury level soared above normal, particularly in places in north Tamil Nadu. Chennaiites will experience searing heat with the maximum temperature predicted to be around 40 degree Celsius till Thursday. People in the north and interior parts may have to brace for scorching weather as the temperature is likely to rise by two or three degree Celsius on Wednesday. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the maximum temperature is likely to increase over 14 districts, including Chennai and its neighbouring districts, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Madurai, Tiruchi, Krishnagiri and Vellore and Puducherry. However, convective activity and a cyclonic circulation over interior Tamil Nadu at 3.1 km above mean sea-level would influence thunderstorm activity and bring light to moderate rain in some places over the State. Heavy rain is likely over one or two places in northern districts, they said. The IMD forecast that the southwest monsoon may set in over Kerala around June 3, and the south peninsular region is likely to experience normal rainfall. With southwesterly winds strengthening, it may enhance rainfall and aid in onset over Kerala. During a virtual press conference on Tuesday, IMD’s Director General of Meteorology M. Mohapatra said rainfall over the southern peninsular region is likely to be normal, which would be between 93%-107% of the long period average between 1961 and 2010. On weather enthusiasts’ predictions that conditions were favourable for onset around May 27 over Kerala, he said monsoon criteria was not fulfilled yet. When asked about the functioning of the doppler weather radar in Chennai, he said the old radar was being operated only during severe weather conditions. One more radar being installed at the National Institute of Ocean Technology, Pallikaranai, would be commissioned soon and the radars of Sriharikota and Thiruvananthapuram would also be used. The Meteorological Department expects a dip in mercury level around June 4 or 5, S. Balachandran, Deputy Drector General of Meteorology, Chennai, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-will-continue-to-simmer/article34703582.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||30% prisoners in State vaccinated against virus||The Tamil Nadu Department of Prisons and Correctional Services has vaccinated 30% of the 4,297 convicts lodged in prisons across the State. Jail authorities organised special camps in coordination with the local bodies to administer vaccines to inmates and prison staff as part of the safety protocols being followed to contain the spread of COVID-19. Director-General of Police, Prisons & Correctional Services, Sunil Kumar Singh said the target was to achieve 100% vaccination of the convicts, and a majority of the staff/officers had taken the shot to motivate the prisoners to take the vaccine without any fear. The prisoners were sensitised to the efficacy of the vaccines and how they could save lives. Of the 30% who were vaccinated among the prison population, more than half took the shot in the last week of May. While the capacity of prisons, including Central prisons, was 23,592, the occupancy stood at 59%. The 108 district and sub-jails were being used as the first level of entry to new inmates with quarantine facility. Since August last year, all new inmates are being tested and quarantined before getting shifted to Central prisons. When asked about the health condition of three inmates owing allegiance to an extremist organisation, who tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to the Stanley Government Hospital, Mr. Singh said they were from the high-security block of the Puzhal Central Prison, and two of them had tested negative on Tuesday. “After prisoners lodged in the high-security block showed symptoms of the virus, we requested the DGP, the Chennai Police Commissioner and health officials to convert the convict ward at the Stanley Government Hospital into a COVID ward with adequate security arrangements,” he said. As many as 198 prison staff had tested positive and were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. “The prison staff are frontline workers, and ours is an essential service, too. They [the staff] are exposed to risks when they deal with new prisoners,” Mr. Singh added. Two deaths On two deaths involving a prison staff member and a remand prisoner in May, the DGP said prisoner Palanisamy, 76, was involved in a murder case and had been lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison. He was shifted to the Institute of Mental Health, Chennai, for treatment of mental health issues. He tested positive on May 15 and was later shifted to the Stanley Government Hospital, where he died on May 25. “We also lost 12 staff members to COVID-19, including 10 who died in the last two months,” he said. Besides six convicts who tested positive for the virus in the Salem Central Prison and were sent to the government hospital there, 77 remand prisoners across the State were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. More than one lakh prisoners had been released on bail since March 21, 2020, including 43,876 on personal surety, Mr. Singh said, adding that masks, hand sanitisers and soap were made available to all inmates, whose adherence to safety norms was being monitored closely.  The prison staff are frontline workers, and ours is an essential service, too. They [the staff] are exposed to risks when they deal with new prisonersSunil Kumar SinghDGP, Prisons & Correctional Services||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-prisoners-in-state-vaccinated-against-virus/article34703834.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Record interviews held for staff appointment’||Piqued at numerous instances of illegal staff appointments in State-run universities, the Madras High Court has ordered that the entire interview process should henceforth be recorded on video. It has also ordered that salaries paid to illegal appointees be recovered from members of the selection committee, after revoking the appointments made in violation of the constitutional mandate of equal opportunity, fairness and transparency. Justice R. Mahadevan made it clear that copies of the video recordings should be made available to the candidates on payment of a reasonable cost and a detailed inquiry must be conducted whenever the eligibility of an appointee is questioned. Salaries paid to illegal appointees could be recovered from them only if they gained employment by submitting fake certificates; otherwise, it should be recovered from selection committee members, he said. “In cases where appointments are made following the rule of reservation, and if later, it is found that the appointee by conversion to another religion either before the appointment or thereafter, has secured the job or continues, as if he/she belongs to the religion under which such appointment by reservation is obtained, the appointee will forgo the right to such appointment under the respective quota or to continue in the post,” the judge ruled. Petitioners’ charge The directions were issued while disposing of a writ petition filed in 2017 by three technical officers (library) R. Ramesh, S. Ramkumar and S. Kanagaraj of Bharathiar University in Coimbatore. The petitioners challenged the appointment of M. Gowthaman as assistant technical officer (library) in 2007 and the consequential promotion given to him as technical officer in 2017, on the ground that he did not possess the requisite educational qualifications. Finding force in the submissions made by petitioners’ counsel N. Kavitha Rameshwar, the judge wrote: “This sort of practice on the part of the respondent authorities is highly condemnable.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-interviews-held-for-staff-appointment/article34703839.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Legal services for Korean investors extended||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai has extended the services at its Legal Aid Centre to troubleshoot diverse legal issues encountered by Korean investors in south India. The service was first introduced in September 2020 and will now be extended for a period of six months. The aim behind this was to smoothen, speed up and resolve a variety of business challenges faced by Korean business houses. Till date, around 50 inquiries have come to the centre. According to details provided by the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai, some challenges that have come up include disputes with landlords and local vendors. There are approximately 150 Korean companies established in Tamil Nadu, and 250 in south India, according to Mr Hong-yup Lee, Deputy Consul General. The centre can be reached through chennai@mofa.go.kr and 044-40615500.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/legal-services-for-korean-investors-extended/article34703572.ece
02 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Hyderabad-bound flight diverted to Chennai twice||What should have been a three-hour journey for the crew and passengers on an Air India Express flight stretched to nearly 12 hours following weather events over Telangana. The IX918 on the Muscat-Hyderabad sector, with 167 passengers, including an infant and six crew members, took off just after 1 p.m. on Monday. When descending on the approach to Hyderabad around 4.10 p.m., bad weather set in. The crew initiated a go-around, and the Boeing 737-800NG was diverted to Chennai, landing at Meenambakkam at 5.20 p.m. The aircraft took off for Hyderabad again around 6 p.m. but nearly 30 minutes into the flight, the crew were informed of extremely bad weather over Hyderabad and also runway closure. The flight was turned back to Chennai, landing at 7.50 p.m. As the crew had exhausted their mandated flight duty time limitation by then, the airline arranged for a crew change, which was done within two hours. After air services resumed, the flight left around 11.30 p.m., landing at Shamshabad at 12.20 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyderabad-bound-flight-diverted-to-chennai-twice/article34703571.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin caused vaccine hesitancy’||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was instrumental in causing “vaccine hesitancy” in the State when he was the opposition leader by raising doubts over the safety of vaccines, causing people not to take the available vaccines for COVID-19, Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan claimed on Tuesday. At a press conference in Chennai, Mr. Murugan charged, “It is only the Chief Minister and then opposition leader [M.K. Stalin] who raised doubts over vaccines. But after raising doubts about the safety of vaccines, he and other opposition leaders went and took the vaccine.” To a question on Tamil Nadu proposing to take over and operate the vaccine manufacturing unit in Chengalpattu, Mr. Murugan said, “It is not a mechanic shop or a lorry godown. Scientists have to give their opinion and the Centre will take a decision on it.” He further said there was a possibility that the Union government itself might decide to operate the plant. Mr. Murugan said the Union government was working to ensure that everyone in the country gets vaccinated by November. On the vaccine shortage in Tamil Nadu, he said Tamil Nadu was given 20 lakh vaccines last month and in June, it was being doubled to 42 lakh. “We [BJP government at the Centre] have already given one crore vaccines to Tamil Nadu. We had given enough stock to the State initially, but it was not utilised properly and there was wastage,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-caused-vaccine-hesitancy/article34703581.ece
02 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Donations to CMPRF||A large number of donations were received by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) on Tuesday. Ashok Leyland contributed Rs. 3 crore. The cheque was handed over to Mr. Stalin by the company’s president (HR & CSR), N.V. Balachandar. Apollo Tyres’s commercial head Balasubramanyam gave Rs. 2 crore. Sanmar Group deputy chairman Vijay Sankar gave Rs. 1.5 crore. The Madras Steel Rerollers Association donated Rs. 1.35 crore and the cheque was given by Sanjay Agarwal. Vels University founder-chancellor Ishari K. Ganesh made a donation of Rs. 1.01 crore. Bonfiglioli Transmissions Private Limited vice-president S. Suresh Babu presented a letter to donate medical equipment worth Rs. 2.12 crore. Madurai Meenakshi Mission Hospital donated Rs. 1.75 crore. The TTK Group, represented by vice-chairman T.T. Raghunathan, gave Rs. 1 crore, with the same amount donated by Rane Group’s vice-chairman Harish Lakshman. CavinKare founder-chairman C.K. Ranganathan chipped in with Rs. 1 crore. Star Health and Allied Insurance chairman and CEO V. Jagannathan gave a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. Tagros Chemicals director Abhimanyu Jhaver donated a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. The Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Department presented a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. The Muslim Educational Association of Southern India presented a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. Prince of Arcot and president of MEASI Mohammed Abdul Ali presented it to the Chief Minister. Angel TV donated Rs. 55 lakh. AstraZeneca gave Rs. 50 lakh, and a similar sum was given by Bhima Jewellers managing partner Sudir Kapoor. The Seafood Exporters Association of India; Super Auto Forge company; Punjab Association Chennai and the Tamil Nadu Government Agricultural Graduates’ Association donated Rs. 50 lakh. D. Ramraj, president of the All-India Shrimp Hatcheries’ Association, gave a cheque of Rs. 43.53 lakh. Loyola College donated Rs. 30 lakh. Chennai Sister City San Antonio, Texas, donated an amount of $10,000. It was donated through the U.S. Consulate General, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-to-cmprf/article34703836.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stanley hospital gets 3 ICU beds||The Stanley Medical College Hospital has received three intensive care unit (ICU) beds worth Rs. 38 lakh. The beds were sponsored by BNY Mellon and Sevalaya, a non-governmental organisation. D. Vidya, head, India CSR, BNY Mellon, handed over the equipment to vice-principal A. Jamila in the presence of Ashok Kumar L., AVP, Operations, Sevalaya, and R. Radhakrishnan, a professor in the Anaesthesia Department at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stanley-hospital-gets-3-icu-beds/article34703574.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two suspects who fled from custody in Vyasarpadi surrender||Two of the three suspects, who fled from custody in the Vyasarpadi police station, surrendered to the police on Tuesday. The police said a special team found the three roaming around on Saturday. When the police questioned the trio, identified as Ajith Kumar, 24, Ajay Gupta, 22, and Jagadeswaran, 22, they gave evasive answers. Interrogations revealed that Ajith Kumar had 24 crime cases pending against him, while Ajay and Jagadeeswaran were facing nearly 20 cases each. They were detained in a cell and started faking a fight. The trio broke windowpanes and pretended to stab each other. When sub-inspector Anand tried to control them, they stabbed him and fled from the spot. On Tuesday, Jagadeeswaran and Ajay surrendered. Ajith Kumar is still on the run.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-suspects-who-fled-from-custody-in-vyasarpadi-surrender/article34703575.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constable hit by car in Mogappair||The Traffic Investigation Wing, Thirumangalam, on Tuesday arrested a car driver for hitting a constable. The police said Sowmya, 24, a constable, was on duty on Mogappair Bazaar Road on Monday. While she was checking vehicles, a car driven by T. Sugumar, 32, of Arumbakkam, ran over her leg. She was admitted to hospital. The police arrested him and seized his car.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-hit-by-car-in-mogappair/article34703573.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Photos of jungle cat with its kill emerge from Keeranatham||After a few residents of Siva Nagar near Kalapatti complained to the Forest Department about the movement of an unusual animal in the locality, photos of a jungle cat with its kill have surfaced from nearby Keeranatham. Following reports about the elusive animal appeared, Coimbatore Nature Society (CNS) shared photos of a jungle cat ( Felis chaus ) with its kill, a bird, taken by one of its members from Keeranatham. Forest staff who visited Siva Nagar last week opined that the animal, which a few residents claimed to have seen, could be a jungle cat. However, to ascertain the identity, camera traps were fixed in the area on Monday. CNS president P.R. Selvaraj said R. Vijaykumar, a retired Income Tax officer who lives at Keeranatham spotted an animal of the size of a jackal on May 25. But he could not confirm the species. “On the following day, the animal’s movement was detected again, and a few pictures were taken. Upon posting the photos in CNS forum, the animal was found to be a jungle cat that was seen hunting a rock pigeon,” Mr. Slevaraj said. He said, the animal sighted at Kalapatti could well be a jungle cat as Keeranatham and Kalapatti nearby areas. “We have shared the photos with the Forest Department,” he added. Forest officials said the identity of the animal would be confirmed using the camera traps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/photos-of-jungle-cat-with-its-kill-emerge-from-keeranatham/article34703612.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Biologist who fought for elephant corridors dies of COVID-19||K. Ramkumar (43), a wildlife biologist from Tamil Nadu who died of COVID-19 on Tuesday, is remembered by conservationists as a person who dedicated his entire profession for the conservation of elephants and protection of corridors. A native of Sirkali in Mayiladuthurai district, Ramkumar died at a hospital at Kumbakonam early on Tuesday. A wildlife biologist attached to the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), he was central in securing the Wayanad corridor over seven years and was also working to secure another corridor in BRT-Sathyamangalam landscape, WTI remembered Ramkumar in an obituary. “He was the backbone in mapping the first edition of the ‘Right of Passage’, the corridor book that has become the go-to reference for elephant conservation in India. He has authored several research reports,papers and popular articles, and is co-editor of ‘Right of Passage: Elephant Corridors of India (2nd Edition),” it said. Condoling Ramkumar’s demise, a colleague of his wrote on Twitter that his death came on the very day of completing his 13th year of his stint with WTI. A wildlife biologist with a doctorate on human-elephant conflict, Ramkumar was a regular presence in events related to conservation in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “He will always be remembered for his extensive research on the identification and protection of elephant corridors,” said K. Kalidasan of Osai, a Coimbatore-based environmental organisation. “He played a critical role in identifying and meticulously mapping the elephant corridors in the Nilgiris-Wayanad landscape. It is very sad that we lost him too soon. A big loss to conservation and WTI,” said Rajah Jayapal, Senior Principal Scientist, Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle), recalled that Ramkumar worked closely with the Tamil Nadu Forest Department in working out strategies to reduce elephant casualties on railway lines at Madukkarai.  Ramkumar is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/biologist-who-fought-for-elephant-corridors-dies-of-covid-19/article34703608.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Confusion over setting up temporary wholesale markets||The Thudiyalur weekly market or the Ramar Kovil vegetable market wore a deserted look on Tuesday morning, a day after the Coimbatore Corporation had said it was setting up temporary wholesale vegetable markets there to decongest the M.G.R. Wholesale Vegetable Market on Mettupalayam Road. Sources said the after the Special Officer for the Corporation for COVID-19 management Veera Raghava Rao and Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian inspected the market on Monday morning and held discussion with a few traders in the evening. The Corporation had in a release said it had been decided to decongest M.G.R. Wholesale Vegetable Market by establishing temporary markets in other places. It had also said that traders in the northern part of the city could go to Thudiyalur and those in the southern part to either the T.K. Market or the Ukkadam Ramar Kovil market. Sources said the Corporation’s plan did not take off on Tuesday because the traders were confused and were yet to agree to the civic body’s proposal. It was to reduce the overcrowding during the COVID-19 that the Corporation decided so. But in working out a solution, the Corporation had not included all sections of traders, sources said. The Corporation that had indicated that the retail vegetable sellers at the now-closed Anna Vegetable Market in Saibaba Colony would go to the Thudiyalur market to sell vegetables in wholesale were not invited to the Monday’s meeting. The traders had given representation to the administration and the Corporation, said G.A. Wahab, secretary of the traders’ association at Anna Market. Sources said it would be prudent to extend the working time. The sources also said that the vegetable vendors at the Ukkadam Ramar Kovil market had expressed reservation to sell vegetables from the Ukkadam bus stand and had asked the civic body to let them transact from the Ramar Kovil Street.  Sources said that a temporary wholesale market would start functioning in Thudiyaur from Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/confusion-over-setting-up-temporary-wholesale-markets/article34703850.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic, delayed exam put question mark over student’s MBA admission||The COVID-19 pandemic has taken a toll of different kind on S. Saranya, who has just been terminated from the MBA programme run by the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham School of Business. On May 4 this year, the School wrote to Ms. Saranya saying it advised her to withdraw from the programme and if it did not hear from her by May 6, it would remove her from rolls. “The admission….was subject to the fulfilment of minimum eligibility criteria and submission of proof thereof. We have not received all the required proofs of your undergraduate degree till date,” said the letter signed by Bhawana Jain, Chair-PGP. The deemed university Registrar K. Sankaran said the student was unable to furnish her provisional degree certificate and therefore had lost her eligibility to continue as the admission to the MBA programme was provisional. After the May 4 letter, Ms. Saranya returned to the institution where she had completed her undergraduate programme – PSG College of Technology, whose principal in-charge issued a letter the very next day certifying S. Saranya of having “completed all courses of study in April 2020.” The college had in April 2021 issued another letter in which it said, “This is to certify that Ms. Saranya S. ….has completed all requirements of the course and is qualified for the award of the B.Sc. Degree in Computer Systems and Design.” Notwithstanding the letter, the Amrita deemed university had terminated because Ms. Saranya had not furnished the provisional degree certificate, which was not the same as a letter from the college principal, Mr. Sankaran said. Ms. Saranya’s father V. Sivaramakrishnan said the student was unable to furnish the provisional degree certificate because Anna University was yet to issue it. But she had furnished consolidated mark sheet and all semester mark sheets. Sources in Amrita said the institution had terminated Ms. Saranya from the programme also because she had completed her degree in only 2021 and not 2020 and that she had arrears examination. But the May 5 letter from the PSG College of Technology principal in-charge said the April 2020 examination was held in September 2020 because of the pandemic situation. As for the arrears examination, there was a delay because of a case filed in the Madras High Court. “Taking all factors in to account, it may be interpreted that the candidate [Ms. Saranya] should have qualified for degree in the exam scheduled in April 2020, if the pandemic had not disturbed the academic schedule,” said the letter from the PSG College of Technology principal. But this was only an interpretation and not order. And, it was only an opinion, said Amrita Registrar Mr. Sankaran and sources in the institution. The student had completed her undergraduate programme only in 2021 and that made her ineligible for the MBA course 2020-22, they added. Mr. Sankaran further said that if the student were to return for the 2021-23 batch, Amrita deemed university would consider her candidature and also discount the fee she had paid for the first year as the institution was not after money. He added that the university had made it clear to the student and her parents as well. Acknowledging that the university had made the offer, Ms. Saranya’s father Mr. Sivaramakrishnan asked what about the year that his daughter could lose. Was there way to compensate the loss? Meanwhile, consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon, who had taken up the student’s case and written to the Ministry of Human Resource Development, argued that Ms. Saranya was in no way responsible for the delayed conduct of examination due to pandemic. Referring to the letter written by the PSG College of Technology, he said even after the letter was issued, the student had suffered because of the stand taken by the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham. The student had paid the first year fee Rs. 5.35 lakh, written two trimester examinations but was not allowed to write the third for no fault of hers. Therefore the Ministry should intervene, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-delayed-exam-put-question-mark-over-students-mba-admission/article34703610.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Token distribution to PDS card holders to start today||The distribution of tokens to Public Distribution System (PDS) card holders, scheduled to begin on Tuesday, will start on Wednesday. Sources familiar with the development said a day’s delay in distribution was because the Cooperation Department, which received the State government’s instruction on Monday night, had started printing tokens thereafter. The Department here completed printing of 9.78 lakh tokens for as many PDS card holders on Tuesday morning and by the time it finished the tokens, the shops had closed. The task of distributing the tokens took place on Tuesday afternoon and would be completed well before Wednesday morning for the staff at the fair price shops to distribute the tokens to card holders. The card holders could use the tokens to buy commodities at the given date and time from the shops. The Cooperation Department here printed the tokens for the 8.94 lakh card holders attached to the1,248 shops it managed, 70,211 card holders attached to the 103 shops that women self-help groups managed and the 14,000-odd card holders attached to shops run by the Karuppati Urpathiyalar Kooturavu Sangam (jaggery producers’ cooperative society). The remaining card holders were attached to the shops run by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation, which had a separate arrangement for printing the tokens. After receiving the tokens, the fair price shop supervisors would fill the PDS card number, family head’s name, date and time for the card holders to go to the shops. This arrangement, the government had said, was to prevent crowding at the shops. The fair price shops would distribute the tokens until June 4 and start the commodity distribution from June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/token-distribution-to-pds-card-holders-to-start-today/article34703849.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts to keep vegetable prices low, say wholesale traders||Wholesale vegetable traders here reiterated that they were doing their best to make available vegetables at low prices to customers, said sources at the markets. They said that large quantities of vegetables were going waste at the farms as they were unable to sell the entire harvest because of the spread of the pandemic and the lockdown. Vegetables arrived in different price ranges from the farms, depending on the quality. When a vendor bought smaller quantities, even 10 or 20 kg to sell in vehicles, the wastage was more. The wholesale traders were facing shortage of workers too. Yet, the prices remained at the normal level and officials were regularly monitoring it. When the monsoon set in and fresh arrivals started, the prices would drop further, they said. Meanwhile, the traders of Anna Market met the Corporation officials and sought permission to open the shops. “We were asked to wait for a few days. Only 150 of the 300 shops at the market were operational before the lockdown,” said S. Suresh, president of the market’s vegetable traders association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-to-keep-vegetable-prices-low-say-wholesale-traders/article34703845.ece
02 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Crackdown on illicit liquor||In a single day crackdown on liquor seizures, over 4,864 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor were seized along with other liquor in Morappur jurisdiction on Tuesday. Special task forces were constituted by Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar under the DSPs and police teams to conduct raids across the district. In its wake, raids were conducted along the district border with Tiruvannamalai. On Tuesday, 4,864 bottles of IMFL, 14 lts of ID arrack, and fermented wash were seized. As of date, 6,141 IMFL bottles, 17,388 Karnataka made IMFL bottles, 290 litres of illicit liquor, 1,245 litres of fermented wash and 18 litres of toddy were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crackdown-on-illicit-liquor/article34703606.ece
02 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Date extended||The Department of Employment and Training has given an opportunity for those who failed to renew their employment registration in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Collector Prashant M.Wadnere said that the unemployed could renew their registration by online before August 27 athttp://tnvelaivaaippu.gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/date-extended/article34704015.ece
02 June 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Coordination committees set up||Coordination committees have been formed to enable Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) to liaise with the district administration in pandemic relief and management. The email id for the State level coordination committee istnngocoordination @gmail.com, According to an administration release. Registration Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy said NGOs seeking to help out may register themselves onhttp://ucc.uhcitp.in/ngoregistration Further, NGOs may also reach out to the District Social Welfare Officer, who is the member of the coordination committee on 04343-2357171, or write todswokrishnagiri@ gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coordination-committees-set-up/article34703605.ece
02 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Scientific approach proved successful’||Scientific approach and strategies had helped in improving the COVID-19 pandemic scenario in Madurai as compared to the situation three weeks earlier, said Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan, here on Tuesday. He was addressing mediapersons after chairing a meeting with Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy, Collector Anees Sekar and Corporation Commissioner S Visakan to discuss COVID-19 preventive steps taken in Madurai. Three weeks back, there was a shortage of ICU beds, oxygen-supported beds and medicines in hospitals. But currently the situation had improved and there was no shortage in the number of beds or oxygen in hospitals. The COVID-19 treatment had been decentralised, health infrastructure improved and door-to-door screening in rural areas was under way to bring down the COVID-19 positive cases. “If the public cooperate in following the rules of complete lockdown, then we can certainly bring the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic under control,” Mr. Thiagarajan added. “Currently, there is only a shortage in availability of medicine for mucormycosis and COVID-19 vaccines,” said Mr. Thiagarajan. He said that Madurai was among the districts in the State where the COVID-19 vaccination was done at a faster pace. There is an overall shortage in availability of COVID-19 vaccines in the State. “But we are working to bring additional vaccines from foreign countries. The Chief Minister is also taking steps to manufacture the vaccines in Tamil Nadu,” said the Minister. Similarly, medicines for mucormycosis will be bought in the state. Based on a complaint that a private hospital charged exorbitant charges to treat a COVID-19 patient, the Collector took action and the amount was refunded. “A meeting with representatives of private hospitals was held on Monday to discuss this issue,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/scientific-approach-proved-successful/article34703665.ece
02 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown affects snack units of Sellur||Families in Sellur, who eke out a living by making traditional snacks, have been severely affected due to the imposition of intense lockdown. With almost no sales during the lockdown period, the families are on the verge of starvation. Those involved in the business say that it is a cottage industry where they make murukku, thattai and other snacks. These snacks are sold at shops in Madurai district and neighbouring Sivaganga and Virudhunagar districts. However, since the imposition of the complete lockdown, it has become difficult to even purchase raw materials, says M. Selvarajan, owner of a snack unit. “It is difficult to purchase rice flour which is the basic ingredient to make these snacks,” he says. The price of refined palm oil, used for frying the snacks, is sold at triple the normal price in the past few months, says K. Karthik, owner of another unit. “High prices of ingredients increases our production cost. However, we cannot increase the prices of the snacks as people already have less disposable income owing to the financial distress caused by COVID-19 pandemic. So, we hardly earn any profits,” he says. Ever since the intense lockdown came into force, there is hardly any sales. With no income, our families are struggling to make both ends meet,” says Mr. Selvarajan. Mr. Karthik says that they are hopeful that the situation will return to normality soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-affects-snack-units-of-sellur/article34703661.ece
02 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three held within hours of robbing nurse in Madurai||In a swift move, Madurai City Police nabbed three robbers and recovered a six-sovereign gold chain within hours after they had robbed a staff nurse in the city in the dead of Monday night. The police identified the accused as Azuruddin, 21, Salman Khan, 25, and Malik Faizal, 21, of Nelpettai. “We formed additional special teams to locate the accused after identifying them with the help of video footage from closed-circuit television camera,” said Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha. The three were stealthily waiting on the road and had followed the nurse, S. Shanmuga Priya, who was proceeding for COVID duty from Villapuram to Government Rajaji Hospital. When she was riding the bike on the new bridge across the Vaigai near Tirumalairayar Padithurai, they tried to snatch her gold chain. The woman, who lost balance, fell down and swooned. The youths took away her mobile phone too along with the chain. A policeman on duty, who came there by chance, took her to the hospital where she narrated the incident on regaining consciousness. When the police tracked them at Annai Sathya Nagar in Kalmedu and went there to nab them, the trio escaped on a stolen motorcycle. After a hot chase for nearly 20 km, the police caught them. The police said that Salman Khan and Azuruddin had over 20 robbery cases pending against them. The Commissioner appreciated the efforts of the special team members, including Inspectors of Police, Sankar, G. Pethuraj and G. Srinivasan.  We formed additional teams to locate the accused after identifying them with the help of CCTV footage  Prem Anand Sinha Commissioner of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-within-hours-of-robbing-nurse-in-madurai/article34703659.ece
02 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Company director gets bail||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday granted bail to the director of two Thoothukudi-based stevedore companies. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody in connection with alleged Goods and Services Tax evasion to the tune of Rs. 13.88 crore. The case of the prosecution was that the petitioner, J. Giri Ram, was the director and person in-charge of the two companies. The first company collected GST from its customers to the tune of Rs. 4.61 crore but did not pay the amount to the government. Similarly, it availed itself ineligible excess Input Tax Credit worth Rs. 2.54 crore. The second company also failed to pay Rs. 4.95 crore to the government and fraudulently availed itself of Input Tax Credit worth Rs. 1.78 crore without proper documents. The offences were punishable under the Central GST Act, 2017. The petitioner was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. In his bail petition, Giri Ram said combining the cases was not proper since the transactions and the legal entities were entirely different. Only for the purpose of making the offence nonbailable, the liabilities of the two companies were combined. Justice G. Ilangovan granted bail to the petitioner with conditions. The court said whether any mistake was committed by clubbing the two transactions could be decided only during the trial. Giri Ram was directed to surrender his passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/company-director-gets-bail/article34703939.ece
02 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale flower shops to function at omni bus stand||Wholesale flower traders can function out of omni bus stand at Mattuthavani here temporarily during thecomplete lockdown period, said Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P Moorthy here on Tuesday. The Minister, District COVID-19 Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan and Collector Aneesh Sekar inspected the bus stand on Tuesday. The Minister said that the decision to allow functioning of flower shops at the bus stand was decided based on request from farmers and traders. He said that the Agricultural College and Research Institute and the omni bus stand were inspected to decide where the wholesale flower shops would function. The Minister also inspected few Mini COVID-19 Care Centres across the district and the setting up of 150 additional beds at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wholesale-flower-shops-to-function-at-omni-bus-stand/article34703657.ece
02 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 130.90 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 503 cusecs and no discharge. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.32 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 659 cusecs and a discharge of 69 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,050 mcft. Rainfall Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 22.6, Madurai 8, Periyar dam 4.4 and Thekkadi 2.2. Tirunelveli  The level in Papanasam dam stood at 135.10 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 359 cusecs and a discharge of 1,400 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 90 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 95 cusecs and a discharge of 250 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34703663.ece
02 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases come down further||Madurai district recorded 633 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, with which its overall case tally increased to 65,512. A total of 695 persons had tested positive on Monday. Eighteen persons died on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 920. A total of 993 persons were discharged. Virudhunagar district reported 12 more deaths – eight of the victims were women and four men, all aged over 50 – on Tuesday. The district, which has registered an overall death toll of 422, recorded over 100 fatalities in the last 12 days. While 620 persons tested positive, 776 persons were discharged in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-cases-come-down-further/article34703656.ece
02 June 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to enforce prohibition||The police have stepped up measures to strengthen prohibition in the district in the wake of noticeable spurt in bootlegging activities apparently due to closure of TASMAC outlets during the current phase of intensified lockdown. 320 cases They had registered 320 cases against 345 persons involved in illegal manufacture of arrack and possession of liquor during May. Patrol teams seized and destroyed 7,990 litres of Pondy arrack, 495 litres of rectified spirit, and 950 litres of illicitly distilled arrack, N. Shreenatha, Superintendent of Police, said. More number of checkposts have been established to prevent smuggling of liquor from Karaikal, he said. The checkposts do deter smugglers, but there are also porous entrance/exit points dotting agricultural fields that have made the smuggling of liquor possible, according to representatives of public service organisations in Karaikal. The situation is now manageable since the movement of people has been restricted due to the enforcement of intensified lockdown. But once the restrictions are eased, there could be a tough situation, they say. Instances of smuggling of Indian Made Foreign Liquor from Karaikal into bordering districts in Tamil Nadu have been on the rise after the first week of April when the Union Territory decided not to extend the levy on special excise duty on alcoholic beverages. The higher levy was imposed during June 2020 to mobilise funds for handling the impact of COVID-19. The police on both sides apprehend that two-way movement of people will increase since there are a large number of customers in bordering districts of Tamil Nadu for the relatively affordable arrack and toddy sold in Karaikal. The liquor business in Karaikal has always relied on the large base customers from outside the administrative enclave of Puducherry, say sellers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-enforce-prohibition/article34704007.ece
02 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases, deaths decline by 50% in U.T.||The Union Territory recorded 14 deaths, including that of a 22-year-old woman with multiple co-morbidities, even while test positivity rate in the Union Territory was at about 11% and the number of patient recoveries continued to exceed new cases on Tuesday. According to the Health Department data, daily cases and deaths have declined by 50% from the incidence of infections and mortality in the past month. In all, 979 new cases were detected from 8,540 tests against 1,403 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The active cases stood at 10,709 with 1,533 in hospitals and 9,176 in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 11.46%, case fatality rate 1.47% and recovery rate 88.37%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-cases-deaths-decline-by-50-in-ut/article34703583.ece
02 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Police create awareness campaign to check illicit distillation and sale of arrack||Police officers have been carrying out awareness campaigns in rural pockets to drive home the hazard of consuming illicit arrack and seek information about illicit distillation in their villages. Officers in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police and Inspector of Police have been meeting the public in the last three days at Alangudi, Pudukottai and Illupur sub-divisions where instances of seizure of fermented wash and attempts to indulge in illicit distillation was found to be more. The death of two persons in Mayiladuthurai district on Sunday after they reportedly consumed illicit brew was conveyed during the campaigns. Local body representatives and revenue officials were being roped in. The police were conveying the hazards of consuming illicit arrack and how it could affect the individual and their families, said a senior police officer adding that the public were being asked to alert police personnel in case they came across such illegal acts taking place in their respective villages. The campaigns were being organised even as raids were on against illicit distillation which has surfaced due to the closure of TASMAC liquor outlets. Six special teams had been constituted under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai, to carry out raids at various places. Ever since the lockdown was clamped since May 10, special teams had seized nearly 17,000 litres of fermented wash, about 100 to 150 litres of illicit arrack and around 6,000 liquor bottles which were illegally stocked at various places. Three persons who had indulged in such illegal acts had been detained under the Goondas Act till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-create-awareness-campaign-to-check-illicit-distillation-and-sale-of-arrack/article34704031.ece
02 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Local bodies get thermal scanners, pulse oximeters||Minister for Law S. Regupathy and Minister for Environment Siva. V. Meyyanathan on Monday handed over thermal scanners and pulse oximeters to local bodies to carry out door-to-door screening of people to identify symptoms of COVID-19 in the initial stages. The programme was organised at the Collectorate in which Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials participated. Mr. Regupathy said more steps had to be carried out intensively to contain the spread of the viral infection. Field-level officials and workers should create awareness among the people of the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination. COVID-19 tests were being done on accused before they were lodged in prison. Mr. Siva Meyyanathan said screening had to be done first in those places where the spread of the viral infection was found to be more. Necessary facilities had been created in all government hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment. Officials should ensure that frontline workers were provided with safety kits, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/local-bodies-get-thermal-scanners-pulse-oximeters/article34704028.ece
02 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister’s wife lodges complaint||In a twist to the sexual abuse case lodged against former AIADMK Minister Manikandan by an actor, a Malaysian national, in Chennai two days ago, his wife Vasanthi preferred a complaint against the foreigner with the police in Ramanathapuram on Tuesday. The woman had claimed that Mr. Manikandan lived with her for a few years, promising to marry her. Two police teams were formed to probe the case. Under such circumstances, Mr. Manikandan's wife visited the police here and lodged a complaint claiming that the woman had levelled false allegations to tarnish the image of the ex-Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-ministers-wife-lodges-complaint/article34703585.ece
02 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Bid to tarnish his name, says former Minister’s wife||In a twist to the sexual abuse case lodged against former AIADMK minister Manikandan by a Malaysia national woman in Chennai two days ago, his wife M. Vasanthi preferred a complaint against the foreigner with the police in Ramanathapuram on Tuesday. The woman, an actor, had claimed that Mr. Manikandan lived with her for a few years in a house in Besant Nagar, Chennai, promising to marry her. He, however, did not keep his word. Following this, Adyar police rregistered a case under five IPC Sections including rape, causing miscarriage without woman's consent, attempt to murder and IT Act. Two police teams were formed to probe into the case. Police visited Mr. Manikandan’s house at Anna Nagar in Madurai and at Ramanathapuram. However, he was not there. Under such circumstances, Mr. Manikandan's wife visited the police here and lodged a complaint claiming that the woman had levelled false allegations to tarnish the image of the ex-minister. Superintendent of Police E. Karthik said that as a case had been registered by Chennai police, the petition from the former minister’s wife too would be forwarded to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-tarnish-his-name-says-former-ministers-wife/article34703941.ece
02 June 2021||SIRKAZHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in tail-end areas wary of raising kuruvai crop||A majority of farmers with marginal and small holdings in the tail-end areas of Sirkazhi-Kollidam belt in the delta region are wary of raising kuruvai crop due to fears of water insufficiency. According to many, even when water was released as per schedule from Mettur dam on June 12 in 2020 after a gap of eight years, kuruvai cultivation turned out to be a bitter experience as water did not reach the tail-end area as per their expectations. After evaporation, percolation, and diversion to ponds and tanks, the availability of water became scarce downstream of Kumbakonam, according to the farmers in the tail-end areas. Over 70 % of the farmers in the tail-end areas are dependent on water from Mettur dam, and have to remain content with samba crop. Farmers raise samba crop with confidence as there are certainties of rainfall during the monsoon months and the water flow in the rivers is also good. The COVID lockdown situation is also a hindering factor for marginal farmers due to manpower constraints and the hassles in hiring mechanised farm equipment, A. Sivaprakasam, president of Kollidam Union Farmers' Association, said. "Among the remaining 30 % of farmers, only those with large holdings upwards of 10 acres who enjoy free electricity and can afford to rely on surface water are in a position to raise the Kuruvai crop," P. Govindaraj, a farmer in Sirkazhi, explained, making a case for supply of subsidised diesel for the farmers for enlarging the area under Kuruvai cultivation. "Supply of diesel for farmers with marginal and small holdings at subsidised rates, similar to the concession being extended to fishers, will, perhaps reflect in scaling up kuruvai crop acreage, Mr. Govindaraj said. According to officials, this demand will require a thorough analysis by the government in the backdrop of the State Groundwater Authority categorising Kollidam, Kuthalam, Sembanarkoil and Sikazhi as over-exploited blocks that require regulatory measures coupled with long-term water management practices. Farmers, on their part, reason out that the government should at least take steps to improve livelihood of farmers by augmenting water resources, creating water storage structures, and improving soil health in the tail-end areas through long-term measures after having declared the entire delta region as a Protected Special Agricultural Zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-in-tail-end-areas-wary-of-raising-kuruvai-crop/article34704000.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) alleges improper distribution of agriculture input assistance||The Thanjauvur district unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), has alleged improper distribution of agriculture input assistance announced by the previous AIADMK government. In a memorandum addressed to the Agriculture Minister, M.R.K.Panneerselvam, the CPI(M), Thanjavur District Executive Committee Member, K.Pakkirisamy, pointed out that the previous AIADMK government had announced that Rs. 20000 would be disbursed to the farmers whose crop was affected in the rain in the year 2020 as agriculture input assistance and it was reported that the amount had been credited in the bank accounts of almost all farmers. However, some of the farmers, when approached their bank branches, were informed that the amount had not been credited in their respective accounts. No information Further, around 10,000 farmers in the district were yet to receive any information about the remittance of the input assistance amount in their respective bank accounts. Hence, the party has urged the present government to look into the matter immediately and ensure speedy disbursement of the financial assistance since such measures would help the farmers take up the preparatory works for ‘kuruvai’ cultivation as they were expecting the lifting of the shutters of the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur on the customary date of June 12. Meanwhile, the Tiruvarur AIADMK district secretary and Nannilam MLA, R.Kamaraj, has demanded that water for irrigation from Mettur dam should be released on the customary date since sufficient storage was available. Stating that there would not be any problem in water management in view of the present storage of 97 feet and the positive prediction of the onset of southwest monsoon by June first week, the former Minister urged the State government to keep a watch on the monsoon and get the Tamil Nadu’s share in Cauvery water as per the Supreme Court directions during the water year which commences from June. Above all these, the former Minister demanded that the present DMK government should declare the possible date of opening of the Mettur dam for irrigation well in advance so that the farmers could prepare their fields and take up `kuruvai’ cultivation with confidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-alleges-improper-distribution-of-agriculture-input-assistance/article34704001.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Distribute more food packets to nomads’||The Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has complained of inadequate distribution of food packets to narikurava families in Thanjavur district. In a message addressed to the Collector M.Govinda Rao, its secretary Sundara Vimalanathan said the number of food packets distributed to the narikuaravar families residing in Ezhumathidal near Thiruvalanchuzhi was less than the required quantity on May 31. Just 30 food packets were distributed while around 100 narikuravar families were residing. On the other hand, these families were given food by the revenue officials for nearly four to five months last year during the first wave of the pandemic. He requested the officials to ensure that all the 500 families of narikuravars residing in different parts of the district received the free food packets without fail till the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribute-more-food-packets-to-nomads/article34704008.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TNPSCA seeks release of RTE fee reimbursement||The Tamil Nadu Private Schools Correspondents Association has urged the State government to initiate steps for releasing the Right To Education fee to save private schools. In a memorandum submitted to the School Education Minister, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, its founder president G.R.Sridhar urged the Minister to ensure early release of the RTE fee reimbursement allocated by the previous government for 2020-21 since private schools, particularly those functioning in rural areas, had been facing severe financial crisis for the past 15 months as parents refrained from remitting school fees on time in spite of court directions. Stating that the teaching and non-teaching staff of these schools were not receiving their regular salary and were in need of assistance, the association has sought the fixation of a common fee structure for all schools like the common fee structure fixed for the higher education institutions in the State. It had sought a GO to ensure that switching over from one institution to other should be completed after production of the transfer certificate only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpsca-seeks-release-of-rte-fee-reimbursement/article34704009.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Desilting work inspected||Monitoring Officer Pradeep Yadav on Tuesday inspected the desilting of irrigation channels, drains and other waterways took up at a cost of Rs. 20.50 crore in Thanjavur district. Channels and drains would be desilted for a length of 1169 km and the works are expected to be completed before release of water from Mettur dam, he told reporters here. Required machines were being mobilised to complete the work as per the schedule and there was no bar on local farmers from viewing the work implemented in their areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-work-inspected/article34704011.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||MMHRC donates oxygen concentrators||The Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre has donated 50 oxygen concentrators to the Tamil Nadu government for treating COVID-19 positive patients. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, it said the hospital had donated oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 1.50 crore to the government for use at various places. It also donated Rs. 25 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mmhrc-donates-oxygen-concentrators/article34704010.ece
02 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested||Four persons were arrested on the charges of violating lockdown conditions at Melauloor near Orathanadu. Mukeshkumar, Santhosh, Raghavendran and Thangamuthu travelled on Thanjavur-Pattukottai Road near Melauloor on a motorcycle recently. One of them was holding a lethal weapon and posted a video clip of the same on social media. As the video went viral, the police arrested them and seized the motorcycles and the weapon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested/article34704012.ece
02 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘After 14 years, water let out of Mullaperiyar reservoir on June 1’||After 14 years, water has been released for irrigation from Mullaperiyar reservoir on June 1, said Minister for CooperationI Periyasamy here on Tuesday. The Minister released the water following an order from Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. The farmers from the district had represented to the Chief Minister for release of water on June 1, as it would help them begin farming activities for the single crop without any delay. The water level at the reservoir was 130.90 feet (permissible level 142 ft). The last time, when water was released on June 1 was in 2006, when the level was 124.4 ft, PWD officials said When the level went up beyond 120 ft, water was released for irrigation and drinking purposes. The timely release would help about 14,707 acres of land (Uthamapalayam 11,807 acres, Theni 2,412 and Bodi 488 acres) in getting water, the officials added. The Minister said that 200 cusecs would be released for irrigation and 100 cusecs for drinking water from Tuesday. It would continue for the next 120 days. To a query that fertilizer shops in rural pockets were not functioning, Mr. Periyasamy said the Collector had assured that the retail units would be opened for about four hours until the number of COVID-19 patients came down. The stocks were adequate and there was no need for any apprehension. Similarly, paddy seeds too were available with certification. He appealed to farmers to make judicious use of water and reap the maximum benefits. Asked about farm loans, he said cooperative societies had been instructed to give loans without any delay. Cumbum MLA N. Ramakrishnan, Periyakulam MLA K.S. Saravana Kumar and Andipatti MLA A. Maharajan, Collector H. Krishnanunni, PWD Superintending Engineer M. Suguma, EE Sam Irwin and others were present on the occasion.  200 cusecs to be released for irrigation and 100 cusecs for drinking water I Periasami Minister for Cooperation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-14-years-water-let-out-of-mullaperiyar-reservoir-on-june-1/article34703940.ece
02 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies after ceiling plaster falls on her||In a freak accident, a 22-year-old woman engineer was killed when the cement plastering on the ceiling of her house fell on her while she was asleep on Monday night. Her younger brother suffered grievous injury. Police said Raja Murugan, a carpenter, lived in a rented house in Krishnarajapuram under Thoothukudi North police station limits with his wife, daughter Parameswari, an engineer working with a private firm in Thoothukudi, and son Sundar, 21, a college student. The ceiling of the house was repaired four years ago. When the family was asleep on Monday night, the cement plastering peeled off and fell on Parameswari and Sundar. Parameswari died on the way to hospital. Sundar was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital. SP S. Jayakumar and Thoothukudi DSP Ganesh visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-dies-after-ceiling-plaster-falls-on-her/article34703942.ece
02 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||4 units of TTPS shut down||Four of the 5 X 210 MW units of Tuticorin Thermal Power Station (TTPS) have been shutdown following a marked drop in demand for power due to lockdown and significant electricity generation by the windmills. As demand for power peaked over the past few weeks due to the sweltering heat, all five units, each with a capacity of 210 MW, generated 1,050 MW electricity. In the wake of the intensified lockdown due to COVID-19, demand for power dipped suddenly as most of the manufacturing units utilising huge quantum of power remained closed. Moreover, the westerly winds that used to pave way for wind power generation from May has set in and wind turbines are generating more power. Consequently, power generation in four of the five units of TTPS was stopped on Tuesday and the fifth unit alone was now functioning. “When the demand goes up, the units will be restarted in phased manner,” sources in the TTPS said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-units-of-ttps-shut-down/article34703943.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Shift Gandhi Market operations to G. Corner, say traders||As the enforcement of social distancing protocol among traders and consumers become difficult for the police due to the arrival of hundreds of traders from several districts at the temporary vegetable market on West Boulevard Road, the call for shifting the operations of Gandhi Market to G. Corner on Tiruchi-Chennai Highway has received support from a section of traders. As a precautionary measure to control the spread of COVID-19 virus, the Tiruchi district administration shifted the retail operations of the Gandhi Market to G. Corner in April, where the market functioned for eight months in the wake of the spread of the virus in 2020. But, most of the traders refused to move to G. Corner citing lack of basic facilities for the traders this year. The traders thereafter were allowed to carry on business at the Gandhi Market itself. However, since the fresh cases surged to an unprecedented level, the district administration intervened again in the issue and shifted all activities of the Gandhi Market to West Boulevard Road about 10 days ago. Though the move received support among the traders initially, they now feel the heat due to the heavy crowd of retail and grocery merchants and hawkers from various parts of the district and neighbouring districts. It is said that almost all vegetable and fruit markets in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Mayiladuthurai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur and Karaikal districts had been closed in accordance with the State government order. Since the wholesale market on West Boulevard Road was the only option for the traders of delta and other districts to buy vegetables, at least 5,000 to 6,000 traders visit the Tiruchi market daily with mini load carriers, thereby causing congestion and chaos. The social distancing protocol had been thrown into the wind by most of the traders and consumers. It has caused a rethink among a section of traders to favour for G.Corner, an open place with good connectivity and sufficient space for parking vehicles. The enormous surge in the number of fresh cases and deaths due to COVID-19 complications are said to have engineered a thought in favour of moving to G.Corner. “It is high time that the traders took all precautions to avoid getting infected. Given the current situation, we feel that G.Corner is the best option to ensure social distancing at least to an extent until the situation is brought under control,” says M.K. Kamalakannan, a trader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-gandhi-market-operations-to-g-corner-say-traders/article34704021.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘For sale’ and ‘for rent’ boards crop up in front of shops during lockdown||The numbers of ‘for sale’ and ‘for rent’ boards in front of shops are rising by the day during the second wave of COVID 19, as the small-time traders seem to be giving up hope on sustaining business. Many appear to have wilted under the burden of paying the monthly rent, ESI and provident fund for employees, and other overheads. ‘There seemed to be a little space for sustenance until we were permitted to keep our shops open for a few hours in a day. The complete lockdown has broken our back,’ said Selvaraj, a trader in hardware in Ariyamangalam in Tiruchi. “We have exhausted all means, including pledging of jewels for remaining afloat so far. All doors are now shut for us,” said Sahayam, a trader in electrical and electronics goods. A number of two-wheeler/ four-wheeler showrooms in the city have delayed payment of salaries to the employees, a manager of one such showroom said requesting anonymity. Customers in the private sector who have availed the option of bank loan for hire purchase have been finding it tough to make monthly payments due to issues such as salary cuts and joblessness, he lamented. ‘The going has indeed become tough for many. The rent in a number of new shopping complexes is being levied on square foot basis. But for grocery outlets, pharmacies, and vegetable/fruit shops, the business has taken a severe beating for months together,’ Tamilselvan, Zonal president of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu said. The likelihood for the financially-battered traders to restart their livelihood even after the lockdown is lifted seems bleak, he observed. The hardship is manageable for those who operate from the shopping complexes owned by local bodies and temples. ‘Private landlords have not been lenient enough during the crisis situation. They continue to charge the same rent,’ said A. Muthaiya, president of Karaikal Chamber of Commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-sale-and-for-rent-boards-crop-up-in-front-of-shops-during-lockdown/article34704005.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against forest official||The Sessions Court police here has registered a case against a Forest Range Officer serving at Thuraiyur for allegedly intimidating the District Forest Officer in the latter's office here a couple of months ago and causing damage to office property. The case against the Forest Range Officer Ponnusamy was booked on Monday on a complaint preferred by the District Forest Officer under IPC sections 447 (criminal trespass), 427 (mischief causing damage), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation). Police sources said the Forest Range Officer was said to have been issued a memo and he had indulged in the act in the office of District Forest Officer. He was yet to be arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-filed-against-forest-official/article34704024.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||4,243 fresh cases of COVID-19 reported in central districts||Central districts recorded 4,243 fresh cases of COVID-19 infections and 68 deaths due to COVID-19 related complications on Tuesday. The total number of fresh cases dipped below 1,000 for the first time in Tiruchi district after it went up to 1,800 mark a few days ago. But it continued to top the table in central districts with 987 patients testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. Similarly, 21 persons succumbed to the virus in Tiruchi district, the maximum in central districts. Thanjavur district recorded 895 fresh cases and the death of nine persons. Nagapattinam district followed it with 663 new cases and seven deaths. A total of 13 persons succumbed to the virus in Karur district. It recorded 406 fresh cases. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, 529 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruvarur district. It recorded three deaths. While 306 patients were tested positive for the virus in Pudukottai district it recorded one death. The number of fresh cases in Ariyalur district was 230 and 227 in Perambalur. While nine persons succumbed to the virus in Ariyalur, five persons died of COVID-19 implications in Perambalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4243-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-reported-in-central-districts/article34704016.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to rejuvenate ponds, abandoned quarries||The Tiruchi Corporation would soon initiate steps to rejuvenate a few ponds and abandoned stone quarries so to make them rainwater harvesting structures which could help tide over possible water shortages during summer months. The move follows a directive from Municipal Administration Minister K.N.Nehru, who inspected some of the ponds and abandoned quarries in the city on Monday. As per the tentative plan, abandoned quarries at Periya Milagupurai, Edamalaipattipudur and Ramachandrapuram have been identified as potential quarries which can be effectively used as rainwater storage structures. A civic official indicated that the water stagnant at the quarries will have to be tested before the deep structures were cleaned before the tap stored in them was used. This apart, plans are afoot to desilt the Kollankulam tank near Edamalaipattipudur and bring it to use as a possible drinking water source. The tank is spread over about 48 acres and its bunds run for a length of nearly four km. After clearing the silt, the bunds could be strengthened and developed as walking track, the official indicated. This apart, the Pudur Temple pond is also planned to be rejuvenated and use a rainwater harvesting structure, Mr.Nehru said. Mr. Nehru has also ordered the clearing of garbage accumulated on the Cauvery River near Amma Mandapam in the city. Earthmovers have been deployed to clear the garbage from the river in the area. Mr.Nehru inspected the work on Tuesday and urged the public to be conscious of the need to protect water courses. Corporation Commissioner S.Sivasubramanian, City Engineer S.Amuthavalli and Executive Engineers, Sivapatham and Kumaravel, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-rejuvenate-ponds-abandoned-quarries/article34704004.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Work from home option, boon to teachers||Against the backdrop of the rapid surge in COVID-19 positive cases during the second wave, teachers of colleges and universities say they are now a relieved lot over the instruction by the State government to the managements in specific terms that the physical presence of teachers for online interface must not be insisted upon. Till the end of April, the teachers in many colleges were required to handle the classes online, but from the confines of classrooms. ‘We used to find ourselves in a rather funny situation of teaching aloud in empty classrooms. But then, teachers were also getting infected with COVID gradually, and the situation was turning serious. Thankfully, the government had made a specific mention that teachers must be permitted to work from home in the strict sense of the term,’ a college teacher said. There was indeed a complexity in interpretation of the government instruction on online teaching-learning till April-end. ‘We did ask the teachers to come to the colleges to be on the safer side. Higher educational institutions, especially those receiving government-aid, cannot afford to be perceived as taking arbitrary decisions,’ a college head said. ‘There has been no complaint of any college asking teachers to be present physically ever since the intensive lockdown commenced from the start of this month,’ A. Megala, Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, said. During the first week of May, the UGC had instructed vice-chancellors and principals to keep offline examinations in abeyance during May. However, for conduct of online exams, the higher educational institutions were permitted to decide suitably after assessing local conditions and ensuring that they are prepared in all respects following advisories/guidelines/directions issued by the central/state government, Ministry of Education, or UGC from time to time to prevent spread of COVID-19 and for the safety and health of all stake holders. Offline exams are out of question under prevailing circumstances, according to senior professors of Bharathidasan University. The universities re-scheduled the semester exams during June.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-from-home-option-boon-to-teachers/article34704006.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates COVID-19 relief centre at college in Tiruchi||A COVID-19 Relief and Assistance Centre was opened on the Jamal Mohamed College campus in the city on Tuesday. K.N.Nehru, Minister for Municipal Administration, inaugurated the centre established in association with Nal Ullangal Trust, run by the college alumni, in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu. He also distributed grocery packs to 100 families and flagged off an awareness vehicle. The centre has been established with the objective of providing information on availability of beds in hospitals and ambulance service. It will have a counselling desk for the needy. Supplying food to roadside dwellers and persons in need, distribution of groceries, creating awareness and promoting vaccination among the faculty, students and public would be given importance. The centre will also provide guidance to patients on availing the Chief Minister Comprehensive Medical Assistance Scheme. A.K. Khaja Nazeemudeen, secretary and Correspondent, M. J. Jamal Mohamed, treasurer, K. Abdus Samad, assistant secretary and other representatives of the college were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-covid-19-relief-centre-at-college-in-tiruchi/article34704027.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||21 kg of ganja seized||The Woraiyur Police on Tuesday seized 21 kgof ganja that was smuggled in a car here. The action was based on information to the police who went to Konakarai road and seized the consignment. Govindaraj and Arul Anandhan from Woraiyur were arrested. The vehicle was also confiscated. Police said the accused had brought contraband to sell it in packets. The police are on the lookout for two more persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/21-kg-of-ganja-seized/article34704025.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||16 special teams formed to check illicit distillation||Prohibition raids conducted by special teams in various places in the last 10 days resulted in the seizure of 1,840 litres of fermented wash and 78 litres of illicit arrack. The raids led to the seizure of 4,120 liquor bottles which were illegally stocked for unauthorised sale. As many as 133 cases have been booked so far and 143 accused arrested. In a raid conducted on Monday at Pachaperumalpatti under Uppilliyapuram police station limits, a special team confiscated a total of 1,046 liquor bottles and arrested two persons. A press release said 16 teams had been constituted under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, to check illicit distillation, illegal sale of liquor and illegal sand mining and to initiate stern action against those indulging in such acts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/16-special-teams-formed-to-check-illicit-distillation/article34704022.ece
02 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Perambalur SP tests COVID-19 positive||Perambalur Superintendent of Police Nisha Parthiban has tested positive for COVID-19. She has been admitted to a private hospital near Perambalur after the results came out on Monday night. Ariyalur SP V. Baskaran is holding additional charge of Perambalur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/perambalur-sp-tests-covid-19-positive/article34704023.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water released for kar paddy cultivation||Water was released from Papanasam and Vadakku Pachaiyar dams in the district on Tuesday for kar paddy season. Farmers usually go in for cultivation of the ‘first crop’ of the season between June and September every year anticipating good rain along catchment areas of reservoirs in the Western Ghats during southwest monsoon. Talking to reporters after releasing water from Papanasam dam, Assembly Speaker M. Appavu said water from the reservoir had been released for kar paddy cultivation after taking into account the storage level in Papanasam, Servalar and Manimuthar dams. The 1,400 cusecs of water being now released from Papanasam dam would be channelled via North Kodaimelazhagiyan Channel (2,260 acre), South Kodaimelzhagiyan Channel (870 acre), Nadhiyunni Channel (2,460 acre), Kannadiyan Channel (12,500 acre), Kodagan Channel (5,048 acre), Palayam Channel (5,974 acre), Tirunelveli Channel (4,168 acre), Marudhur Melakkal (11,807 acre), Marudhur Keezhakkal (7,144 acre), South Main Channel (12,309 acre) and North Main Channel (10,538 acre) for 137 days — from June 1 and October 15 — for raising paddy on 75,078 acres. The timely release of water would benefit farmers of Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai taluks in Tirunelveli district, and Srivaikundam, Tiruchendur and Sattankulam taluks in Thoothukudi district. “I, also a farmer, appeal to agriculturists to judiciously use the water for the paddy cultivation,” Mr. Appavu said. Collector V. Vishnu, Cheranmahadevi Sub-Collector Pratik Tayal, MP S. Gnanathiraviam and MLAs Nainar Nagenthran (Tirunelveli) and M. Abdul Wahab (Palayamkottai) were present. Mr. Appavu also released 100 cusecs of water from Vadakku Pachaiyar dam near Kalakkad for paddy cultivation on 5,033.97 acrse in the presence of Mr. Vishnu, Mr. Pratik Tayal, Mr. Gnanathiraviam and Nanguneri MLA Ruby R. Manoharan. The water was released in Madathu check dam (141.60 acre), Aettu Duraisamy check dam (430.42 acre), Pazhampathu check dam (6.75 acre), Padmaneri Channel (681.48 acre), Sambakulam check dam (38.40 acre), Devanallur check dam (730.06 acre) and Connecting Channel (3,005.26 acre). The release of water would be sustained for 36 days from June 1 to July 6 for the benefit of farmers of Pathai, Manjuvilai, Kalakkad, Vadamalaisamudram, Soorankudi and Kadmaboduvazhvu villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-for-kar-paddy-cultivation/article34703949.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Adequate agri inputs in stock’||The Department of Agriculture has stocked adequate quantity of agri inputs for the benefit of paddy farmers as water has been released from Papanasam Dam for kar paddy cultivation. In a statement, Joint Director of Agriculture R. Gajendrapandian said farmers of Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi, Mukkoodal, Palayamkottai and Maanur taluks were expected to take up paddy cultivation on 9,700 hectares during the season with water being released from Papanasam Dam. Hence, the department had stocked certified seeds such as Ambai 16 and TPS-5, fertilizers and pesticides. The department had stocked 4,500 tonnes of urea, 635 tonnes of di-ammonium-phosphate, 1,256 tonnes of potash and 2,066 tonnes of complex fertilizer in primary agriculture cooperative societies, agriculture extension centres and also with private suppliers to be sold between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. at prices fixed by the government. The agro inputs would be sold to farmers between 9.30 a.m. and 4.30 p.m. through agriculture extension centres and certified paddy seeds would be sold at subsidised cost. The DAP should be sold at Rs. 1,200 per bag of 50 kg, Mr. Gajendrapandian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-agri-inputs-in-stock/article34703944.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Illicit arrack seized from poultry farm||Nanguneri police are on the lookout for a village panchayat secretary and two others allegedly involved in bootlegging. On Monday night, a police team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police, Nanguneri, Sri Lisha Stebila Theras raided a poultry farm of Manikandan, 40, Ramakrishnapuram village panchayat secretary, at Kaariyaandi following information about bootlegging in the farm. When the team entered the farm, Manikandan and two others escaped. Five litres of illicit arrack and vessels were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/illicit-arrack-seized-from-poultry-farm/article34703947.ece
02 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers abandon floriculture as pandemic cripples industry||The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge impact on floriculture in the Nilgiris, with many farmers forced to destroy their harvests this year due to a lack of buyers. According to officials from the Department of Horticulture, there are 103 farmers who depend on floriculture in the Nilgiris. Most of them had switched over from growing tea to floriculture over the last few years. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic however, has forced many farmers, who had been growing flowers, to switch to other crops to make ends meet, admit officials. One such cut flower farmer, L. Jitendiran, from Perar near Udhagamandalam, said that farmers were struggling to sell cut flowers for even Rs. 2 per flower. “I grow carnations, and May is the harvest time. We supply to Bangalore, and prices average at around Rs. 7 per flower,” said Mr. Jitendiran. But due to a lack of demand, his entire harvest has gone to waste and he had used the cut flowers as manure. “Many farmers who practice floriculture have already given up the livelihood due to the impact of the pandemic over the last two years,” he said. Joint Director of Horticulture, Nilgiris district, Sivasubramaniam Samraj, said that the main export hub for flowers in Bengaluru had been closed down due to the pandemic, meaning growers were unable to send their harvest to the market. “Another factor is that all functions like marriages have been cancelled. So this avenue for generating revenue has also been closed off to them,” he said. Farmers in the Nilgiris were hopeful that their flowers would be used at the flower show this year. However,the cancellation of the summer festival seasonmeant that all the flowers they had grown this season have gone to waste. “We have asked the growers to make a representation to the government, so that a decision can be made as to how best they can be helped,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-abandon-floriculture-as-pandemic-cripples-industry/article34703604.ece
02 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Bid to smuggle liquor into the Nilgiris: two held||Two men bringing vegetables to the Nilgiris in a truck were arrested by the police after they were found to be in possession of 14.25 litres of liquor at the Kakkanallah check post on Tuesday. The men were identified as N. Ravi (28), and S. Saravana Senthil (39), both from Khandal in Udhagamandalam. They were smuggling the liquor in a truck that was carrying vegetables from Mysore in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bid-to-smuggle-liquor-into-the-nilgiris-two-held/article34703609.ece
02 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||In Vellore district, children playing on a hill stumble upon cannon||A group of children playing on the premises of a fort atop Sarpanamedu Malai in Vellore stumbled upon something interesting on Monday: a cannon, believed to be from the British period. The staff from the Department of Museums inspected it on Tuesday. During the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown, children from a village in the foothills were playing inside a fort located at the hilltop, at a height of 1,000 ft. Surprise find “Amidst some bushes, they found a portion of the cannon. As they were not able to pull it out, they informed their elders. We dug a little and were surprised to find a cannon. As this is a fort, we suspected such artillery would be there, but this is the first time we have come across one,” said Wasim, a resident. Officials from the Department of Museums visited the site and checked the cannon. “It is made of cast iron and is 9 ft long with a diameter of 3 m. It has a thickness of 6 inches and weighs close to 2 tonnes. Its edges are broken so the carriage on which it was mounted is not there,” said K. Saravanan, curator, Vellore Museum. The museum officials claim that the site is in a reserve forest area. “The fort belonged to the Maratha Kings and later it was under the control of the Nawabs. I will submit a report to the Collector and he will decide on the further steps to be taken,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-vellore-district-children-playing-on-a-hill-stumble-upon-cannon/article34703580.ece
02 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||From Collector with gratitude||As a mark of gratitude for their yeoman services during the pandemic, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan on Tuesday served lunch to frontline workers of Rosalpatti panchayat and distributed protective gears and essential goods. “They have been working day and night for more than a year in order to protect the members of public during the COVID-19 pandemic putting their families behind,” the Collector said. It was their untiring efforts that helped to contain the pandemic last year. “If only we succeed the same way now, we can concentrate on developmental works,” he added. Mr. Kannan also stressed the need for frontline workers to keep themselves healthy and bear in mind that their family members were dependent on them. Hence, they should ensure self-protection. The Collector distributed rice, sugar, pulses, edible oil and vegetables along with masks, sanitiser and other protective gears. A total of 19,342 people were infected during the second wave of COVID-19 and 12,000 had recovered so far. Meaawhile, 2,64,902 people had been vaccinated. Since there were complaints that patients who were in home quarantine roamed around, they were being taken to 18 COVID Care Centres. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian and Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency, V. Jayakumar were among those who were present. Meanwhile, people caught loitering in Rajapalayam town were subjected to swab tests by district police. “We have been asking people to remain indoors to contain the pandemic. However, those who continue to violate lockdown norms are asked to give their swab samples for RT-PCR test,” Rajapalayam DSP M. Nagasankar, said. This would discourage people from coming out unnecessarily and also help detection of positive cases among them, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/from-collector-with-gratitude/article34703946.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur district sees six-fold increase in active cases in May||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic hit Tiruppur district hard in May, as evident by the six-fold rise in active cases and by the near doubling of the death toll within a month. According to the daily media bulletin issued by the State government, the active cases were 3,168 on May 1 and it increased to 18,295 cases on May 31. The death toll, which was at 239 on May 1, touched 475 deaths on May 31. The overall tally, which was only 26,850 cases in the beginning of the month, crossed the 60,000-mark by the month’s end. The daily caseload of Tiruppur district crossed the 700-mark on May 10 and crossed the 1,000-mark on May 15. Within the next two weeks, the daily caseload crossed the 2,000-mark with 2,074 cases on May 27, which was the third-highest caseload on that day after that of Coimbatore and Chennai districts. In the last four days of May, the daily caseload has registered a slight dip as 1,373 cases were reported on May 31. While the active cases were less than 4,000 till May 11, it crossed the 10,000-mark within 10 days as there were 10,132 active cases in the district on May 21. In the next 10 days, it crossed the 18,000-mark. The new deaths reported did not cross 10 deaths till May 20, after which the number of reported deaths increased by nearly three times with the maximum deaths being reported on May 27 (34 deaths). District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Tuesday that the operation of knitwear units during the first half of May was one of the major reasons for the surge in cases. “In the initial days of the lockdown, there were exemptions for knitwear industries. These [units] were running their operations and we had a situation where two lakh employees were going to work daily,” he told The Hindu.  Another reason was the inadequate monitoring of COVID-19 patients in home isolation and the resulting lack of compliance to safety protocol by patients, causing further spread of the virus.”During the first wave [of the pandemic], we were able to completely monitor [patients in home isolation] as the numbers were relatively lower,” he said. The district administration has started intensifying preventive measures namely conducting door-to-door fever surveys at rural and urban parts, appointing paid volunteers for every 100 houses, having teams from Revenue Department, local bodies and the police to monitor containment zones and stepping up surveillance in hotels, lodges and other accommodations of industrial workers, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Having carried out these measures for over a week, there has been a slight dip in fresh cases and the oxygen beds have been freeing up in hospitals in the past few days, he said. “This shows that we are going in the right direction, but we should not let our guard down and must intensify these measures further,” the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-district-sees-six-fold-increase-in-active-cases-in-may/article34703856.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free bus services arranged for recovered patients||Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, Regional Transport Office – Coimbatore Central arranged bus services free of cost for asymptomatic patients who were discharged after recovery from the COVID-19 care centre (CCC) in CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex on Tuesday. Regional Transport Officer J.K. Baskaran said that two private buses were arranged in collaboration with Coimbatore Private Bus Owners Association. On Tuesday, the buses picked up 37 passengers at around 10 a.m. from the CCC and headed for the Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus. One bus travelled via Vilankurichi and Ganapathy and the second via Singanallur and Ukkadam, he said. “They can deboard the bus anywhere along the route,” Mr. Baskaran said. All passengers were asked to wear masks inside the bus during the journey and were made to sit as per physical distancing norms. The buses would be completely disinfected after completing the trip as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures, he noted. The bus services would be available every day from the CCC at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex till the lockdown restrictions are relaxed and additional buses would be operated as per the requirement, according to Mr. Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-bus-services-arranged-for-recovered-patients/article34703855.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 3,332 new cases, 32 deaths||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 3,332 cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, registering a decline in daily caseload. It had 3,488 cases on Monday. According to the Health Department, the district had 40,570 active cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday and 1,936 persons recovered from the disease. The district’s death toll touched 1,307 on Tuesday after the department said that 32 more persons died of the disease. Tiruppur district continued to witness a slight decline in its daily caseload and reported deaths as 1,338 new cases and eight new deaths were reported on Tuesday. The number of new deaths reported on Tuesday was the lowest in seven days, causing the overall toll to touch 483. The overall tally was 62,296 cases and the active cases were 18,594 patients in the district. Among the 43,219 patients who have recovered, 1,042 were discharged on Tuesday. Erode district reported 1,653 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 58,278. While 1,421 persons were discharged, 16,093 continue to be under treatment. Eight persons died, raising the death toll to 356. . As many as 1,140 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous and 300 cases were reported in corporation limits. An 63-year-old man who was remanded to judicial custody in Salem Central prison was undergoing treatment for SARI at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital succumbed to the disease on Tuesday. As per bulletin, 19 deaths were reported in Salem, including five women patients. In Namakkal, 914 positive cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. In Namakkal, 14 deaths were reported, including that of seven women patients. In the Nilgiris, 583 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 19,661. The number of deaths in the district increased from 93 to 94 on Tuesday while 3,954 people are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-3332-new-cases-32-deaths/article34703844.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine shortage stares at districts||Officials from the Health Department in Tiruppur district said on Tuesday that the district has exhausted its COVID-19 vaccine stock a day after administering over 10,000 doses to beneficiaries. On Monday, Tiruppur district administered 10,720 Covishield and Covaxin doses, including 10,219 first doses and 501 second doses. This was the highest in the State as per the vaccine coverage report on Monday, the officials said. Only about 1,000 doses were available in the vaccination centres in the district on Tuesday morning, which were exhausted within a few hours. With the vaccination drive being halted temporarily, the district administration has not received communication from the State government regarding supply of additional vaccine doses as of Tuesday, according to the officials. Around 2.26 lakh beneficiaries in Tiruppur district have been administered at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. A total of 77 government-run vaccination centres, including primary health centres and government hospitals were conducting the vaccination drive in the district. The lack of sufficient vaccination stock affected vaccination drive at several centres in Salem on Tuesday and public had to be turned away due to short supply of stock. With the launch of vaccination for 18-44 year category, long queues were noticed at vaccination centres and at several places separate vaccination centres had to set up for vaccinating beneficiaries in the age group to prevent crowding. Until Monday, 3.15 lakh persons have taken first dose of Covishield and 50,462 persons have taken first dose of Covaxin here, health officials said. According to officials, 1,00,977 persons have received second dose of Covishield and 20,273 persons have received Covaxin second dose. Cumulatively, 4.87 lakh persons have received vaccine doses in the district. As on Monday, there was stock of 4,450 doses of Covaxin and 7,330 doses of Covishield. Vaccination was conducted with available stock at a majority of the centres and long queues were noticed at centres and certain centres had to be closed. With people keen on getting vaccinated, less than 2,800 doses are available for vaccinating those in the 18-44 age group in Erode district as on Tuesday. Sources in the Health Department told The Hindu that a total of 2,16,206 people comprising 1,77,266 above 45 years and 38,940 persons in 18-44 age group were vaccinated as of Monday. While the stock available for those above 45 years was 2,700 doses, for 18-44 age group it was just 30. Of the 2,700 doses, 660 were available at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital, Perundurai, 1,990 at the Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and 50 doses at the district vaccine store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-shortage-stares-at-districts/article34703853.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25 doctors appointed on temporary basis||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Tuesday distributed appointment orders to 25 doctors, to be appointed on a temporary basis for three months in the Coimbatore Corporation. A press release issued here said that the doctors would support the civic body’s COVID-19 control measures by working either at urban primary health centres or COVID-19 Care Centres with oxygen beds. The Corporation had called for applications from doctors on May 31. Special Officer for COVID-19 Control for Corporation Veera Raghava Rao and Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian were also present at the function, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-doctors-appointed-on-temporary-basis/article34703851.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters seek vaccine facility||The Tiruppur Exporters Association has appealed to the Central government to advise ESI Corporation to take up mass vaccination for all insured employees. In a press release, Raja M. Shanmugham, president of the Association, said he has appealed to Santosh Kumar Gangwar, Minister of State for Labour and Employment, to advise the ESI Corporation for the vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-exporters-seek-vaccine-facility/article34703846.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite lockdown, Karnataka records high excise revenue||The State, even while in the grip of COVID-19, has reported higher excise revenue collections over the last two months compared to the corresponding period in the previous year. This comes despite the sale of beer falling steeply and the Indian Made Liquor (IML) sales falling marginally in May, when lockdown was in place. Coming amid complaints of poor sale by the liquor industry, the figures show that the excise revenue of Rs. 3,650 crore has been collected this year in April and May against Rs. 1,404.08 crore collected last year in the same months. ‘Not comparable’ The industry, however, was quick to say that last year’s figures cannot be compared to this year since liquor outlets were closed completely in April and opened only in early May. The excise revenue collected for April and May this year was Rs. 2,205 crore and Rs. 1,445 crore, respectively. On an average, the monthly excise duty collection is around Rs. 2,000 crore. The steepest fall, however, has been reported in the sale of beer during May when strict lockdown was enforced by several districts apart from the Statewide strictures that capped business hours in the morning to four hours. While 12.29 lakh boxes were sold in May 2020, it fell to 7.67 lakh boxes in May this year. In fact, in April, 25.7 lakh carton boxes had been sold. In 2019, when business was normal, 58 lakh cartons had been sold in two months. The figures for IML in May show that sales marginally fell from 44.46 lakh carton boxes in 2020 to 43.67 lakh carton boxes in 2021. In April, 55.99 lakh cartons were sold. In 2019, a total of 91 lakh cartons had been sold in two months. “The sale of beer has dropped steeply since sale had been allowed early in the morning. Beer cannot be consumed everywhere. Currently, strict lockdowns are in force in 20 districts where sales have dropped drastically,” said B. Govindaraj Hegde, secretary of Federation of Wine Merchants Association Karnataka. Duty factor “If the revenue has increased despite a decline in sales that is due to a steep increase in duty last year,” Mr. Hegde said. He said that it had become extremely difficult to retain staff in about 5,400 liquor vending premises that also run restaurants. “The industry had started showing signs of revival by November and the lockdown has pushed it back,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-lockdown-karnataka-records-high-excise-revenue/article34703555.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 vaccination: Women lag behind in Karnataka||Women are lagging behind in getting vaccinated in Karnataka by nearly 1.5 lakh, though they outnumbered men in the first phase when inoculation was open only for healthcare and frontline workers. This mimics the national trend where 9,12,85,344 men have been vaccinated against 7,91,57,070 women. According to data from the Co-WIN portal, 56,31,821 men and 54,87,031 women have been vaccinated till Tuesday. Till late April, women had outnumbered men and officials had attributed this to the greater female workforce at the grassroots compared to male workers. In terms of infection, more men have been infected (15,40,818) compared to women (10,60,708), according to data from the State COVID-19 War Room. In fatalities, more men have succumbed to the disease (18,772) than women (10,279) as on Tuesday. Officials said the number of women getting vaccinated was higher till the drive was opened only for healthcare and frontline workers. This was mainly because a majority of health workers like ASHAs, ANMs, staff nurses are women. However, the trend changed subsequently. In fact, Karnataka was one of the first States to start one all-women ‘pink vaccination booth’ in every taluk to attract more women to come for inoculation. V. Ravi, former senior professor of Neurovirology at NIMHANS who is now the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said women lagging behind in seeking healthcare has been the common behaviour in the country. “For any healthcare service that is offered men are the first who come forward. Women too want to ensure that the men in the family get the service first. This trend has been observed in all childhood immunisations too,” he said.  Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said it was because of the prioritisation factor. “Women in general do not prioritise their health over others in the family. Also, it depends on mobility, especially in rural areas, and who will register online for them and related aspects,” he said. Sylvia Karpagam, a public health doctor, said access has always been a problem for women and they usually end up accessing care later and in a more serious condition. “So, unless the healthcare system is specifically geared for women, vulnerable communities or hard to reach pockets, these groups are left out,” she said. Dr. Karpagam said that technological barriers may be another reason as men maybe able to apply online and women may find it more difficult. “Also there are rumours about side effects of the vaccine which women may feel will affect their day to day functioning. Also there may be a notion that women are mostly indoors and therefore less likely to be exposed,” she pointed out.  Vaccines arrive Karnataka has received another consignment of 1.64 lakh doses of Covaxin and 5.76 lakh of Covishield under the Centre’s quota. The available stock will be used to vaccinate citizens above 45 years who are due for second dose. Vaccines will be eventually made available to all once the supply increases, said Health Minister K.Sudhakar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-vaccination-women-lag-behind-in-karnataka/article34703548.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two meals a struggle for nomadic tribes||Sumera, a member of the nomadic Moghia tribe from Ashok Nagar district in Madhya Pradesh currently lives at a settlement in Bengaluru. He makes his living selling balloons, safety pins and cosmetics. However, his movements and business have been restricted by the lockdown, forcing him and 15 other families who live in makeshift tents in a settlement at Vijaynagar to beg for food and money. “We can't sell our wares. The government has not given us any relief or ration kits unlike last year, pushing us to starvation,” said Mahesh, another member of the community. This has not gone down well with residents, who have started raising concerns with the authorities. In the last week, the settlement has been evicted twice, by police and civic officials, as a result of which the 15 families are living on the streets. While the government is making a concerted effort to reach out to people residing in slums and labour camps, nomadic communities, like the Moghia tribe, have not been captured in the radar of the State health and welfare machinery. Most of these communities not just in Bengaluru but also in other parts of Karnataka are below the poverty line, and have been severely affected by the lockdown. Nandeesh, from the Korama community whose members are traditionally fortune tellers, is puzzled by the lack of relief or food supply. “Last year during the lockdown, the Karnataka government and several NGOs distributed ration kits and even cooked meals every day. Somehow, we managed. But this year, neither the government nor NGOs are distributing food,” he said. Two days ago, he visited a settlement in Byadarahalli with an NGO that wanted to distribute 30 ration kits. “But there were 80 families. The way they fought among themselves to get the ration left all of us very sad. Many were starving in that settlement,” he said. This tragedy appears to be unfolding across nomadic settlements. Rajasab Kalandar, a member of the Karadi Kalandar tribe in Koppal district, said, “The ration some of us get through PDS is all we have. In many of our houses, the children and the old are given preference over others. We have to make do with one or two meals a day, to stretch the ration till the lockdown is lifted,” he said. Keshva, a member of the Hakki-Pikki community from Amalapura village in Tumakuru district, said two settlements in the district were fortunate to get ration kits from a religious matha in Pavagada. “But those rations are almost coming to an end. If the lockdown is extended, the situation will be very tough,” he said, adding that many villagers blamed them for the spread of the coronavirus even though they are now confined to their settlements. Dr. C.S. Dwarakanath, Honorary President, Karnataka Rajya Alemari Mattu Budakattu Mahasabha, estimates that there are at least 56 nomadic communities and together they account for as much as 8% of Karnataka's population. However, there is no data of these communities, which is one of the main reasons why no government help has come their way. “We have repeatedly appealed to the government to do a census of nomads and enumerate them in a database, which has never happened. But a large vulnerable section of the society cannot be denied relief just because they don’t exist in some database,” he said. Dr. Dwarakanath pointed out that tahsildars are aware of the location of their settlements. ( This is the first in a three-part series on the struggles of communities that have fallen through the cracks in the Karnataka government’s health machinery )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-meals-a-struggle-for-nomadic-tribes/article34703538.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 2,000 prisoners receive first dose of COVID-19 vaccine||Around 2,730 inmates of Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara – both convicts and undertrials, all older than 18 years – received their first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine on Tuesday. With this, 3,264 inmates have received their first dose of Covishield. In May, 533 people over the age of 45 were vaccinated. Now, 1,414 inmates are waiting for their turn. According to Alok Mohan, Director General of Police (Prisons and Correctional Services), who is supervising the vaccination drive, 32 of the 49 prisons across Karnataka currently do not have a single case of COVID-19. The remaining 17 prisons have reported a few cases, he said. 13 undergoing treatment Thirteen inmates of Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara have COVID-19 and are being treated in the prison ward at the Epidemic Diseases Hospital, Indiranagar. “All the prisons are following a standard of hygiene and sanitisation,” said Mr. Mohan. People are admitted only after they undergo an RT-PCR test. Even then, they are housed in a quarantine cell for 15 days. They are then tested again following which they are allowed into the regular cells. Prison officials and staff have been strictly directed to use masks and face shields while on duty, and inmates are provided additional supply of soaps, sanitisers and masks. 1,013 inmates released To reduce overcrowding, which puts people at risk, the prisons department released 1,013 inmates on parole or bail in March, following directions from the Supreme Court. According to prison officials, one factor that has helped mitigate the spread of COVID-19 is that inmates are no longer physically taken to courts. “Trials are arranged through video-conferences. This not only helps to control the spread of the infection, but also reduces the risk faced by police escort teams who have to ferry inmates to court and back,” said a prison official. While the prisons department has suspended family meetings, video conferencing facilities were introduced for inmates to connect with their families. “Since we started in January this year. as many as 7,000 inmates have availed of this facility,” said prison officials.  All the prisons are following a standard of hygiene and sanitisation Alok Mohan, DGP (Prisons and Correctional Services)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-2000-prisoners-receive-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine/article34703540.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Genome sequencing of paediatric samples to begin||All the 10 sentinel sites (five labs and five hospitals) in the State from where samples are sent to the genome testing lab at NIMHANS for sequencing have been asked to sent paediatric samples for genomic confirmation from now onwards. The follows the TAC’s recommendation that genome sequencing of paediatric COVID-19 samples should begin immediately in the State, in the wake of the third wave wherein children are likely to be hit the most. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said genome testing of paediatric samples will help the State assess if there is an emerging mutant variant that has a preference for children. “This will also help us establish the virulence of new strains. Apart from samples of international travellers, of patients who participated in superspreader events, clusters of people with severe mortality, we have now asked labs to send paediatric samples too,” he said. Following the State COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee’s recommendations on preparedness for the third wave, the State government has also decided to set up paediatric wards in all district hospitals. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who chaired a meeting with senior officials from the department to review the situation, said dedicated 70-80 bed paediatric wards will be set up in district hospitals. “Additional paediatricians and nurses will be recruited. A training session will be conducted through RGUHS to train MBBS and other technical staff,” he told presspersons.  More Amphotericin vials The Minister said the State will soon get more vials of Liposomal amphotericin B, the antifungal drug used in treatment of mucormycosis. “I am in constant touch with Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda in this regard,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/genome-sequencing-of-paediatric-samples-to-begin/article34703544.ece
02 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Plea filed before CID seeking new probe into Megacity scam||Minister C. P. Yogeshwar, who has raised a banner of revolt against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, appears to be in a spot with a few persons filing a fresh petition against his firm Megacity Developers. This has given ammunition to the Chief Minister’s camp, which has demanded that he resign on moral grounds till the inquiry is completed. The fresh complaint comes close on the heels of the Minister approaching the party high command seeking a leadership change. A few persons have filed a petition before the CID, which earlier looked into the case, seeking that there be a reinquiry under the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act. Earlier, the case had been closed by the court on technical grounds. “The petitioners have raised a serious issue of fraud with respect to Megacity Developers owned by Mr. Yogeshwar. He must immediately resign as Minister on moral grounds,” Chief Minister’s political adviser M.P. Renukacharya told The Hindu . He said he had submitted a petition to the Chief Minister, along with a few MLAs, seeking that Mr. Yogeshwar be dropped from the Cabinet. Meanwhile, the party high command is learnt to have told Mr. Yogeshwar to desist from public outbursts against the CM and the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plea-filed-before-cid-seeking-new-probe-into-megacity-scam/article34703553.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees 10% rise in foodgrain production||Following good rain last year, Karnataka recorded 153.08 lakh tonnes of foodgrain production in 2020-21, an increase of 10% over the previous year. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting on the Agricultural Department’s preparedness for kharif season and said the government has set foodgrain production target at 135.48 lakh tonnes for 2021-22. So far, 20 districts of the State received normal rainfall, while 10 districts received deficit. Monsoon would hit the State on June 6-7, according to IMD data, said a statement issued by the Chief Minister’s office. Shortage addressed Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil informed the Chief Minister that the State has adequate quantity of seeds, fertilizers stock and shortage of DAP fertilizers had also been addressed. Mr. Yediyurappa said a meeting would be convened with Union Chemicals and Fertilizers Minister D.V. Sadananda Gowda to obtain additional quantity of DAP. Out of Rs. 19 crore sanctioned to provide compensation for farmers impacted by the lockdown, Rs. 15.23 crore had been disbursed to 36,327 eligible farmers, said the statement. Officials have been directed to release Rs. 250 crore of the pending dues of Rs. 1,067 crore to agencies during procurement commodities. Officials have also been told to be prepared with contingency plans for handling floods during the monsoon.  The government has set production target at 135.48 lakh tonnes for 2021-22||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-sees-10-rise-in-foodgrain-production/article34703561.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC judges pay homage to COVID-19 victims||The judges and staff of the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday assembled at open space in front of the High Court and paid homage to the court staff and advocates who lost their life to COVID-19. All the judges, led by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, the senior officers of the court’s registry, and representatives of the Bar Association observed a two-minute silence by following COVID-19 protocol of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Similarly, judges of the district and taluk court too had assembled in their respective places across the State and paid homage to the victims.. As many as 218 advocates, five staff of the High Court, and 24 staff of the district and trial court had succumbed to COVID-19 so far, said a communication issued by T.G. Shivashankare Gowda, in-charge Registrar General of the High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-judges-pay-homage-to-covid-19-victims/article34703543.ece
02 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vijayendra in New Delhi||BJP State vice-president and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra on Tuesday made a quick visit to New Delhi, triggering political speculations. However, sources close to him said that he was in the national capital on a “private visit” to meet a few lawyers to consult on pending cases. They said that he would return to Bengaluru on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayendra-in-new-delhi/article34703559.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on II PU exams soon||After the Centre cancelled the CBSE Class 12 examination, the State government said that they will take a suitable decision on whether to conduct the II PU exam. S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister said, “We will consider the opinions of various stakeholders while taking the decision in the interest of students," he added. However, second PU students have demanded that their exams also be cancelled so that there is a level playing field for students from all boards. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education recently postponed the exams that were to begin from May 24 due to the rise in cases. No decision has been taken regarding the revised schedule or how exams will be conducted. Health experts had suggested that they be conducted after the students are vaccinated. However, a majority of II PU students are 17 years old and the vaccine is available only for those who are 18 years and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-ii-pu-exams-soon/article34703551.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Risk of starvation deaths’||Dr. C.S. Dwarakanath, Honorary President, Karnataka Rajya Alemari Mattu Budakattu Mahasabha has written multiple letters to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking that the relief package be extended to nomadic groups as well. He sent his most recent letter on Tuesday. “Members of these historically neglected communities are living in unimaginable conditions facing the double whammy of the pandemic and lockdown. They are struggling for two meals a day. Unless relief is extended to them, we may witness starvation deaths in these communities,” he said in the letter. He suggested providing Rs. 5,000 and a food ration kit to each family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/risk-of-starvation-deaths/article34703534.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS takes a dig at CM over dissidence||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Tuesday took a jibe at Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa over dissidence in the party, saying he was suffering for the past mistakes of forming the government with the support of party hoppers. “Mr. Yediyurappa inducted leaders from other parties into the BJP. Now, let him face the consequences,” he said. Responding to a query on Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra’s trip to Delhi allegedly to lodge a complaint with the party high command against Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, Mr. Shivakumar said: “The Chief Minister invited to his home this leader [C.P. Yogeshwar] who quit 2-3 parties. Now, the Chief Minister is experiencing the result.” He also said: “We [Congress leaders] too experienced the rewards of our past mistakes. Now, it is the turn of Mr. Yediyurappa.” Mr. Yogeshwar has kicked up a political storm within the ruling BJP by claiming that the Yediyurappa-led government had become a “three-party government” catering to the interests of all three parties. Demand for package Distributing food kits to the poor impacted by the lockdown, in Bengaluru, the Congress urged the government to procure fruits, vegetables and flowers from growers by announcing a bigger package. Mr. Shivakumar, who visited farm fields in Hubballi-Dharwad on Monday, said green chillies, which earlier fetched Rs. 40-50 per kg to farmers, is now being sold at Rs. 2 per kg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dks-takes-a-dig-at-cm-over-dissidence/article34703552.ece
02 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 14,304 new cases, 464 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 14,304 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 26,18,735. Of these, 3,418 are from Bengaluru Urban. With 464 deaths, the toll rose to 29,554. This is apart from 20 deaths due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 29,271 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 22,90,861. The State now has 2,98,299 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 12.30%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 3.24%. As many as 1,16,224 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 78,500 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,98,53,184.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-14304-new-cases-464-deaths/article34703545.ece
02 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Help centre for caretakers of COVID-19 patients set up||A couple of organisations, including the Hassan unit of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangha, have set up a help centre for caretakers of COVID-19 patients being treated at the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences. The centre set up at a building that once housed the office of the Public Prosecutor in the court complex offers food and shelter for the needy. The facility was launched by Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda on Tuesday. Besides the RSS, Sri Janajagarana Trust and Seva Bharathi have joined hands in setting up the centre. The centre located close to the HIMS provides food for the needy three times a day. The centre accommodates 45 people. The MLA appreciated the efforts of the organisations and thanked them for joining hands with the district administration in providing facilities for the people. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said that the facility was essential for the people visiting the hospital to take care of their relatives. Further, he added that people in the district should take all precautionary measures to avoid infection. “People should not ignore taking precautionary measures till the test positivity rate comes down,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-centre-for-caretakers-of-covid-19-patients-set-up/article34703601.ece
02 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||SMART concentrators for McGann Hospital||Shivamogga Malnad Round Table (SMART) 266 has donated oxygen concentrators, oxygen generators and HFNC ventilator machines to McGann Hospital in Shivamogga. In a press release, chairman of SMART 266 Adarsh Raju said that the organisation was committed to serving the community in the battle against COVID-19. In the first phase, the organisation raised funds under Project Heal and donated five oxygen generators to McGann Hospital. Similarly, in the second phase, it donated four oxygen concentrators and HFNC machines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-concentrators-for-mcgann-hospital/article34703595.ece
02 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bank donates Rs. 2.11 crore for crematorium||Canara Bank has donated Rs. 2.11 crore for construction of an electric crematorium at the graveyard at Vidyanagar in Hubballi. The work was initiated on Monday. Minister Jagadish Shettar, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi performed the bhoomi puja for the project on Monday. Mr. Shettar said that the Dharwad Nirmiti Kendra will execute the work on the electric crematorium. The work will be completed by August 31. He said that freezer boxes will also be provided at a cost of Rs. 11 lakh. Mr. Pralhad Joshi said that tenders have been floated for construction of electric crematorium at a cost of Rs. 1.20 crore at Heggeri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bank-donates-rs-211-crore-for-crematorium/article34703600.ece
02 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Emergency meet to protect kids||As neighbouring Maharashtra reported COVID-19 cases among children, Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. held an emergency meeting of top officers from different departments, especially the Department of Health and Family Welfare, on Tuesday and discussed the steps to be taken to protect children from the virus attack. In the meeting that lasted over two hours at the Deputy Commissioner’s office, paediatricians, gynaecologists and other senior doctors from the State-owned Bidar Institute of Medical Sciences (BRIMS) offered some suggestions to handle the situation. Mr. Ramachandran directed the officials concerned to be more vigilant in the areas along the Karnataka-Maharashtra border in the district. “The second wave of the pandemic is on the decline. The number of new positive cases in the district has dropped to two digits. However, we cannot afford to be complacent and lethargic. We need to make preparations on a war footing and protect our children and people from the virus attack,” Mr. Ramachandran told the officers. He also directed the authorities to reserve 100 beds in BRIMS and 50 beds in Mother and Child Hospital for children. “Every hospital should ensure that 20 of the 50 beds reserved for children should be Intensive Care Unit beds and 10 of them should be reserved for neonatal care,” Mr. Ramachandran said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/emergency-meet-to-protect-kids/article34703597.ece
02 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru’s first 64-bed CCC for women opened||Mysuru’s first exclusive COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) for women was inaugurated at the International Youth Hostel building in Gokulam second stage on Tuesday. The women-centric CCC gained importance as the health workers, during the door-to-door survey for identifying people with symptoms, had come across many women neglecting their health and not disclosing symptoms because of domestic obligations. The survey found that women in home isolation were not taking proper rest and getting nutritional supplements that were essential for recovering from the infection. This led to the thought of establishing the CCC for the exclusive treatment and care of women. Accordingly, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri identified the space with the help of Mysuru City Corporation for housing the first such centre which she inaugurated on Tuesday. The 64-bed CCC is connected to the V.V. Puram Maternity Hospital for supervision and medical care. Two more CCCs have been planned in Mysuru city – one at the Farooqia College with 200 beds and another 300-bed CCC at post-matric BCM Girl’s hostel (in front of RMC). As on Tuesday, the district has recorded 14,606 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysurus-first-64-bed-ccc-for-women-opened/article34703541.ece
02 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Six children being treated for MSI-S in Sindhanur||As many as six children in the four to 12 age group have been suffering from Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome (MSI-S), which experts said appears to be linked to COVID-19, in Sindhanur town of Raichur district. They are now getting treatment in a private hospital. Senior paediatrician of Sahana Children Hospital K. Shivaraj, who is treating the patients, confirmed this to The Hindu over phone on Tuesday stating: “I am providing necessary treatment to all the six children, two from Koppal district and four from Raichur district, and they are all recovering.” A few weeks after being treated for COVID-19, these children showed signs of having MSI-S, with vomiting and diarrhoea. Medical examination of these children confirmed that they were suffering from MSI-S,which is also commonly called Kawasaki-like illness, Dr. Shivaraj said. He explained that the condition causes inflammation in the blood vessels and the symptoms can be severe. In addition to several days of fever, children may develop symptoms such as rashes, swollen neck glands, swollen hands and feet and red eyes, lips and tongue. “It is curable but needs to be attended to in the early stages itself,” he added. When asked, Deputy Commissioner of Raichur R. Venkatesh Kumar said that he has sought from the medical officers concerned a detailed report about the disease reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-children-being-treated-for-msi-s-in-sindhanur/article34703598.ece
02 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Yadgir has stemmed second wave’||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has said that the district administration has successfully prevented the spread of COVID-19 in the second wave as the number of positive cases has gone down. Also, it is all prepared to face a third wave, if any, with the necessary medical aid. She was speaking after the distribution of electrical steamer machines to the frontline COVID warriors in Yadgir on Tuesday. The machines were donated by Gauthamchand Ananthkumar Shaileshkumar Dhoka and Bharatiya Jain Sangh (BJS) in Yadgir. District president of Bharatiya Jain Sangh Babu Dhoka spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yadgir-has-stemmed-second-wave/article34703599.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State has failed in its obligation to set up old-age homes for indigent senior citizens: High Court||The High Court of Karnataka has said that there is a complete failure on the part of the State government to comply with its statutory obligation of establishing old-age homes as per the provisions of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. The court directed the government to inform within a month in what manner it proposes to implement Section 19(1) of the Act not only by establishing old-age homes in every district but also assessing the requirement on realistic basis of number of such old-age homes for indigent senior citizens required in each district. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction on a PIL petition filed by Pavan Kumar and 14 other residents of Girinagar complaining about the functioning of an old-age home in the locality. Though the Act states that the State governments “may” establish and maintain old-age homes, the Bench said that depending upon various factors, while interpreting a statute, the word “may” can be interpreted as “shall” and vice versa. Pointing out that Parliament has enacted the law to protect the interest of indigent senior citizens considering the harsh reality of life, in which a large number of elderly persons are not being looked after by their families due to withering of the joint family system, and ageing has become a major social challenge, the Bench said that Act will have to be understood and read as a mandatory obligation of the State government to senior citizens who are indigent. “The mandatory obligation is to establish and maintain such number of old-age homes for indigent senior citizens at accessible places as it may be necessary in a phased manner. The minimum requirement is that at least one old-age home in each district should be established, which will accommodate minimum 150 indigent senior citizens,” the Bench held. Noticing that the State government has not exercised its rule making power to prescribe a scheme, as per Section 19(2) of the Act, for management of old-age homes for senior citizens, the Bench cautioned that it will issue direction of the government within a month to make its stand clear. The Bench declined to consider the government’s policy of giving grant-in-aid to old-age homes run by NGOs as a scheme under the Act as the grant-in-aid for NGOs was started in 1995 with annual grant-in-aid of Rs. 1.96 lakh per old-age home, and in 2013 the amount was enhanced to Rs. 8 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-has-failed-in-its-obligation-to-set-up-old-age-homes-for-indigent-senior-citizens-high-court/article34703550.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Reduce water leakage from 36% to 20%’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa instructed officials of the Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) to reduce pilferage in water supply from 36% to 20% by studying models adopted in other cities. The Chief Minister chaired a meeting with BWSSB officials and said of the 110 villages added to the BBMP over a decade ago, water supply is being provided to 51 villages. Rest of the 59 villages would be given piped water supply by December 2022, he said. The Cauvery 5th stage project, costing Rs. 5,550 crore, to ensure supply of 775 ML to the city, would be completed in 2023, officials informed the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reduce-water-leakage-from-36-to-20/article34703533.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Queue for food||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/queue-for-food/article34703536.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Black day’||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-day/article34703557.ece
02 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Makeshift seawall to come up in Alappuzha||A temporary seawall will be constructed along the coast from Thottappally to Aroor in Alappuzha district to check coastal erosion during the upcoming monsoon season. Officials said on Tuesday that the government had given its approval and sanctioned an immediate assistance of Rs. 1 crore for the project. The seawall will be built using sand-filled geo-bags that will be laid in three layers. “A large number of houses along the coast is vulnerable to sea erosion. The temporary seawall will be constructed on a war footing. The work will be carried out under the aegis of the Irrigation Department,” said an official. Houses destroyed Sea erosion has become severe in coastal areas of Alappuzha district in recent times. Several houses were destroyed after high swell waves pounded many places in recent years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/makeshift-seawall-to-come-up-in-alappuzha/article34703966.ece
02 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Man held for attacking cops on COVID duty in Idukki||One person was arrested for attacking and seriously injuring police officers on COVID-19 duty at Kovilkadavu, near Marayur, in Idukki district on Tuesday. According to the police, the attack happened in the morning after the officers enquired with Kovilkadavu resident Sulaiman (26) who was found flouting the pandemic protocol by not wearing mask. Provoked by this, Sulaiman allegedly hurled abuses at the police and attacked Circle Inspector Ratheesh Kumar with a stone. Another one on duty, civil police officer Ajeesh Paul, who immediately rushed to the scene and attempted to defuse the assault, was also reportedly attacked by Sulaiman with stone. The assailant was soon overpowered and arrested by the police. Condition serious The two injured police officers were administered preliminary treatment at the Marayur Community Health Centre and later admitted to the taluk hospital at Adimali. It was later reported that the duo was moved to a medical college hospital at Rajagiri after their condition turned serious.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-for-attacking-cops-on-covid-duty-in-idukki/article34703961.ece
02 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Chinmaya Trust supplies medical equipment||The Chinmaya Mission Trust handed over medical equipment worth over Rs. 60 lakh to the Kasargod Government General Hospital and Tata Trust Government Hospital. The function was presided over by Swami Vivikananda Saraswathi, regional head, Chinmaya Mission, Kerala, and it was inaugurated by Member of Parliament Rajmohan Unnithan. The medical equipment was received by Dr. Rajaram, Superintendent, Kasaragod General Hospital and Saranya for Tata COVID Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chinmaya-trust-supplies-medical-equipment/article34703682.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMRL, govt. sign MoU for Water Metro operations||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the State government to set up a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to operate, maintain and manage Water Metro, the passenger ferry system. The MoU was signed in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday by Chief Secretary V. P. Joy and KMRL Managing Director K. R. Jyothilal. The SPV, called Kochi Water Metro Limited (KWML), will be a joint venture of the State government and KMRL. The government’s equity contribution will be 74% and KMRL’s share will be 26%. The MD of KMRL will also be the MD for Kochi Water Metro Limited. KMRL will also provide technical and administrative assistance to set up KWML. The board of directors of KWML will have eight members – the State government will delegate five directors and KMRL will delegate three. The Rs. 747-crore project envisages 38 boat jetties and 78 boats which will operate along a 76-km route connecting 10 islands. The project is funded by German agency KfW. While the terminals at Vyttila and Kakkanad were inaugurated earlier this year, the others are under construction. The first boat that will be part of the fleet was launched in March, and 23 such electric boats are under construction at the Cochin Shipyard. An operating control centre for Water Metro is also being readied at Vyttila Hub.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmrl-govt-sign-mou-for-water-metro-operations/article34703681.ece
02 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||PCB has plan for Kadambrayar revival: CM||The Kadambrayar was, in terms of priority, in the fourth category of polluted rivers in the country and the Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) had prepared a plan of action for the rejuvenation of the river following an order from the National Green Tribunal, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the State Assembly on Tuesday. Motion by MLA Mr. Vijayan was replying to a calling attention motion by P.T. Thomas, MLA, said a communication here. A committee constituted for the purpose was monitoring the progress of the rejuvenation programme, added the Chief Minister. He said the major causes of river pollution was leachate from the Brahmapuram waste dumping yard, and sewage and solid waste reaching the river. Samples from the river collected every month were being tested. It had been found that the level of oxygen in the river water was low. The presence of coliform bacteria beyond the normal level too had been detected. Hotels and living apartment complexes in the vicinity of the river were regularly checked to see if they violated anti-pollution regulations. Checks were also conducted at industrial units located along the river, said the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-has-plan-for-kadambrayar-revival-cm/article34703688.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Customs to serve notice on UAE ex-envoys||The Preventive Wing of the Cochin Customs will serve show-cause notices on former UAE Consulate General Jamal al-Zabi and Attaché Rashid Khamis Ali shortly in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has permitted the Customs to serve notices on the duo, who had left the country soon after the gold seizure case was booked. The notices will have to be served through the UAE Ambassador in India, considering the diplomatic ties and the friendly relationship between the two countries. Significant step The permission to serve the notice is considered as a significant step in the investigation of the case as the earlier attempts of the investigation agency to record their statements did not succeed. The show-cause notice was prepared based on the statements of the accused in the case, the documents that were seized and other evidence gathered during the investigation. The duo may have to do the explaining as gold was found smuggled in the diplomatic baggages that were addressed to them, sources said. The Customs had seized gold worth Rs. 14.5 crore from the diplomatic baggage that reached the Thiruvananthapuram airport on June 30 last year. The investigation and the subsequent arrest of the accused, including Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith and Sandeep Nair, had snowballed into a political controversy in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/customs-to-serve-notice-on-uae-ex-envoys/article34703692.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two Rear Admirals take charge||In two new appointments at the Southern naval Command here, Rear Admiral Rajesh Dhankhar has assumed charge as Flag Officer Sea Training and Rear Admiral T.V.N. Prasanna has taken over as Chief Staff Officer (Training). Rear Admiral Dhankhar, a specialist in navigation and direction, has served on frontline warships as Navigating Officer and Operations Officer. He has commanded Landing Ship Tank (Large) INS Gharial, Guided Missile Destroyer INS Mumbai and the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. He has also held important staff appointments. He is a recipient of Nau Sena Medal (Gallantry) for undertaking non-combatant evacuation of Indian and foreign personnel from Yemen as part of Operation Rahat in April 2015. Rear Admiral Prasanna is also a navigation and direction specialist who has commanded INS Kirpan, a Missile Corvette, and INS Jalashwa, the Navy’s only Landing Platform Dock. The officer was also the Fleet Operation Officer, Eastern Fleet headquarters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-rear-admirals-take-charge/article34703691.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to CMO gets her mobile phone, books||When her mother’s old mobile phone was irrevocably damaged on the first day of the new academic year, eight-year-old Ihsana of Companypady near Aluva worked out a solution on her own. She somehow found the number of the Chief Minister’s Office and shared her problem with the officer who attended the call. Soon, a message was received at the Armed Reserve camp to verify the veracity of the call. A team of police personnel led by J. Shajimon found it to be genuine as the Third Standard student was in danger of missing her online classes as her poor single mother could not afford a new mobile phone. Delivered at home Shortly, a team of police personnel accompanied by the ward member landed at her home with a mobile phone. As it emerged that she does not have books either, they brought that as well, much to her delight. Ihasana is now waiting to ring up and thank the Chief Minster for his help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-cmo-gets-her-mobile-phone-books/article34703683.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro fare to be announced this week||The State government is expected to announce the much-awaited fare structure this week for the fleet of modern ferries to be introduced in the Greater Kochi area under the Rs. 747-crore Water Metro project. The Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIM-K) had in February submitted a report to Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), detailing a tentative fare structure. The report was readied after conducting a comprehensive survey among potential ferry passengers who hail from the mainland and also from the islands around the city that the ferries will interconnect. A bulk of islanders and experts in the public transport sector had said the ticket fares ought to be reasonably priced, since most people who hail from the islands were daily wage earners. The metro agency’s finance wing and its managing director reviewed the survey report and forwarded it to the State government for its approval. Rollout schedule revised Highly-placed sources said Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL), which is building the 23 ferries, had submitted a revised schedule to KMRL on the delivery of the vessels. But KMRL officials preferred to remain tight-lipped about the revised delivery schedule. According to the earlier plan, the first of the 23 ferries — each of which can transport up to 100 passengers — was to be delivered to KMRL by April-end, after undergoing basin trials for each system and sea trials, in the presence of classification surveyors from the Indian Register of Shipping (IRS) and KMRL officials. It was to operate commercial services in the Vyttila-Kakkanad corridor after trial runs on the stretch, from May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-fare-to-be-announced-this-week/article34703684.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,081 positive cases in Ernakulam; TPR at 15.59%||Ernakulam recorded 2,081 new COVID cases on Tuesday, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.59% when 13,341 tests were done. Thrikkakara continued to top the area-wise list of new cases with 149 people testing positive. This was followed by Palluruthy with 92 new cases and Kalamassery with 71. Elamkunnapuzha recorded 68 new cases, Thripunithura 66, Kumbalangi and Fort Kochi 65 each, Keezhmad 55, Mulavukad and Vazhakulam 42 each, and Edathala and Njarakkal 41 each. Thirteen health workers were among those who tested positive on the day. The source of infection could not be determined in 38 cases. A total of 2,424 people were considered to have recovered on the day. Vaccination Out of a targeted 11,76,315 people over the age of 45 in Ernakulam, 6,49,216 (55%) people have received the first dose of the vaccine. In Thrissur Thrissur district recorded 1,598 fresh cases on Tuesday, while 2,157 people recovered from the illness. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 14.38%. According to official figures, 1,586 people, including five health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. In Kozhikode As many as 1,345 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. There were 2,375 recoveries. According to the District Medical Officer, 9,895 samples were tested, and the daily test positivity rate (TPR) is 14.07%. There were 1,331 cases of local transmission of the infection, and the source of 12 others was not known.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2081-positive-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-at-1559/article34703679.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cusat to publish BTech results in July first week||The final semester B.Tech students at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) have something to cheer about amidst the pandemic situation. The university has assured them that the results of their final semester exams will be published by the first week of July. “Their online exams will start on June 7. The plan is to publish the results by the end of this month or the first week of July,” said Vice Chancellor K.N. Madhusoodanan. Stating that it would be a huge relief to the students who had won campus placements, Mr. Madhusoodanan said about 500 B.Tech final semester students had earned job offers from various firms. “It was a good achievement, especially in these pandemic times,” he said. Most of the companies ask for the final semester results of those who were selected through campus placement before the date of joining. The final semester exams will be held in Cusat’s own digital platform. The varsity had decided to hold the online exams as nearly 200 students belonged to other States and had left the campus following the lockdown restrictions. The Vice Chancellor said the fourth and sixth semester B.Tech exams would be held online after the completion of the final semester exams. “A decision on whether to hold the first semester exams offline in July will be taken based on the pandemic scenario. If the situation is not favourable, we will go for online exams,” he said. The postgraduate exams of Cusat were held online recently. The varsity’s Common Admission Test for admission to various academic programmes will be held from July 16 to 18. The computer-based exam will be held at various centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cusat-to-publish-b-tech-final-semester-results-by-july-first-week/article34703687.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Minister to chair KMTA meet||Minister for Transport Antony Raju will chair the second meeting of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) on June 4. The Minister will be apprised of the KMTA’s mandate and the priority areas that the authority had identified. The agency, the first of its kind in India which was established with legislative backing, also needs more personnel and funds to function, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-to-chair-kmta-meet/article34703675.ece
02 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Toll drive on Kollam bypass suspended||The move to start toll collection on Kollam bypass was temporarily suspended on Tuesday following protests by various political parties. The district administration has convened a meeting of people’s representatives and local residents to discuss the possibilities, as the bypass is only a partially completed project. “As per the agreement signed between the State and the Central government, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has the authority to collect toll. We had intervened on earlier occasions and now we are trying to solve the issue in such a way that the local residents will not be burdened,” said Kollam Collector B. Abdul Nasar. Earlier too, the agency in charge of collecting the toll had to step back as it had initiated the procedures without the permission of the State government or district administration. The NHAI had gone ahead with its plans to start toll collection in November 2020 despite the district administration voicing its apprehensions. Youth wings of various political parties had taken out protest marches to the plaza forcing police to intervene and close the counters. Meanwhile, Kollam Corporation authorities said that they had no prior information about the agency’s move. “The Corporation is against collecting toll in the middle of the pandemic and we do not support the move. We are hoping to reach a consensus in favour of the public,” said Mayor Prasanna Earnest. Rs. 352-crore project Former Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran said he had asked Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to avoid toll. The State government also did not want to impose toll for the amount it spent on the project. The 13-km stretch, connecting Mevaram and Kavanad, was completed at Rs. 352 crore, out of which the Centre spent Rs. 176 crore on a 50:50 cost sharing basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-drive-on-kollam-bypass-suspended/article34703968.ece
02 June 2021||Kollam,KERALA||Kollam posts 2,149 more cases||The district reported 2,149 new cases of COVID-19 and 432 recoveries on Tuesday. While 2,145 patients contracted the infection through contact, the remaining four are health workers. Kollam Corporation reported 641 cases and the number of new patients in Karunagapally, Kottarakara, Punalur and Paravur municipalities are below 100. At present six second-line treatment centres and nine first-line treatment centres are functioning in Kollam. The district currently has 46,748 persons under observation and 4,225 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday. The authorities have also strengthened the pre-monsoon cleaning drives in households, institutions and public places to prevent vector-borne diseases. TPR 11.3% in Alappuzha The district logged 1,557 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 11.3%. Of the fresh cases, 1,548 people contracted the virus through local contact, while the source of infection of six remains unidentified. Three health staff were also diagnosed with the disease.  Meanwhile, 2,014 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 17,670.  1,310 recover As many as 894 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, 885 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day further declined to 14.2%. As many as 1,310 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,878, while 37,896 others remain under observation. 694 contract virus In Pathanamthitta, 694 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The TPR stood at 15.3%. With 55 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 37 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed seven more lives in the district. With 920 recoveries on Tuesday, the district currently has 8,385 active cases while 22,496 others are under surveillance.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-posts-2149-more-cases/article34703965.ece
02 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Vaccination drive gives hope to lakeside tourism||Lakeside destinations in Kottayam are rushing back to business with the subsiding COVID-19 pandemic wave. Stakeholders of the tourism industry here have accelerated the distribution of vaccines among their employees. Nearly two weeks after the State government included hotel and restaurant employees on the priority list for the vaccination drive, over 60% of the workers in the resorts have received the first dose. As per estimates with the district Tourism Department, 548 out of 1,146 persons registered on the priority list for tourism workers have received the vaccine. “To begin with, employees of 51 hotels and resorts have been included on the priority list and the scheme will now be extended to homestays, service villas and the houseboat employees,” said G.Sreekumar, Deputy Director, Tourism Department. Consumer confidence The officials, however, are finding it difficult to trace the vaccination status of houseboat workers, the majority of whom have taken up casual work to make both ends meet. According to the industry stakeholders, the initiative is expected to accelerate the consumer confidence needed to drive the visitor volume that the village destinations depend on. In Kumarakom, where tourism is the single largest contributor to the local economy after agriculture, about 80% of the resort employees have received the first dose. “If the government permits vaccinated guests or guests with COVID negative certificates, the business can resume at the earliest. At the same time, the safety practices of contactless check-in and other social distancing measures will continue in the long run,”, said K.Arun Kumar, secretary, Chamber of Vembanad Hotels and Resorts. Rural economy hit The lakeside villages of Kottayam were bouncing back from the impact of the COVID-19-induced lock down last year. The fall in business has affected the rural economy badly, leaving the stakeholders at the bottom such as artisans, tour guides, restaurants offering ethnic cuisine and local transport operators in dire straits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-gives-hope-to-lakeside-tourism/article34703963.ece
02 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Many primary schools headless||Lakhs of students in primary classes may have taken their baby steps to a new academic year on Tuesday, but the functioning of many government primary schools in the State may get affected in coming days as they have not had head teachers for long. According to sources, 947 of the 3,617 government primary schools have been without head teachers for more than a year now. With many teachers having retired on May 31, the number could have gone up above 1,800. In most of these places, additional charge has been given to head teachers from nearby schools. Educational officers are handling the daily affairs in some schools. The case A legal battle between the State government and a section of teachers who are qualified to be promoted as head teachers is the main reason for the impasse. Functionaries of the Kerala Test Qualified Primary Teachers’ Union said at least 12 years of teaching experience and clearing of department-level tests and an examination on the Kerala Education Act and Rules (KEAR) are mandatory as per the Right to Education Act to become head teacher. The Act also gave three years from 2011 for aspirants to pass the mandatory Account (Lower) test conducted by the Public Service Commission and the KEAR test. The Education Department, however, exempted those who turned 50 by June 2, 2014 from this rule. Promotions based on this were questioned in the Kerala High Court, which directed the government to issue a notification. The State government in February 2018 issued an order making test qualification mandatory for promotion of teachers as head teachers. However, the sub-rule (4) under 45 B in the KEAR contradicted that order as it permanently exempted those aged 50 from passing the Account (Lower) test.  The Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) on February 25, 2019 put an end to the exemption, saying any executive order or circular from the government should not go against statutory rules. The High Court, in another order on January 27, 2020, also cancelled the age-based exemption and directed to revert all those who were promoted as head teachers since 2018. SC directive After a section of unqualified head teachers approached the Supreme Court against this order, the status quo was asked to be maintained. The State government has not appointed head teachers to these schools since then. The union functionaries said that hundreds of people who are eligible to be promoted had been denied their due.  In most of these schools, additional charge has been given to head teachers from nearby institutions||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-primary-schools-headless/article34703695.ece
02 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||N. Kerala looks to new govt. for 2 major projects||An uphill task awaits the State government to bring to fruition two major projects for the benefit of the people of north Kerala. One of them is the proposed tunnel road, an alternative to the Thamarassery Ghat pass, that connects Kozhikode and Wayanad. The proposal is to construct a 6.8-km tunnel on the Anakkampoyil -Kalladi-Meppadi route aimed at decongesting the existing Thamarassery Ghat road. “In fact, the project will have a beneficial effect for both Kerala and Karnataka. However, the government has to apprise the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change of the new project. The widening of the existing road can result in environment destruction. That is why the previous government came up with a tunnel road proposal,” Minister for Forest and Wildlife A.K. Saseendran said. Last year, Konkan Rail Corporation Limited had started survey, field investigation, and traffic study for the Rs. 658-crore two-lane tunnel road project. The project is expected to benefit thousands of people, as the distance from Kozhikode to Wayanad will be brought down to 54 km from the existing 85 km. Another project is the construction of elevated bio-fencing and flyovers over the Bandipur Tiger Reserve to circumvent the night traffic ban through National Highway 766 that connects Karnataka and Kerala. “Of the many options, this was one of the proposals before the government. However, Karnataka has objected to the project. So, we need to take it up with them again,” Mr. Saseendran said. Rs. 460-crore project Two years ago, the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways had proposed the Rs. 460-crore project to sort out the issue between Kerala and Karnataka on traffic ban on the highway from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. However, the proposal to construct five elevated sections of 1-km stretch, of which four will be at Bandipur and one in Wayanad on the highway, was yet to get clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Successive governments in Karnataka, Mr. Saseendran said, remained unchanged on the issue. “The Wildlife Department should not act and function like activists. Environmentalists confine to their sphere of activity. But governments should not take extreme steps. It will have to protect forests, take up issues of the people and undertake development programmes,” he said. Earlier, the government came up with a proposal to develop a road via Panamaram-Payyambilli-Kutta-Gonikuppa. However, people in Wayanad district opposed the proposal, saying that the alternative road would also have to pass through forests. Now, the government will also have to think of an alternative such as the construction of Valluvadi-Chikkabargi Bypass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/n-kerala-looks-to-new-govt-for-2-major-projects/article34703677.ece
02 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||SHRC takes up case over waterlogged house||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has taken up the case of 69-year-old Prabhakaran and his differently abled brother who live in a house, the courtyard of which is completely waterlogged and filled with garbage. Acting on a complaint filed by rights activist K.P. Sathyakrishnan, the commission directed the Revenue Divisional Officer and the Kozhikode Corporation Secretary to submit a report within 15 days. Prabhakaran and his brother live in a house at East Nadakkavu in Kozhikode. The house is situated in a low-lying area. In fact, it happened after multi-storey buildings came up around the house over the years, and water from them drains into Prabhakaran’s courtyard whenever it rains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shrc-takes-up-case-over-waterlogged-house/article34703673.ece
02 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||P.K. Warrier, doyen of Ayurveda, turns 100||Vaidyaratnam P.S. Varier’s Arya Vaidya Sala at Kottakkal and its dozens of branches across the country are in a celebratory mood. Arya Vaidya Sala’s managing trustee and former chief physician Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier is turning 100 this week. It was Dr. Warrier who led Arya Vaidya Sala to heights of fame and glory in the last six decades. Since he became the head of Arya Vaidya Sala in 1954, his name has become synonymous with Kottakkal Ayurveda. A Padmabhushan awardee, Dr. Warrier enjoys the highest echelon among the practitioners of Ayurveda across the world. Biggest quality Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the centenary birthday celebrations of Dr. Warrier online on Tuesday. K.K. Abid Husain Thangal, MLA of Kottakkal, presided over the function. The Chief Minister said few in the world would be blessed like him. “It is a celebration of not only Arya Vaidya Sala, but of everyone who loves Ayurveda,” he said. He recalled the contributions made by Dr. Warrier to Kerala’s culture. Mr. Vijayan said although the birthday celebrations were reduced to a virtual platform, the rejoicing reflected in the people’s minds. “The unadulterated love that Dr. Warrier displayed for his fellow beings is the biggest quality that kept him apart,” he said. Arya Vaidya Sala chief physician P. Madhavankutty Varier welcomed the gathering. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, Kottakkal Municipal Chairperson Bushra Shabeer, and former AYUSH Secretary Shailaja Chandra spoke. Arya Vaidya Sala chief executive officer G.C. Gopala Pillai proposed a vote of thanks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pk-warrier-doyen-of-ayurveda-turns-100/article34703686.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cleaning drive begins this week||The city Corporation has prepared a detailed action plan for the monsoon cleaning and vector disease control activities to be taken up this week. In a council meeting on Tuesday, health standing committee chairperson Jameela Sreedharan presented the plan, following which councillors from various wards raised the issues they have been facing at the local level. Mayor Arya Rajendran said in the past five months, there were 52 cases of dengue fever, 15 leptospirosis cases, 46 cases of chikungunya and 5 cases of malaria in the city. Three deaths were reported. The identified dengue hotspots are Medical College, Kowdiar, Pallithura, Manacaud, Vattiyurkavu, Palayam, Pattom and Pallithura, while leptospirosis cases have been noticed in Beemapally, Vallakadavu, Nettayam and Valiyavila. As per the mosquito index prepared by the Corporation, the number of mosquitoes are high in Jagathy, Valiyavila, Kamaleswaram, Pettah, Pattom, Kalippankulam and Nedumcaud. As per the action plan, councillors will prepare ward-level action plans on Wednesday in discussion with the local sanitation committees, residents' association representatives, rapid response team members, Kudumbashree and NCC volunteers. Each ward has to be divided into 15 to 60 clusters and waste from each of the clusters segregated. Aerobic bin The biodegradable waste has to be handed over to the closest aerobic bin and non-biodegradable waste to the material collection facility. The public areas from which waste dumps are removed have to be beautified by planting saplings as part of World Environment Day on June 5. The Corporation has appealed to the residents to observe a dry day on June 6. Volunteers will be assigned for 30-50 households to carry out source destruction activities to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes. The Corporation has announced a cash prize of Rs. 25,000 for the ward which organises the most effective activities. This amount can be used for more sanitation activities. Notices will be served to owners of vacant plots to take up cleaning activities. On June 7, the health wing will carry out checks in scrap shops, tyre repairing shops and other commercial establishments in each health circle as part of source destruction activities. Fogging and spraying activities will be carried out in each of the wards from June 5 to 10. The non-biodegradable waste now stored in the 456 mini-material collection facilities and five resource recovery facilities will be handed over to various agencies. Funds provided In her reply, the Mayor said that the health standing committee chairperson will be asked to immediately carry out a study on the lack of equipment and workers in the wards and submit a report to her, based on which necessary action will be taken. She said that funds of Rs. 1,00,000 have been sanctioned to wards, while the remaining Rs. 35,000 will also be released soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cleaning-drive-begins-this-week/article34703647.ece
02 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||19,760 new cases, 24,117 recoveries||Kerala reported 19,760 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,30,594 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) is dipping steadily and touched 15.13% on Tuesday. The State’s active case pool has also been dipping over the past three weeks and with 24,117 persons reported to have recovered on Tuesday, the active case pool has 2,02,426 patients. The cumulative COVID-19 fatalities in the State crossed the 9,000 mark and touched 9,009 when on Tuesday the State added 194 recent deaths to the official list. While it is too early to predict a trend, hospitalisations due to COVID-19 have been showing a slight dip over the past two or three days. It is not a significant decrease but is an early indicator that as new cases come down, a reduction in hospitalisations can also be expected in the coming days. On Tuesday, new hospital admissions numbered 2,684. The total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals also showed a reduction and dipped to 37,493. ICU occupancy has not been showing a daily increase with the overall reduction in new cases over the past three weeks. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients now stand at 3,825, with 1,459 patients requiring ventilator support. The active case pool has been coming down in all districts rapidly. Thiruvananthapuram, despite the active case pool dipping to 14,868 patients, continues to have the highest number of hospitalisations among all other districts with 5,939 patients. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 25,46,339 cases. Malappuram tops Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,874, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 2,345, Palakkad 2,178, Kollam 2,149, Ernakulam 2,081, Thrissur 1,598, Alappuzha 1,557, Kozhikode 1,345, Kottayam 891, Kannur 866, Pathanamthitta 694, Idukki 462, Kasaragod 439 and Wayanad 281 cases. Minister tests positive Minister for Industries P. Rajeeve has tested positive for COVID-19. He advised those who had come in contact with him recently to take necessary precautions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/19760-new-cases-24117-recoveries/article34703697.ece
02 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||RSP scrambles to dispel rumours of LDF inclination||The Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP) on Tuesday struggled to dispel widespread speculation that some of its top leaders had prospected for accommodation in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the wake of the party’s poor showing in the 2021 Assembly elections. The LDF had soundly trounced RSP’s three candidates at the hustings. Shibu Baby John lost in Chavara, Babu Divakaran in Eravipuram and Ullas Kovoor in Kunnathur. Following the defeat, Mr. John had applied for leave from the RSP for ‘personal reasons.’ He had also skipped the United Democratic Front (UDF) meeting to assess the poll defeat, adding more grist to the political rumour mill. RSP State secretary A. A. Aziz, who chaired a meeting of the RSP State secretariat here, said an electoral defeat was no ground to leave the United Democratic Front (UDF). A plenary session of the party on August 9 would chart out RSP’s future course of action. Left LDF in 2014 “Nobody could predict the future. The RSP is capable of handling any situation that warranted a shift in political alliances. It would act on its own and without any intermediary,” he said. The RSP had severed its links with the LDF in 2014. According to sources, N. K. Premachandran, MP, was vehemently opposed to aligning the RSP with the LDF. He was reportedly highly critical of the electoral tactics of the CPI(M). He said the CPI(M) had forsaken secular values and brazenly sought the support of Hindutva and Islamist forces to win the elections. Mr. John reportedly told the State secretariat that he had rescinded his leave application. He had applied for leave for purely personal reasons and not out of spite, as alleged in the media. Mr. John said that even in defeat, he would work to strengthen the RSP. The RSP had met amidst reports that the LDF was poised to render the UDF shaky by exploiting the fault lines exposed by the poll debacle. It reportedly sent feelers to smaller parties in the UDF and tantalised them with the prospect of a berth in the LDF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rsp-scrambles-to-dispel-rumours-of-ldf-inclination/article34703698.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capacity of dams adequate to store monsoon rain: KSEB||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) may not have to release water from its dams if the State receives normal rainfall during the southwest monsoon season, according to a review by the State-run power utility. However, if the State receives extremely heavy rainfall for days together, as what happened in 2018 and 2019, controlled release of excess water will be initiated on the basis of the rule curves and stipulations of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). Warning to public In such an eventuality, the shutters will be raised only with the permission of the district disaster management authorities and by warning the public, the KSEB said. As of May 30, the KSEB reservoirs were 36% full, with a combined storage adequate to generate 1,483.25 million units (mu) of electricity. This is slightly higher than on the same day last year when the storage stood for 1,106.3 mu, in 2019 when it stood to generate 685.3 mu and in 2018 when it stood for 1,000 mu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capacity-of-dams-adequate-to-store-monsoon-rain-kseb/article34703969.ece
02 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Awareness campaign on COVID||The Kudumbashree mission has launched a campaign to take scientific messages about COVID-19 to the 45 lakh members in its three-tier network regularly. The campaign ‘Mission COVID-2021 Pratirodhikkam, Surakshitharaakam’ was inaugurated online by Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan here on Tuesday. Scientific knowledge on COVID-19, its prevention and mitigation, safety of the elderly, children, and pregnant women, and food routine provided by health experts will be communicated to the Kudumbashree women. Posters and videos on COVID-19 will be passed on to the family of each member through the nearly two lakh WhatsApp groups under the Kudumbashree. A handbook has also been prepared to help those taking part in the campaign. The campaign activities in each local body will be held by a Kudumbashree community development society (CDS) team, led by the CDS chairperson and accountant, and trained resource persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/awareness-campaign-on-covid/article34703643.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Probes into Chala fire inconclusive||Parallel investigations into the fire outbreak at the godown of a toy shop in Chala here on Monday evening remained inconclusive on Tuesday. Both the Kerala Fire and Rescue Services and the Electrical Inspectorate have launched probes to identify the circumstances that could have led to the fire that gutted the godown that functioned on the third floor of a building near Sree Padmanabha Theatre. Chengalchoola fire and rescue station officer D. Praveen said the wholesale dealer had stocked large quantities of toys under corrugated iron sheets. These included spray cans containing party foam and numerous battery-operated toys that were found to have been switched on. Another team led by Electrical Inspector Ushakumari P.K. also recorded their findings after conducting a thorough inspection. They found no complaints with the switch boards and a distribution board that were installed separately for the third floor. An earth-leakage circuit breaker (ELCB) also did not trip to suggest electrical leakage. Besides, the switchboard that was used for the toy stuffing machine kept on an extended portion on the same floor remained in decent working condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probes-into-chala-fire-inconclusive/article34703644.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,345 new cases in capital, 2,023 recover||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload grew by 2,345 as the number of active cases stood at 14,868 on Tuesday. As many as 2,023 people recovered from the disease. The test positivity rate was recorded at 17.6%. The death toll grew by 44 to touch 1,793, the highest in the State. The deaths were reported between May 14 and 30. The district authorities have placed 3,338 more people in quarantine, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 74,173. As many as 5,540 people were permitted to conclude quarantine. Health Minister Veena George formally inaugurated a COVID-19 second line treatment centre established at the Kallara community health centre. Having a capacity of 40 beds, the facility has been equipped with a centralised oxygen supply system. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. George said the centre will have the services of five doctors including a physician and 10 nursing staff. It will provide round-the-clock ambulance facility. Vaccination District Collector Navjot Khosa has said that COVID-19 vaccination has commenced for students aged between 18 and 44 in special schools and BUDS schools in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2345-new-cases-in-capital-2023-recover/article34703645.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Summer rain highest in 50 years||The summer rainfall recorded in the State during March, April, and May this year was the highest in 50 years, and the fourth highest in the past 100 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said on Tuesday. The State averaged 750.9 mm of rainfall during the three months against 361.5 mm, the normal rainfall for the period. This year’s heavy rainfall denotes a percentage departure of 108%, deemed ‘large excess’ in IMD parlance. All 14 districts have recorded a large excess (a percentage departure of above 60%). The summer rainfall recorded in 2021 is the highest between 1972 and 2021, and the fourth highest between 1922 and 2021. In the past 100 years, the State had recorded the highest amount of summer rainfall in 1933 (915.2 mm). The second highest rainfall for the three-month period was recorded in 1960 (791 mm) and third highest in 1932 (788.1 mm). This year, the State had recorded a large excess in the winter rainfall - January and February - also. The State averaged 114.1 mm against the normal of 22.4 mm, a percentage departure of 409%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-rain-highest-in-50-years/article34703699.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State firm on free vaccine policy: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has reiterated that the policy of his government is to make available COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to the citizens in the State. Replying to a calling attention motion by CPI(M) legislator P. Nandakumar in the Assembly on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said the government had already placed the order for one crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. “The government policy has been made clear and the Centre has been informed of our stance. Priority is being given for the vaccination of those who come in frequent contact with the public. The efforts of the State to minimise vaccine wastage has been commended by the Centre,” he said. Global tender Mr. Vijayan told the House that he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make available vaccines for the State to curb the spread of the pandemic. The State had ordered 70 lakh doses of Covishield and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin via the Kerala Medical Service Corporation. The government had also taken steps to float a global tender for vaccine procurement directly from the manufacturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-firm-on-free-vaccine-policy-cm/article34703701.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Medical teams assigned to relief camps||Medical teams will be specially assigned for the relief camps operating in the district, the district administration said on Monday. Teams consisting of a doctor, staff nurse, lab technician and a pharmacist will be present in the camps everyday till noon. Seventeen camps were opened in the district following the rain havoc in May. Junior health inspectors have been posted at the camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/medical-teams-assigned-to-relief-camps/article34703648.ece
02 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chittayam Gopakumar is Deputy Speaker||Chittayam Gopakumar, CPI legislator representing the Adoor constituency, was elected unopposed as Deputy Speaker of the 15th Kerala Assembly. Speaker M.B. Rajesh made the announcement in the Assembly on Tuesday as the United Democratic Front decided not to field any candidate for the post. Left Democratic Front’s candidate Mr. Gopakumar had filed the nomination on Monday. Mr. Gopakumar succeeds V. Sasi, also from the CPI. He is the eighth Deputy Speaker to be elected unopposed in the history of the Assembly. Mr. Gopakumar, 55, was elected from Adoor and has been a legislator since 2011 representing the same constituency. A member of the CPI State council, he made his political entry through the All Indian Students’ Federation. He was also chairman of the Kerala Agriculture Workers’ Welfare Fund Board and president of the Kottarakara grama panchayat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chittayam-gopakumar-is-deputy-speaker/article34703700.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Deaths high due to lag effect, cases decline||Karnataka’s addition of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday stood at 14,304, taking the total to 26,18,735. Of these, 3,418 fresh cases were from Bengaluru Urban district. With 464 more deaths reflecting a lag, the toll rose to 29,554. The State had 2,98,299 active patients. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 12.30% and the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 3.24%. In the 24-hour period, 1,16,224 tests were conducted, including 78,500 RT-PCR tests. The incidence in Kerala was 19,760 cases on Tuesday, when 1,30,594 samples were tested. The TPR was dropping and touched 15.13%. Active cases, with 24,117 more recoveries came to 2,02,426 patients. The State added 194 new deaths to the official list from the past several days. On Tuesday, new hospital admissions were 2,684. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals was down to 37,493. ICU occupancy was not showing a daily increase. Total ICU admissions in both public and private hospitals were 3,825, with 1,459 patients on ventilator support. Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest new cases with 2,874, Thiruvananthapuram 2,345, Palakkad 2,178, Kollam 2,149, Ernakulam 2,081, Thrissur 1,598, Alappuzha 1,557, Kozhikode 1,345, Kottayam 891, Kannur 866, Pathanamthitta 694, Idukki 462, Kasaragod 439 and Wayanad 281 cases. Over 100 deaths in A.P. Andhra Pradesh again reported 104 COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday, while 11,303 new infections were reported in the State. The case tally was 17,04,388 and the death toll increased to 11,034. The number of active cases came down to 1,46,737. The TPR of the 93,704 samples was 12.06%. West Godavari reported 20 new deaths in a day, Chittoor (14), Anantapur (9), Guntur (9), East Godavari (8), Visakhapatnam (7), Krishna (6), Kurnool (6), Srikakulam (6), Vizianagaram (6), Kadapa (5), Nellore (4) and Prakasam (4). East Godavari had 2,477 new infections, Chittoor (1,536) and West Godavari (1,116), Visakhapatnam (985), Anantapur (953), Prakasam (935), Srikakulam (693), Guntur (686), Krishna (647), Nellore (444), Kadapa (323), Kurnool (286) and Vizianagaram (222). The State’s daily COVID-19 case count dipped to 26,513 on Tuesday, bringing its active caseload below the 3 lakh-mark. However, the toll due to the infection remained high, as 490 more people, including a 105-year-old woman, succumbed to it. Presently, 2,96,131 people are under treatment for COVID-19. As many as 31,673 people were discharged after treatment, as recoveries continued to exceed new cases. Chennai registered the most number of discharges, as 4,232 people were discharged after treatment. The new cases took the State’s tally to 21,23,029. A total of 24,722 people have died due to the infection so far. On Tuesday, 98,183 people were vaccinated. This included 47,567 people in the 18-44 age group. With this, the State’s vaccination coverage crossed 90 lakh.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deaths-remain-high-due-to-lag-effect-but-cases-decline/article34703461.ece
02 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||300-bed makeshift COVID facility inaugurated||A makeshift COVID facility with 300 beds in the open ground next to the Super Speciality Hospital was inaugurated in virtual mode by Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana here on Tuesday. At least 158 new medical and para-medical staff, including 36 doctors, were recruited for the facility. There are seven nursing and seven doctors’ stations (chambers) for different wings of the large tent. Two 125-KV generators have been installed for continuous power supply and 54 make-shift toilets have been set up. Work on the German hanger, set up in an acre, was started in the second week of May when the number of COVID cases was at its peak. Mr. Botcha Satyanarayana, who is also district in-charge Minister, congratulated District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and his team on getting the work completed on an immediate basis. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav said the facility would be immensely helpful in meeting the demand for hospital beds should a need rise again. Though there are only a handful of patients now, the tent is seen as a preparatory infrastructure for a possible third wave. Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah thanked the State government for the financial aid in improving the medical infrastructure in the district. District Medical and Health Officer Y. Kameswara Prasad and GGH Superintendent K.S.S. Venkateswara Rao were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/300-bed-makeshift-covid-facility-inaugurated/article34703497.ece
02 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways has delivered over 2,000 MT of oxygen to State||Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) transported to various destinations in Andhra Pradesh by the Indian Railways in the past 16 days through 33 Oxygen Express trains totalled 2,125 MT as of Tuesday. The Railways delivered the LMO at four locations in the State - Tadipatri, Guntur, Krishnapatnam and Simhachalam (Visakhapatnam). Oxygen needs of Kadapa, Kurnool and Anantapur districts were met through a supply of 368 MT in the past 16 days. While Guntur received 720.9 MT, Krishnapatnam received 756.7 MT and Simhachalam 360 MT. South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Mallya said in a release on Tuesday that in order to meet the medical oxygen requirement of the State in an effective manner, the Oxygen Express trains were operated from the eastern and western parts of the country. While 15 Oxygen Express trains were operated from Odisha, 9 trains were from Jharkhand followed by 7 trains from Gujarat and 2 trains from West Bengal on the green corridors to ensure minimum transportation time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-has-delivered-over-2000-mt-of-oxygen-to-state/article34703499.ece
02 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ailing boy passes away amid euthanasia appeal||A 10-year-old boy suffering from the after-effects of a head injury passed away here on Tuesday, even as his mother was appealing for euthanasia for the child as she had no money left for his treatment. Harsha Vardhan, son of Aruna (30), a daily wager hailing from Birjepalle village of Chowdepalle mandal, had suffered a debilitating fall four years ago which led to the boy suffering from frequent bleeding from the nose and other ailments. His mother, who was raising him alone ever since his father deserted the family last year, was struggling to make ends meet. Over the course of the past year, the boy’s ailments had become pronounced and had increased in frequency. With no solution in sight to her son’s predicament, Ms. Aruna decided to approach the court seeking euthanasia for Harsha Vardhan. On Tuesday morning, the woman arrived along with the boy at the Junior Civil Judge court at Punganur, 15 km from her village, to appeal for euthanasia. However, with hardly any staff present at the court, the woman decided to return home. By then, Harsha Vardhan was showing signs of fainting, along with heavy bleeding from his nostrils. Even before he could be taken to a hospital, Harsha Vardhan breathed his last. Gurunatha, the mother’s elder brother, said that the family tried their best to get the boy medical help but in vain. When contacted, District Legal Services Authority secretary I. Karuna Kumar said due to lack of knowledge about euthanasia, some impoverished parents were coming forward seeking mercy killing for their children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ailing-boy-passes-away-amid-euthanasia-appeal/article34703500.ece
02 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on developing fishing harbours, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday reviewed the projects of the Agri Infra Fund with the Ministers and senior officials of the departments of Agriculture and its allied sectors such as Marketing, A.P. Dairy Development Cooperative Federation, Fisheries, Food Processing Society and Animal Husbandry. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to focus on developing fishing harbours at Kakinada, Kothapatnam (Prakasam district) and Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam district). The officials explained that the projects had an outlay of Rs. 15,743 crore. “I want complete integration of facilities provided to the farmers. Multi Purpose Facility Centres should be set up at the Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Farmers should get access to dry storage facilities, drying platforms, PDS warehouses, Janata Bazaars, and all these 16 projects should be taken up on a war-footing. We are setting up 4,277 dry storage facilities, drying platforms, 60 PDS warehouses, 1,483 milk procurement centres, cold rooms, turmeric boilers, 10,678 milk collection points,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. He said that 9,899 Bulk Milk Cooling units and 8,051 Automatic Milk Cooling units would be built over the next one year, and the estimates were Rs. 1,885.76 crore for the BMCs and Rs. 942.77 crore for the AMCs. Land acquisition would commence for the construction of these units, he said. Milk procurement The officials explained that milk procurement through Amul Dairy was going on, and so far 50.01 lakh litres was procured from 12,342 farmers and bills worth Rs. 23.42 crore were paid. In the first phase, four fishing harbours – Uppada (East Godavari), Nizampatnam (Guntur), Machilipatnam (Krishna), and Juvvaladinne (Nellore), would be completed by December 2022, the officials said. In the second phase, fishing harbours would be built at Budagatlapalem (Srikakulam), Pudimadaka (Visakhapatnam), Biyyaputippa (West Godavari), and Odarevu (Prakasam). Food processing The State government would also build 10,111 food processing units in every parliamentary constituency and would also begin millet processing units. The government would also build 10,750 custom hiring centres on a par with the Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Hightech farm mechanisation hubs would be set up at 175 places in the State. Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, Special Chief Secretary (Industries) Karikala Valavan, Secretary (Finance) S.S. Rawat, Principal Secretary (Marketing) Y. Madhusudana Reddy, Commissioner (Marketing) P.S. Pradyumna, and APDDCF Director Ahmed Babu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-on-developing-fishing-harbours-cm-tells-officials/article34704054.ece
02 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Project to set land records straight begins||The lingering disputes over ownership of land hoarded up in courts and the confusion over land survey records have placed an enormous stress on the Revenue and Survey departments with long years of litigation. The Government of Andhra Pradesh, in a bid to overcome the hurdles, has taken up yet another revolutionary project to completely resurvey the lands, a massive exercise after 100 years, and provide land holders a permanent ownership title deed. The programme is being conducted with the technical assistance from the Survey of India. “The Survey, Settlement and Land Records Department is embarking on a historical project being taken up after 100 years. In the biggest exercise of its kind, we are doing resurvey of lands across 17,500 villages and 110 Urban Local Bodies under the YSR Jagananna Bhuraksha - Sashwata Bhu Hakku’, using state-of-the-art drone technology and with technical collaboration with the Survey of India,” said Commissioner, Survey, Settlement and Land Records, Siddharth Jain. Real-time images The pilot project began on Tuesday across 63,433 acres covering 51 villages. The department would be using drones to capture real-time images and match them with the land records, and later map them. The digitised survey would ensure that the measurements were accurate. In case of any objections, resurvey would be done using the GNSS Rover system. “The major feature of the project is that every land holding will have a unique survey number and the survey will be done in the presence of the landowner. The landowner will be using the unique survey number in all transactions relating to land, and that survey number will be mutated in registration and revenue records at a time,” said Mr. Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/project-to-set-land-records-straight-begins/article34704055.ece
02 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arif Hafeez is Guntur Urban SP||R.N. Ammireddy, Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, was transferred on Tuesday. K. Arif Hafeez, an IPS officer of the 2015 batch, was posted in his place. In another order, the government posted B. Navya as Secretary, A.P. Social Welfare Residential Education Institution Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arif-hafeez-is-guntur-urban-sp/article34703494.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biggest lot of Sputnik vaccine lands in India||The GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) handled a major import shipment of Sputnik V vaccines from Russia on a specially chartered freighter RU-9450, which touched down at the airport at 3.43 a.m. on Tuesday. While the GHAC has already handled several shipments of vaccine, Tuesday’s 56.6 tonnes is the single largest handled in India till date. This shipment completed all processes and was sent to Dr. Reddy’s Labs in less than 90 minutes, said a spokesman in a press release. This is the third consignment from Russia — the first was for 1.5 lakh doses, second 60,000 and now 27.9 lakh doses. Another 50 lakh doses are expected this month, making Dr. Reddy’s Labs ready to roll out the vaccine for administration. Sputnik V vaccine requires specialised handling and storage, requiring to be kept at a temperature of -20° C. The GHAC has been working closely with the experts from the customer’s supply chain team, officials from the Customs department and other stakeholders over an extended period of time to ensure that the infrastructure and handling processes are fully in place for smooth handling of the shipments. Major pharma companies based in and around Hyderabad are expected to produce or import over 3.5 billion doses of different varieties of COVID vaccines over the next couple of years and the GHAC has been gearing up on all fronts to handle the surge. Key elements of the temperature-controlled infrastructure at the GHAC are all being expanded in terms of both capacities and capabilities. The GHAC is a WHO-GSDP (World Health Organisation – Good Storage and Distribution Practices) Certified major gateway location in India, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/biggest-lot-of-sputnik-vaccine-lands-in-india/article34703447.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Chief Secretary dies of COVID||Former Chief Secretary of combined Andhra Pradesh S.V.Prasad passed away on Tuesday at a private hospital here after fighting with COVID. He was 69. He was admitted to the hospital along with his wife and two sons a couple of days ago for COVID treatment. He succumbed to the virus on Tuesday morning while the condition of his wife was said to be critical. The ever smiling officer served as the Chief Secretary from 2010 for two years when K. Rosaiah was the Chief Minister. He superseded 20 senior IAS officers of the 1973, 1974 and 1975 batches. The 1975 batch officer held key posts both during the regimes of N. Chandrababu Naidu and YS Rajasekhara Reddy and was known to be a non-controversial officer liked by both the Chief Ministers for his diligence. He also served as the Vigilance Commissioner. During his 36-year career, he left an indelible impression on the administration. His first posting was Sub-collector at Gudur in Nellore district. He was an alumni of IIM-Ahmedabad. Condolences poured in for Prasad after the news spread. Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, Chief Justice of India Justice N.V. Ramana, Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and his Andhra Pradesh counterpart Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy and Himachal Pradesh Governor Bandaru Dattatreya sent their condolence messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-chief-secretary-succumbs-to-covid/article34703457.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pakistan repatriates Hyderabad techie||A Hyderabad-based software engineer, who was arrested by Pakistan’s Bahawalpur police two years ago for illegally entering that country, was repatriated through the Attari-Wagah border on Monday. The techie, 31-year-old Vaindam Prashant, along with Durmi Lal, a farmer from Madhya Pradesh, were arrested in the Cholistan desert area in Bahawalpur, Punjab province in Pakistan. The Bahawalpur police registered an FIR against them under the Pakistan (Control of Entry) Act on November 14, 2019, and since then both were in their custody. They had crossed the border without any identification papers and proper documents, such as valid visa and passport, according to the FIR. Madhapur police brought Mr. Prashant here on Tuesday afternoon, after he was set free at the border. Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar produced Mr. Prashant at a media conference where the latter turned emotional and said he never expected to return home. He said he read books in jail and picked up Hindi. On April 11, 2017 Mr. Prashant boarded a train to Bikaner, Rajasthan and from there he went to Indo-Pak border where he crossed the border illegally by jumping the fence. After walking deep into Pak territory, he was apprehended by Pakistan authorities and sent to jail. When Pak authorities picked up Mr. Prashant, they suspected him to be a spy but later believed his version of the story that he was trying to cross the Pakistani border to reach Switzerland to meet his online girlfriend. Mr. Prashant surfaced in Pakistan after having gone missing for two years. On April 11, 2017 when he left for office and did not return home, his father Babu Rao lodged a complaint with the Madhapur police of Cyberabad and a man missing case was registered on that date. Later when his whereabouts were known, after a video of Prashant from Pakistan went viral on the Internet in November 2019, his father approached Commissioner Sajjanar who wrote to the State government and Ministry of External Affairs seeking his extradition from Pakistan. “I am very happy, I have come back home after more than four years,” were Mr. Prashant’s first words after entering the Indian territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pakistan-repatriates-hyderabad-techie/article34703458.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS formation day to be low-key affair||Telangana State Formation Day on June 2 will be a low-key affair for the second consecutive year in view of COVID-19. The State government has issued a series of instructions regarding the celebration of the State Formation Day, a State function, restricting the participation to a maximum of 10 people. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar asked the Special Chief Secretaries, Principal Secretaries and Heads of departments to give instructions to departments under their control accordingly. Steps should be taken to ensure that Flag Code 2002 was followed strictly and there should be no use of plastic flags. Use of masks, distancing, sanitisers and sanitising sprayer should be ensured while conducting the function. Speeches, prize distribution, asset distribution and others should not be organised in view of COVID-19. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, the State Formation Day was a low-key affair last year too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/formation-day-to-be-low-key-affair/article34703916.ece
02 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APGB takes up charity drive on foundation day||Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank (APGB), which has 552 branches in five districts, observed its 15th anniversary by taking up charitable activities in Kadapa on Tuesday. The bank’s representatives donated a refrigerator, water dispenser and groceries to the inmates of two orphanages and an old age home in the city. With a turnover of Rs. 36,639 crore, chairman Rakesh Kashyap said they are striving to increase operating profit, improve recovery and meet digitisation targets to improve the bank’s profitability. For farmers The bank would also reach out to farmers, SHGs and downtrodden sections of the society during the pandemic. General Managers B.S.A.P. Rao, Ch. Venkateshwarlu, M. Jagadeeswara Rao and K. Vijayabhaskar took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apgb-takes-up-charity-drive-on-foundation-day/article34703506.ece
02 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 red sanders smugglers held in Kadapa||Nine persons, including two notorious red sanders smugglers, were arrested in Kadapa and Chittoor districts on Tuesday, as police personnel seized 55 logs weighing 1.6 tonnes from their possession. Repeat offenders Gajjala Srinivasa Reddy (41) of KV Palli mandal in Chittoor district, wanted in 17 smuggling cases, and S. Reddeppa Reddy (45) of Ramapuram mandal in Kadapa district and an accused in ten cases, were among those apprehended by the police on Tuesday. The two were arrested along with seven others from two locations in Sundupalli mandal on Tuesday. Srinivasa Reddy already has a case booked against him under the P.D. Act. Two vehicles used by the operatives were also seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-red-sanders-smugglers-held-in-kadapa/article34703507.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Form evacuation norms, HC tells Lakshadweep panel||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the committee constituted by the Health Services Director, Lakshadweep, for recommending medical evacuation of patients from various islands, to formulate guidelines on the method and manner of its functioning. The Bench comprising Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath also ordered that the guidelines be placed before the court within 10 days. The court passed the directives on a writ petition filed by P.M. Mohammed Saliah from Amini in Lakshadweep, challenging the order constituting the four-member committee for recommending special evacuation of patients to Kochi or Agati or Kavaratti from other islands. The order of the Health Services Director said the committee would make a recommendation on a case-to-case basis after evaluation of all relevant documents uploaded online by the medical officer in charge of the respective islands, along with a specialist at the Indira Gandhi Hospital, Kavaratti. Great hardship The order had put the petitioner and other inhabitants in great hardship since it would delay the processing of the evacuation request, endangering the lives of patients. Earlier, patients in critical condition used to be airlifted as soon as the medical officer of the respective islands made a request to the Health Services Director functioning in Kavaratti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/form-evacuation-norms-hc-tells-lakshadweep-panel/article34703451.ece
02 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release protesters on bail, says court||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court directed the Chief Judicial Magistrate of Amini to take up the cases of those who were detained in connection with the protests against the decisions of the Lakshadweep administration through videoconferencing and release them on bail by 3 p.m. on Tuesday. They were remanded in custody by the Executive Magistrate of Kiltan Island. The Bench consisting of Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath passed the directives on a petition filed by Rahmathulla and 11 other arrested persons. According to the petition, they were arrested and remanded in custody on May 28 for seven days. Though the offences slapped on them were bailable, they were not released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-protesters-on-bail-says-court/article34703449.ece
02 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate improves in South Coastal A.P.||Over 2,300 patients recovered even as eight succumbed to the viral disease in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours. The number of recoveries continued to be on the higher side while new infections rose by 656 in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam when compared to the previous day. Recovery rate improved further to 85.43% in the two districts. Four patients each died in the two districts, taking the toll in the region to 1,625. So far, Nellore district has reported 822 casualties while Prakasam reported 803 since the beginning of the pandemic last year, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Tuesday night. Cumulative tally The cumulative tally crossed the 2.26 lakh-mark as 444 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 935 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease. Health professionals had a breather as the number of active cases declined by 942 to 31,381 in the region during the period. Prakasam district had a higher number of active cases at 19,184. Such cases were relatively lower at 12,197 in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-improves-in-south-coastal-ap/article34703502.ece
02 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco auctions commence on a high||Auctions have resumed on an optimistic note in the traditional tobacco growing areas in Nellore and Prakasam districts after a 16-day break, as the intensity of COVID-19 has lessened. Anxious to liquidate the stocks on hand and fearing deterioration in the quality of the produce as and when the monsoon sets in, farmers brought over 6,000 bales for sale in the 11 auction platforms in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) and Southern Black Soil (SBS) regions till Tuesday evening. ‘Good quality’ “After a gap of several years, we have a good quality crop. We will be forced to burn our fingers if there is any further delay in auctions on account of coronavirus,” said a farmer from Kondepi, P. Bhadri Reddy, while waiting for buyers as the sky remained overcast. “Only domestic cigarette manufacturers are active in the market, while the exporters have selectively bought the bales of their liking. The latter are still adopting a wait-and-watch attitude on the pretext of non-confirmation of orders from overseas buyers,” complained a farmer, Ramanjaneyulu, at the Ongole II auction platform. The farmers urged the Tobacco Board to ensure that the exporters come to the market with full force during the auctions, which had been suspended after some staff members and ‘hamalis’ contracted the virus. The situation was relatively better this year despite the partial curfew as the farmers were saddled with a poor quality crop during last year when the total lockdown hampered the auctions. When auctions were suspended this year from May 14, farmers in the two districts had marketed 21 million kg, getting an average price of Rs. 159.95 per kg against 12.7 million kg sold during the corresponding period last year at an average price of Rs. 144.77 per kg, Tobacco Board sources said. F1, F2 and F3 varieties accounted for bulk of the sale this year, fetching a better price of Rs. 178.80 per kg, Rs. 169.10 per kg, and Rs. 147.30 per kg respectively against the last year’s price of Rs. 169.50 per kg, Rs. 169.90 per kg, and Rs. 134.30 per kg for the respective grades. ‘Markfed action a worry’ While the bright and medium grade varieties attracted buyers, there were no takers for the low grade varieties in the wake of the Markfed, which intervened in the market and bought about 12.9 million kg, including 11.9 million kg in SBS and SLS regions, offloading its stocks online to traders now. “We are worried over the effect of the Markfed’s action on the market when we are struggling to sell our produce,” a group of farmers in Ongole II auction platform lamented. The farmers in the SBS region had so far marketed 10.60 million kg at an average price of Rs. 156.68 and their counterparts in the SLS region 11.11 million kg at an average price of Rs. 162.30 per kg, the crop regulator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-auctions-commence-on-a-high/article34703911.ece
02 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policemen to be sacked for custody death||The State government has permitted the prosecution of five police officers arraigned as accused in the custodial death of Rajkumar in the Nedumkandam police station in 2019. It has also directed the State Police Chief to dismiss the officers from service. The crime had not augured well for the people-friendly image of the State police and put the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on the defence. In an action taken report tabled in the Assembly on Tuesday, the government said it had accepted and acted upon the recommendations of the K. Narayana Kurup Commission, which probed the case. The commission had found that custodial torture had resulted in Rajkumar’s death. It also accused the officers of attempting to destroy evidence and cover up Rajkumar’s death. The government told the Assembly that it had discharged the officers from service as per Article 311(2) of the Constitution. The case The sensational case related to the alleged torture of Rajkumar, a local chit fund operator, purportedly to recover money he had received as deposits from the public. The financier died on June 21 at the Peerumedu taluk hospital while under treatment as a remand prisoner. The commission had found that the police had subjected Rajkumar to prolonged torture and harsh questioning at the station house. (Forensic experts had counted 22 injuries on his body during postmortem examination.) The officers had attempted to coerce Rajkumar into revealing where he had secreted the funds collected from the depositors. The commission had found that the suspect officials had attempted to fudge station records to erase evidence in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/policemen-to-be-sacked-for-custody-death/article34703455.ece
02 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grant to Tirupati Vidyapeeth increased||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to recommend to the government the enhancement of annual grant to Rastriya Sanksrit Vidyapeeth in Tirupati from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. A decision to this effect was taken by the TTD board of trustees during its last sitting when the letter from Registrar of the Vidyapeeth requesting enhancement of the annual maintenance and development grant from Rs. 50 lakh to Rs. 1.50 crore came up for discussions. The meeting also took cognisance of the fact that it was in April 2006 that the annual grant to the Vidyapeeth was last enhanced from Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh and the same was later ratified by the government in February 2008. The TTD which is already providing an annual grant of Rs. 1 crore each to Sri Padmavati Mahila University and Sri Venkateswara University besides Rs. 50 lakh to Dravidian University in Kuppam reacted positively to the request of the Vidyapeeth. The trust board has also resolved to recommend to the government for the enhancement of the grant to Rs. 1 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grant-to-tirupati-vidyapeeth-increased/article34703503.ece
02 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anandaiah’s drug to be given as immunity booster||With the State government giving its nod for the preparation and distribution of herbal practitioner B. Anandaiah’s drug meant to be orally administered, government whip Ch. Bhaskar Reddy has announced to distribute the same as an immunity booster. The drug can be prepared at home and consumed for general purpose, said Mr. Reddy at a meeting held at TUDA office here on Tuesday. While thanking Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving the green signal, he said the same would be prepared and distributed at every doorstep as a preventive medicine. As COVID-19 cases continue to rise in spite of maintaining curfew hours, the MLA announced to implement strict lockdown in Panchayats across his Chandragiri constituency, emergency services and farming activities given relaxation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anandaiahs-drug-to-be-given-as-immunity-booster/article34703505.ece
02 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Petrol scores a hundred in State||The price of a litre of petrol on Tuesday crossed the Rs. 100-mark in Vijayawada and other parts of the State. The price had already crossed Rs. 100 in cities like Guntur and breached the psychological barrier in Vijayawada on Tuesday. Premium petrol costs Rs. 104 a litre. The prices were increased by about 25 paise taking the price of petrol to over Rs. 100 a litre. In fact, an average increase of 25 paise has been witnessed in the last three days. The unabated increase in the price of petrol and diesel has exacerbated since the last week of April, when the election process in five States concluded. A year ago, people used to get close to one and half litres for Rs. 100. The price was about Rs. 74 a litre as on May 21, 2020. Similarly, diesel price was about Rs. 68. According to information, prices vary from city to city in the State. However, petrol costs slightly above Rs. 99 in Visakhapatnam. Its costs is Rs. 100.40 in Vijayawada, Rs. 100.68 in Guntur, and Rs. 100 plus in Kurnool. The Steel City is at an advantage because of the location of a refinery there. Vijayawada too enjoys an advantage because of the location of a storage terminal at Kondapalli. Those tanking up on diesel are also not spared of the price hike either. An average increase of about 20 paise per litre of diesel is witnessed in the State. Fuel prices differ from State to State depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel every day based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/petrol-scores-a-hundred-in-state/article34704058.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dwaraka Tirumala Rao is APSRTC Managing Director||Senior IPS officer Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao on Tuesday took charge as the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC). The corporation officials, staff and representatives of employees unions greeted him on the occasion. Mr. Rao took stock of the situation arising out of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the corporation. Mr. Tirumala Rao discussed with the Executive Directors and Financial Adviser key issues such as the operation of buses during the pandemic, precautions being taken, the high-end buses that have been converted into mobile COVID hospitals to serve the patients in remote areas lacking healthcare services and other issues. He also met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and thanked him. Mr. Rao is a 1989 batch IPS officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dwaraka-tirumala-rao-is-apsrtc-managing-director/article34704061.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTR Trust to set up two oxygen plants in Telangana||The NTR Memorial Trust has decided to set up two more oxygen plants to meet the oxygen requirements arising out of COVID. The two new plants would be set up in Telangana State. The new plants are in addition to the four plants that are already being set up in Andhra Pradesh with the Heritage CSR funds. NTR Trust Managing Trustee Nara Bhuvaneswari has said that they have decided to set up the two new oxygen plants in Telangana. The NTR Trust has been placing special focus on providing oxygen considering its key role in saving the lives of the COVID-19 patients from the brink of fatalities, she said. Ms. Bhuvaneswari thanked donors for making selfless contributions to the trust for taking forward its service activities on a large scale. Till now, over Rs. 25 lakh donations have been received from both the Telugu States. The Telugu Desam fans from New Zealand have donated Rs. 5 lakh for taking forward the trust’s services. The NTR Trust has begun conducting funeral rites for unclaimed dead bodies of COVID patients whose family members could not take responsibility of conducting the last rites for various reasons. These last rites would be conducted in accordance with the customs of the deceased patients, she said. Many donors were coming forward to strengthen the NTR Trust’s services. Guthikonda Veerabhadra Rao, hailing from Krishna district, has donated Rs. 1,11,116. The trust has been running tele-medicine, free medicine distribution and food distribution activities for the needy COVID patients, Ms. Bhuvaneswari said. Tele-medicine services The trust has so far provided tele-medicine services for 690 patients and 326 of them have fully recovered from the deadly infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ntr-trust-to-set-up-two-oxygen-plants-in-telangana/article34703508.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. focussing on building skill ecosystem’||Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) Challa Madhusudhan Reddy on Tuesday said the State, under the leadership of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, was focussed on strengthening skill ecosystem by devising self-sustainable solutions. Addressing an induction programme held for 15 Fellows of the APSSDC’s ‘Jagananna Summer Fellowship Programme’, Mr. Reddy urged them to come up with strategic policies that could strengthen the skill ecosystem and also gain rich experience. He said the corporation had partnered with ISB for the programme. APSSDC MD N. Bangaru Raju hoped that the fellowship would be a great experience for the Fellows, and that the State would also benefit from the strategic policies designed by them. Executive Director D.V. Koti Reddy said the Fellows would get constant guidance from internal guides of the corporation and external guides from the ISB. The corporation received 2,680 applications from across the world, which were categorised in groups of IIT, NIT, IIM, IISc, BITS and other international universities. Based on the academic performance and the score of the competitive exams such as CAT, MAT, GMAT, GRE and GATE, 60 candidates were selected for the interview round. The interview panel finalised 15 candidates for the programme. The Fellows will carry out research work to strengthen the skill development ecosystem in the State by working mainly in five areas - Navaratnalu, Agriculture Supply Chain and Value Addition, Atmanirbhar Bharat and PLI Scheme, Service Sector and Elderly Care, and self-revenue generation by the APSSDC, in the next three months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-focussing-on-building-skill-ecosystem/article34704063.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 1 crore get the jab||The State has reached the milestone of administering one crore vaccine doses to the beneficiaries so far. As of June 1, 1,00,74,471 doses were administered and 25,29,167 beneficiaries were fully vaccinated. In other words, 75,45,304 persons received at least one dose of vaccine in the State and of them 38.40 lakh belong to 45 to 60 age group, 25.85 lakh belong to 60+ age group and 11.17 lakh belong to 18 to 44 age group. Over 50.16 lakh beneficiaries are due to receive a second dose of vaccine against COVID within the next three months. Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar said the State received 98,85,650 vaccine doses till date and 66.82 lakh Covishield and 15.17 lakh Covaxin doses were given by the Centre. The State procured 13.41 lakh Covishield doses and 3.43 lakh Covaxin doses. However, the State was able to administer the 98.85 lakh doses to 1,00,74,471 beneficiaries as health workers and ANMs effectively managed administering the doses by avoiding wastage, he said. So far 82.95 lakh Covishield and 17.78 lakh Covaxin doses were administered in the State. As per the CoWIN dashboard by the Central government, 0.004% Adverse Effects Following Immunisation cases were reported in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-1-crore-get-the-jab/article34704052.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, Chief Minister offer their condolences||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Tuesday expressed grief over the demise of former IAS officer S.V. Prasad who died while undergoing treatment for COVID-19 infection at a private hospital in Hyderabad. He said Mr. Prasad had served as Secretary to several Chief Ministers, as the Chief Secretary and State Vigilance Commissioner in united Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Harichandan offered condolences to the bereaved family members. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy also expressed grief over the demise of Prasad. He said Prasad was known for his administrative skills and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. Naidu expresses grief Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu expressed shock and grief over the death Prasad. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said that Prasad had always stood in the front to lead others in making the government programmes a success. “The demise of Prasad has left a void. He had rendered exemplary services as the former Chief Secretary of combined Andhra Pradesh and as the Vigilance Commissioner. He had played a key role in strengthening the institutions in his capacity as the APGenco Chairman and as the Vice-Chairman of the APSRTC. Condolences poured in from various quarters on the demise of Prasad. Chief Justice of India Nutalapati Venkata Ramana expressed shock. Recollecting his long association with the former Chief Secretary, Mr. Ramana said that Prasad had led a simple life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-chief-minister-offer-their-condolences/article34704059.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siblings who lost parents to COVID given Rs. 20 lakh||Government Whip and Jaggaiapeta MLA Samineni Udaya Bhanu and Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz handed over the sanction orders for Rs. 20 lakh fund to two siblings whose parents died of coronavirus infection recently. The two children were given the sanction orders for Rs. 10 lakh each. The amount will be deposited as a fixed deposit in the names of the children. The interest accumulated will be given to the children annually. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said that so far nine such children had been identified in the district. The beneficiaries of the programme, Sk. Immanuel and Sk. Nazeer Hussain lost their parents Sk. Khaleel and Sk. Reshma to COVID about 15 days ago.Mr. Imtiaz said all such children would be identified and taken care of. Referring to the COVID response, Mr. Imtiaz said that 100-bed COVID Care Centre had been set up in Jaggaiahpeta and another such facility would be set up at Vatsavai soon. Mr. Udaya Bhanu said that the COVID Care Centre at Jaggaiahpeta came as a great relief to the people as all facilities were available there. Tahsildar R. Ramakrishna and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siblings-who-lost-parents-to-covid-given-rs-20-lakh/article34703495.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. Advisers’ tenure extended||The State government has extended the tenure of its Advisers for a period of one more year. A G.O. issued on Tuesday said the tenure of the Principal Adviser to Chief Minister Ajeya Kallam has been extended for one more year with effect from June 4. He will also have additional responsibility of Chairman of the Steering and Implementation Committee for “YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku Mariu Bhu Raksha Padhakam”. The tenure of the Adviser to the Government (Communications) G.V.D. Krishna Mohan has been extended by one year with effect from June 7, that of the Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy for one more year with effect from June 18 and, of the Adviser to the Government (Coordinator of Programmes) Talashila Raghuram for one year with effect from June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-advisers-tenure-extended/article34704062.ece
02 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Interviews for Group-I candidates from June 17||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has scheduled the interviews for the short-listed candidates of Group-I Services from June 17. In a statement on Tuesday, the Commission secretary said the interviews would be held from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on all working days (Monday to Friday) at the Commission’s office in Vijayawada. The certificate verification process would be held on the same day and the registered numbers of the scheduled candidates would be hosted on the Commission’s website https://www.psc.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/interviews-for-group-i-candidates-from-june-17/article34703509.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic graph begins to decline in district, says Collector||COVID-19 cases have started to decline in the district, but people should not forget to adhere to appropriate behaviour, District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said. He conducted a review meeting with the officials here on Tuesday. Mr. Vinay Chand said that as of now the COVID-19 positivity rate in the district is around 7 % and it is expected to come down further as the partial curfew has been extended till June 10. Fever surveys He said that fever surveys being conducted in the district is yielding good results and another round of the survey would be conducted. “ASHA workers need not go into every house during the survey. Since they have friendly relationship in the area, they can enquire about the health of inmates from outside. Through fever surveys, we can identify positive cases and take up further action,” he said. More testing, proper home isolation and medication will break the chain, he said. Till COVID-19 comes under complete control, officials need to be very attentive, the Collector added. Mr. Vinay Chand said that they have increased the strength of doctors, paramedical staff in the district, including Agency areas. “There is no dearth of oxygen, as we have started four new plants recently,” he added.  Black fungus treatment Mr. Vinay Chand said that ENT hospital has been identified as nodal agency for the black fungus treatment. The administration is ready with 500 beds for the treatment and there is adequate stock of drugs to deal with it, he said In category A hospitals, all the beds should be allotted for Aarogya Sri patients, while in category B hospitals, 50% of the beds should be provided to them, he said. He said that Vigilance teams are conducting raids on various hospitals and are issuing notices, booking cases apart from imposing penalties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-graph-begins-to-decline-in-district-says-collector/article34704096.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven deaths and 985 new infections in district||The Visakhapatnam district has reported less than 1,000 COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day. In the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning, the district recorded 985 new infections, while as many as 2,064 persons undergoing treatment for the virus recovered. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,38,669. The death toll also increased to 917 after seven more persons succumbed to the coronavirus. The last 306 deaths were reported in just 32 days (Since May 1). The number of recoveries have increased to 1,24,969, while the active cases have drastically reduced since the last 10 days and stand at 12,783. The district reported a record number of 57,768 infections and 299 deaths in May. This is said to be the highest monthly tally since the pandemic began. On an average, about 1,900 new cases were reported every day. Meanwhile, close to 54,000 people who were affected with the virus have also recovered in the previous month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-deaths-and-985-new-infections-in-district/article34704093.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simhachalam kitchen to get facelift||The ‘annadanam’ and ‘prasadam’ kitchen at Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam will be modernised as part of the plan to improve the infrastructure of the temple and to provide better amenities to devotees. A decision to this effect was taken by the Chairperson of temple Trust Board and Dharmakarta Sanchaita Gajapati, the Board and the Executive Officer. Modern and mechanised equipment will be installed to ensure proper hygiene and health while serving food (‘annadanam’) and ‘prasadam’ to devotees.The temple authorities have called for Expression of Interest(EoI) for the design of the kitchen from those, who fulfil the technical criteria, to set up the modern kitchen and cooking facilities. Eligible persons, who wish to send designs, can consult the EO’s Office, Down Hills, Simhachalam, or contact the Assistant Executive Engineer P. Ravi Raju on his phone number 9618072527.  The EoI shall be submitted by 5 p.m. on June 20. No money will be paid for the designs. After examining the designs, the Trust Board will finalise the technical specifications and proceed further, according to EO M.V. Suryakala.More details can had by logging on to:https://tender. apeprocurement.gov.in/ simhachalam devesthanam.net||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/simhachalam-kitchen-to-get-facelift/article34704088.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSP sale: relay hunger strike enters 110th day||The relay hunger strike, being organised by the workers of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) opposing the decision of the Centre to privatise VSP, continued for the 110th day here on Tuesday. Addressing the workers, Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee chairman Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the workers should take the jab to break the chain of COVID-19 and to arrest its further spread in the country. He alleged that the Centre has failed to supply vaccines to the States, and demanded that the vaccines be given free of cost to people to save their lives. He demanded that the Centre withdraw its decision on privatisation of VSP, which was supplying Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) and saving the lives of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vsp-sale-relay-hunger-strike-enters-110th-day/article34704087.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to cancel e-tender notification issued for calcite mining||The tribal people of Nimmalapadu, Karakavalasa and Rallagaruvu villages of Anantagiri mandal in the district have appealed the to the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of AP Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC) to cancel the e-tender notification for calcite mining at Nimmalapadu issued by the APMDC without a resolution by the ‘gram sabha.’ Referring to the e-tender notification issued by the APMDC in a Telugu daily on May 19, 2021, they noted in a memorandum to the VC and MD, that they had been cultivating lands for the past several years on the land proposed to be mined for calcite. They recalled that they had opposed the calcite mining proposal by Birla company in the past by approaching the Supreme Court and sought protection of their lands under the Samata Judgment. The Samata Judgment clearly states that the right of local resources is vested with the ‘gram sabha’ under the the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act (PESA Act). They noted that neither a ‘gram sabha’ was held on the issue nor a resolution passed in this regard. The Fifth Schedule of the Constitution says that tribal people alone would have the right over local resources. When that was the case, they wondered as to how the APMDC could issue the notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-cancel-e-tender-notification-issued-for-calcite-mining/article34704089.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||LTT express cancelled||The Visakhapatnam-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Visakhapatnam Special Express has been cancelled with effect from June 1. Train no. 08519 Visakhapatnam- Lokmanya Tilak Terminus special express leaving Vizag from June 1 to 15 will be cancelled. In the return direction,08520 Lokmanya Tilak Terminus -Vizag express, leaving Lokmanya Tilak Terminus from June 3 to 17 will be cancelled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ltt-express-cancelled/article34704086.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitation workers given essential commodities||Sanitation workers, who are rendering relentless services despite the crisis situation at COVID Hospitals, deserve the support of the public, Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) Director K. Rambabu has said. The Director distributed provisions, sponsored by Supreme Marine Tankers Private Limited, to 82 sanitation workers of VIMS on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sanitation-workers-given-essential-commodities/article34704090.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Death of former Chief Secretary condoled||Members of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation (SSSSO), Principal and staff of Sri Sathya SaiVidya Vihar School have condoled the death of S.V. Prasad, former Chief Secretary to the government. Members of the Visakhapatnam District Association (VDCA) also paid tributes to Prasad, who was also the former president of the VDCA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/death-of-former-chief-secretary-condoled/article34704091.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vice Admiral Sreekumar Nair takes over as Director General Naval Projects||Vice Admiral Sreekumar Nair took over as the Director General Naval Projects (DGNP), Visakhapatnam, from Vice Admiral Kiran Deshmukh here on Tuesday. Vice Admiral Nair has earlier served as Admiral Superintendent, Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam, and Assistant Chief of Materiel (Information Technology and Systems), at Integrated Headquarters, Ministry of Defence (Navy).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vice-admiral-sreekumar-nair-takes-over-as-director-general-naval-projects/article34704094.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||In the report, ‘Curfew extended till June 10 in AP’, published in these columns on Tuesday, it was inadvertently mentioned that Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) would be imposed instead of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article34704051.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student donates her savings for COVID fight||A 19-year-old student has donated her savings of Rs. 5,000 to the COVID Relief Fund by sending a cheque for the amount to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy by post. Moved by the pandemic and its repercussions, Adabala Meghana decided to donate her saving of Rs. 5,000. She appealed to the Collector that the money be spent on COVID relief measures for children. Ms. Meghana is a final year degree student from B.Savaram village in Konaseema region of East Godavari district. Referring to the letter and cheque received from Ms. Meghana, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that the gesture from the student would give moral support to the frontline workers and the government officials to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-donates-her-savings-for-covid-fight/article34704056.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tough times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tough-times/article34704099.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three drown in tank||Three persons died after they drowned in a tank at Tirumalaiahgaripalle village in Pullampeta mandal in the district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as Siva Sankar (24), Venkatadri (24) and Rishi (12). They had reportedly gone to the tank for frolicking, but drowned for reasons not known. They were residents of Pullareddypalle Harijanawada. Pullampeta police have launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-drown-in-tank/article34703504.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Luck runs out||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/luck-runs-out/article34703513.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC query on refund of excess hospital billing||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed Public Health Director G. Srinivasa Rao to appear for Wednesday’s virtual hearing of the batch of PIL petitions related to COVID-19 to explain actions initiated by the government over the court’s earlier directions in those pleas. The batch of PIL petitions were scheduled for hearing on Tuesday. The petitioners were heard last time on May 17, with the bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passing a slew of directions to the government on different aspects relating to COVID-19 management, including the government’s preparedness for the third wave of the virus. When the bench resumed hearing on Tuesday seeking explanations on different isuses, Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the court that Mr. Srinivasa Rao could not attend the hearing as he had rushed to Khammam district on COVID-19 related issues. With the AG replying to the CJ that he would secure instructions from the government over the queries posed by the bench, the CJ said it would prefer to defer the hearing to Wednesday making it clear that Dr. Rao should appear virtually since he was in-charge of the subject. Perusing the affidavit filed by Dr. Rao on behalf of the State government, the CJ said it would not suffice and “as vague as anything”. “Several questions raised by the bench in its May 17 order were not answered or answered ambiguously,” the CJ remarked. Referring to submissions of some lawyers that government’s action of revoking licenses of hospitals indulging in excessive billing, the bench wanted the Public Health Director to explain what efforts were made to ensure excessive amounts paid by patients were returned to them. Of the 117 complaints of excessive billing by hospitals, in how many cases the government had got money refunded to patients, the CJ sought to know. The CJ said that 800 children got affected by COVID-19 in a single district in Maharashtra. In this backdrop, preparedness of the government to extend medical treatment to people assumes importance, the bench said. The bench wanted the Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwar Rao to explain why the life saving drugs meant for treating Black Fungus were not being supplied to Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-query-on-refund-of-excess-hospital-billing/article34703908.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps initiated for digital survey of lands||The State government has initiated steps for conducting a comprehensive digital land survey mapping the entire State. The first concrete move in this direction started on Tuesday with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar holding a meeting with representatives of 17 companies with experience in taking up digital land survey. The Chief Secretary took the views of the companies on the proposed digital land survey and sought to know the problems encountered by them while taking up similar exercise in other States. The meeting discussed the methodology, technology to be adopted, time and cost factor, availability of survey equipment and technical persons and requirement of software, hardware and internet bandwidth. The State government had allotted Rs. 400 crore for taking up digital land survey in the current year’s budget. The development follows the announcement made by the Chief Minister about his intentions to take up digital survey of lands for making land records non-tamperable so that they would remain forever. The survey, according to officials, is aimed at covering every inch of land across the State with geo-coordinates as giving longitudinal and latitudinal coordinates was easy if latest technology was leveraged. The effort is to ensure that the survey establishes the extent of land in the State, both government holdings as well as those held by individuals and institutions. This would go a long way in resolving long-pending disputes between land owners besides enabling an exact assessment of the extent of government lands and addressing the differences between the departments like Revenue and Forests over the extent of land in their possession. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to hold a high-level meeting with the representatives of companies with expertise in taking up digital land survey soon, after which the process for identification of the companies for taking up digital survey will get under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-initiated-for-digital-survey-of-lands/article34703915.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR may opt for cancellation of Inter 2nd year examinations||Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao in all likelihood will take a decision to pass all second-year Intermediate students after the Central government decided to do away with CBSE 12th class exams this year. The Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) is preparing a document with two or three options for the Chief Minister to consider on cancellation as well as awarding the marks based on the first year performance. The report will be sent to the Chief Minister in a couple of days, a senior BIE official told The Hindu , and cancelling the examinations is on top of the agenda in the present circumstances as the road has already been laid by the Central government. Other proposals include conducting the exams at a later date with reduced time and questions, which has already been conveyed to the Union Education Minister when he sought suggestions from the State governments. If the exams are to be cancelled, how do they grade the students is a key issue before the government?. The BIE lacks an internal assessment of students unlike the CBSE that can give grades based on year-long performance. Moreover, classes were not held this academic year except for a few days and there was no actual mechanism to assess the students’ academic abilities in Telangana. However, BIE Secretary Omer Jaleel said that at least they have first-year marks of students to arrive at some kind of grading. “We are still working out some modalities to be placed before the CM. Most probably, it will be sent to him by Wednesday evening,” he said. About 4.80 lakh students are enrolled in the second year now as all of them were promoted last year. The first year annual exams were held last year and out of the 4,80,555 students who attempted, only 2,88,383 passed in all subjects. However, the advanced supplementary exams were cancelled by the government due to the pandemic and all those who applied for supplementary were promoted to second year with minimum pass marks in the failed subjects. Government Junior Lecturers Association (GJLA) president, Madhusudhan Reddy hoped that the CM will take a favourable decision as conducting the exams in the near future was loaded with risks to students and lecturers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-may-opt-for-cancellation-of-inter-2nd-year-examinations/article34703922.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shifting of Warangal central jail commences||The 135-year-old Nizam era central prison at Warangal will soon be history as the jail authorities started vacating the 59.5-acre campus on Tuesday for conversion into a super speciality hospital of the government. Of the 954 prisoners in the jail, as many as 114, including 39 women, were shifted to different jails in the State with tight police escort. Special vehicles were deployed to shift high-security prisoners. Local police escort was also arranged as the vehicles passed through different Commissionerates. The men were shifted to Cherlapalli open air jail and women to their special prison at Chanchalguda here. A Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday directed jail authorities to hand over the campus to health department by the month-end. An open air jail will be constructed at Mamnoor on Warangal outskirts to replace the present one. The prison has a fortified wall with a watch tower and a huge open area facing the facade. It was proposed to construct an open air jail at Mamnoor on Warangal outskirts to replace the present one. Jail superintendent Santosh Kumar Roy told The Hindu that more than shifting prisoners, they faced a Herculean task to move heavy machinery on which the prisoners worked for carpentry, dairying, weaving and other trades. The machinery will be shifted to Cherlapalli jail. There were also several electronic gadgets. He said there were 613 convicts, highest in any jail in the State, among 954 inmates. They included Naxalites and political prisoners. As regards transfer of jail staff, Mr. Roy said they would be given options and finally deployed by rationalisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shifting-of-warangal-central-jail-commences/article34703919.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to go online to prevent vaccine irregularities||Post the allegations of irregularities, GHMC has from Tuesday onwards stopped issuing paper tokens for COVID-19 vaccination of the “super spreaders” as part of the ongoing drive. Instead, details of the persons to be vaccinated will be uploaded online, before allotting slot for vaccination, officials informed. Several issues have come to fore during the vaccination drive which had started on May 28 and was to continue for 10 days. Ten categories of super spreaders were identified for this purpose, including street vendors, grocery shop owners, auto and cab drivers, fair price shop dealers, delivery personnel, petrol pump staff, and others. Tokens diverted Allegations, however, abounded that the vaccines were being diverted to persons with money and muscle power. Higher officials who inspected the vaccination centres found to their shock that at several vaccination centres, corporators brought their family members and followers and coerced the staff into vaccinating them instead of the high risk groups. Sources informed that a few went as far as kidnapping the civic staff tasked with the job of issuing tokens to eligible persons. A Deputy Commissioner and an Assistant Medical Officer from Goshamahal circle have been issued memos by GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar for issue of tokens to ineligible persons. In view of these irregularities, from Wednesday onwards, the system of issuing paper tokens will be done away with. Instead, ground staff will visit each trade and upload the details of beneficiaries, including name, Aadhaar number, details of the trade, and mobile number, along with photo of the beneficiary onto an app designed for this purpose. Time slot A reference number will be generated on the spot and a slot will be allotted for the beneficiary concerned. Timings and reference number will be sent to the mobile phone of the beneficiary, which he or she would be required to produce at the vaccination centre. Once vaccinated, the reference number along with mobile number will be disabled for use for the next one month, officials informed.  Special drive A total of 3 lakh persons were aimed to be covered during the 10-day special vaccination drive, at the rate of 1000 persons per circles. A highest daily number of 27,117 persons were vaccinated as part of the drive on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-go-online-to-prevent-vaccine-irregularities/article34703902.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Expose TRS failures on formation day: Uttam||The Telangana Congress has asked its cadre to expose the ‘failures’ of the TRS government on the State Formation Day on June 2 to remind the government of its inefficient handling of the COVID crisis and pushing the State into a debt trap over the last seven years. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and AICC secretary A. Sampath Kumar asked the Congress cadre to unfurl the national flag at all the district and mandal levels and also honour the journalists who had been working hard during the pandemic respecting them as frontline warriors. Mr. Reddy said the occasion should be used to reiterate how Sonia Gandhi had sacrificed the party in Andhra Pradesh just to keep the promise made to people of Telangana for a separate state. It was imperative to inform people of how the KCR government had been deceiving them with false promises and also turning into a debt-ridden State. He said that party leaders should take up social media campaign on ‘Speak Up for Universal Free Vaccination’.. Mr. Bhatti Vikramarka said that the TRS had diluted the objectives of Telangana movement turning it into a debt-ridden State with Rs. 5 lakh crore borrowings from the surplus budget when formed. He said that lakhs of crores of rupees had been spent on the projects that had not been serving the purpose. The Chief Minister was not inclined to give detailed project reports fearing getting exposed for the corrupt deeds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expose-trs-failures-on-formation-day-uttam/article34703920.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mixed response to Class XII exam cancellation||The cancellation of Class XII exams by the Central Board of Secondary Education on Tuesday evening has come as a big relief for a lot of students and their parents who had been waiting with bated breath about the decision. But some students who were planning to go abroad for their under-graduation studies are still worried about their status. “I won’t be able to get into a university with internal assessment marks. I have conditional offers from foreign universities linked to scoring more than 88% in the Class XII exams. Now, how will they calculate the marks?” was one of the questions posed by a student in Glendale School. “Good decision on part of the CBSE and the government. I am a little disappointed that all the months of preparation has gone waste, but I still think this is the only safe way forward. Can’t help feel apprehensive about the method of assessment though,” said Arman Jetti, a student of Meridian School, echoing a similar sentiment. While students and parents heaved a sigh of relief about end to the dilemma, many students remained worried about what lay in store for their academic career. “If they factor in scores of Class IX, X and XI it will be unfair as many students study hard for Class XII. The effort is wasted. We will be at a disadvantage,” said a student of Hyderabad Public School disappointed with the decision to cancel the exams. “I am happy about the government’s wise decision considering the present situation, but I’m little concerned regarding the result and my further education,” said Harika Digamarthi, a student of Little Flower Junior College, Uppal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mixed-response-to-class-xii-exam-cancellation/article34703904.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni commissions one more solar plant||One more solar power plant of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) of ten megawatt capacity, this time at Bhupalapalli, was commissioned on Sunday taking the company’s total solar power generation capacity to 162. The solar plants of the company have generated about 65 million units (MU) of energy saving Rs. 34.12 crore to the company on its energy bills so far. The solar plants commissioned so far are part of the 300 MW capacity being developed by the company in the first phase. The 10 MW plant at Bhupalapalli was formally commissioned by Director (Finance) of the company N. Balaram on Sunday by switching on the switch-yard. According to company officials, two more solar plants – 37 MW plant at Kothagudem and 20 MW at Ramagundam — were also being planned to be commissioned by June-end. The remaining 81 MW plants too would be completed and commissioned by October-end this year. Meanwhile, the Irrigation Department has given its nod to SCCL for conducting a survey on Mid Manair dam water-holding area as the latter is planning to establish a 300 MW floating solar plant on the reservoir water. The company is expected to take up the survey along with the construction agency on the inflows into the reservoir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-commissions-one-more-solar-plant/article34703913.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CoWin bookings at GCVCs give hopes to 18-44 group||Display of booked slots at Telangana Government COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (GCVC) is giving a hope to many in the 18-44 age group that they too might find a slot at the government centres if they check regularly. While the vaccine for this age group is not provided at GCVCs, CoWin website states slots for 18+ at Primary Health Centres (PHC) is booked in several districts. However, officials from the State Health department have clarified that since they are vaccinating 18-44 age group in the high-risk groups such as vegetable and fruit vendors, they have to upload the details in CoWin without opening slots. Priority group “COVID-19 vaccines are not offered to people in 18-44 age group who are in non-high-risk groups. Since we are vaccinating high-risk groups, we are uploading the information in CoWin without opening slots,” said officials from the department. However, lack of this clarification has instilled hope in people who have been waiting to get the jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cowin-bookings-at-gcvcs-give-hopes-to-18-44-group/article34703889.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vinay Nandicoori is new CCMB Director||Well-known molecular biologist and scientist at the Department of Biotechnology’s lab, National Institute of Immunology Vinay K Nandicoori is the new Director of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) here, it was formally announced on Tuesday. Dr Nandicoori’s research interest extensively spans molecular signalling networks in Mycobacterium Tuberculosis, the micro-organism that causes TB. His research has found national and international relevance and recognition. His education and research training have been in the Indian Institute of Technology, Mumbai (IIT), Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, Texas A&M University and University of Virginia, USA. He holds the prestigious JC Bose fellowship and is an elected fellow of the Indian Academy of Sciences, Indian National Science Academy and National Academy of Sciences, India. Dr Nandicoori will succeed Dr Rakesh K Mishra as CCMB’s Director. Dr Mishra, now Director at the Tata Institute of Genetics and Society, will remain as CCMB’s Advisor to help CCMB in its efforts against the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinay-nandicoori-is-new-ccmb-director/article34703891.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||6 more pvt. hospitals not to treat COVID patients||Telangana Health department has revoked permission given to six more private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, on Tuesday. Until Monday, the permissions for 27 private hospitals were cancelled. State’s Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao stated on Tuesday that they have revoked the permissions to treat COVID-19 patients issued to KIMS Hospitals, Secunderabad, Sunshine Hospitals, Gachibowli, Century Hospitals, Banjara Hills, Lotus Hospitals, Lakdikapul, Medisys Hospital, LB Nagar, Integro Hospital, Tolichowki main road, Retibowli. Officials said that if anyone has complaints against private hospitals or laboratories, they can lodge grievance through Whatsapp number 9154 170 960, or, dial ‘104’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/6-more-pvt-hospitals-not-to-treat-covid-patients/article34703896.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR calls Sonu Sood a Super Hero||IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and actor Sonu Sood got into an interesting conversation on Twitter praising each other’s role in reaching out to the people in need during the pandemic. Mr. Taraka Rama Rao called Sonu Sood a super hero for his extraordinary services to people in distress while responding to a tweet by one Nanda Kishore Tokala, who thanked the Minister for his timely help in arranging a oxygen concentrator. The netizen praised KTR saying he was a super hero and the Minister replied saying he was just an elected public representative doing his bit and Sonu Sood was the actual super hero. As the actor was tagged he too joined the conversation and thanked the Minister for the kind words. He also said the Minister was a true hero who has done so much for Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-calls-sonu-sood-a-super-hero/article34703903.ece
02 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to fill vacancies of ration dealers||After announcing supply of rice free of cost to ration card holders, the Civil Supplies department has now focused on filling vacancies of ration dealers. Civil Supplies Minister Gangula Kamalakar directed the officials to ensure that the process was taken up in a transparent manner. Officials should also work out the modalities for introducing group insurance scheme for ration dealers, he said following a request from the ration dealers association seeking implementation of health security measures for them. The Minister said the government decided to fill the vacancies with a view to reducing pressure on dealers and it had also cleared pending dues amounting to Rs. 6.7 crore. The Minister said the government had decided to provide 20 kg rice free of cost to all the families of cardholders for the months of June and July.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-fill-vacancies-of-ration-dealers/article34703917.ece
02 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SBI’s new office inaugurated||A new administrative office of SBI for Cyberabad was inaugurated at the local head office of the bank at Kothi on Tuesday. Mr. Om Prakash Mishra, Deputy Managing Director, inaugurated the premises in the presence of Mr. Jogesh Chandra Sahu, General Manager (NW-I) and Mr. Krishan Sharma, General Manager (NW-II) and Mr. Shri Ram Singh, Deputy General Manager, AO Cyberabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbis-new-office-inaugurated/article34703909.ece
02 June 2021||K Shiva Shanker,TELANGANA||COVID-19 claimed 969 lives in May, highest in a month||The COVID-19 pandemic has claimed 969 lives in Telangana in May 2021, which is the highest in any month since the first case was detected in the State on March 2, 2020. The month that has gone by has left many people in grief over the loss of their dear ones, and landed them in financial and emotional distress. A total of 1,34,991 people tested positive for coronavirus during the last month, which is the highest in any month since the first case was detected in the State. The highest of 969 deaths was followed by 611 deaths of COVID-19 patients in April of this year, which clearly indicates that mortalities from the infectious disease were higher in the second wave of COVID. From the first wave to mid of April this year, the highest number of patients who died in a day were 14. However, the mortalities started to increase from April 17, 2021 and over 50 patient deaths in a day were recorded from April 26 which continued through first week of May. The daily deaths count started to drop again from May 8. Gradually, by the end of the month, less than 20 deaths in a day were reported. On May 31, deaths of 18 people were recorded. Declining cases Daily cases too are declining according to details from the daily media bulletin issued by the State Health department. Sharp spike in cases were recorded in April of this year when over one lakh tests in a day were performed. Highest of 10,122 people tested positive for coronavirus on April 26. Comparative drop in the positive cases too was recorded from May first week. However, number of tests too varied from 60,000 to around 75,000. Senior officials from the State Health department said that the daily tests will be increased again. From May 26 to 29, 90,000 to around one lakh samples were examined and around 3,000 to 3,700 cases were detected in a day. While the cases and daily deaths may have dropped compared to April, the numbers are still as high as the highest number of cases and deaths in a day during the first wave. Last year, the highest number of cases were 3,018 on August 25, and 14 deaths were reported on multiple days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-19-claimed-969-lives-in-may-highest-in-a-month/article34703886.ece
02 June 2021||K Shiva ShankerHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Wait gets longer for rural youth||People in the 18-44 age group living in rural districts of Telangana are not able to get COVID-19 vaccine shots despite being eligible. Currently, they are not offered the jab at Government COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (GCVC). And majority of the corporate hospitals which are offering the vaccination are located in and around Hyderabad. Only one or two private hospitals have opened slots for the age group in a few rural districts. Travelling in the pandemic when the lockdown is imposed for most part of the day makes it difficult for the people in rural areas to travel to and fro the city for the vaccination. Currently, only people above 45 years who are waiting for second dose are allowed to take the jab at GCVCs. Besides them, people in 18-44 years who are in high risk group, such as vegetable and fruit vendors, are offered the jab during special drive held by the State government. People in the 18-44 age group falling in non-high-risk group are not eligible for this drive. Officials from the State Health department said that people in this age group are not offered vaccines at GCVCs. “When I enquired, I was told that 18-44 age group in non-high-risk group are not eligible for the vaccination at Primary Health Centres(PHC). And private hospitals in Vikarabad are not offering the vaccines to this age group,” said 32-year-old Chamala Rajesh Reddy who lives in Vikarabad. Mohammed Shazad from Mall Village, Chinthapalli mandal located in border of Nalgonda and Rangareddy, too said that it is not offered at government health centres. There are slim chances for middle and small private hospitals to offer the vaccines as getting access to the companies manufacturing the vaccine doses and procuring it is a challenge too them. In fact, a few of the major corporate hospitals managements in Hyderabad too are still trying to figure out how to procure the doses. In Medak, two hospitals are extending the service. Seven more hospitals in the district were accorded the permission. Medicover Hospitals is one of the hospitals offering the vaccines at their hospital branches in Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Sangareddy. Executive Director of the hospital Hari Krishna said that they are trying to tie up with hospitals in other districts to extend the vaccination for people in rural districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/wait-gets-longer-for-rural-youth/article34703888.ece
02 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Focus on COVID containment, says official||Health Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi has called upon officials of the health and other allied government departments to bolster efforts to enforce COVID-19 lockdown more strictly to bring down the positivity rate below 5% in the district by the end of the current phase of lockdown on June 9. Mr Rizvi along with Director of Public Health Srinivasa Rao reviewed the COVID-19 situation in the district at a meeting attended by OSD in the Chief Minister’s Office Gangadhar, Collector R V Karnan, District Medical and Health Officer B Malathi, and health department staff in Madhira town on Tuesday. Earlier, he visited Sattupalli where he took stock of the measures to contain COVID-19 in Kallur revenue division. Addressing the review meeting in Madhira, Mr Rizvi said the household fever survey and the strict enforcement of the lockdown across the State had yielded positive results. Dr Srinivas Rao interacted with medical officer of Karepalli (Singareni) mandal which recorded the active COVID-19 case tally of 786. Mr Karnan said isolation centres were set up in the villages, with more than ten COVID-19 cases. Nalgonda Staff Reporter writes: In Suryapet, Mr Rizvi said medical staff should redouble their efforts to ramp up testing and isolation, primary health centre-wise. Accompanied by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, he took stock of the situation. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy said setting up of isolation units at villages was under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-covid-containment-says-official/article34703924.ece
02 June 2021||Kochi,TELANGANA||Schools adopt augmented reality for online classes||Three aided schools and a public school in Ernakulam district under the Archdiocese of Ernakulam-Angamaly will offer online classes backed by augmented reality, adding a new dimension to virtual classrooms. While normal online classrooms rely on two-dimensional images on screens to communicate, augmented reality adds a new dimension, bringing ideas and concepts virtually alive in three dimensions. Augmented reality helps stimulate the senses better, and it helps children grab concepts and ideas faster and more easily, said Liju P. Alex, principal, St. Antony’s Public School, Kizhakkambalam. She added that the school was equipped to offer online classes with augmented reality for students of LKG to Standard XII. Augmented reality classes will be available also to students of St. Antony’s LP School, St. Joseph’s High School, and St. Joseph’s Higher Secondary School, said Father Francis Areeckal, who is leading the new technology drive in the schools. The technology is used as a tool to visualise concepts. In normal online classes, students are required to visualise the concepts or, for example, the structure and functions of the human heart. But in augmented reality, the student can see the heart in its dimensions and experience its functioning as if she or he were an actual heart, said Ms. Alex. She added that all types of learners — auditory, visual, and kinesthetic — will benefit from the use of the new technology. Fr. Areeckal said augmented reality classes were an addition to the string of activities the church has taken up amid the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/schools-adopt-augmented-reality-for-online-classes/article34703452.ece
02 June 2021||Nalgonda,TELANGANA||Motorcycle thief arrested, 22 vehicles recovered||Lured by easy life, a 27-year-old man from Mylapuram village of Gurrampode mandal in the district has allegedly stolen 22 motorcycles, all put together worth Rs. 20.30 lakh. Devarakonda DSP Ananda Reddy disclosing the details on Tuesday said accused Katta Gatta Reddy had a history of robberies. The seizure of 22 motorcycles happened on Tuesday, after Gatta Reddy evaded a police check near Pittalagudem stage in Gurrampode early morning. Not finding valid papers and based on suspicion, the police dug into more details only to find the pack of motorcycles parked in his cousin’s farmlands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/motorcycle-thief-arrested-22-vehicles-recovered/article34703900.ece
02 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Isolation centre in Nalgonda||District Secretary of CPI(M) M. Sudhakar Reddy on Tuesday informed that MVN Vignana Kendram, its affiliated Trust, will open a free isolation centre to serve the COVID-infected in the town. The isolation centre, being organised in the MVN building near the bus station in the town, will be able to accommodate up to 30 patients initially. More details can be collected from MVN’s office on 9492358458, 9490098311 and 9490098342.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isolation-centre-in-nalgonda/article34703894.ece
02 June 2021||P SridharBHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||COVID hits distribution of insecticide-treated nets in Bhadradri-Kothagudem||The crisis triggered by the second wave of COVID-19 impeded the distribution of long-lasting insecticide-treated nets (LLINs), the critical tools for pre-empting the outbreaks of vector-borne diseases in the district’s interior tribal pockets, ahead of the monsoon season. More than 1.60 lakh LLINs were sanctioned to the tribal-dominated district comprising around 500 “high risk” villages earlier this year under the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). In store rooms Thousands of these mosquito nets, which were to be handed over to people living in malaria-endemic areas in the pre-monsoon season, continue to lie in the storage points at the Gram Panchayats level. According to official data, an estimated 2.76 lakh people are living in 501 villages identified as high-risk areas located in the limits of as many as 27 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district. Multiple factors including the pandemic-induced lockdown and shortage of the grassroots level health functionaries such as the community health assistants led to the delay in distribution of the mosquito nets in time. More than 30 posts of health assistants are lying vacant and several of the field-level functionaries of the health department are infected with COVID-19 in Bhadrachalam Agency, sources in the health department said. The delay is threatening to exacerbate the vulnerability of tribal people inhabiting various remote forest fringe habitations in Bhadrachalam Agency, considered as hotspots for malaria and other mosquito-borne diseases, during the ensuing rainy season. However, the health department officials insist that enhanced vector surveillance and early diagnosis and treatment resulted in a significant decrease in the number of malaria and dengue cases in the district. The district has reported 107 malaria and seven dengue cases so far this year, sources added. The field-level health functionaries will be deployed to distribute the mosquito nets, Dr Mokalla Venkateswara Rao, Programme Officer, NVBDCP, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-hits-distribution-of-insecticide-treated-nets-in-bhadradri-kothagudem/article34703895.ece
02 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Offering a dignified last journey to COVID victims abandoned by kin||About three early in the morning of Monday Md. Sohel, a transport vehicle driver and resident of Siddipet, received a call informing him that someone had died due to COVID-19 in the town and the next of kin were unwilling to perform the last rites fearing the disease and there was no one else to take up the task. Immediately Mr. Sohel called up his associates — Md. Hazi, Md. Parveez, Abbas, Md Moiz, Md. Azam, Shaik Anwar Hussain — and the team rushed to the spot and before sunrise ensured that the COVID victim, Karim Bi, who had died the previous night, was laid to rest in proper traditional manner. Even as the group of youth completed their task they received another phone from Ramgopalpet village where a person had succumbed to the coronavirus. While on their way to Ramgopalpet village they spoke to this correspondent on phone and explained their mission. On Sunday the team performed last rites for two persons. In one case in Peddagundavelli in Dubbak mandal, the victim was over 60-years of age, and died of a heart attack. He was reported to have been suffering from COVID-19 for over a week. Though the deceased had had three sons and two daughters, none of the members of the family came forward to perform the last rites fearing the infection, Mr. Sohel explained and added that they had encountered similar situations in the past.  Free for poor The transport vehicle driver explained that the group of youngsters were paying for the entire expense of the last rites from their pocket for those who cannot afford it. While it cost them around Rs. 2000 for a burial, they had to spend between Rs. 3000 and Rs. 5000 for wood and other materials for a cremation. In fact the last three cases he and his team spent money from their pocket, he recalled. “We have been encouraged by our elders to take up the honourable task of offering a dignified final journey to the departed as per their religious customs,” Mr. Sohel told The Hindu . “During the first wave of Corona also we had performed the last rites for the departed, but then deaths were not so many. In this wave the number of deaths have increased,” he added. Those who need such a service can call Sohel at 91604 10312. Good Samaritans like Jameel, Chotu, Vazid and Sahdullah have been offering this service to the needy for past few days offering at Narsapur in Medak district. They are not charging any amount for the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/offering-a-dignified-last-journey-to-covid-victims-abandoned-by-kin/article34703906.ece
02 June 2021||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||COVID cases rise in twin cities as testing is increased||Telangana recorded 2,493 COVID positive cases and 15 deaths, three less than previous day, on Tuesday. The positive cases were just 31 less than the previous day, but the number of tests increased to 94,189 from 87,110 the previous day with results of 1,462 samples awaited on Tuesday. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao informed in the daily health bulletin that there are 33,254 active positive cases either in home isolation or under treatment in hospitals, fewer than the 35,042 the previous day. This takes the overall infected number to 5.81 lakh whereas the recoveries got lower to 3,308 when compared to 3,464 cases the previous day. If the total recoveries have increased to 5.45 lakh, the number of mortalities has risen to 3,296 from March last year with 15 deaths recorded officially as against 18 the earlier day. Recovery rate has risen marginally to 93.70%, above the national average of 92.04%. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and surrounding districts had the bulk of active cases with the core capital area reporting 318, up from 307 cases reported on Monday, Ranga Reddy 151 cases, up from 142 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 137, up from 114. Karimanagar also showed a spike from 96 cases to 129. Other districts with high number of positive cases were Nalgonda with 165 cases as against 183 cases the previous day, Khammam 121/134, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 115/128, Mahabubabad 105/111, Warangal Urban 91/104, Peddapalli 96/101 and Mahabubnagar and Mancherial 88 each. Low number of cases were reported from Adilabad 12, Nirmal & Komaram Bheem-Asifabad 14 each and Kamareddy 17. Upstick in the cases has been noticed in the last one week in the districts of Jayashankar-Bhupalapally 51 to 63 and Mulug 39-54. Dr. Srinivasa Rao urged people to call ‘104’ for any grievances or telemedicine or help. For complaints about private hospitals and laboratories - contact on whatsapp 9154170960. He also advised children less than 10 years of age and elders above 60 years of age to avoid going outdoors unless mandatory. In case of any flu/influenza like symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, running nose, difficulty in breathing, body pains and headache, citizens should report to the nearest government health facility and seek the required health services without any delay. For COVID Hospital bed status, click on linkhttps://health.telangana .gov.in/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-cases-rise-in-twin-cities-as-testing-is-increased/article34703893.ece
02 June 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Man gets 10-year RI for rape||The IV Additional District Judge, fast track court for crimes against women, in Nalgonda convicted a man of rape committed in 2015 and awarded him rigorous imprisonment for 10 years with a penalty of Rs. 50,000. Thurkapally police said the case involved a 20-year-old woman and Erraolla Bixapathi, a plumber and resident of Erravelli village of Medak district. Police after its investigation stated that Bixapathi had promised to marry the woman and sexually assaulted her. On her complaint, a case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-gets-10-year-ri-for-rape/article34703923.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mercury dips after overnight thunderstorm||Temperatures fell by up to 10 degrees Celsius after a thunderstorm lashed the Capital on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The city recorded 15.6 mm of rainfall between midnight and 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The heavy downpour caused waterlogging across Delhi and gusty winds uprooted several trees. 15-year record According to the meteorological department, the minimum temperature on Tuesday settled at 17.9 degrees Celsius, 10 notches below normal. The maximum temperature was 33.6 degrees Celsius, which is seven degrees below normal. The all-time lowest June minimum temperature so far was 18 degrees Celsius, recorded on June 17, 2006. The weather observatory at Safdurjung recorded 15.6 mm of rainfall till 8.30 a.m., the Lodhi Road observatory 13.2 mm, Palam 16.4 mm and Ayanagar 6.8 mm. The weatherman has forecast more rain on Wednesday. The Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD), which has jurisdiction over most arterial roads in the city, received 40 waterlogging complaints. The first complaint was logged at 7.35 a.m. on Tuesday, said a PWD official. The spokesperson for the New Delhi Municipal Council said no waterlogging was reported in the area but 17 complaints were logged regarding uprooted trees. The three civic bodies also reported trees being uprooted. The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) stated eight trees were uprooted in the Najafgarh zone, 16 in the southern zone, three in the central zone and eight in the west zone. The North Corporation reported five incidents of wall collapse, two cases of damage caused to buildings and waterlogging at three locations in addition to the felling of 41 trees. According to the Delhi Traffic Police, no major vehicular congestion was reported due to the weather conditions. A senior Traffic Police officer said they received one waterlogging call and seven calls related to uprooted trees. The officer said that waterlogging was reported on the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road at the underpass near the railway crossing, “but it did not lead to any traffic congestion as the water was cleared in time”. “Uprooting of trees was reported from Tughlak Road, Akbar Road, Kingsway Camp, Safdarjung Enclave, Rajghat and Najafgarh Road but it had no impact on traffic movement,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mercury-dips-after-overnight-thunderstorm/article34703872.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU will follow CBSE mechanism for merit list this admission season: V-C||With the CBSE examination getting cancelled, Delhi University Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi on Tuesday told The Hindu that whatever mechanisms the CBSE compiles for merit lists will be followed for admissions this year. Mr. Joshi added that the common entrance test can be implemented if the Ministry of Education approves the same. “Whatever merit system CBSE comes up with will be followed by the university. One thing that DU will not compromise with is merit. The admissions committee will decide on a course of action soon. If the Ministry approves the CUCET [Central Universities Common Entrance Test] then that can also be implemented,” said Mr. Joshi. Further the V-C added, “We support the government’s decision and the safety of students is of utmost importance. We look forward to the decision taken by the CBSE regarding the declaration of the results.” Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School said, “This decision is unusual and has been taken by considering the uncertainty of present times. The decision to consider physical and mental health of students as top-most priority is welcomed. I am sure the CBSE will soon come up with a well-defined objective criteria in the interest of students all across India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-will-follow-cbse-mechanism-for-merit-list-this-admission-season-v-c/article34703877.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea challenges ICMR advisory on RT-PCR test||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from the Centre and Delhi government on a petition challenging the Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) advisory barring a repetition of the RT-PCR test on those who tested positive for COVID-19. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh also issued a notice to the ICMR and sought their stand on the petition filed by advocate Karan Ahuja. Mr. Ahuja said he and his parents had tested positive for COVID-19 on April 28 and remained under home isolation for a period of 17 days as per the home isolation guidelines issued by the Delhi government. He said the Civil Defence guards deployed outside his house asked for a negative COVID-19 report to allow him and his family to step out of the house even to get essential items. When Mr. Ahuja and his parents went to the nearest dispensary in Sultanpuri to get tested again on May 18, the medical staff present at the counter refused to test them, citing orders not to test those who had tested positive. The petitioner challenged the May 4 ICMR advisory, claiming it to be a violation of his fundamental rights. “This particular recommendation in the advisory has led to a virtual blanket ban on COVID-19 testing among patients who have already tested positive, which has led to several complications,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-challenges-icmr-advisory-on-rt-pcr-test/article34703867.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police suspend arms licences of Sushil, Kalra||Delhi Police on Tuesday said it has suspended the arms licences of wrestler Sushil Kumar and businessman Navneet Kalra following criminal charges levelled against them. Joint Commissioner of Police (Licencing) O.P. Mishra said the notices were issued on Monday. “We have suspended their arms licences with immediate effect. The process of cancellation of their licences has been initiated. We have done it on the basis of reports by investigating agencies in the criminal cases recently registered against them,” Mr. Mishra said, adding that both accused were served notices to explain why their licences should not be cancelled. Mr. Kumar was arrested for his alleged involvement in the murder of fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankar at Chhatrasal Stadium. He is currently in police custody. Mr. Kalra was arrested for alleged black marketing and hoarding of oxygen concentrators. Over 500 concentrators were found at his restaurants in central Delhi and a godown in south Delhi. He was arrested after being on the run for eight days. The businessman was granted bail last week by a local court.  We have done it on the basis of reports by investigating agencies in the cases registered against them  O.P. Mishra Joint Commissioner of Police (Licencing)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/police-suspend-arms-licences-of-sushil-kalra/article34703869.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cancelling Class 12 exams a ‘big relief’, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday termed the cancellation of Class 12 board exams a “big relief”, after the Centre announced its decision to this effect amid the pandemic. “I am glad 12th exams have been cancelled. All of us were very worried about the health of our children. A big relief [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asserted that the decision was taken in the interest of students, by putting an end to their anxiety, as well as those of parents and teachers. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, and has been against the idea of conducting the exams, said: “I am happy that the never-ending Class 12 for 1.5 crore students of the country will finally end.” The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by the PM, in which it was decided that the CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cancelling-class-12-exams-a-big-relief-says-kejriwal/article34703876.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC seeks reply on plea for begging ban||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from the city government and police on a petition seeking to restrain begging at traffic junctions and markets to prevent COVID-19 spread as many of the beggars and vagabonds do not wear masks or maintain social distancing. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board to also respond. Advocate Narender Pal Singh, in his plea, claimed that it is a sorry state of affairs to see mushrooming of beggars who touch cars at traffic lights “without sanitising their hands” and therefore, stand a chance of getting infected or becoming carriers of the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-seeks-reply-on-plea-for-begging-ban/article34703868.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cleric held for molesting minor girl||A 48-year-old cleric was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl inside a mosque in North East Delhi’s Harsh Vihar, the police said. A senior police officer said that they received an information on Sunday following which a case on charges of rape and under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered. The police said that the girl used to go to the mosque to learn Koran from the accused. On Sunday, he allegedly sexually assaulted her. Upon returning home, she told her mother about the incident after which the mother informed the police. The officer said that the accused was arrested on Monday from Ghaziabad’s Loni and produced before the court after which he was sent to 14-day judicial custody. The police said that the girl was counselled and is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cleric-held-for-molesting-minor-girl/article34703873.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 farmers held for lockdown violations||The Delhi police on Monday arrested three farmers, who had come to Gurdwara Bangla Sahib without movement passes, for allegedly violating lockdown norms, officers said on Tuesday. A senior police officer said that the three men, residents of Punjab, were arrested when they were on their way back to the Singhu border from the gurdwara. “They did not have a movement pass which amounts to violation of lockdown guidelines,” the officer said. ‘Had come to pray’ The farmers allegedly told the police that they had come to the gurdwara in Connaught Place to pray and stayed there for two days, following which they were going back and had no intention to stage any protest there. The three were subsequently released on bail. The farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders since November last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-farmers-held-for-lockdown-violations/article34703874.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Class XII exams crucial for students: State govt. to HC||The Bombay High Court will continue hearing on June 3 the plea challenging the Maharashtra government’s decision to cancel board exams for Class X. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by professor Dhananjay Kulkarni challenging the decision by the Secondary School Certificate Board. The PIL sought a direction from the court to hold the exams and not mark students without assessment. There are several interveners in the matter defending the stand of the State on not holding the exams. In the last hearing, the court had asked the State to file an affidavit listing reasons for holding board exams for Class XII and cancelling those for Class X. In an affidavit filed on May 31, the Maharashtra government defended its stand and said, “HSC (Higher Secondary Certificate) examination is a more important milestone in the education of students as their careers depend on it.” On holding exams for Class X and not Class XII, the State said, “The stage at which two examinations are to be undertaken by the students in their overall career, the consequences and effects of undergoing the examinations are not comparable. Class XII students are more mature, independent, socially aware, bodily and mentally fit as compared to students of Class X.” The court asked Uday Warunjikar, the advocate appearing for Mr. Kulkarni, that once the State had decided to not hold the exams, could a writ court cancel that decision? Mr. Warunjikar said the situation was different this year. The court interrupted him and said, “You think the situation is better? Corona is targeting young people. If the State thinks it is not wise to hold the exams, we do not have the power to strike that decision down.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/class-xii-exams-crucial-for-students-state-govt-to-hc/article34703637.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||CSMT redevelopment: Adani among 9 shortlisted bidders||The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) has shortlisted nine bidders of the 10 applicants who had submitted quotations for the redevelopment of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) railway station in Mumbai. The nine bidders are Godrej Properties Ltd., Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings Ltd., Oberoi Realty Ltd., ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments Pte Ltd., Adani Railways Transport Ltd., Kalpataru Power Transmission Ltd., GMR Enterprises Private Ltd., Moribus Holdings Pte Ltd., and BIF IV Infrastructure Holding DIFC Pvt. Ltd.. “The CSMT railway station redevelopment is one of our most ambitious projects and we are committed to transforming it into a state-of-the-art transport hub,” S.K. Lohia, managing director and CEO, IRSDC, said. The applications were evaluated in accordance with their financial capacity that is a minimum net worth of Rs. 821 crore. A request for proposal (RFP) would soon be called from the shortlisted applicants, Mr. Lohia said, adding that the selected bidder at the RFP stage would take up the redevelopment project. The redevelopment cost of the railway station (mandatory cost) including the cost of financing and contingency is Rs. 1,642 crore. The investment opportunity for redevelopment is on the DBFOT (design, build, finance, operate and transfer) basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/csmt-redevelopment-adani-among-9-shortlisted-bidders/article34703635.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Sena trying to postpone civic polls, says BJP||The Shiv Sena, which is leading the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation , is trying to postpone the upcoming civic polls under the pretext of the pandemic, the Opposition Bharatiya Janta Party has said. “In the first wave of the pandemic, the Sena wanted to hold mid-term polls. But it was not successful due to the second wave. It then started the debate about ward delimitation claiming the BJP did it in 2017 for its benefit. But it was done on the basis of the 2011 census. And now using the second wave as a pretext, the Sena is trying to postpone the civic polls by two years,” BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sena-trying-to-postpone-civic-polls-says-bjp/article34703636.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||TV actor Karan Mehra held for beating up wife||Popular television actor Karan Mehra was arrested for allegedly beating up his wife at their residence in Mumbai, a police official said on Tuesday. The incident occurred on Monday night following which the actor was taken into custody. He was released on bail from the police station in the early hours of Tuesday, the official said. The Goregaon police received a call from their control room about the incident around 11 p.m. on Monday. His wife Nisha Rawal, who is also a TV actor, lodged a police complaint against him after they had a fight, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tv-actor-karan-mehra-held-for-beating-up-wife/article34703633.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||Restore Mallya’s properties to banks: court||A special PMLA court in Mumbai on Tuesday allowed the restoration of properties of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya, which were seized by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to a consortium of banks which had provided him loans. This was the second such order passed by Special Judge J.C. Jagadale in over a week. Mallya is an accused in a bank loan default case of over Rs. 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines. A consortium of 17 banks that gave Mallya loans, led by the State Bank of India, had sought restoration of his properties seized by the ED.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/restore-mallyas-properties-to-banks-court/article34703634.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Europe demands explanation after U.S.-Danish spying claims||France, Germany and other European countries demanded answers on Monday following reports the U.S. spied on its allies using Danish underwater cables, as questions mounted over whether Denmark knew about the operation. In an investigative report on Sunday, Danish public broadcaster Danmarks Radio (DR) and other European media outlets said the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) had eavesdropped on Danish underwater Internet cables from 2012 to 2014 to spy on top politicians in France, Germany, Norway and Sweden. The NSA got access to text messages, telephone calls and Internet traffic, including searches, chats and messaging services — including those of Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel, DR said. French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel said on Monday they expected explanations from both Washington and Copenhagen. “This is not acceptable between allies, and even less between allies and European partners,” said Mr. Macron after the two leaders talked via video conference. “There is no room for suspicion,” said Mr. Macron, as he stressed the value of the ties between Europeans and Americans. “That is why what we are waiting for complete clarity,” from both Denmark and the U.S., he added. “We are awaiting these answers.” Ms. Merkel said she “could only agree” with Mr. Macron’s comments, adding she was “reassured” by Danish Defence Minister Trine Bramsen’s condemnation of any such spying. Ms. Bramsen, who took over the defence portfolio in June 2019, has neither confirmed nor denied DR’s report, but told AFP that “systematic eavesdropping of close allies is unacceptable”. Denmark’s neighbours also demanded explanations. “It’s unacceptable if countries which have close allied cooperation feel the need to spy on one another,” Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg told public broadcaster NRK. She said Norway had asked Denmark “for all the information they have”. Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist said he had been “in contact with Denmark’s Defence Minister to ask if Danish platforms have been used to spy on Swedish politicians”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-demands-explanation-after-us-danish-spying-claims/article34703385.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Europe should speak in one voice’||In May, Lithuania announced it would pull out of the China and Central & Eastern European (CEE) 17+1 mechanism, which is seen as a pro-China grouping of countries within the EU. Denying that the decision came because of U.S. pressure, Lithuania’s Ambassador to India Julius Pranevicius spoke about the growing tensions between the European Union and China over a number of issues, including sanctions and trade negotiations:  The Lithuanian Foreign Minister has announced that Lithuania is pulling out of what is called the ‘17 plus one’ grouping of Central and Eastern European countries with China. What was the main trigger for this? We began this format [grouping with China], this kind of cooperation, nine years ago, but we discovered that the whole thing is not so beneficial, and so we started to gradually withdraw from that format. And, indeed, last month our Minister officially announced that Lithuania no longer considers itself a ‘17 plus one’ format member and will not participate in this initiative. I would also say that we had expected that our trade would benefit a lot, that our exports would grow as a result of this grouping, and we didn’t see it happening. But the main reason is our membership at the European Union. We want Europe to speak in one strong voice, and in that sense the ‘17 plus one’ format became a divisive forum. We would prefer to keep the dialogue as 27 members plus one, meaning that the entire European Union will engage as one with China on all aspects. Tensions between China and Lithuania have been building up over a number of issues: Lithuania’s new ties with Taiwan, its Parliament’s resolution on Uighurs, and then Chinese sanctions on Lithuanian and EU politicians, which led to the EU putting the Comprehensive Agreement on Investment on hold. Well, we decided to set up a trade office in Taipei, which is part of our broader reach out to Asia, and to be more active and to be more present in different parts of this continent. This is not so unusual — around 15 European countries, and I think about 60 countries all have the trade missions in Taiwan. This move was driven by our trade and economic needs, as well as our decision to broaden resources in Asia, and we are also establishing new embassies in South Korea and Singapore. This should not reflect on our bilateral relations with China. On the sanctions, it was China that decided to impose entry bans and sanctions against some European politicians and academics, and that has had an impact on EU-China relations. Yes, the Lithuanian Parliament had a resolution on the situation in Xinjiang (calling for UN enquiry into treatment of Uighurs), but that is their decision, they are keen to observe what is happening in different parts of the world. What is Lithuania’s stand on the Belt and Road Initiative, which is causing concerns in other European countries more recently, like Montenegro, over the debt incurred? In our case, the investments from China are not very large, and China ranks 40th among all the countries in the world on FDI in Lithuania. We also have a well-functioning system of screening of all the foreign direct investment that was introduced in 2002, and a special commission that checks them. We don’t have any issues that would makes us fear China’s presence in this area, as you said with the examples of some other countries. India is now back in negotiations with the EU on a free trade agreement, just as the EU put a hold on its Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) with China. Have Lithuanian tensions with China come up in bilateral discussions in New Delhi? We very much welcome the decisions of the most recent summit for European leaders and Prime Minister Modi and the decision to launch the discussion on trade agreements. In terms of our bilateral cooperation, we haven’t discussed our stance on the ‘17 plus one’ format with Indian counterparts recently, but when we do have ministerial meetings, we will discuss what is happening more broadly in the world, as we always do.  We don’t have any issues that would makes us fear China’s presence in this area||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-should-speak-in-one-voice/article34703382.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||China jails blogger for Galwan comments||Chinese authorities have sentenced a once popular blogger to eight months in prison “for defaming martyrs” over his comments questioning the government’s account of last year’s clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers in the Galwan Valley. Qiu Ziming “received a jail term of eight months for defaming martyrs on Monday”, the Communist Party-run Global Times reported, adding that this was “China’s first such reported case since a new amendment was attached to the Criminal Law” that introduced penalties for “insulting” or “slandering” national heroes or martyrs. The court said the sentence was “lighter” than the maximum possible three-year sentence because he had “confessed to his crime”. Mr. Qiu was among at least half a dozen people known to have been detained for comments questioning the government over the June 15, 2020 clash in the Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives. At least four Chinese soldiers died in the clash, with China announcing military honours for them — its only confirmation so far of casualties — eights months after the clash took place. Mr. Qiu, 38, an investigative journalist formerly with The Economic Observer , was arrested in Nanjing in February after posting messages to his 2.5 million followers on Weibo, the Twitter-equivalent used in China. ‘Higher death toll’ He suggested that China’s fatalities would have been higher than four because as per the official account, some of the soldiers died coming to the aid of troops in difficulty, who, in his view, would have suffered losses as well. He also questioned why the announcement took eight months, while India had, in contrast, promptly recognised the 20 Indian soldiers who died. India’s prompt announcement, he wrote, suggested that “in India’s view they won and paid a lesser price”. The police in Nanjing had said he was arrested for “releasing false information and smearing the four heroes who died and one who was wounded when dealing with the Indian military’s illegal trespassing”. Last week, Wang Jinyu, 19, a resident of Chongqing who is also a U.S. permanent resident and is wanted by China for similarly commenting on the Galwan clash, was freed after being detained in Dubai, the Associated Press reported. Asked about his detention in Dubai, China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said on Monday that “competent Chinese authorities are investigating and handling the case in accordance with law”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-jails-blogger-for-galwan-comments/article34703392.ece
02 June 2021||Vatican City,||Pope updates canon law to address paedophilia by priests||Pope Francis updated the Catholic Church’s criminal code on Tuesday by adding details on punishing sexual abuse crimes of minors by priests, measures long sought by activists against paedophilia. Revision of the penal sanctions within the Code of Canon Law followed a years-long process involving input from canonist and criminal law experts and came after repeated complaints by victims of sexual abuse and others that the code’s previous wording was outdated and in transparent. The purpose of the revision, the most comprehensive since 1983, is “restoration of justice, the reform of the offender, and the repair of scandal” wrote Pope Francis in introducing the changes. Since becoming pope in 2013, the Argentine pontiff has striven to tackle the decades-long sexual abuse scandals involving Catholic priests around the globe, although many activists against paedophilia insist much more needs to be done. He convened an unprecedented summit on clerical sex abuse in 2019 while lifting secrecy rules that hindered investigations of abusing priests, among other measures. The new code falls short of explicitly spelling out sexual offences against minors yet refers to offences against the sixth commandment, which prohibits adultery. Under the new heading of “Offenses against human life, dignity and liberty”, the code specifies that a priest is to be stripped of his office and punished “with other just penalties” if he commits offences against the sixth commandment with a minor. Similarly, a priest who grooms or induces a minor “to expose himself or herself pornographically or to take part in pornographic exhibitions” will be similarly punished. One aim of the revision, wrote Pope Francis, was to reduce the number of penalties left to the discretion of judges, especially in the most serious cases. “The new text introduces various modifications to the law in force and sanctions some new criminal offences, which respond to the increasingly widespread need in the various communities to see justice and order reestablished that the crime has shattered,” he wrote. Other technical improvements related to “the right of defence, the statute of limitations for criminal action, a more precise determination of penalties”, he added. The changes will take effect in December.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pope-updates-canon-law-to-address-paedophilia-by-priests/article34703387.ece
02 June 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka cargo vessel fire extinguished after two weeks||The fire aboard a Singapore-registered cargo ship off Colombo was finally extinguished after about two weeks following a concerted international operation, the Sri Lankan Navy said on Tuesday. “Experts from the [Dutch] salvage company SMIT boarded the vessel [ MV X-Press Pearl ] and said the engine rooms are flooded. Our divers are yet to obtain clearance to check if there is any leak. The Indian Coast Guard vessels are also still here, assisting us,” Captain Indika De Silva told The Hindu . Flames broke out aboard the vessel on May 20, and spread rapidly after an onboard explosion on May 25, leading to what Sri Lanka’s environmentalists fear could be the country’s worst environmental disaster. The vessel, which left the Hazira port in Gujarat on May 15, was headed to Singapore via Colombo, carrying 25 tonnes of nitric acid, other chemicals and 28 containers of plastic raw material. Much of the cargo reportedly fell into the sea, while tonnes of plastic pellets were found deposited along Sri Lanka’s coastline, prompting authorities to restrict access to the sea and impose a fishing ban. Sri Lanka’s Marine Protection Authority chairperson Dharshani Lahandapura said: “This is probably the worst beach pollution in our history.” Many social media users shared photographs of plastic pellet heaps and dead fishes along the country’s southern beaches. Statement recorded Meanwhile, Sri Lankan investigators questioned the crew of the cargo ship, even as the vessel smouldered for over 12 days. The Criminal Investigation Department recorded a statement from the captain for 14 hours on Monday, Colombo-based The Morning newspaper reported. The Colombo Magistrate’s Court issued an order preventing the captain, chief engineer, and the deputy chief engineer of the vessel from leaving the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-cargo-vessel-fire-extinguished-after-two-weeks/article34703394.ece
02 June 2021||Beijing,||China reports human case of bird flu strain||China reported the world’s first human infection of the H10N3 bird flu strain on Tuesday but said the risk of it spreading widely among people was low. A 41-year-old man was admitted to hospital with fever symptoms in Zhenjiang on April 28 and was diagnosed with H10N3 a month later, the National Health Commission (NHC) said in a statement. “The risk of large-scale spread is extremely low,” the NHC said, adding that the man was in a stable condition. It described H10N3 as low pathogenic — less likely to cause death or severe illness — in birds. Several strains of bird flu have been found among animals in China but mass outbreaks in humans are rare. The last human epidemic of bird flu in China occurred in late 2016 to 2017, with the H7N9 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-reports-human-case-of-bird-flu-strain/article34703383.ece
02 June 2021||geneva,||WHO gives nod to China’s Sinovac jab||The World Health Organization on Tuesday approved the Sinovac COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use — the second Chinese vaccine to receive the WHO’s green light. The UN health agency signed off on the two-dose vaccine, which is already being deployed in several countries around the world. “WHO today validated the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine for emergency use,” it said in a statement. The move gives countries, funders, procuring agencies and communities “assurance that it meets international standards for safety, efficacy and manufacturing”. Last month Sinopharm became the first Chinese vaccine to be approved by the WHO. The WHO has also given emergency use listing to vaccines being made by Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and the AstraZeneca jab being produced in India, South Korea and the EU, which it counts separately. The listing paves the way for countries to quickly approve and import a vaccine for distribution, especially those states without an international-standard regulator of their own. It also opens the door for the jabs to enter the Covax scheme, which aims to provide equitable access to doses around the world, particularly in poorer countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/who-gives-nod-to-chinas-sinovac-jab/article34703390.ece
02 June 2021||Kuala Lumpur,||Malaysia scrambles jets to intercept Chinese military planes||Malaysia scrambled jets to intercept 16 Chinese military aircraft off the country’s coast in the South China Sea, a rare incident that the Foreign Minister angrily denounced on Tuesday as an “intrusion”. It took place on Monday off the Malaysian part of Borneo island over the fiercely conte- sted waters, where China and Malaysia have overlapping territorial claims.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/malaysia-scrambles-jets-to-intercept-chinese-military-planes/article34703386.ece
02 June 2021||Kabul,||U.S. to hand Bagram base to Afghan forces in 20 days, say officials||The U.S. military will hand over its main Bagram Air Base to Afghan forces in about 20 days, an official said. The vast base, built by the Soviets in the 1980s, is the biggest military facility used by U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanis- tan, with tens of thousands of troops stationed there during the peak of U.S. invol- vement in the country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-hand-bagram-base-to-afghan-forces-in-20-days-say-officials/article34703389.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID diplomacy 2.0, a different order of tasks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s words on Buddha Purnima, that in times to come the planet will remember events as either “pre-Covid or post-Covid” (https://bit.ly/2SIywUO) could not hold truer than for India’s diplomatic structure worldwide. In the past month, the focus for the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and Missions abroad has shifted. While the focus in 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, was on coordinating exports of COVID-19 medicines, flights to repatriate Indians abroad (the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’) after the lockdown, and then exporting vaccines worldwide (‘Vaccine Maitri’), after the second wave, Covid Diplomacy 2.0 has a different order of tasks, both in the immediate and the long term. The health crisis The immediate imperative was to deal with oxygen and medicine shortages that claimed the lives of thousands in the matter of a few weeks across the country. In Delhi alone, more than 3,000 people died in the last week of April, including some from Delhi’s diplomatic community, which comprises officials, retired diplomats and foreign diplomats. The Ministry of External Affairs has had to deal with internal health concerns while galvanising help from abroad for others. It did not help that medical protocols to treat COVID-19 have changed constantly; if the first rush was about bringing in Remdesivir and favipiravir from the United States and Russia, Indian missions are now requesting black fungus medication, as the previous ones have been dropped from the protocol. Despite all this, the Ministry of External Affairs has completed the task of bringing in supplies in a timely manner, and with success. Handling vaccine shortages The rest of the year, if not much of 2022 will focus on bringing in vaccines. The shortage of vaccines in the country has arisen from three factors: the failure of the Government to plan and place procurement orders in time; the failure of the two India-based companies to produce vaccine doses they had committed to, and the MEA’s focus on exporting, not importing, vaccines between January and April this year. The challenge now for diplomats has been made all the more imperative by these failures, and much harder, as the visit of the External Affairs Minister, S. Jaishankar, to Washington last week showed. With the companies manufacturing AstraZeneca and Sputnik-V stretched as far as future production is concerned, and Chinese vaccines a non-starter given bilateral tensions, it is clear that the Narendra Modi government is looking to the U.S. to make up the shortfall. The aim is to do this in several ways. These include requesting the U.S. to share a substantial portion of its stockpile of AstraZeneca doses and to release more vaccine ingredients which are restricted for exports; to buy more stock outright from the three U.S. manufacturers, Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, and to encourage production in India of these vaccines. On each of these issues, the MEA has had to negotiate a difficult route. The U.S. government is holding up its AstraZeneca exports until its own United States Food and Drug Administration approves them; while it has released a small amount (20 million doses) of vaccine  ingredients and components, it has not changed the policy yet. Production of Johnson & Johnson single-dose vaccines in India, as had been announced during the Quad summit (https://bit.ly/3ySd1l2), will take some time. And as they were originally meant for distribution in South East Asia, it is unclear how many will be provisioned for India. Even buying vaccines directly will need nimble negotiations as the U.S. companies seem set on getting both an indemnity waiver from India as well as Emergency Use Authorisation prior to supplying them. While the government has relaxed its rules for American and other foreign manufacturers, waiving the need for bridge-trials prior to clearance, these demands will need considerable backtracking from firmly held principles. The Government may also need to make a U-turn from its publicly announced policy that States in India will need to negotiate purchases directly, as the U.S. manufacturers want centralised orders, with payments up-front. Diplomats working to help tie up contracts have their work cut out as time is of the essence for India to complete its vaccination goals ahead of a possible third wave of the pandemic. Patents, diplomatic fallout Nor will the promise of patent waivers, from India’s joint proposal at the World Trade Organization (WTO) reap early benefits, despite support from world leaders such as the U.S., Russia and China. As Mr. Modi during his virtual summit meet with European Union leaders in early May, or as diplomats negotiating to bring Quad partners Japan and Australia, and BRICS partner Brazil on board have found, many countries are still holding out on the idea of freeing up intellectual property rights on vaccines for three years. That could ultimately hold up proceedings at the WTO, as it works by consensus. The third big challenge for Indian diplomacy is to manage the fallout of the vaccine collapse. Domestically, the Government has defended its decision to export more than 66 million vaccines doses to 95 countries between January and April this year, pointing out that only 11 million were grants from India, 35 million were commercial exports and 20 million were sent as part of the global COVAX coalition commitments. Its adding that all exports were stopped as soon as cases in India began to soar is an argument that does not wash internationally. Both India’s neighbours and partners in Africa as well as global agencies depending on India for vaccines have been left in the lurch by the Government’s failure to balance its vaccine budget. Perhaps the most egregious case is that of Bhutan and its vaccine drive which depended entirely on India’s promise of vaccines for its whole population. In March, once India completed delivery of the first batch, of 550,000 Covishield doses, Bhutan completed the administration of the first dose to 93% of its population in a record 16 days. Two months later, Bhutan does not have any vaccines to complete the second dose and has been left requesting other countries for vaccines so it does not miss the deadline amidst a rising number of cases there. Others in the neighbourhood and further afield have fully-paid-up-but-unfulfilled orders. It is no surprise that each of India’s neighbours has now sought help from China and the U.S. to complete their vaccination drives. Making amends and regaining trust for India’s vaccine and pharmacy exports in the future is going to be a challenge left to the MEA and its missions in several capitals. Tracing virus pathways Finally, as more waves of COVID-19 are being speculated, it is becoming increasingly clear that there must be a fuller understanding of what caused it, and India, as one of the worst pandemic-hit countries, must be at the forefront of demanding accountability. Eighteen months, 170 million cases (https://bit.ly/3uElFAd) and over three million deaths later, the World Health Organisation (WHO) which studied “pathways of emergence” of SARS-CoV2 in Wuhan, listed four possibilities: direct zoonotic transmission, an intermediate host, cold chain or transmission through food, or a laboratory incident. While WHO has concluded that the fourth pathway is “extremely unlikely”, scientists and agencies around the world are now calling for more research and transparency from China, particularly over the activities at the Wuhan Institute of Virology. Beijing appears adamant on blocking these studies and even the U.S. appears to have dragged its feet on a conclusive finding, possibly because the U.S. National Institutes of Health had funded some of the Wuhan Institute’s research, and its Office of the Director of National Intelligence decided last year to discount the “lab-leak” theory (https://bit.ly/2TokFmI). On regulations India, which has now begun to speak up on the issue, must call for a more definitive answer and also raise its voice for a stronger convention to regulate any research that could lead, by accident or design, to something as diabolical as the current pandemic. Towards that end, it is necessary to revamp the 1972 Biological Weapons Convention (formally known as The Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction) to institute an implementation body to assess treaty compliance, and build safer standards for the future. With its seat at the UN Security Council as non-permanent member and its position on WHO’s Executive Board, India could seek to regain the footing it has lost over the past few months of COVID-19 mismanagement, by taking a lead role in ensuring the world is protected from the next such pandemic. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/covid-diplomacy-20-a-different-order-of-tasks/article34703368.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||What explains the surge in FDI inflows?||Total foreign direct investment (FDI) inflow in 2020-21 is $81.7 billion, up 10% over the previous year, reported a recent Ministry of Commerce and Industry press release. It further added, “Measures taken by the Government on the fronts of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business have resulted in increased FDI inflows into the country.” The short press release highlighted industry and State-specific foreign investment figures without detailed statistical information. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) bulletin, which was released a week earlier, has the details. They are conceptually more transparent and consistent. The table below summarises the main headings for 2019-20 and 2020-21 and the percentage growth rate. What accounts for gross inflow? “Gross inflows/gross investment” in the RBI report is the same as “total FDI inflow” in the press release, identical to the Commerce Ministry’s estimate. The gross inflow consists of (i) “direct investment to India” and (ii) “repatriation/disinvestment”. The disaggregation shows that “direct investment to India” has declined by 2.4%. Hence, an increase of 47% in “repatriation/disinvestment” entirely accounts for the rise in the gross inflows. In other words, there is a wide gap between gross FDI inflow and direct investment to India. What is repatriation? Why is it so significant? FDI inflow increasingly consists of private equity funds, which are usually disinvested after 3-5 years to book profits (per its business model). In principle, private equity funds do not make long-term greenfield investment. Similarly, measured on a net basis (that is, “direct investment to India” net of “FDI by India” or, outward FDI from India), direct investment to India has barely risen (0.8%) in 2020-21 over the last year. What then accounts for the impressive headline number of 10% rise in gross inflow? It is almost entirely on account of “Net Portfolio Investment”, shooting up from $1.4 billion in 2019-20 to $36.8 billion in the next year. That is a whopping 2,526% rise. Further, within the net portfolio investment, foreign institutional investment (FIIs) has boomed by an astounding 6,800% to $38 billion in 2020-21, from a mere half a billion dollars in the previous year. So, the mystery of the surge in gross FDI inflows is solved. It is entirely on account of net foreign portfolio investment. What is portfolio investment, and how is it included in FDI inflow? FDI inflow, in theory, is supposed to bring in additional capital to augment potential output (taking managerial control/stake). In contrast, foreign portfolio investment, as the name suggests, is short-term investment in domestic capital (equity and debt) markets to realise better financial returns (that is, higher dividend/interest rate plus capital gains). But the conceptual distinctions have blurred in official reporting, showing an outsized role of FDI and its growth in India. If the deluge of FII inflow did little to augment the economy’s potential output, what then did it do? It added a lot of froth to the stock prices. When GDP has contracted by 7.3% (as per the official estimates released last Monday) in 2020-21 on account of the pandemic and the economic lockdown, the BSE Sensex nearly doubled from about 26,000 points on March 23, 2020 to over 50,000 on March 31, 2021. BSE’s price-earnings (P-E) multiple — defined as share price relative to earnings per share — is among the world’s highest, close behind S&P 500 in the U.S. Modest contribution Thus the surge in total FDI inflow during the pandemic year is entirely explained by booming short-term FIIs in the capital market – and not adding to fixed investment and employment creation. For years now, the government has showcased the rise in gross FDI inflows as a badge of the success of its economic policies to counter the widespread criticisms of output and investment slowdown and rising unemployment rates (especially during the last year). As Figure 1 shows, between 2013-14 and 2019-20, the ratio of net FDI to GDP has remained just over 1% (left-hand scale), with no discernible rising trend in it. Likewise, the proportion of net FDI to gross fixed capital formation (fixed investment) is range-bound between 4% and 6% (left-hand scale). These stagnant trends are evident when the economy’s fixed investment rate — gross fixed capital formation to GDP ratio — has plummeted from 31.3% in 2013-14 to 26.9% in 2019-20 (right-hand scale). Thus, FDI inflow’s contribution to domestic output and investment remains modest. To sum up, the Commerce Ministry press release claims an unprecedented surge in gross foreign capital inflow of $81.7 billion in 2020-21, rising 10% over the previous year. The rapid influx is evidence of the success of the economic policies during the pandemic, the government claims. Is it so? Probably not. Unprecedented short-term foreign portfolio investments are entirely responsible for the surge. And within the portfolio investment, FIIs shot up to $38 billion in 2020-21, from half a billion-dollar the previous year. The flood of FIIs has boosted stock prices and financial returns. These inflows did little to augment fixed investment and output growth. R. Nagaraj is Visiting Professor, Centre for Development Studies, Trivandrum||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/what-explains-the-surge-in-fdi-inflows/article34703375.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Breaking the cycle of child labour is in India’s hands||The true extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on child labour is yet to be measured but all indications show that it would be significant as children are unable to attend school and parents are unable to find work. However, not all the factors that contribute to child labour were created by the pandemic; most of them were pre-existing and have been exposed or amplified by it. What the data show As the world enters the third decade of the 21st century, 152 million children around the world are still in child labour, 73 million of them in hazardous work. A Government of India survey (NSS Report No. 585, 2017-18, Statement 3.12, p.35) suggests that 95% of the children in the age group of 6-13 years are attending educational institutions (formal and informal) while the corresponding figures for those in the age group of 14-17 years is 79.6%. Hence, a large number of children in India remain vulnerable, facing physical and psychological risks to a healthy development. The Census of India 2011 reports 10.1 million working children in the age group of 5-14 years, out of whom 8.1 million are in rural areas mainly engaged as cultivators (26%) and agricultural labourers (32.9%). While multiple data vary widely on enrolment/attendance ratios in India, UNESCO estimates based on the 2011 Census record 38.1 million children as “out of school” (18.3% of total children in the age group of 6-13 years). Work performed may not appear to be immediately dangerous, but it may produce long-term and devastating consequences for their education, their skills acquisition, and hence their future possibilities to overcome the vicious circle of poverty, incomplete education and poor quality jobs. A Rapid Survey on Children (2013-14), jointly undertaken by the Ministry of Women and Child Development and UNICEF, found that less than half of children in the age group of 10-14 years have completed primary education. These remain challenges we must overcome. A decrease in India One piece of good news is that child labour in India decreased in the decade 2001 to 2011, and this demonstrates that the right combination of policy and programmatic interventions can make a difference. Policy interventions such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) 2005, the Right to Education Act 2009 and the Mid Day Meal Scheme have paved the way for children to be in schools along with guaranteed wage employment (unskilled) for rural families. Concerted efforts towards convergence of government schemes is also the focus of the implementation of the National Child Labour Project. Ratifying International Labour Organization Conventions Nos. 138 and 182 in 2017, the Indian government further demonstrated its commitment to the elimination of child labour including those engaged in hazardous occupations. The Ministry of Labour and Employment-operated online portal (www.pencil.gov.in) allows government officials, law enforcement agencies and non-governmental organisations to share information and coordinate on child labour cases at the national, State and local levels for effective enforcement of child labour laws. While child labour has declined during the past decade globally, estimates indicate that the rate of reduction has slowed by two-thirds in the most recent four-year period. These positive and negative trends have to be taken into account when developing India’s policy and programmatic response during and after the novel coronavirus pandemic. The economic contraction and lockdowns ensuing from the pandemic have affected all countries in Asia, leading to income reductions for enterprises and workers, many of them in the informal economy. The large number of returned migrant workers has compounded the socio-economic challenges. India experienced slower economic growth and rising unemployment even before the pandemic. Subsequent lockdowns have worsened the situation, posing a real risk of backtracking the gains made in eliminating child labour. With increased economic insecurity, lack of social protection and reduced household income, children from poor households are being pushed to contribute to the family income with the risk of exposure to exploitative work. Challenges in education With closure of schools and challenges of distance learning, children may drop out leaving little scope for return unless affirmative and immediate actions are taken. As many schools and educational institutions are moving to online platforms for continuation of learning, the ‘digital divide’ is a challenge that India has to reconcile within the next several years. The NSS Report No. 585 titled ‘Household Social Consumption on Education in India’ suggests that in 2017-18, only 24% of Indian households had access to an Internet facility, proportions were 15% among rural households and 42% among urban households. The Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) 2020 survey highlights that a third of the total enrolled children received some kind of learning materials from their teachers during the reference period (October 2020) as digital mode of education was opted for. The challenges are significant and manifold but it is not impossible to meet them if the right level of commitment among all the relevant stakeholders and the right mix of policy and programmatic interventions are present. It is through strategic partnerships and collaborations involving government, employers, trade unions, community-based organisations and child labour families that we could make a difference building back better and sooner. As we reinforce the commitment to protect children from unacceptable forms of work, our focus to mitigate the aftermath of the pandemic also remains. We need a strong alliance paving our way towards ending child labour in all its forms by 2025 as countries around the world have agreed to in Sustainable Development Goal 8.7. We — governments, employers, unions, civil society organisations and even individuals — must rise and pledge to ‘Take Action against Child Labour’ as a part of the UN’s declaration of 2021 as the International Year for the Elimination of Child Labour. Our actions today will determine the future of children tomorrow. Dagmar Walter is Director, International Labour Organization India Country Office||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/breaking-the-cycle-of-child-labour-is-in-indias-hands/article34703370.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A fatal war on transparency||In August 2020, the Modi government constituted the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) as a nodal agency on all matters related to vaccine administration and rollout. Asked under the Right to Information (RTI) Act for details of the NEGVAC’s meetings, the Health Ministry, which anchors the expert group, replied that it does not know where the concerned documents are. Asked for the dates and minutes of meetings of other task forces constituted to deal with the pandemic, Dr. Nivedita Gupta of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) denied the request with this bizarre logic: “The information is not in the public domain”. Asked for the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the ICMR and Bharat Biotech for the rollout of Covaxin, she gave the same response. Through seven years in power, the Modi government has systematically hobbled the RTI Act. In the face of the pandemic, its war on transparency brings fatal consequences. Brazen denials mark its responses to RTI requests filed over the past year. Such secrecy runs through the full spectrum of COVID-19-related matters — from vaccine manufacturing and pricing decisions, to last year’s lockdown planning and the establishment and running of the Rs. 10,000 crore-plus PM CARES fund. Opacity serves as a cover for large-scaleover-centralisation and misgovernance. Botched up vaccination programme Despite thousands of daily deaths, the government continues to withhold information on critical life-saving policies and decisions. Take, for example, India’s botched up vaccination programme. On January 3, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Covaxin. Until today, Bharat Biotech has not published peer-reviewed interim efficacy analyses from Phase 3 clinical trials. The DCGI has denied RTI requests about its decision to grant emergency approval to Covaxin and Covishield, claiming that information about efficacy and safety constitutes confidential commercial information. But such data are routinely published in peer-reviewed journals and disclosed to the public by regulators. Effectively, the DCGI is keeping secret decision-making on what it called a “110% safe vaccine”. But people being administered Covaxin had to consent to a declaration that in case of serious adverse impacts, compensation will be awarded only if a causal link to the vaccine is established. Second, the rollout of vaccines is badly hit by shortages. Against the target of 30 crore Indians being vaccinated by July, only over 4 crore have been fully vaccinated so far. Covaxin is developed with the help of the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology (NIV) and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), and co-owned by the ICMR. Its production is the easiest for the government to ramp up, and massive vaccine production capacity in the public sector is lying idle. So, what explains the government-enabled scarcity of vaccines? Like the ICMR, the NIV too refuses to disclose the MoU with Bharat Biotech, and the full extent of public investment into Covaxin’s research and development. Similarly, asked for details of the research collaboration with Bharat Biotech, and investment of public funds in Covaxin, the IICT too denies information, calling the request “an unwarranted invasion of privacy”. Meanwhile, Covaxin has reached private hospitals as among the most expensive vaccines in the world, at over Rs. 1,200 a dose. And the ICMR is earning 5% royalties on the vaccine. This and other scraps of information are public only thanks to the Supreme Court hearing a suo motu PIL on the pandemic. The government’s summary dismissals not just violate citizens’ fundamental right to information but also push RTI requests into an appeal process that can take over two years. Time and resources go waste as citizens have to approach Information Commissions and High Courts to access basic information. Information blackhole Effective planning and administration cannot occur in the dark, and experts attribute the death toll and suffering to mismanagement and lack of preparation as much as the virus itself. Official secrecy is undermining the capacity of scientists, public health and policy experts to provide timely feedback and suggestions to the government. Such is the information blackhole that over 900 scientists have appealed to the Prime Minister for access to information and data. But little has changed. The Supreme Court should order the government to suo motu disclose information related to COVID-19 policies, in line with Sections 4 and 7 of the RTI Act, which deal with proactive and urgent disclosures with consequences for life and liberty. Writing about famines in colonial India, Amartya Sen argued that mass hunger and death do not occur where information flows freely. Ditto for pandemic management. Aniket Aga teaches at Ashoka University; Chitrangada Choudhury is a journalist on the editorial board of Article 14||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-fatal-war-on-transparency/article34703378.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||The economic toolkit revealed||Reading the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) ’s annual report for 2020-21, the economist is driven to rethink why India today needs its central bank more than ever before. So, what would be the direction from which these thoughts are likely to flow? Most likely it will be the one suggesting that perhaps the RBI is to be desired more for its role as a source of unbiased and reliable information on the economy than its potency in driving it. The former is not a trivial presence at all, especially at a time when citizens are sceptical of the independence of government agencies originally intended to be free from its influence, leave alone stranglehold. The annual report is a splendid document. The information presented in it enables us to understand which economic policy can move the economy even as it shows that the RBI’s own capacity in this task may currently be limited. This by itself is vital guidance at this moment, though the RBI may not read the situation in the same way as others do. A coherent story In the annual report we find data on the movement of three variables over the past year, namely, interest rates, inflation and credit flow. Helpfully, in some cases the data are exactly for one year commencing March 27, 2020, a few days after the nationwide lockdown was announced. So, we are able to track the path of the variables of our interest since. Together they tell a coherent story. And. what is that story? First, it is one of the very active use of monetary policy to stave off the negative impact of the lockdown. The RBI immediately lowered the interest rate in its command, the repo rate, in fact more than once, and has held it since. Then it attempted to influence the long-term rate of interest through targeted long-term repo operations (TLTROs) in order to encourage investment. It enhanced liquidity by lowering the cash reserve ratio. Finally, in sync with the credit guarantee available under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme of the Government of India, the on-tap TLTRO scheme was expanded to cover 26 stressed sectors. These amounted to a combination of incentives, enabling measures and safety nets revolving around credit. India’s monetary authority cannot be faulted for the speed with which it acted, which was markedly different from what was seen on the fiscal front. A limited policy The second part of the story is that these thoughtful monetary policy actions were not successful in spurring the growth of credit, and thus economic activity. In the following year, credit growth slowed further, remaining barely positive for industry, a sector highly dependent on bank credit. To get the picture, non-food credit to this sector grew by a mere 0.4% in 2020-21. To understand this outcome we do not have to seek very far. It is not as if the reduction in the central bank’s interest rate actions did not have an impact on commercial bank lending rates, which too declined for all the sectors of the economy. Thus, the so-called ‘transmission mechanism’ worked. That it did not spur credit growth though is to be seen in the light of experience gained from episodes when aggregate demand collapsed. The lockdown did set off such a movement. We see replicated in India the global history of the Great Depression of the 1930s and the Great Recession of the 2000s when monetary policy was ineffective, as animal spirits, at least among investors outside the stock market, were bearish. However, in the case of inflation, again meticulously documented by the RBI, India’s experience stands out. Here, after the lockdown and contrary to the global pattern, the inflation rate has risen well beyond the target, leaving in doubt the ability of monetary policy to control it. The contribution of the RBI, through its admirably transparent annual report, is to have laid bare the economic toolkit at our disposal. It is plain that monetary policy has run its course. Fiscal policy alone can spur the economy now. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches economics at Ashoka University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-economic-toolkit-revealed/article34703379.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Tenuous revival||The national income estimates released by the NSO posit an economy that appears to have found some footing in the January-March quarter before the pandemic’s second wave hit. GDP expanded by 1.6% in the final quarter of the last fiscal, an acceleration from the 0.5% growth in the preceding three-month period, that marginally softened the extent of the full-year’s record contraction to 7.3%. The Centre had earlier projected full-year GDP to contract by 8%. There was a 3.7% growth in fourth-quarter gross value added, with all but two of the economy’s eight broad sectors posting expansions. Mining and quarrying and the worst-hit contact-intensive omnibus services category of trade, hotels, transport, communications and broadcasting contracted 5.7% and 2.3%, respectively. Still, the pandemic’s crushing impact over the preceding three quarters meant that only the agriculture, forestry and fishing and the utility services recorded full-year growth. On the expenditure side, private consumption spending appeared to have rebounded to growth for the first time in four quarters, posting an expansion of 2.7% that moderated the full-year’s contraction to 9.1%. And gross fixed capital formation, a proxy for private investment, jumped 11% in the three-month period, most likely helped in fair measure by an increase in capital spending by the Government. The NSO data, however, needs to be seen in perspective. With the ground having shifted since March with the surge in COVID-19 infections, it is vital to correlate the figures with on-the-ground information. Manufacturing GVA appeared to have gained some traction in the last quarter (a 6.9% expansion), following a return to growth in the September-December period after five straight quarters of contraction. Disappointingly, IHS Markit’s Manufacturing PMI survey for May showed the key sector facing the prospect of stagnation as weakening demand pushed increases in new orders and output to 10-month lows. Similarly, the fiscal 2020-21 provisional estimates for private consumption spending — the bulwark accounting for over 50% of GDP — showed the expenditure figure at Rs. 75.6-lakh crore, its weakest level in three years. Here again, the Refinitiv-Ipsos Primary Consumer Sentiment Index for May, showed consumer confidence had tumbled by 6.3 percentage points from April as fears over the pandemic’s impact depressed respondents’ outlook on all four fronts including jobs and personal financial conditions. With unabated job losses pushing overall unemployment to a one-year high of 11.9% in May, as per CMIE data, and rural areas ravaged, only an accelerated nationwide vaccine roll-out and direct job and income boosting measures can prevent the economy from backsliding again.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tenuous-revival/article34703363.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||When two is too little||Six years after abandoning the “one child policy” of 1979, China’s Communist Party has now introduced a “three child policy”. The move is to “improve China’s population structure, actively respond to the ageing population, and preserve the country’s human resource advantages”, the party’s Politburo said on May 31. The once-in-a-decade population census, released on May 11, may have prompted the latest change, recording 12 million births in 2020, the lowest since 1961. The census said there were 264 million in the 60 and over age group, up 5.44% since 2010 and accounting for 18.70% of the population. After the one child policy, China’s fertility rate fell from 2.75 in 1979 to 1.69 in 2018. Monday’s announcement is as much an acknowledgement as may ever come of the unintended consequences of deeply intrusive family planning measures, going back even before 1979, to Mao’s “later, longer, fewer” campaign, which itself, ironically, followed his exhortations to have more children to build the workforce. The party officially still defends the one child policy — that it prevented an additional 300 million births. Yet, the urgency of recent measures suggests otherwise, as China grapples with both an ageing and deeply gender-imbalanced population, and demographers’ worst fears of countries getting old before they get rich. In 2013, China allowed couples to have a second child if either parent was an only child, with the two child policy introduced in 2015. Explaining why the measures did not boost birth rates, economists Jin Zhangfeng, Pan Shiyuan, and Zheng Zhijie wrote last year the two child policy “substantially increase[d] the number of second-child births” among those “less sensitive to child-rearing costs” but “substantially decrease[d] the number of first-child births” attributing it to rising costs. “Other developing countries, even without China’s stringent child-limitation policies, have also experienced declines,” they argued, suggesting “policy makers should give priority to reducing the child-rearing costs borne by prospective parents rather than simply relaxing or even abolishing birth quotas”. The latest announcement did acknowledge those broader structural problems, pledging to reduce families’ spending on education. It is, however, by no means an abandoning of China’s family planning policies. The entrenched — and widely reviled — family planning bureaucracy remains in place, and this week’s statement underlined that the “current reward and assistance system and preferential policies” for those following rules continue. Even leaving aside the strong moral argument against intrusive family planning — enforcement has meant forced abortions, sterilisations, and other abuses, some of which are still being reported in parts such as the Muslim-majority Xinjiang region — China’s experience is a reminder of the unintended social and economic consequences of state-led demographic interventions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/when-two-is-too-little/article34703364.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Tagore on Non-Co-operation||The following is, an extract from Tagore’s latest letters to shantiniketan published in the ‘Servants’: - Of the politics of our own country, I get some news in occasional hints and suggestions but cannot understand everything distinctly from such a distance. So I cannot make bold to judge of them. Recently a presidential address of Bepin Baba has reached my hands, from which I have got the version of one side, but as yet I have not had the opportunity of bearing the version of the other side fully and clearly. After comparing the Swadeshi movement of Bengal with the present movement, Bepin Baba has remarked that our movement was not a destructive (nastika) but constructive one (astika). To me this appears to be an exaggeration. For my complaint was just this at that time and I was abused for it by my countrymen. A perusal of my writings of that period will make this clear. At that time it was the aim of Bengal to do injury to Englishmen by having recourse to boycott. Only I myself protested against it and held that the foundation of self-government in the country was to be laid with our own efforts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/tagore-on-non-co-operation/article34703371.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Reluctance to transfer Fazilka||A piquant situation has arisen for the Centre following the reluctance of the Punjab Government to transfer Fazilka to Haryana, which was agreed upon when the Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, gave her award on the future of Chandigarh [New Delhi, June 1]. The tussle between the two States over Chandigarh went on for over three years when finally Mrs. Gandhi announced her verdict that the city should go to Punjab and, in return, the latter would make over the Fazilka Abhor area to Haryana. It was also agreed that Haryana would construct a new capital for which a sum of Rs. 20 crores has been promised in the agreement, and, for five years, the State also would have its capital at Chandigarh. A Boundary Commission was to be appointed to go into other territorial adjustments among Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. Fazilka is to be transferred to Haryana to synchronise with the boundary adjustments recommended by the Commission. Since the award has been given, several meetings have been held by the Union Home Minister and the Prime Minister with the Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana on the terms of reference to the Boundary Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reluctance-to-transfer-fazilka/article34703372.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Moody’s cuts GDP forecast||Moody’s Investors Service cut its 2021-22 India GDP growth forecast to 9.3%, from 13.7% earlier, while noting that longer-term risks to the economy would increase if the second COVID-19 wave lasted beyond June and the vaccination roll-out remained a challenge. “At this stage, we expect an outright decline in economic activity to be limited to the April-June quarter, followed by a rebound in the second half of the year,” the ratings agency said on the impact of the second wave. Following the 7.3% contraction in GDP last year, the second wave would push a recovery to the country’s pre-pandemic level out even further, Moody’s said, with a ‘catch up’ unlikely till the end of 2021. In 2022-23, the agency now expects growth of 7.9% compared with its earlier expectation of 6.2%. “The government’s ability to limit the spread of the virus and materially increase the rate of vaccinations will have a direct impact on... both health and economic outcomes,” Moody’s noted. Moody’s warned of more scarring if the second wave “caused a permanent loss of jobs and business closures”, resulting in a fundamentally weaker growth dynamic. “We do not expect a sustained recovery in private investment until domestic economic conditions strengthen and the health of the financial sector improves.” While Moody’s did not expect the government to enhance spending much from its Budget plans, revenue shortfalls and diversion of more funds to countering the pandemic would push the general government fiscal deficit to 11.8% of GDP this year instead of 10.8% projected earlier. The combined impact of slower growth and a wider deficit would drive the general government debt burden to 90% of GDP in FY22. Citing structural constraints and the limited effectiveness of reforms, Moody’s said it expects India’s real growth rate to average about 6% over the medium term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/moodys-cuts-gdp-forecast/article34703361.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Auto sales decline from April levels||Automakers posted muted wholesales of vehicles last month amid multiple State-wise lockdowns and disruption to production due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Maruti Suzuki India, the country’s largest carmaker, said it sold 32,903 passenger vehicles (PVs) in the country, compared with 1.35 lakh in April 2021, and 13,702 in May 2020. “The company shut production from May 1 through May 16, so as to divert oxygen from industrial use for medical purposes. In May 2020, the company witnessed production disruption owing to lockdowns. Since neither of the two months had normal production, the sales volume of May 2021 are not comparable with May 2020,” the company said. Hyundai Motor India’s domestic sales stood at 25,001 last month. It had dispatched 6,883 in May 2020, and 49,002 units in April 2021. Tata Motors said domestic PV sales fell to 15,181 units from 25,095 units in April 2021. It had recorded sales of 3,152 units in May 2020. Its domestic commercial vehicle (CV) sales stood at 9,371 units in May, as against 14,435 in April, while it was 1,266 units in May 2020. For Mahindra and Mahindra (M&M), domestic PV sales were 8,004 units last month. It had sold 18,285 units in April 2021 and 3,867 unts in May 2020. Its domestic CV sales stood at 7,508 units, as against 16,147 units in April 2021 and 5,209 units in May 2020.  Toyota Kirloskar Motor sold a total of 707 units in May, and had reported wholesales of 1,639 units in May 2020 and 9,622 units in April 2021. Naveen Soni, senior VP, TKM, said the overall market situation as well as consumer sentiment were better than in May 2020, and the company anticipated that ‘pent-up demand’ and the demand for personal mobility would continue to be significant once markets open. Impact on two-wheelers Hero MotoCorp said it sold over 1.59 lakh units in the domestic market last month due to adverse impact of the plant closure amid the second wave of the pandemic. Sales stood at 3.42 lakh for April 2021 and 1.08 lakh units for May 2020. Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India said it dispatched 38,763 units in May. It had sold 2.4 lakh two-wheelers in April, and 54,000 units in May 2020 TVS Motor sold 52,084 two-wheelers in the country last month compared with 41,067 units in May 2020. “Domestic sales in May 2021 were lower due to lockdowns in many States, but retails continue to be ahead of despatch,” it said. The two-wheeler maker said international demand continued to be robust as two-wheeler exports registered sales of more than 1.02 lakh units in May 2021 from 15,151 a year earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-sales-decline-from-april-levels/article34703347.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Power consumption sees 8.2% y-o-y growth||Power consumption witnessed an 8.2% year-on-year growth in May at 110.47 billion units (BU), indicating slow recovery in commercial and industrial demand of electricity, according to power ministry data. The slower pace of recovery in industrial demand of electricity in May can be attributed to local lockdown restrictions imposed by States to curb the spread of COVID-19 amid the second wave of the pandemic, experts believe. Moreover, the two cyclones in May resulted in power outages and lesser consumption due to rains in different areas of the country during peak summer season, they said. Experts are hopeful that the commercial and industrial power consumption as well as demand would rise in the coming days with many States easing local lockdown restrictions imposed to curb the second wave after the number of daily new positive cases of COVID-19 decline. Power consumption in the entire month of May last year was 102.08 BU due to the impact of the lockdown, and had witnessed a year-on-year fall of nearly 15% in May 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-consumption-sees-82-y-o-y-growth/article34703353.ece
02 June 2021||New delhi,||Manufacturing PMI slides in May, job losses quicken||India’s manufacturing sector recorded the weakest performance in 10 months in May, with job losses accelerating as order books shrank, according to the IHS Markit Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) which slid from 55.5 in April to 50.8 in May. A reading of 50 indicates no change. “The Indian manufacturing sector is showing increasing signs of strain as the COVID-19 crisis intensifies,” said Pollyanna De Lima, Economics associate director at IHS Markit, adding that all indices were down from April, including key gauges of current sales, production and input buying. “Amid a lack of new work, goods producers reduced headcounts again, with the rate of job shedding quickening,” she said. The overall level of positive sentiment dipped to a 10-month low. This subdued optimism, Ms De Lima warned, could hamper business investment and cause further job losses, going forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/manufacturing-pmi-slides-in-may-job-losses-quicken/article34703356.ece
02 June 2021||MUMBAI,||NBFCs, HFCs feeling heat of second wave: ICRA||Collections of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) have been adversely impacted due to widespread and more stringent lockdowns in May 2021, rating agency ICRA said. “With 25-30% of collection through field operations, loan overdues are set to increase as regular collections and recoveries from overdues were impacted by the more extensive and stringent lockdowns implemented by various states during May 2021,” the rating agency said. However, housing finance companies (HFCs), with a lower share of field collections, had been less impacted than the NBFCs, ICRA said. Stating that NBFCs and HFCs felt the stress of the second wave COVID-19 lockdowns and movement restrictions, ICRA said the budding recovery in loan collections witnessed in the third and fourth quarters of FY21 had been stemmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nbfcs-hfcs-feeling-heat-of-second-wave-icra/article34703343.ece
02 June 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Sugar output climbs to 305.7 lakh tonnes’||Sugar production between October 1, 2020, and May 31 rose to 305.68 lakh tonnes — 35.63 lakh tonnes higher than that of the corresponding period in the 2019-20 sugar season. Compared with 18 sugar mills that were crushing sugarcane on May 31 last year, only seven, located in Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, were into the process on May 31 this year, the Indian Sugar Mills’ Association said in a press release on Tuesday. The association added that export contracts were entered for almost 58 lakh tonnes of sugar, as against the 60 lakh tonnes of maximum admissible export quantity (MAEQ) fixed by the government. It is estimated that about 45 lakh tonnes of sugar had been exported between January and May this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-output-climbs-to-3057-lakh-tonnes/article34703345.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||ITC posts consolidated Q4 net profit of Rs. 3,817 cr.||ITC Ltd. on Tuesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs. 3,816.84 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The cigarette-FMCG-to-hotel major had posted a net profit of Rs. 3,926.46 crore during the January-March quarter of the previous fiscal, ITC said in a filing. Revenue from operations was at Rs. 15,404.37 crore during the quarter under review. This was Rs. 12,560.64 crore in the corresponding period of 2019-20. Meanwhile, ITC said the results for the latest quarter were not comparable with the earlier period as it also included the revenue of Sunrise Foods, which it had acquired on July 27, 2020. “The financial results of the group and ‘FMCG Others’ of the quarter and the financial year ended on March 31, 2021 include those of Sunrise from July 27, 2020 and consequently are not comparable with previous periods,” ITC said. ITC’s total expenses were at Rs. 10,944.64 crore in Q4 FY21. For the FY21, ITC’s net profit was at Rs. 13,389.80 crore. It had posted a net profit of Rs. 15,584.56 crore in the previous year. Revenue from operations came in at Rs. 53,155.12 crore. This was Rs. 51,393.47 crore in 2019-20. ITC shares on the BSE declined 0.65% to close at Rs. 215.20 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/itc-posts-consolidated-q4-net-profit-of-rs-3817-cr/article34703354.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Infosys to probe insider trading case||India’s second largest IT firm Infosys on Tuesday said it will initiate an internal investigation into an insider trading matter after markets regulator SEBI barred two of its employees from the securities market in the case. SEBI has banned eight entities, including two employees of Infosys, for indulging in insider trading activities in the shares of the company. The entities had traded in Infosys’s scrips while in possession of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI) pertaining to its financial results, SEBI said.  The order came after the SEBI alert system had generated insider trading alerts for the period about July 15, 2020 i.e. near to the announcement of financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/infosys-to-probe-insider-trading-case/article34703351.ece
02 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SBI pares FY22 GDP forecast to 7.9%, from 10.4% earlier||State Bank of India has slashed its GDP growth projection for this fiscal to 7.9%, from 10.4%, and said India’s economic recovery will now be ‘W-shaped’ instead of the ‘V-shaped recovery’ anticipated earlier. While the bank’s researchers said there could be an upward bias to its projections, linked to the ‘fervent hope of one crore vaccinations per day beginning mid-July as per government projections’, they expect a ‘disproportionately larger impact’ on the economy from the second COVID-19 wave, especially since rural India is not as resilient as its urban counterpart. “Pick-up in pent-up demand is unlikely to make a large difference in FY22 GDP estimates, and hence it could only be a modest pick-up,” the group’s chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh said in a report. “For [FY22], GDP outlook will be impacted by... international commodity prices which have risen sharply during the year... impact of higher commodity prices will be visible in domestic prices thus impacting consumption. “The rural economy has been affected during the second wave. Diesel consumption, two-wheeler and tractor sales, fertilizer sales, MGNERGA employment generated all declined in April 2021,” Mr. Ghosh pointed out. Warning that the intensity of the third wave could be as severe as the second wave, going by international experience, the report’s author said vaccination should be the key priority for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sbi-pares-fy22-gdp-forecast-to-79-from-104-earlier/article34703357.ece
02 June 2021||Chennai,||ALL will work for 5-10 days in June||Ashok Leyland Ltd. said its plants will be operational in the month of June only for five to 10 days due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. The company had earlier announced the closure of its plants during May. “The plants are still not fully operational due to the lockdown in the States where our plants are located,” the commercial vehicles manufacturer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/all-will-work-for-5-10-days-in-june/article34703349.ece
02 June 2021||Chennai,||Yamaha revises prices||Yamaha Motor India has announced a revision in the ex-showroom prices of two bikes in the FZ-25 series. “Our team has managed to bring down the input costs for the FZ-25 series and would like to pass on the benefit to customers,” Yamaha Motor India said in a statement. The revised prices are Rs. 1,34,800 (ex-showroom, Delhi) for FZ-25 and Rs. 1,39,300 for FZS-25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yamaha-revises-prices/article34703350.ece
02 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||‘India can beat Qatar’||As he looks forward to watching India’s World Cup qualifier against Qatar, to be played at Doha on Thursday, I.M. Vijayan cannot help but think of a match he wouldn’t quite like to remember. That match, a World Cup qualifier in 1996, was also against Qatar. India lost it by a tennis score — 6-0. “We played poorly, but that was the time when we didn’t have as much exposure — domestic or overseas — as today’s players,” Vijayan told The Hindu on Tuesday. “Those days we could rarely meet quality opposition. Things have changed quite a lot for the better in Indian football.” Last meeting So much so, he feels India can even turn the tables on Qatar this time around. “I think this Indian team can beat Qatar,” he said. “The goalless draw when they last played Qatar, in 2019, should give them a lot of confidence.” It was a performance India can be proud of: against the Asian champion ranked No. 62 in the world at the time. Qatar is now ranked 58th while India is 105th. Vijayan, one of the all-time greats of Indian football, doesn’t feel such a huge gap will easily translate into victory for the host. “Because of the ISL, India’s footballers are well-equipped to take on strong teams,” he said. “When you are playing alongside and against top quality international footballers, you improve physically and mentally.” Against Qatar, he feels Sunil Chhetri — back in action after recovering from COVID-19 — will hold the key to India’s fortunes. “He is my favourite Indian player,” says Vijayan. “Defender Sandesh Jhingan, midfielder Ashique Kuruniyan and goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu also have crucial roles to play.”  When he thinks of Qatar, he also thinks of Xavi, the Spanish legend who is now manager of Doha’s Al Sadd club. The former Barcelona midfielder, who helped Spain win the 2010 World Cup, had recently put out a video on Twitter wishing Vijayan on his birthday. “I was surprised and happy when I saw the video,” said Vijayan. “I had met Xavi on a few occasions; I was introduced to him by Shafeer Korea, who has designed the Qatar jersey and who hails from my native place of Thrissur. I always enjoyed watching the great Spain and Barcelona teams he was part of.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-can-beat-qatar/article34703517.ece
02 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Continuity in Test cricket will be great’||With India women set to play two Tests in three months, that too away from home, after a seven-year drought, the focus will definitely be on the traditional format as Mithali Raj’s side embarks on a full tour of England. Captain Mithali stressed that playing Test cricket will be a big step forward for the younger lot, which has been focusing on limited-over cricket. “It’s good to have Tests, whether it’s home or away. If there’s continuity, it’s great because it helps players as well. Sometimes it’s nice to go in without baggage, you just go in, play and enjoy the atmosphere,” Mithali said during a media interaction ahead of a tour that will comprise a Test, three ODIs and three T20Is in England. The women’s and men’s squads will leave together during the wee hours of Wednesday. Lot of exposure “It’s good to have the girls who are playing for the first time and the girls who have played in the past and can share their experiences how it was back in 2014. But having back-to-back Test matches can give a lot of exposure to the current lot.” Recently appointed head coach Ramesh Powar, albeit ironically, referred to the conventional format as “new” for the youngsters but hoped that the forthcoming Tests in England and Australia (in September) will reinvigorate interest in women’s Tests. “It’s a great start. As a coach I want more Tests all over the world. It’s a good start and let’s take it step by step. Don’t push the girls into a zone where you are demanding too much. It’s a new format which hasn’t been played consistently over the past few years. You might get surprises.” Powar’s reappointment last month had raised eyebrows considering he and Mithali had had a public fall-out during his short stint as coach in 2018. While Mithali urged everyone to “move on” from the episode and “look forward”, Powar stressed they are not going back to the episode. “I would like to stop the speculation that is happening. We interacted well. Otherwise I wouldn’t have come back into women’s cricket. Everyone grows up in three years,” he said. “This is a great opportunity for me, Mithali and for the whole group to take women’s cricket to another level when BCCI is supporting us. I don’t think we’re going to go back to these small things.”  This is a great opportunity for me, Mithali and for the whole group to take women’s cricket to another level Ramesh Powar Head coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/continuity-in-test-cricket-will-be-great/article34703472.ece
04 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Left-arm quick, right-arm quicker — it’s up to the coaches||Is cricket dead? Not that it has become unpopular or that there is diminishing interest for it on television, but in a deeper, more creative sense. Has everything to be known about the game — the crafts, techniques, tactics, strategies — already been revealed, and can one say with conviction that there are no more worlds to conquer? Somehow that doesn’t sound right. No field of human endeavour can say there is nothing more to be done. At the turn of the 20th century, it was believed that physics was dead. As if on cue, quantum theory and relativity upset long-held ideas, and the field was blown wide open. It is a useful lesson. The gifts from Pakistan For long it was assumed that in cricket there were just a few gaps to be filled. The googly had been invented at the turn of the 20th century, and for decades its mirror image was sought — the leg-break bowled with an off-break action. Then Saqlain Mushtaq developed the doosra . The other major development also came from the gifted Pakistani bowlers — reverse swing. From Sarfraz Nawaz to Imran Khan to Waqar Younis and Wasim Akram it was an unbroken line. The rest of the cricketing world followed after initial skepticism. When it was discovered that the doosra usually indicated a bent (or straightening) arm, and therefore might be an illegal delivery, the authorities put a figure on what constituted a legal one. Bowlers were allowed to straighten their arm by 15° to remain within the law. The change allowed us to appreciate the skills of bowlers such as Muttiah Muralitharan and Harbhajan Singh and the possibilities in the doosra itself. Both these innovations took place in the last century, and for many coaches there are no more gaps to be filled in the evolution of the game. There was the odd club bowler who could bowl off either arm, but he was seen as a freak rather than the harbinger of a revolution. In international cricket it happened on one memorable occasion, though. Garry Sobers was batting on 364 when the occasional off-spinner bowling to him — Hanif Mohammad — switched to left-arm spin. Sobers didn’t mind (he was later quoted as saying, “He could bowl with both hands if he wished.”). He then pushed for the single that gave him the highest individual score in a Test innings. The ambidexterous bowler The ambidextrous bowler is a rarity. He (or she — Bangladesh’s Shaila Sharmin and Australian Jemma Barsby are in this exclusive club) is usually a spinner, but Pakistan’s Yasir Jan, a pace bowler, has been described as “left-arm quick, right-arm quicker”. That is both evocative and a pointer to the future. The Sri Lankan with a name that can be set to music — Pasqual Handi Kamindu Dilanka Mendis — bowled both left-arm orthodox and right-arm off-spin on his debut against England. Vidarbha’s Akshay Karnewar has played 15 First Class matches in this dual role. The shortest format of the game can be expected to encourage the ambidextrous player — one who can bowl and bat both right- and left-handed as well as field and throw off either. That’s six players in one! Often we don’t know there is a gap to be filled till someone actually fills it. Batting has seen fewer fundamental changes. The switch hit or the Dilscoop over the wicketkeeper’s head are recent, but batting is about refining what already exists rather than inventing something fresh. Stick-to-one theory Old school coaches discourage players from doing too many things. If you can bowl both spin and pace, then focus on one or the other, they say. If you can bowl off either arm, stick to one. Some schoolboys can bat either left- or right-handed, but they are told this will not do. As a boy, Michael Hussey was a right-handed batsman till he saw Allan Border bat, and switched to batting left-handed. He does everything else right-handed. Right-handers Sachin Tendulkar and Kane Williamson write left-handed and hold their rackets in their left hand. Coaches speak about the dominant hand and how to use it, but do not encourage those who are comfortable doing it either way. The next major innovation in batting is in the hands (left and right) of the coaches who will have to jettison a favourite theory: that it is better to be a good right-hander or a left-hander than an unsure left-and-right hander. About one percent of the world’s population is ambidextrous. Surely there are some cricketers among that 70 million?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/left-arm-quick-right-arm-quicker-its-up-to-the-coaches/article34703522.ece
02 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Sanjeet the Lion shows his class||Popular as ‘Sher’ among his peers for wearing a lion’s tattoo on his back, 24-year-old Sanjeet loves his newly-achieved status as an Asian champion following his lionhearted showing in Dubai. Sanjeet’s 91kg title win, India’s lone gold medal in the men’s section of the Asian championships, has boosted his confidence. “This is my best performance. I beat two Olympic qualified boxers (Sanjar Tursunov of Uzbekistan 5-0 in the semifinals and Olympics silver medallist Vassiliy Levit of Kazakhstan 4-1 in the final). The win over Levit was sweeter as I had lost to him in the President’s Cup in Kazakhstan in 2018,” Sanjeet told The Hindu on his return from Dubai on Tuesday. “I have gathered a lot of confidence and feel I could have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics.” The Asian crown was Sanjeet’s first achievement after a major shoulder injury, which he picked up during the World Military Games in October 2019. It forced him to go under the knife and rendered him unfit for the Asian Olympic qualifier in March last year. “I am thankful to JSW and Army for their support during my recovery and rehab, which took about five to six months.” Sanjeet worked hard for the World Olympic qualifier in Paris this year but was heart-broken when he learnt about its cancellation due to the pandemic. His cousin and early coach Sanjeev Kumar says Sanjeet was in tears. “I could not train for five-six days as I was in a state of shock. Later, I regained my motivation and resumed training,” said Sanjeet, hailing from a big joint family in Rohtak. Sanjeet said his game improved after he joined the Army in 2015 and participated in the semi-professional league World Series of Boxing (WSB) in 2018. “I got a lot of facilities, sparring partners and organised training in the Army. The WSB, which had five-round bouts, enhanced my endurance.” The well-built boxer feels his punches have gathered more power in recent years but his endurance needs some attention. “I have to work on my endurance. I want to do well in the World championships in October,” said Sanjeet.  The win over Vassiliy Levit was sweeter as I had lost to him in the President’s Cup in Kazakhstan in 2018||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sanjeet-the-lion-shows-his-class/article34703669.ece
02 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Amol Muzumdar appointed as Mumbai coach||Amol Muzumdar, an eight-time Ranji Trophy champion with Mumbai, will return to his alma mater after more than a decade after being appointed as the team’s coach for the forthcoming domestic season. According to Cricket Improvement Committee chairman Jatin Paranjape, who along with Nilesh Kulkarni and Vinod Kambli interviewed eight candidates last week, Muzumdar’s brand of the “Mumbai way of playing” worked in his favour. “He has been a part of many great moments in Indian cricket. We just thought that his experience as a young coach and his involvement with some of the best years of Mumbai cricket made him the most suitable candidate,” Paranjape said. Long drought Muzumdar, having represented Assam and Andhra in his latter years after leaving Mumbai following the 2008-09 triumph, lifted the Ranji Trophy and the Vijay Hazare Trophy as captain in 2006-07. Despite having won the Hazare Trophy in the curtailed last season, it’s been five seasons since Mumbai won the Ranji Trophy. “No doubt it will be one of the top-most priorities, to get back to winning ways in the Ranji Trophy is critical for Mumbai cricket,” Muzumdar told The Hindu . “It’s been a while since I have been in Mumbai colours. I am happy to be back. It’s a great honour and a challenge. Looking forward to it. Mumbai has always been dear to me. I am very grateful to everyone who has thought that I would be capable.” Certified coach After retiring in 2014, Muzumdar has impressed as a coach. A certified Level III coach from Australia, Muzumdar has worked as Rajasthan Royals’ batting coach. He also had a short stint as South Africa’s batting coach during its tour to India in 2019. Besides, he has also been a broadcaster, primarily for domestic cricket, thus staying in touch with the younger lot. “I have always believed in staying with touch with the modern generation. I have always been inclined towards learning new things, be it while in cricket or afterwards,” he said. “I have always strived to be with the younger lot and learn new tricks. That’s helped me in my mindset. That’s probably a reason I had an extended season while playing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/amol-muzumdar-appointed-as-mumbai-coach/article34703951.ece
02 June 2021||Paris,||Nadal advances, Barty fights through hip problem||Rafael Nadal began his bid for a record-setting 21st Grand Slam title with a straight sets win on Tuesday as the fallout from Naomi Osaka's revelations over depression and anxiety sent shockwaves through Roland Garros. Nadal, the 13-time champion in Paris, defeated 63rd-ranked Alexei Popyrin of Australia 6-3, 6-2, 7-6(3) to take his record at the tournament to 101 wins against just two losses. "I was lucky to win that third set, I don't know how (I did). The beginning of the match had been very tough too," said Nadal, who had been 2-5 down in the third set, saving two set points. "In these warm and fast conditions it's always very difficult. He's young and the speed of his ball is very strong." Up next is fellow 34-year-old Richard Gasquet. The pair first played one another when they were children. As professionals, Nadal leads 16-0. Winning return World No. 1 Ashleigh Barty marked her return to Paris for the first time since her 2019 title triumph by beating American left-hander Bernarda Pera 6-4, 3-6, 6-2 but admitted she was fighting a hip problem. Barty, 25, skipped the defence of her title in 2020 due to the pandemic but this year has won trophies at the Yarra Valley Classic, Miami and on clay in Stuttgart in the run-up to Roland Garros. After easing through the first set on Court Philippe Chatrier, Barty went off the boil in the second and called for the trainer at the changeover. "I'm not going to hide behind the fact I'm not quite 100%," said Barty, whose left thigh was heavily strapped. "But I can guarantee that I will go out there with the right attitude every day and be really accepting of that and give it a crack no matter what." Fifth seed Elina Svitolina recovered from a 2-5 second set deficit to beat French teenager Oceane Babel 6-2, 7-5. Andreas Seppi, playing in his 63rd successive Grand Slam, stunned 20th seeded Felix Auger-Aliassime 6-3, 7-6(8), 4-6, 6-4. For Seppi, it was a first win at any level this year. Venus bows out Venus Williams, playing the tournament for the 24th time and a runner-up 19 years ago, saw her 89th Grand Slam end at the first hurdle as Russia's Ekaterina Alexandrova eased to a 6-3, 6-1 win over the 40-year-old American.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-advances-barty-fights-through-hip-problem/article34703474.ece
02 June 2021||Barcelona,||Aguero hoping for Messi partnership||Sergio Aguero said on Monday that he was hoping to have the “pleasure” of playing alongside Lionel Messi after signing a two-year deal with Barcelona. However he is still not sure that Messi will be his teammate next season as the club captain is yet to sign an extension to his current contract which expires next month. “Let’s hope we play together ... what happens with Leo is down to decisions that he will make with the club,” Aguero told reporters at the Camp Nou after he was unveiled on the famous pitch. “Obviously it will be a pleasure if we play together. If he continues here, which I think he will, we will try to do our best for the club as he always has done.” Declining performances Barca will hope Aguero’s arrival in Catalonia helps to convince his friend and fellow Argentine Messi to stay, as the club faces up to declining performances on the pitch and a worrying financial situation. Ronald Koeman’s side finished third in LaLiga this past season and has debts of €1.2 billion. It was knocked out of the Champions League at the last-16 stage by Paris Saint-Germain, and could yet face sanctions from UEFA for refusing to back out of the short-lived European Super League project. Talks going well Last week club president Joan Laporta said that talks for Messi’s new contract were “going well”, and on Monday insisted that Aguero’s signing was part of a broader Barca rebuild. “The signing of Aguero is for Aguero. We want to build a competitive team and obviously we also want Leo to stay, we have already told him this,” Laporta said. Aguero leaves City as its all-time record goalscorer with 260 goals, and with the most goals scored for a single club in Premier League history — 184 goals in 275 appearances. “Leaving aside last season, I had nine very good years at City,” said Aguero. “A knee issue kept me out for a few months, I recovered, I got COVID ... but in the last four months I’ve felt very good physically.” Long in the offing His move to Barcelona had been long in the offing, with Guardiola saying a week ago that he was close to a deal with the Catalan giant. He will participate in this year’s Copa America, which on Monday was moved from Colombia and his home country Argentina to Brazil. “If they have made that decision it is because things are not going well in Argentina, there have been a lot of infections over the last few days and many deaths. I think it was a good decision,” said Aguero.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aguero-hoping-for-messi-partnership/article34703667.ece
02 June 2021||new delhi,||Marin pulls out of Tokyo Olympics||Defending champion Carolina Marin, on Tuesday, pulled out of the Tokyo Olympics after suffering an Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) tear in her left knee that will require a surgery to heal. The 27-year-old from Spain felt discomfort in her knee during training on Saturday and tests revealed that it was an ACL injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/marin-pulls-out-of-tokyo-olympics/article34703515.ece
02 June 2021||Osijek (Croatia),||Manu shoots 587||Manu Bhaker shot 587 in the women’s 25-metre sports pistol to reinforce her strong grip on the event in the European shooting championship here on Tuesday. The 19-year-old Manu shot 296 in the rapid fire section, after having scored 291 in the precision stage. Asian Games gold medallist Rahi Sarnobat also improved her score in the rapid fire section to reach 584 among a small bunch of MQS shooters. She had 293 on the second day. Sylvia Steiner of Austria topped with 590 in the regular event. Earlier, in the mixed rifle 3-position event, Anjum Moudgil (438) and Aishwary Pratap Singh Tomar (437) placed 19th in the preliminary stage. The duo was 15 points short of the leaders, Norway. Tejaswini Sawant and Sanjeev Rajput shot identical 431 and placed 33rd among 36 teams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manu-shoots-587/article34703525.ece
02 June 2021||CHENNAI,||TNBA to vaccinate players, officials for free||Tamil Nadu Basketball Association (TNBA) will provide free vaccinatation to its former and current players, coaches and referees. A release on Tuesday said the process, to be initiated after the lockdown is lifted in Chennai, will be for players above 18 years who have represented the state, referees and coaches above 40 years. The release further stated: “Vaccines will be distributed in two stages. Round 1 will be for players and Round 2 will be for referees and coaches.” Interested can mail their details along with their Aadhar cards to admin@tnbahub.com and gs@tnbahub.com and message through WhatsApp to 86100 54911. The last date for registration is June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnba-to-vaccinate-players-officials-for-free/article34703564.ece
02 June 2021||TOKYO,||Japanese Olympic athletes get vaccination shots||Japan started vaccinating the Tokyo Games-bound athletes on Tuesday, Japanese Olympic Committee said. The vaccination of healthy athletes comes as only 2-3% of the general population in Japan has been fully vaccinated. Japanese Olympic Committee officials said about 200 athletes were vaccinated on the first day of the roll out. The officials did not name any of the athletes and also restricted coverage of the event, possibly fearing a public backlash. Mitsugi Ogata, one of the official, said the vaccination of young athletes would not affect distribution to the general population, including the elderly and medical workers. “Vaccination operations for athletes are conducted in a different organisation from those for the nation,” Ogata said. The International Olympic Committee said being vaccinated is not required for participating in the Games. However, the IOC has encouraged all athletes to be vaccinated. IOC President Thomas Bach said he believes more than 80% of the residents of the Olympic Village in Tokyo will be vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/japanese-olympic-athletes-get-vaccination-shots/article34703672.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Players’ families allowed on England trip||The families of players and support staff of both the Indian men's and women's cricket teams will be allowed to accompany them during their lengthy tour of England this month, a senior BCCI source revealed on Tuesday. Long tour The BCCI had put in a request that the players be allowed the company of their loved ones given that they have to spend a considerable amount of time in a bio-secure bubble because of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, it is learnt that none of the BCCI office-bearers, including president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah will be present for the World Test Championship final against New Zealand in Southampton from June 18-22, due to the strict quarantine rules of the country. "Yes, it's good news that players will have their families during the tour of UK. Ditto for the women's team who can also have their families around. These are times when mental well-being of players is paramount. "The BCCI understands that we need our players and support staff to be in a good head space," the source said. However, Ganguly and Shah, who were originally supposed to be in England for the WTC final will not be going. "As far as I know, the ECB didn't grant permission to them (Ganguly and Shah). Normally, administrators go before the Test match but as per quarantine rules, since they are not playing members, they would have had to undergo hard quarantine of 10 days.” Both teams have served a 14-day quarantine period (home plus hotel) in India and undergone six RT-PCR tests which allow them to board the charter flight to London on Wednesday. It is expected that they will have three days of hard quarantine (room) and then be able to use the gym as well as begin skills training.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-families-allowed-on-england-trip/article34703469.ece
02 June 2021||Paris,||Roland Garros hosts first-ever night match||Serena Williams started her latest bid for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam title with a hard-fought victory over Romanian Irina-Camelia Begu in the first-ever night session at Roland Garros on Monday. "It wasn't easy in that first set. I was up and I felt like I had some opportunities. She's a really good player, she's had some really good wins so I was really happy I was able to get that first set and the match," said the three-time Roland Garros champion. The first official night match under the lights on Court Philippe Chatrier was played behind closed doors due to a 9 p.m. curfew imposed by the French government due to COVID-19. Begu fought back from 5-2 down in the opening set, but failed to serve it out when leading 6-5 and then saw two set points come and go when leading the breaker 6-4. Williams needed only one opportunity, driving a forehand volley into the corner to take control. The former World No. 1 strengthened her grip on the tie by breaking 74th-ranked Begu in the first game of the second set. She broke again in the seventh game before wrapping up victory after an hour and 42 minutes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/roland-garros-hosts-first-ever-night-match/article34703476.ece
02 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Sony goes all out to woo regional viewers||An increasing consumption of sports content in local languages has led to Sony Pictures Sports Networks (SPSN) launching an exclusive channel in Tamil and Telugu ahead of what is set to be a blockbuster season for the broadcaster. Rajesh Kaul, SPSN’s India Sports Business Head, stressed that channels — SD and HD — dedicated to Tamil and Telugu fans was natural considering their reach. “Tamil and Telugu are the biggest two regional markets in the country. They contribute huge to the overall numbers. Overall regional content consumption in these two states is roughly around 80 per cent, be it sport, non-sport, GEC, movies. So we thought we would launch a dedicated 24-hour sports channel for Tamil and Telugu,” Kaul told The Hindu on Tuesday after the launch of Sony Ten 4, 10 days ahead of Euro 2020. Comfort levels “We have realised that we get a particular traction and people are more comfortable watching their favourite sport in the language they are more comfortable with.” Kaul stressed that Sony was the “pioneer” of broadcasting sports in regional languages, “starting with IPL in Hindi” when it was the broadcaster of the T20 league. He was optimistic that regional language sports channes would attract localised advertisements. Actor Rana Daggubati is the face of the new channel. “Since we had one single feed up till now, it was difficult for us (to monetise regional sports content). Now that we have launched Ten 4 today, we are hopeful that we can start with it. We have already got some response from local advertisers. I definitely feel there’s a very interesting story,” he said. SPSN will hope to cash in on its tempting portfolio for the remaining year. In India, it will broadcast the Euro 2020 and Copa America in June-July, followed by India’s cricket tour to Sri Lanka in July, the Olympics in July-August, India’s Test series in England and the Ashes towards the year-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sony-goes-all-out-to-woo-regional-viewers/article34703563.ece
02 June 2021||MUMBAI,||T20 World Cup: ICC accepts BCCI request to extend deadline||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board has acceded to the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) request to extend the deadline for finalising the venue for the T20 World Cup to be played later this year. The ICC Board, during its meeting on Tuesday, has asked the BCCI to resolve all the pending issues and confirm its plan for hosting the T20 World Cup by June 28. “The ICC Board has requested that the (event) management focuses its planning for the T20 World Cup 2021 being staged in the UAE with the possibility of including another venue in the Middle East,” an ICC statement issued after the meeting said. Decision later “A final decision on the host country will be taken later this month. The Board also confirmed that the BCCI will remain the hosts of the event regardless of where the event is played.”  The Hindu understands that with a 16-team event to be staged, the three venues in UAE — Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah — may not suffice. As a result, the ICC is considering hosting a few games in Oman, which has created excellent infrastructure for cricket. The T20 World Cup is tentatively scheduled to start around Oct. 18 and end on Nov. 14.  Meanwhile, the ICC Board has expanded the ODI and T20 World Cup events. The ICC Board confirmed that the T20 World Cups in 2024, 2026 and 2028 will have 20 teams each (55 matches), the ODI World Cups 2027 and 2031 will see 14 teams vying for honours (54 games). While the men’s Champions Trophy will return in 2025, a six-team women’s T20 Champions Trophy will be introduced in addition to the 10-team T20 World Cup.  The BCCI has time till June 28 to host the World Cup in India. If not, we will host it in the UAE. In case the event is shifted to the UAE, we are adding another venue. They are thinking about whether there should be three or four venues Sourav Ganguly BCCI president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-world-cup-icc-accepts-bcci-request-to-extend-deadline/article34703468.ece
02 June 2021||Mumbai,||FC Goa extends Gama’s contract||Indian Super League side FC Goa has inked a new three-year contract with Saviour Gama to keep the left-back at the club until 2024. Gama’s consistent performances on the left of the backline helped FC Goa secure its fourth consecutive playoff appearance whilst propelling the club to a 15-game unbeaten run to end the last season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fc-goa-extends-gamas-contract/article34703670.ece
02 June 2021||Santiago,||Vidal hospitalised after positive COVID test||Chilean midfielder Arturo Vidal, who plays for Inter Milan, has been hospitalised after testing positive for coronavirus, his national team said on Monday. This means the 34-year-old will miss Thursday’s World Cup qualifier against Argentina. No other player in the squad had tested positive for the virus. Vidal was initially hospitalised with severe tonsilitis, but tested positive for coronavirus on Monday, the team statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vidal-hospitalised-after-positive-covid-test/article34703671.ece
02 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Westbrook, Beal on song for Wizards||Russell Westbrook and Bradley Beal were on song as Washington Wizards stayed alive in the NBA playoffs beating Philadelphia 76ers 122-114 in game four in the Eastern Conference at Washington on Monday. Westbrook finished with 19 points, 21 rebounds and 14 assists, while Beal delivered a game-high 27 points. Beal scored the 1,000th post-season point of his career early in the game, while Westbrook recorded the 12th career triple-double in the playoffs, to move into third place on the all-time list. The Sixers lost four-time all-star Joel Embiid with an injury in the first quarter. Embiid hurt his knee after falling on a drive to the basket. Elsewhere, Donovan Mitchell had 30 points and Rudy Gobert scored 13 of his 17 in the third quarter as Utah Jazz beat Memphis Grizzlies 120-113 to take a stranglehold 3-1 lead in their Western Conference series. Jordan Clarkson scored 24 points, Bojan Bogdanovic added 13 and Mike Conley had 11 in the win. Ja Morant finished with 23 points and 12 assists, Dillon Brooks and Jaren Jackson each added 21, and Jonas Valanciunas finished with 14 points and 12 rebounds for Memphis. The top-seeded Jazz can close out the first round, best-of-seven series on Wednesday in game five in Salt Lake City.  The results: EC: Washington Wizards 122 bt Philadelphia 76ers 114 (76ers lead 3-1).   WC: Utah Jazz 120 bt Memphis Grizzlies 113 (Jazz leads 3-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/westbrook-and-beal-on-song-for-wizards/article34703524.ece
02 June 2021||LONDON,||Broad named vice-captain||England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB), on Tuesday, confirmed that pacer Stuart Broad would be the side’s vice-captain for the two-match Test series against New Zealand, beginning on Wednesday. “Our vice-captain for #ENGvNZ. @StuartBroad8,” official handle of England Cricket tweeted. Last week, England men’s cricket team coach Chris Silverwood had called up Kent’s wicketkeeper-batsman Sam Billings and Nottinghamshire’s top-order batsman Haseeb Hameed for the upcoming Test series against New Zealand.   The probable teams:   England: Joe Root (Capt.), Rory Burns, Dom Sibley, Zak Crawley, Ollie Pope, Dan Lawrence, James Bracey (wk), Ollie Robinson, Mark Wood, Stuart Broad, and James Anderson.   New Zealand: Kane Williamson (Capt.), Tom Latham, Devon Conway, Ross Taylor, Henry Nicholls, BJ Watling (wk), Colin de Grandhomme, Kyle Jamieson, Tim Southee, Neil Wagner, and Matt Henry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/broad-named-vice-captain/article34703462.ece
02 June 2021||PARIS,||Kvitova pulls out with freak injury||Petra Kvitova pulled out of the French Open on Tuesday after suffering a freak ankle injury by falling during her “post-match press requirements”. “It is with great disappointment that I announce my withdrawal from Roland Garros,” she said. “During my post-match press requirements on Sunday I fell and hurt my ankle. Unfortunately, after an MRI and much discussion with my team, I have made the tough decision that it would be unwise to play with it.” Kvitova said she was hoping to be back in time for a tilt at a third Wimbledon title to add to the ones she won in 2011 and 2014. “It’s incredibly bad luck, but I will stay strong and do my best to recover in time for the grass-court season,” said Kvitova.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kvitova-pulls-out-with-freak-injury/article34703470.ece
02 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Apparao Babu, S.V. Prasad no more||Former ACA panel umpire S. Apparao Babu passed away here on Tuesday. He was 62 and survived by wife, son and a daughter. VDCA president P. Vishnu Kumar and general secretary K. Pardhasaradhi expressed condolences. The VDCA officials also expressed condolences to the family members of S.V. Prasad, former president of the association in early 1980s, who passed away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/apparao-babu-sv-prasad-no-more/article34703878.ece
02 June 2021||Dubai,||WT20 rankings: Shafali keeps top spot||Shafali Verma, with 776 points, maintained pole position among T20 batters while Kathryn Bryce became the first woman from Scotland to make it into the top-10 in the ICC rankings published on Tuesday.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wt20-rankings-shafali-keeps-top-spot/article34703464.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||Devoted disciple||Kooratazhvan, a devoted disciple of Ramanujacharya, was blinded by a fanatic king. Ramanuja was anxious that his sishya regain his sight. So he asked him to pray to Lord Varadaraja of Kanchipuram. He could have asked Kooratazhvan to worship in any Vishnu temple. Why specifically this temple? The reason was Alavandar, who identified Ramanuja as his successor, had composed a sloka in praise of Varadaraja, wherein he praises the Lord’s capacity to give sight to the sightless, the ability to walk to those who cannot walk, ability to hear to those who cannot, eloquence to one who cannot speak, and progeny to the childless. That is why Ramanuja asked Kooratazhvan to seek Lord Varadaraja’s blessings, said P.B. Rajahamsam in a discourse. Alavandar’s sloka is unique, because it is the earliest sloka by any Vaishnavite Acharya. There is a sloka of Nathamuni, which has come down to us. It is a sloka that compares Nammazhvar to the Sun. But this sloka does not point to any particular deity. The earliest sloka, which specifically refers to the deity of a temple, is Alavanadar’s sloka in praise of Lord Varadaraja of Kanchipuram. While all the Azhvars have praised deities of different temples, the very first sloka in praise of an archa form of the Lord by a Vaishnavite Acharya is that of Alavandar. However, while Kooratazhvan did indeed eulogise Lord Varadaraja, through his Varadaraja stavam, he did not ask for restoration of his eyesight. The Lord makes it possible for him to see Him. All that Kooratazhvan wants is for the Lord to make it possible for him to see the Lord and his Acharya — Ramanuja. So long as this is granted to him, he does not care about seeing anything else in this world. Such a great devotee and sishya was Kooratazhvan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/devoted-disciple/article34703428.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 07:24 IST,||Sudoku — June 2, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-2-2021/article34704155.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports lowest hospitalisations due to COVID-19 in over two months||The Capital on Monday reported the lowest number of COVID patients being hospitalised in the last two months — over 10 times lesser compared to the peak of single-day hospital admissions recorded towards the end of April. At 182, single-day COVID hospital admissions were the lowest on Monday compared to 294 on April 1 during the ascension of the second wave in the city. 34 discharged every hour According to Delhi government records, 44 COVID patients were admitted to hospitals and 34 discharged every hour during the 61-day upsurge of the second COVID wave. Officials said the second wave seems to be at an end. Between April 1 and May 31, a total number of 65,762 COVID patients or 1,078 per day were admitted to city hospitals while 51,004 or 836 per day, were discharged, according to the records. As the second wave got more virulent on a daily basis, it had peaked at 1993 admissions on a single day on April 29 when the total number of hospital beds in the city stood at 21,152. After a slight increase on May 25, with 388 admissions compared to 382 on May 24, the number of hospitalisations has been consistently going down for the last 4 days. These stood at 229 on May 28, 228 on May 29, 237 on May 30 and 182 on May 31. While as many as 333 patients were discharged on Monday, the number of patients discharged on May 28 was 581, 619 on May 29 and 425 on May 30. The number of patients being discharged, as The Hindu has reported, had peaked only in mid-May — with 1384 patients leaving hospitals on May 13. This peak in the number of patients being discharged, according to records, also marked the first time during the 61-day period that the number of patients being released overtook the number of those being admitted: 1,384 discharges were recorded against 1,366 admissions. COVID admissions to hospitals had, so far, remained in three digits only between April 1 and April 12 when 932 admissions took place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-reports-lowest-hospitalisations-due-to-covid-19-in-over-two-months/article34703626.ece
02 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan govt. to conduct audit of COVID-19 vaccines||An audit of the COVID-19 vaccines will be conducted in Rajasthan to ensure that the doses are not wasted. The exercise is being undertaken following reports of alleged wastage of vaccines, though the State government has claimed that the vaccine wastage was limited to 2%, which was below the national average of 6%. With 1.70 crore people in the State having received the vaccine doses, Rajasthan had remained a front-runner in vaccinating the beneficiaries and was among the leading States where the wastage was very low, Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Tuesday. Mr. Sharma said there was zero vaccine wastage in the inoculations for the people in the age group of 18 to 44 years. “We have placed a special emphasis on the quality of vaccination processes. I have directed my department to do a thorough quality check of the vaccination being carried out in the State,” Mr. Sharma said in a letter shot off to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in response to his communication asking for a probe into the issue of vaccine wastage. The Minister termed the report cited by Dr. Vardhan as false and said the matter had been thoroughly enquired by his department’s officers, who had found it as not based on facts. “Sometimes it happens that after opening the vial, the unused doses have to be discarded due to safety concerns. It leads to some amount of wastage,” he said.  ‘Wastage within limit’ The wastage rate in Rajasthan was well within the limit permitted by the Centre, said the Minister. Dr. Vardhan had cited a report of about 500 vials found in the waste bins, into which he had sought an investigation. As part of the audit exercise, the Chief Medical and Health Officers in all districts will ensure inspection of vaccination centres once every week and pay attention to the inoculations as per the “queue dynamics”, after which the proper entries will be made in the software.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-govt-to-conduct-audit-of-covid-19-vaccines/article34703863.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. allows home delivery of alcohol via mobile apps, websites||The Delhi government has allowed home delivery of alcohol through mobile apps and websites under the amended excise rules, but the option is yet to start in the city. “Licence in Form L-13 for home delivery of Indian liquor and Foreign Liquor by ordering through mobile app or online web portal,” said the Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, published in a gazette notification on Monday. “The licensee shall make delivery of liquor at the residences only if order is received through mobile app or online web portal and no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution,” the amended rules said. The Delhi Excise Rules, 2010, which was followed before this also allowed home delivery of liquor booked through e-mail or by fax, but it was not happening in the city, according to officials. “The licensee shall make delivery of liquor at the residences only if order is received through e-mail or by Fax (not on telephone) and no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution,” stated the Delhi Excise Rules, 2010. The Delhi government spokesperson clarified that no new license has been issued for home delivery of alcohol. “L-13 is an existing license that has been amended. No license for L-13 or home delivery of license has been issued,” the spokesperson said. BJP lashes out at govt. The BJP hit out at the decision and said that the Chief Minister couldn’t give free medicine and ration but is serving liquor at the doorstep. “It would have been better if Kejriwal had rather concentrated on toning up the healthcare system so that scores of people would not have died during the pandemic, running here and there for treatment. The government just sat lazily doing nothing as people did not get oxygen or doctors help even while treating at home. If only the government had thought of it, these things could have been delivered to them at home,” said Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta. The Delhi government did not issue any details on the specifics of home delivery of liquor.  The licensee shall make delivery of liquor at the residences only if order is received through e-mail or by Fax (not on telephone) and no delivery shall be made to any hostel, office, and institution Delhi Excise Rules, 2010||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-allows-home-delivery-of-alcohol-via-mobile-apps-websites/article34703632.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Positivity rate remains below 1% for 2nd day||Delhi reported 623 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,26,863, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) fell to 0.88%, which means that less than one person out of 100 people taking COVID tests is now positive for the virus. The TPR was 0.99% on Monday and this is the second consecutive day, the figure is below 1%. The TPR was as high as 36% on April 22 and has been coming down since then. Also, 62 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,299. A total of 70,813 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 13,92,386 people have recovered and there are 10,178 active cases. Also, out of the total 24,752 hospital beds for COVID-19, 82.2% of beds were vacant. At the peak of the second wave in April, only 5-6% of beds were vacant on many days. Atishi on shortage “There are no vaccination doses available for the youth. Until the next installment of vaccines arrives on June 10, vaccination for the youth stands closed...,” said AAP leader Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-remains-below-1-for-2nd-day/article34703631.ece
02 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Farmers block JJP MLA Babli’s vehicle in Haryana||A group of farmers on Tuesday blocked Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLA Devender Babli’s vehicle at Tohana in Fatehabad, Haryana, shouting slogans and raising black flags as a mark of protest against the Centre’s farm laws. The JJP is a coalition partner of the BJP in the Haryana government. While the MLA alleged that the farmers smashed his vehicle’s windscreen, the farmers said Mr. Babli hurled abuses and instigated the protesters. The police said the MLA was on his way to a hospital at Tohana to attend an event when a group of protesters surrounded the vehicle and shouted slogans. The MLA and the protesters exchanged heated words during the incident. Talking to presspersons, Mr. Babli said farmers did not involve themselves in such a kind of protests, adding that certain anti-social elements were behind the attack.  Boycott of legislators Farmer outfits have announced that all legislators, including those from the BJP, the JJP and other Independents, who have been favouring the Centre’s farm laws would be boycotted and not be allowed entry into villages across the State. Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) president Gurnam Singh said the BJP-JJP MLAs were trying to instigate farmers and Mr. Babli’s visit was the latest in the series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farmers-block-jjp-mla-bablis-vehicle-in-haryana/article34703865.ece
02 June 2021||Chandigarh,||HC flags Chandigarh’s power privatisation bid||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that the Chandigarh administration’s proposed action of electricity privatisation is in direct conflict with the nation’s agenda ‘Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas’. Hearing a petition on May 28 of U.T. Powermen Union, Chandigarh, which has challenged the decision of the privatisation of electricity in Chandigarh, Justices Jitendra Chauhan and Vivek Puri observed “..The proposed action of privatisation is in direct conflict with the nation’s agenda ‘Sab Ka Saath Sab Ka Vikas’. We feel that privatisation is not a panacea for all the ills and privatisation with blind motive of so-called efficiency falls flat as this department is not only a profitable one but also time and again matched the high standards of customers’ satisfaction and has a big role in maintaining the City Beautiful.”  ‘Undue hurry’ “With great pain and anguish, it is recorded that we are unable to reconcile with the fact that when the whole world is grappling with the deadly virus, when there is no oxygen, no ICUs, a long queue at cremation grounds and no place in the hospitals, the undue hurry on the part of the administration to hand over the profit-making department to the private entity at this stage of the history and in this situation of crisis faced by the entire mankind, seems to be misplaced,” added the judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-flags-chandigarhs-power-privatisation-bid/article34703866.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Pay salaries and pensions, HC tells North corporation||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the North body commissioner to make an endeavour to comply with the judicial orders to clear arrears of salaries and pension of its serving and retired staffers of all categories, saying it is not acceptable that a poor employee is not paid dues. The court also said may be the corporation needs to rationalise its staff strength and undertake a review and conduct an audit as it could be overstaffed or carrying a baggage of past. “We are sure you are aware of the situation that employees not are getting their salaries. This is completely unacceptable that a poor employee is not paid salary. If somebody has to take a cut, let it start from the top. Senior officers can take 50% of their salaries. Are you getting your full salary?,” a Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh asked North body commissioner who was present in the hearing in pursuance to court’s earlier direction. The court asked the commissioner to file an affidavit in two weeks in response to a plea seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the authorities for failure to comply with the order to pay salaries and pensions of employees and retirees and listed the matter for July 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pay-salaries-and-pensions-hc-tells-north-corporation/article34703622.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors observe black day against Ramdev’s remarks||Doctors of different hospitals across the country observed Tuesday as “black day” against comments made by Baba Ramdev, said Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA). The doctors protested by wearing a black band at hospitals. FORDA said the resident doctors protested against the “illogical, unscientific, demeaning and derogatory statements” made by Ramdev against modern medicine, its practitioners and the COVID-19 vaccination drive. The organisation said they will take the fight ahead if Ramdev does not apologise or authorities fail to take any punitive action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/doctors-observe-black-day-against-ramdevs-remarks/article34703629.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘49 North body employees died due to virus from April till now’||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday said 49 employees of the civic body died due to COVID between April and May. Mr. Prakash made the comment while visiting the Ghaziabad residence of Dr. A.K. Bahl, who was serving at the civic body’s Hindu Rao Hospital in the Anesthesia Department before contracting COVID and losing his life in the line of duty, to pay his last respects. “The North body is doing every possible bit for the families of those who died due to COVID while performing their duties. As many as 49 employees in different categories of sanitation, engineering, health, education and other departments of the corporation died from April till now,” he said. The families of such employees, he said, will be offered jobs and compensation out of the fund created for the purpose as per policy and such cases will also be sent to the Delhi government for compensation of Rs. 1 crore each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/49-north-body-employees-died-due-to-virus-from-april-till-now/article34703627.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||Hospitals ramping up infrastructure||Hospitals across Delhi have started ramping up infrastructure to ensure availability of essential equipment, drugs and ICU beds for children as part of their plan to tackle a possible third wave of COVID. The Delhi government has set up a task force to suggest measures to protect children from the third wave. Most of the hospitals are focussing on ramping up their ICU beds and facilities for children, amid fears that the third wave might be fatal for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hospitals-ramping-up-infrastructure/article34703623.ece
02 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||‘NSCN(I-M) using new outfit as front in Assam’||The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (I-M) could be using a new extremist group as a front for extortion in Assam, officials of security forces engaged in counter-insurgency operations said. A combined team of the Assam police, paramilitary forces and the Army have been probing a possible nexus between the NSCN (I-M) and the Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) after the latter’s “army chief” Minom Phunglasa was caught a few months ago.  ‘Arms for money’ Phunglasa is alleged to have told his interrogators that the NSCN (I-M) was helping the DNLA with arms, training and shelter near Nagaland’s Dimapur town in exchange for a share of money collected as “taxes” from contractors, traders and timber dealers in Assam, primarily the adjoining hill districts of Dima Hasao and Karbi Anglong. He also named NSCN (I-M)’s “brigadier” Chiplemi Shimrang as having offered weapons and explosives to the DNLA, which was formed before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls for securing a separate State for the Dimasa community. The security forces followed this lead, gathered intelligence in Nagaland and tracked the movement of people suspected to be DNLA members. This culminated in the May 23 encounter in which six DNLA members were gunned down “when challenged” at Dugudisha in Karbi Anlgong district. A seventh DNLA member named Mushrang escaped from the encounter site toward Nagaland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nscni-m-using-new-outfit-as-front-in-assam/article34703864.ece
02 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||In Haryana, 16% vaccination target achieved||More than 57 lakh vaccination doses — around 16% of the total targeted 3.5 crore doses — have been administered in Haryana so far. The State has around 1.76 crore population above 18 years of age. According to a Health Department spokesperson, the State aimed to administer vaccine to 1.76 crore beneficiaries, including 1.05 crore falling in the 18-45 age group and the remaining 71 lakh above 45 years. Thus, around 3.5 crore vaccination doses are to be administered to 1.76 crore beneficiaries of which 57,11,985 doses have been administered which sums up to 16% of the targeted doses. The State has already administered vaccine to 82% of its healthcare and front-line workers. Since the launch of the vaccination drive on January 16, the State has taken several steps to ensure administration of the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-haryana-16-vaccination-target-achieved/article34703620.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19: Antibody cocktail treatment begins at Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital||Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Tuesday started administering monoclonal antibody cocktail (MAC) to COVID patients, the facility said. The hospital is administering a combination of casirivimab and imdevimab to consenting patients with mild symptoms at high risk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-antibody-cocktail-treatment-begins-at-delhis-sir-ganga-ram-hospital/article34703624.ece
02 June 2021||New Delhi,||NDMC-Brief||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) Chairman Dharmendra on Tuesday gave directions to intensify preventive operations against vector-borne diseases and anti-larva activities. The civic body said that there have been only two cases of dengue till now this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ndmc-brief/article34703628.ece
02 June 2021||June 02 2021 00:00 IST,||A gooseberry summer||Prerna Sood has begun her day with a shot of amla for as long as she can remember. Her grandmother had ensured everyone at home joined in — a tradition Sood continues to this day with her own family. The Noida-based architect, food lover, and fermenting addict sources her amlas from a local farmers’ market. Since the lockdown began last March, with doctors highlighting the importance of good immunity, many have rediscovered this commonplace powerhouse of vitamin C. Our days now begin not with tea or coffee, but with a shot of this bitter-sour juice, with its final rush of sweetness, packed with nutrients and immunity boosters. But even before the coronavirus came calling, amla has been a vital ingredient in most Indian homes. It would be boiled with salt water,hingand turmeric, to make an oil-free pickle; ground and stirred into a thokku ; grated and added to curd for a raita ; or cooked with dal for a deeply-flavourful side dish. Amla has also been a part of native medicine, and its dried and candied versions have come in handy as digestives. For many of us, no wait at the school bus stop was ever complete without buying large amlas with crinkly skin, soaked in glass jars filled with salted yellow-red water redolent ofhing. Long after the soft fruit was eaten, we would delight in the saltiness of the seed. Now the world is discovering the Indian gooseberry — different from its cousins in the Americas and the Continent that are smaller, grow on spiky bushes, and are perhaps a tad less sour. According to recent news reports, KoreaShop 24, which facilitates trade between India and the South Korean market, closed a deal for Nature Factory, a company based in Seoul, to export amla extract worth Rs. 85 lakh. With the growing demand for immunity-boosting Indian gooseberries in Korea, the order is expected to go up, based on the reception. Meanwhile, back home, as demand continues to grow, we take a nostalgia break with farmers, bloggers, writers and homemakers about their memories of the gooseberry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-gooseberry-summer/article34703613.ece
