03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Why not buy 100% vaccines if you get discount, SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court has questioned the Centre’s logic that manufacturers are selling it COVID-19 vaccines for a hefty discount because it places bulk orders. The court then asked the government why it cannot buy 100% of the vaccines at a discount instead of leaving the States to fend for themselves. “The Central government justifying its lower prices on account of its ability to place large purchase orders for vaccines raises the issue as to why this rationale is not being employed for acquiring 100% of the monthly CDL [Central Drugs Laboratory] doses,” a Bench, led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, noted in a 32-page order. The Centre can buy vaccines for Rs. 150, while the States have to shell out between Rs. 300 and Rs. 600. “If the Central government’s unique monopolistic buyer position is the only reason for it receiving vaccines at a much lower rate from manufacturers, it is important for us to examine the rationality of the existing Liberalised Vaccination Policy against Article 14 [right to equality] of the Constitution since it could place severe burdens, particularly on States/Union Territories suffering from financial distress,” the court held. It said the Centre, with a Rs. 35,000 crore budget to buy vaccines, has money to spare unlike the States which have suddenly been burdened with the task to cough up funds for vaccines. “The Union Budget for 2021-2022 earmarked Rs. 35,000 crore for procuring vaccines. In the light of the Liberalised Vaccination Policy, the Central government is directed to clarify how these funds have been spent so far and why they cannot be utilised for vaccinating persons aged 18-44,” the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-not-buy-100-vaccines-if-you-get-discount-sc-asks-centre/article34712453.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Containing deficit at 4% a challenge||Additional revenue mobilisation to contain the deficit at 4% during the COVIF-19 pandemic will be the biggest challenge for Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal while presenting his maiden Budget (revised Budget) for 2021-22 in the Assembly on June 4. As the Finance Minister has to carry forward the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) goal for a knowledge-based society with strides in modern employment opportunities and industrial growth and consolidate the achievements made in the social sector, the challenge is to tap new revenue sources. While implementing futuristic budget, Mr. Balagopal’s hands will be tied as the situation that prevailed in January is different now. To begin with, there will be a sharp fall in Goods and Service Tax (GST) revenue and GST compensation shortfall is still a mirage for a consumer State like Kerala. Many unexpected expenditure such as natural disasters and COVID vaccine bill will put pressure on the Minister. The revenue shortfall, Rs. 8,000 crore to Rs. 10,000 crore, was more than the anticipated as the economic crisis triggered by the second wave of the pandemic had come after the Budget was presented by the then Finance Minister T.M. Isaac on January 15, official sources said. The 2020-2021 Budget of Dr. Isaac had provided additional expenditures of Rs. 1,164 crore and tax concessions of Rs. 191 crore against additional revenue mobilisation of just Rs. 200 crore, leaving a cumulative deficit of Rs. 1,306.69 crore. Kerala received only Rs. 5,700 crore last fiscal as GST compensation from the Rs. 1.10 lakh disbursed by the Centre to all States. The cushioning impact for Mr. Balagopal is the Rs. 19,524 crore Revenue Deficit Grant provided by the 15th Finance Commission for 2021-2022. Property tax hike Property tax is one area which is being eyed for mobilising revenue. Raising the property tax from the present 0.5 of the GDP to 1% will alone fetch Rs. 8,000 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/containing-deficit-at-4-a-challenge/article34712655.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,||Prioritise vaccine supply to States: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday orally observed that the request of State governments for vaccine supply from non-governmental quota should be prioritised. The Bench comprising Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath orally observed that the request of the State government should be considered on a par with the request of private hospitals and other private entities. There should be some yardstick for supply of vaccines under the non-governmental quota. Preference The court made these observations when public interest litigations challenging the Centre’s Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy and also seeking a directive to the Centre to provide sufficient funds to the State government for vaccination and other cases came up for hearing. Counsel for the petitioner pointed out that private hospitals and big corporate companies were given preference over the request of the State governments for supply of vaccines by the manufacturers. During the hearing, the court asked the Centre how private hospitals and entities were able to procure vaccines when the State governments’ requests were pending before the vaccine manufacturing companies. The reality was that the private players were getting preference over the governments’ request. There should be some yardstick in the supply of vaccines from the non-governmental quota. The Centre should try to see that priority was given to the request of the government for vaccine supply, the court orally added. Kerala’s request The court also directed the Centre to inform the court whether the request of the Kerala government for supply of vaccines from the non-governmental quota could be prioritised. K.V. Sohan, State Attorney, appearing for the government submitted that the Centre had fixed different pricing for vaccines. He alleged that the Centre’s vaccine policy was encouraging black marketing of vaccines by private players. M. Ajay, counsel for the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, the procurement agency of the State government, submitted that though the agency had placed orders for one crore doses of vaccines, they had not yet been supplied.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/prioritise-vaccine-supply-to-states-hc/article34712659.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||House unites in demand for free vaccines for State||The Kerala Assembly on Wednesday passed a unanimous resolution urging the Union government to provide COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to the State. Minister for Health, Women and Child Welfare Veena George moved the resolution on Wednesday as the State faced an acute shortage of vaccines. The resolution was moved one day after Chief Minister Pinaryi Vijayan reiterated in the House that his government would make available COVID-19 vaccines free of cost to the citizens and that one crore vaccine doses had been ordered by the government. The resolution moved by the Health Minister was also critical of the Union government’s vaccine policy, which pushed States to compete in the open market for vaccine purchase from manufacturers. Free vaccines to combat dangerous infectious diseases were adopted as a national policy earlier. The Centre was now asking the States to procure vaccines from the open market and this was highly condemnable, the resolution said. The first wave of COVID-19 had weakened the economy and now the country was battling to overcome the second wave. Speeding up the vaccination would help the economy and save lives, Ms. George told the House. The Centre was also asked to allow other vaccines that had the approval of the World Health Organization (WHO) for emergency use and those approved by the European Medicines Agency, Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency and Food and Drug Administration. The resolution was approved by the House after incorporating amendments moved by the Opposition. This is the second time in the ongoing first session of the 15th Assembly that the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) joined hands to pass a resolution. The first was on May 31 in which the Assembly unanimously passed a resolution demanding the recall of Lakshadweep Administrator Praful Khoda Patel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kerala-house-resolution-seeks-free-jabs/article34712633.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Report in a week’s time on prevention of third wave||The Task Force headed by Narayana Health Chairman Devi Prasad Shetty will submit a detailed report on a strategy for the prevention of COVID-19 third wave to the government in a week’s time. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday held discussions with members of the Task Force regarding the preparation to be made for prevention of the third wave. Issues related to preventive measures, infrastructure and treatment facilities required, human resources, and medicines were discussed during the meeting. Dr. Shetty said that the report would be submitted in a week’s time. The Chief Minister said that the government would take necessary steps based on this report. Speaking on the government’s plan regarding the lockdown that ends on June 7, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “Despite the lockdown, COVID-19 has not come under control in the State. We will take a call on extending the lockdown and other stringent measures shortly.”  For industries However, in an indication of further relaxation for industries, Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar issued an order on Wednesday allowing export-oriented industrial units to function with 50% staff strength from June 3. The order also stipulated that all functioning industries that employ more than 1,000 employees have to get at least 10% of their staff strength tested for COVID-19, randomly, twice a week.  Detailed discussions were held with experts to chalk out the prevention and mitigation plans for the possible third wave of the pandemic. The Task Force headed by Dr. Devi Shetty will present a report in one week to help the government to be prepared. B.S. Yediyurappa Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/task-force-to-submit-report-on-prevention-of-third-wave/article34712503.ece
03 June 2021||Mumbai,||Decision on HSC exams soon: Minister||The Maharashtra School Education Department has sought the approval from thedisaster management authority to cancel the State board exams for Class XII students. “We informed the Cabinet the decision of the Central government and subsequent action taken by other States. We are moving our file to the disaster management authority and soon a decision will be taken,” said School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad after the Cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Asked whether the government proposes to cancel the exam, Ms. Gaikwad said their position was always clear. “We have kept the health and safety of students as our priority. We had informed the same to the central committee and we are following this in the State as well. These are extraordinary times and we will have to extraordinary measures,” she said adding a decision would be taken at the earliest. “We are discussing various options, including cancellation of examination. But we have yet not received final approval and that will be announced in a day or two,” said an official from the School Education Department, privy to the developments. Once the authority clears the proposal, the department will announce the assessment method, the official said. Maharashtra was one of the State in favour of cancelling the CBSE Class XII examinations. “In view of the status of the pandemic, projections that children are vulnerable to newer strains and the anxiety among them, the government had demanded that a ‘non-examination route’ be considered for the students,” Ms. Gaikwad had tweeted after Tuesday’s announcement by the Centre on cancellation of exams. “We’d also stressed on a ‘uniform assessment model’. I welcome the Centre’s decision to cancel the CBSE exams. There is no doubt that Std. XII exams are an important milestone in a student’s life, but the health and mental well-being of our children should be prioritised,” she tweeted. ‘Exploring options’ Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), one of the constituents of the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, said a final decision will be taken only after a deep study. “The Prime Minister has taken a call on the CBSE examinations. An announcement has been made and now it is important to study the options available. Those who clear Class XII exams go on for engineering and medical courses. Their future cannot be mishandled. Therefore, the State government will study the issue and take a final decision,” said party Minister Nawab Malik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-hsc-exams-soon-minister/article34713003.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||98 deaths and 12,768 new cases in State||The State has again reported close to a 100 COVID-19 deaths and over 10,000 new infections. In the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, 98 deaths and 12,768 new infections were reported, taking the toll to  11,132  and the tally to 17,17,156.   The daily positivity rate of the 98,048 samples tested was 13.02%, one percent more than the previous day’s. The overall positivity rate of the 1.94 crore samples tested stand at 8.83%. Active cases The number of active cases came down to 1,43,795 with 15,612 recoveries in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 15,62,229 with a recovery rate of 90.98%, and the tests per million ratio was at 3.64 lakh. Chittoor district continued to report the highest death toll with 15 new deaths in the past day. It was followed by Nellore which reported 10 deaths. All other districts reported new deaths in single digit. They include West Godavari (9), Anantapur (8), East Godavari (8), Vizianagaram (8), Guntur (7), Prakasam (7), Srikakulam (7), Visakhapatnam (6), Krishna (5), Kadapa (4) and Kurnool (4). East Godavari continued to report over 2,000 new infections daily. In the past day, it reported 2,703 infections. Chittoor and Anantapur reported 1,551 and 1,506 new infections respectively. They were followed by West Godavari (1,052), Visakhapatnam (844), Krishna (841), Nellore (785), Guntur (765), Prakasam (734), Kadapa (699), Srikakulam (561), Kurnool (474) and Vizianagaram (253). Nearly half of the active cases in the State were in three districts including East Godavari (21%), Prakasam (13%) and Chittoor (12%).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/98-deaths-and-12768-new-cases-in-state/article34712441.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan for foolproof land survey in State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to complete the comprehensive land survey in a foolproof manner by June 2023. At a review meeting on ‘Jagananna Saswatha Bhoomi Hakku - Bhoomi Raksha Survey’ on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the project was hampered to some extent by COVID-19, and that it needed to be expedited now to finish it within the stipulated time. He maintained that there would be no scope for land disputes after completion of the survey as the landowners would be given clear titles. The Chief Minister exhorted the village and ward secretariats to be prepared to provide all types of services to the people, including the issuance of birth and death certificates. The officials told the Chief Minister that 70 base stations had been set up so far and that the project was going on with high accuracy. Three phases More base stations were being installed, they said. Drones were being procured with the help of Survey of India. The survey was poised to be completed in 4,800 villages in the first phase. Regarding land survey in the urban local bodies, officials of the Municipal Administration Department informed the Chief Minister that the project had commenced at Tadepalligudem in West Godavari district. The survey would be carried out in 41 cities and towns in Phase-I from June 2021 to January 2022 and 42 cities / towns in the second phase from February to October of 2022. The third phase would begin in 41 cities / towns in November 2022 and be completed by April 2023. Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, CM’s principal adviser Ajeya Kallam, and Chief Commissioner (land administration) Neerabh Kumar Prasad were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-for-foolproof-land-survey-in-state/article34712447.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Court in Dominica adjourns hearing in Mehul Choksi case||Hearing began on Wednesday against fugitive businessman and diamond trader Mehul Choksi at a court in Dominica, where he is facing charges of entering the island territory illegally. Opposing the public prosecutor in the court, Mr. Choksi’s team said he was “traumatised” after being tortured in custody of alleged kidnappers, who took him from his residence in nearby Antigua where he had acquired citizenship. The hearing will continue on Thursday. The case had taken a turn against Mr. Choksi after Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne claimed that Mr. Choksi had left his residence there out of his free will with a female companion and that Dominica should hand him over to the Indian authorities, who were expecting that country to carry out the International Red Corner Notice against Mr. Choksi, accused of defrauding the Punjab National Bank and the State Bank of India of Rs. 13,500 crore. On Wednesday, Mr. Choksi’s team claimed that his human rights were violated ever since he was allegedly “abducted” from Antigua. “My husband is in hospital and I have been able to speak to him. He is traumatised and has lots of wounds,” Priti Choksi told WION, a TV channel. During the hearing, Mr. Choksi’s team also raised questions about a female friend who allegedly plotted his removal from Antigua to Dominica. Lawyers appearing for Mr. Choksi argued that he is an Antigua citizen and he should be sent back to Antigua. Antigua maintains that Mr. Choksi remains an Indian citizen. Indian authorities who are closely watching the case maintain that Mr. Choksi should be extradited to India as he committed crimes while being an Indian citizen before taking the Antigua citizenship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/court-in-dominica-adjourns-hearing-in-mehul-choksi-case/article34712451.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Sero-prevalence in T.N. stands at 23%||Prior to the second wave of the pandemic, around 23% of Tamil Nadu’s population, excluding Chennai’s, may have been exposed to SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, according to the second sero-survey done by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine during March-April. There was an overall reduction in the average antibody prevalence, compared with the first survey conducted during October-November 2020, when the State’s sero-prevalence was 31.6%. A total of 22,817 blood samples were collected from 45 health unit districts (HUDs), other than Chennai, for the second survey. Of the 22,721 samples processed, 5,242 returned positive, indicating a sero-prevalence of 23.1%. While the Poonamallee HUD recorded the highest sero-prevalence of 50.6%, Nagapattinam recorded the lowest of 8.9%. Three HUDs in the northern region — Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram, which were among the hotspots in the first wave of the pandemic — recorded 48.3%, 42.5% and 37.7% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sero-prevalence-in-tn-stands-at-23/article34712542.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Gauhati HC seeks status of West Bengal refugees in Assam||The Gauhati High Court has sought an update from the Central and Assam governments on the status of those who fled violence in West Bengal after the declaration on May 2 of the Assembly results and took refuge in the border areas of Assam. A Bench of Chief Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia and Justice Manash Ranjan Pathak has also sought the status of the condition of the children in the makeshift camps in Assam from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights in its June 1 directive. The court had heard two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions on the issue of the internally-displaced persons who were forced to flee West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district and take refuge across the inter-State border in Assam’s Dhubri district. The petitions were filed by Abhijit Sarma, based in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh, and Ravi Chhedilal of Mumbai. Next hearing The court fixed July 14 as the next date of hearing after detailed replies come within three weeks. More than 400 people had crossed over to Dhubri within 48 hours on May 2. On May 14, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited the camps of the refugees in Dhubri district along with Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik. “These people are so terrified that they told me they might be attacked again because I met them. I cannot imagine they are living in such fear. They are facing political vendetta because they opposed ruling party [in West Bengal],” he had said after the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gauhati-hc-seeks-status-of-west-bengal-refugees-in-assam/article34712647.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Oppn. corners Minister over death figures||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) tried to corner Health Minister Veena George in the Assembly on Wednesday by alleging that attempts were on to cover up COVID-19 deaths in the State to project Kerala model to contain the pandemic. Moving a notice for an adjournment motion in the Assembly, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) member M.K. Muneer said the health authorities had not been able to pinpoint which variant of the virus had caused more deaths. “There has been an attempt to cover up COVID deaths. It is not right to project Kerala as the lead State in COVID containment measures by not showing the actual numbers of deaths,” he said. Dr. Muneer alleged discrimination in the distribution of vaccines by giving undue consideration to Pathanamthitta district from where the Health Minister hailed. Supporting the suspicion over the death figures, Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said many people who had died of post-COVID complications such as bleeding in the brain, cardiac arrest and stroke were not registered as COVID deaths. The State should form its own guidelines to report COVID deaths after conducting a proper study. All families who lost their members due to COVID should get the benefits announced by the State government, he said. Dr. Muneer and Mr. Satheesan pledged all support to the government for containing the pandemic. Noisy scenes Earlier, the House witnessed noisy scenes with the UDF legislators protesting against the remarks of Ms. George that the Opposition was trying to depict health workers engaged in COVID duty in poor light. The Opposition members led by Mr. Satheesan was on their feet registering their protest. “The Minister should retract her statement as the Opposition has never tried to belittle the health workers or containment work,” he said. The Minister said the allegation that the government was not disclosing the actual COVID deaths was baseless. With the Opposition sticking to their demand and obstructing the speech, the Minister asked: “Is this the unconditional support you have offered?” Following the Minister’s reply, Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied permission for the adjournment motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/an-attempt-to-cover-up-covid-deaths/article34712628.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Virus-hit Maoists treated in Dandakaranya||Some senior Maoist leaders, including Central Committee members Katakam Sudershan alias Dula Dada and Thippiri Tirupathi alias Kummu Dada, tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment in Dandakaranya forest of Chhattisgarh. This was revealed to Telangana police by another COVID-affected senior Maoist leader, Gaddam Madhukar, who was caught in Warangal while on his way to a private hospital in the town from Chhattisgarh for medical assistance. Madhukar, who hails from Kumram Bheem-Asifabad district, was head of communications for Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee. While Madhukar had managed to evade police for more than two decades, it was COVID that forced him break his self-imposed security measures. Telangana police have anticipated that COVID-affected Maoists might step out of their ‘safe zones’ to opt for treatment at private hospitals in the bordering districts. Speaking to The Hindu , Warangal Commissioner of Police Tarun Joshi, said that they received reliable inputs about a large number of Maoist cadre infected with COVID. On June 1, on receipt of an input that one senior Maoist was visiting Warangal for better treatment from Chhattisgarh area, “We conducted vehicle checking across the district and intercepted a vehicle at Mulugu Cross Road, in which we found Madhukar,” he said. According to the Commissioner, in the last 10 days a large number of tribals who were mobilised from Chhattisgarh and also from bordering villages of Telangana to participate in a protest against setting up a new police camp at Silger village in Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh, contracted the virus and the villagers are suffering from COVID without getting any medical treatment. Some of the cadre who were suspected to be suffering from COVID-19 and other health issues are Narayana alias Haribhushan, TSC secretary, Bade Chokka Rao, Kankanala Raji Reddy, Katta Ramchandra Reddy, Mula Devender Reddy, Kunkati Venkataiah, Muchaki Ungal, Kodi Manjula, Pusam Padma and Kakarla Sunitha, the Commissioner said. Currently, Madhukar is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Warangal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/virus-hit-maoist-leaders-being-treated-in-forest/article34712504.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Issue GO capping COVID-19 treatment charges: HC||The Telangana High Court on Wednesday instructed Public Health Director G. Srinivasa Rao to ensure that a fresh Government Order (GO) was issued within a week, fixing charges for hospitalisation and diagnostic tests for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals. If the GO was not issued, the Health Secretary should file an affidavit explaining reasons for it and appear for the virtual hearing on June 10, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. The bench was hearing a batch of PIL petitions connected to coronavirus issues. The previous day, it deferred the hearing to Wednesday as Mr. Rao was unavailable to reply to the queries raised by the bench. After listening to the lengthy explanations give by him on Wednesday, the bench made it clear that a fresh GO on capping charges of hospitalisation and investigations for COVID-19 has to be issued. “It must be uploaded on Public Health department website,” the CJ noted. Referring to the cancellation of licences of hospitals indulging in excessive billing for treating COVID-19 patients, the CJ told the Director that in such cases how would the patients get back the money they paid in excess. Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy suggested to Mr. Rao that instead of cancelling licences of the hospitals it would be better to ensure that patients got their money returned. Simultaneously, the government should utilise services of these private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients in the backdrop of high demand for beds and better medical treatment. The CJ too observed that patients would not get back their money if the managements of hospitals, whose licences were cancelled, stop operating them. “Consider lifting action against the hospitals if they fall in line. We are looking at the larger interests of the public good,” the CJ said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/issue-go-capping-covid-19-treatment-charges-hc/article34712942.ece
03 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Bail for 7 accused of stealing shrouds in U.P.||A local court in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat has granted bail to seven persons, including three cloth traders related to each other, after the police failed to produce evidence regarding the fake stickers and ribbons they allegedly used to sell the cloth made by repackaging shrouds stolen by them from crematoriums and graveyards. The seven were arrested last month on charges of allegedly stealing pieces of cloths used as shrouds in crematoriums and graveyards before cleaning them and packing them with fake stickers and ribbons of a Gwalior company. They allegedly sold the repackaged cloth for a good price in the market. While arresting them, the police had claimed to have recovered over 500 pieces of shrouds and other cloth items from them. Judge Sazia Nazar Zaidi, session judge (in-charge) in the bail order dated June 1, noted that the prosecution neither produced any document regarding any criminal case previously filed in the matter nor the fake stickers and ribbons of a Gwalior company allegedly used by the accused to market the refurbished shrouds. ‘Falsely implicated’ The accused pleaded that they were falsely implicated and said that the cloth recovered from them were not shrouds, stolen or otherwise. The accused persons, Pravin Jain and his son Ashish Jain, run a cloth store in Baraut, while their relative Rishab Jain, who runs a separate store, was visiting them on the day of their arrest on May 9, the accused said. The other four persons — Shravan Kumar Sharma, Raju, Bablu and Shahrukh — are Mr. Pravin’s staffers who were allegedly working from home due to the lockdown. The Jain father-son argued that due to the lockdown, they were assorting “cut-piece cloth after setting them right” and packing them. The accused have submitted bills towards proving that they purchased the cloth. The court said the cloth allegedly recovered from the traders and shown to be shrouds would be a matter of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bail-for-7-accused-of-stealing-shrouds-in-up/article34712917.ece
03 June 2021||CHITTOOR,||Chittoor sees spurt in black fungus cases||The number of black fungus cases has been rising steadily in Chittoor district in the last 10 days. As of Wednesday, the tally inched closer to 200. The government hospitals in Tirupati and Chittoor have been handling the lion’s share of the patients, followed by private hospitals in Vellore and Chennai. Cause for concern According to officials at the SVRR Hospital, the spurt in black fungus cases is a cause of concern, with a dozen patients reporting for admission every day. At present, about 70 cases of black fungus are being treated in the hospital, excluding the outpatients. “We have sufficient beds for mucormycosis cases in SVRR Hospital, and there is no dearth of medicines. However, many patients are rushing to the hospital seeking admission stating that they cannot afford the high cost of medicines for treatment,” a senior medical officer of the hospital said. ‘No serious case’ Though some patients had undergone surgery that involved removal of parts surrounding the sinus, there was no serious case requiring amputation at the facial level, he added. COVID-19 history A senior official at the district government hospital at Chittoor said that 90% of the cases suffering from mucormycosis had a history of testing positive for COVID-19. The minor segment of black fungus cases with no history of COVID-19 infection was mostly going unreported. “While the affluent sections are preferring treatment for black fungus in corporate hospitals elsewhere in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the government hospitals are getting cases from the poorer sections,” he said. A small number of patients with milder attack of black fungus are approaching private ENT specialists in Tirupati and Chennai. ‘No dearth of medicines’ When contacted, SVRR Hospital Superintendent T. Bharati said the black fungus cases were slowly on the rise. “It’s true that many patients are approaching us for admission as the medicines for treatment of mucormycosis are costly. At present, we have no dearth of medicines,” Dr. Bharati said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chittoor-sees-spurt-in-black-fungus-cases/article34712445.ece
03 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Nature of lockdown after reviewing situation: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will decide on the nature of lockdown and its extension after review of the situation in various districts and based on experts report on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons after visiting the government hospital at Rattihalli in Haveri district on Wednesday, Mr. Bommai said that the Chief Minister will also be visiting Belagavi and Dharwad districts on Friday. “While COVID-19 infections have come down in a few districts, in the others there is a need for bringing them down. All these factors will be considered apart from the experts report before deciding on the nature and extension of lockdown,” he said. Elaborating on the various steps taken by the State government for controlling the pandemic, Mr. Bommai said that the government has made available over 24,000 oxygen beds across the State. The number of ventilators available has been increased by 100%. Steps are also being taken to make oxygen available at all taluk and district centres for the benefit of needy patients, he said. Mega campaign The Home Minister said that a mega vaccination campaign will be conducted in July, August and September. At present, COVID-19 warriors and those eligible for second dose are being given vaccine, he said. He said that 51 doctors have been recruited to fill vacant posts in Haveri district and he will request all those appointed to report to duty at the earliest. The remaining vacant posts will be filled on contract basis, he said. Earlier, Mr. Bommai, accompanied by Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, inspected government hospitals and treatment facilities at Rattihalli, Masur and Hirekerur. The Ministers also inspected COVID Care Centres. Deputy Commissioner Sanjay Shettennavar, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Roshan and others were present. Fertilizer Speaking to presspersons, Mr. B.C. Patil said that there was no shortage of fertilizer in the State and officials have been directed to act against traders hoarding fertilizer. He said that in another day, 1,600 tonnes of DAP will be supplied to Dharwad district. The Minister said that 75% of eligible farmers have applied for compensation announced by the State government and steps will be taken to release compensation immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nature-of-lockdown-after-reviewing-situation-bommai/article34712597.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Vaccination for all going abroad||Principal Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) Anil Kumar Singhal has said that the government will allow all those travelling abroad to get vaccinated, irrespective of their age. Instructions had been given to the District Collectors to facilitate vaccination of students and other persons required to travel out of the country even if they belonged to the 18+ category, Mr. Singhal told the media on Wednesday. “The beneficiaries have to produce their Passport as identity document at the vaccination centre so that it is mentioned on the vaccine certificate, which is accepted across the world,” Mr. Singhal said. Very few doses were available in the State, and the Centre was yet to despatch the 8.7 lakh doses allocated to Andhra Pradesh for the fortnight June 1 to 15, he added. Stipend increased Regarding stipend for senior resident doctors, Mr. Singhal said the government decided to increase it from Rs. 45,000 to Rs. 70,000 after discussions with the Chief Secretary and the representatives of resident doctors’ association. He said orders to this effect would be issued in a week. Mr. Singhal said that 443 tonnes of medical oxygen of the 590 tonnes allocated to the State was used in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-for-all-going-abroad/article34712443.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Govt. mulls one-day exam for SSLC, II PU||While central boards have decided to cancel their Class 12 examinations, the State government, which is yet to take a final call on the issue, is now mulling the possibility of conducting examination on a single day in July-end or August, if COVID-19 caseload declines by then. If this tentative proposal goes through, examinations for Class 10 (SSLC) and Class 12 (PUC) will be in the multiple choice questions (MCQ) format. This option was discussed on Wednesday during a meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, sources who attended it said. S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, is said to have mooted this idea as SSLC and II PU students have not had assessments like the central boards. Highly placed sources said that the Department of Primary and Secondary Education wants permission to conduct such an examination if the positivity rate reduces to less than 5%. Mr Kumar is said to have batted for conducting a MCQ exam and justified the need to conduct the exam as marks/grades obtained in SSLC and II PU are required for admissions into colleges. However, no final decision was taken at the meeting on Wednesday. According to the department’s plan, no assessment will be conducted for languages and students will have to pick any three core subjects they want to be tested in. “Students will be asked to take the test in two sessions on a single day amidst all precautionary measures,” said a source.  Format issue However, teachers and college principals say that the move to conduct the MCQs may not go down well with the students as they have been preparing for an examination with a different format throughout the year. “The department should either conduct the examination in the original format or cancel the examination altogether. Conducting an MCQ will just confuse and make the students more anxious,” said a principal of a city based private pre-university college.  MCQ FORMAT  Proposal is to have exam in multiple choice questions format  Some teachers feel exam should be in the original format or cancelled  SSLC and II PU students have not had assessments like central boards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-mulls-one-day-exam-for-sslc-ii-pu/article34712497.ece
03 June 2021||MANGALURU,||1,500 acres fallow land now ready to take paddy seedlings||Udupi MLA K. Raghupathi Bhat said on Wednesday that 1,500 acres of proposed 2,000 acres of fallow land which will be brought under paddy in his Udupi Assembly Constituency in this kharif season is ready for transplantation of seedlings. Addressing presspersons in Brahmavar of Udupi district, the MLA said that the Kedarottana Trust, which he heads, has proposed to grow paddy organically on 2,000 acres which remained fallow for over two decades in his constituency. It will be part of the “Hadilu Bhoomi Krishi Andolana” taken up by the trust. Councillors from 35 wards of Udupi City Municipal Council and presidents of 19 gram panchayats under the constituency are members of the trust. Mr. Bhat said that as a prelude, while preparing the fallow land for cultivation, the trust has removed silt from “thodus” (rivulets) on the edges of such land to a length of about 300 km now. The MLA said that transplantation will be launched on June 5, World Environment Day, under the jurisdiction of Kadekar Gram Panchayat. Seedlings for transplanting initially on 30 acres are kept ready. Seedlings are being raised on 15,000 trays on mat nursery format at the Krishi Vignana Kendra in Brahmavar. Later, transplantation will be taken up in phases to cover 2,000 acres. The MLA said that it is estimated that 24 lakh kg of paddy can be grown on 2,000 acres. Cultivation will also help in recharging groundwater. The entire project will cost about Rs. 5 crore. Mr. Bhat said that the cost of cultivation per acre has been estimated at Rs. 25,000. An acre can yield a quantity of paddy that will fetch Rs. 10,000. There will be a deficit of Rs. 15,000 per acre. Hence, those who like to bear the cost of cultivation through donations can contribute to the trust through its bank account. Such fields of cultivation where farming has been supported by donors will be named after them. The MLA said that 13 paddy transplanters brought from outside Udupi are also kept ready for use. MO-4 variety of paddy will be grown on these fields. Mr. Bhat said that some farmers, prompted by the activities of the trust, have come forward on their own to bring about 500 acres, which otherwise remained fallow for more than 25 years, under paddy in this kharif season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1500-acres-fallow-land-now-ready-to-take-paddy-seedlings/article34712599.ece
03 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Vaccinators undertake treacherous trek to inoculate tribes in Odisha||At a time when people make beeline before vaccinators for getting inoculated across the country, some vaccinators in Odisha’s Rayagada face peculiar challenges — trekking and negotiating slippery hilly roads. After COVID-19 positive cases emerged from Dongria Kondhs, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), the State government had prioritised to vaccinate the tribe even though it involves tough and treacherous trek to the upper slopes of the steep Niyamgiri hill range where they live. A team of vaccinators had to trek three kilometres with vaccine carrier boxes to reach Hangabadi PVTG village in Rayagada district on Wednesday. “The challenge does not end after reaching villages, which do not have even pedestrian roads. Vaccinators with help of village headman have to convince Dongria Kondhs, who are still afraid of getting inoculated, to get jab,” said P. Arthanari, Project Director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement. Many habitations in Niyamgiri hill range are scattered. Trekking is the only means to reach some villages. Sometime, vaccinators have to reach villages unannounced as there is every chance of fearful tribals fleeing away into forest. When COVID-19 cases were first detected among Dongria Kondhs in the second week of May, it set the alarm bell ringing in the administration. Dongria Kondhs announced that since they worship Niyamraja, presiding deity of Niyamgiri, nothing would happen to them. “Dongria Kondhs were initially not ready to get tested for COVID-19. However, after much persuasion, we were able to break the ice. We tested them and motivated them to stay in isolation. The situation is much better now,” said Saroj Kumar Mishra, Rayagada District Collector. The Rayagada district administration had tested 375 Dongria Kondhs and 136 of them had tested positive. Mr. Mishra said very few among the Dongria Kondhs were left infected following swift action. “The next challenge is to inoculate them. As of now, 834 persons, mostly above 45, belonging to Dongria Kondhs have been vaccinated,” he said. About 10,000 Dongria Kondhs live in 98 villages in Rayagada district. Odisha has among the largest and most diverse tribal populations in the country. Of the 62 tribal groups residing in Odisha, 13 are recognised as PVTGs. According to the 2011 Census, Odisha’s share of the country’s total tribal population was 9%. Tribals constitute 22.85% of State’s population. In terms of numbers of its tribal population, Odisha occupies the third position in India. More than 100 villages resided by PVTGs do not have any road. Similarly, Bonda, another PVTG that lives in Bonda Hills, 3,500 ft above sea level, in Malkangiri district was not spared by COVID-19. After 12 members of Bonda were infected in May, administration announced containment zone and started testing. As of now 950 Bondas have been vaccinated for COVID-19. Mr. Arthanari said, “PVTGs are being given priority in vaccination. As of now 7,000 members of 12 PVTGs have been vaccinated. We hope to cover all eligible PVTG population under vaccination programme.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinators-undertake-treacherous-trek-to-inoculate-tribes-in-odisha/article34712645.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Rape case: Four more arrested||In less than 24 hours between Tuesday night and Wednesday, the Bengaluru police arrested four people including a couple and associate from Tamil Nadu in connection with the rape and torture of a Bangaldeshi woman. “The fourth person, Sobuj, 30, who was arrested in Bengaluru, was running a prostitution racket. He is the prime accused in the case. The accused who are also from Bangladesh were on the run after we arrested the four men and two women who recorded themselves torturing the victim and shared the clip on social media,” said a senior police official. He added that Sobuj is also responsible for recording the video and circulating it among his friends. The police got a tip off that he had fled to a colony in Ramapura and was hiding among the waste pickers living there. A team led by PSI Shivaraj and Head Constable Devendra Nayak tracked him down and nabbed him. “While they were escorting him to the station, he requested the police to allow him to relieve himself and used the opportunity to attack Mr. Nayak with a knife,” said the police official. Mr. Shivraj gave chase, but Sobuj reportedly attacked him, too, following which he fired a warning shot. “When the accused did not heed the warning, he was shot in the leg. Sobuj along with the injured policemen were taken to hospital,” said the police. Sobuj is the tenth accused arrested so far, and the third to be shot at by the police. Previous arrests Earlier, a special team arrested a couple Sania and Afsal and their associate Daalim who were hiding in Tamil Nadu. The accused are part of the prostitution racket run by Sobuj and assisted him in the torture and in recording the video. We suspect that there are many people in the racket and efforts are on to track them down, the police said, adding that the accused have been taken into custody for questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rape-case-four-more-arrested/article34712501.ece
03 June 2021||Mysuru,||Wary of COVID-19, 8 convicts refuse parole||At least eight convicts lodged in the Mysuru Central Jail in Karnataka have refused to go home on the 90-day parole offered to eligible inmates to decongest prisons in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. They said the probability of contracting the virus was higher outside. They also feared that they may not be able to earn a livelihood amid the lockdown. While more than 75 inmates had walked out of the Mysuru jail during the last few days, eight turned down the offer. Two more eligible convicts were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and the jail authorities were yet to hear from them on whether they would take parole or not. The jail authorities began releasing convicts and undertrials on COVID-19 parole in the second week of May to decongest the prison, which houses about 750 inmates, as per the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court last year. Mysuru Jail Superintendent Divyashree told The Hindu that while 63 inmates who were offered parole during the first wave of COVID-19 last year had accepted it and returned to jail, they were faced with a peculiar situation this year. “This year, eight inmates have refused to return home. They claim that they feel safe from COVID-19 inside the jail,” she said. Though a few inmates tested positive in the last few days and had been treated, almost all the 700 inmates of the Mysuru jail, who were above 45 years, had been given the first dose of the vaccine. Many inmates in the 18 to 44 age-group had also been given the first dose, while all the staff members had finished both their doses. Some refused parole in view of the livelihood challenges that people were facing during the lockdown. The inmates have to remit Rs. 1,000 as surety before being let out on parole, but the amount would be returned on their return to the jail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wary-of-covid-19-8-convicts-refuse-parole-in-mysuru/article34712494.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Pilot digital survey of land records from June 11||The Telangana government will launch a pilot digital survey of agricultural lands in the State from June 11. It will be conducted in three villages of Gajwel Assembly constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and 24 other villages in as many districts. This was decided at an official meeting with surveying agencies, presided by Mr. Rao, on Wednesday to discuss digitising agricultural lands and fixing coordinates. He explained to them that the aim of the survey was to ensure permanent security of lands for owners. The survey will also eliminate land disputes. Mr. Rao asked the agencies to focus on the pilot project in villages which were free of disputes and then go to villages where there was a combination of forest and government lands and disputed/dispute-free lands. Framing guidelines The field-level experience gained from the pilot could be used to frame guidelines for a full-scale survey later. He reminded them that the Dharani portal of land records was initiated by the government to secure the rights of poor on their lands. As a follow-up, the digital survey of lands was contemplated to end disputes of ownership. He appealed to the agencies not to look at the project solely from business point of view but a social service for farmers. They must take it up efficiently understanding the good intentions of the government. The completion of survey in agricultural lands will facilitate further survey in urban lands. As prices of lands were rising due to irrigation projects, Mr. Rao said the government initiated security measures by setting up Dharani portal to eliminate middlemen and ensure transparency in land transactions. He suggested to the agencies to adopt ultra modern technology in survey to see that there was not an inch of difference in the measurement of lands. The government will not be found wanting to take legal action against them if there were any mistakes due to negligence. The traditional method of ‘tea pan naksha’ survey of lands in villages could be taken as the basis for the latest project. The agencies could hold gram sabhas in villages to explain their techniques. The Collectors and elected representatives will aid the survey. Among the public issues ignored by earlier governments in Telangana was land surveys. But, the present government learnt a lesson that the poor should not suffer on account of lapses of governments. This was precisely the reason for the land survey, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pilot-digital-survey-of-land-records-from-june-11/article34712947.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC for ‘manslaughter’ charge on officials not acting on vaccine issue||Government officials who are sitting over the “untapped potential” of India to manufacture COVID-19 vaccine should be charged with “manslaughter”, the Delhi High Court warned on Wednesday. “There is a lot of scope and infrastructure for manufacture of vaccine in India. And this matter, you (Centre) must really consider. This untapped potential has to be utilised. Your officers are not realising this,” a Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Najmi Waziri said. The court’s observation came while hearing a plea of Delhi-based Panacea Biotec, which has sought the release of an arbitral award passed in its favour and against the Centre, saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of Sputnik V vaccine in collaboration with Russian Direct Investment Fund and wants to scale it up. ‘Palpable disquiet’ The court said the Centre must expedite the process of clearing samples of Panacea Biotec, noting “there is such an element of palpable disquiet in the country. Everybody wants vaccine. We have to cut this short”. Additional Solicitor General Balbir Singh informed the court that the Indian government has decided to procure Sputnik V vaccine from Dr. Reddy’s alone. He said Panacea has to go through ethnicity and efficacy tests for any adverse effect on the population. Reacting to this, the court remarked, “Then the bridge trials should have been conducted even with regard to the imported vaccine. You have done away with it for the imported vaccine. Why insist on it for the domestic manufacturer but not for the manufacturer abroad?” “And the rule itself empowers you to actually waive this (tests), if you in your wisdom like to waive it. In the end they are identical products, one is imported and another manufactured here,” the court said. “The problem is of fear psychosis that some vigilance enquiry will take place, audit will take place. Tell them (officers), this is not the time to be wary of these investigations and audit reports. This is leading to deaths today... Actually some people need to be charged with manslaughter if they have been sitting over this untapped potential," the court remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-for-manslaughter-charge-on-officials-not-acting-on-vaccine-issue/article34712915.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New IT rules don’t apply to us, Google tells HC||Google told the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that the new Information Technology Rules 2021, which came into effect late last month, did not apply to the U.S.-based tech giant as it was a “search engine” and not a “social media intermediary” like Facebook, Twitter or Instagram. On April 20, the High Court issued a slew of directions on a petition by a woman who claimed her photographs and images, though not in themselves obscene or offensive, were taken from her Facebook and Instagram accounts without her consent, and uploaded on a pornographic website with derogatory captions added to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-it-rules-dont-apply-to-us-google-tells-hc/article34712437.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||International flight services resume||International flight services to the city airport resumed on Wednesday after a two-month gap. According to airport officials, Air India Express from Dubai arrived at the airport on Wednesday evening with 68 passengers on board. The flight services were provided under the Vande Bharat Mission. International flight services were stopped since April 3 to the city airport owing to technical and infrastructure issues, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/international-flight-services-resume/article34712444.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Himalayan task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/himalayan-task/article34712449.ece
03 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR/ KOLKATA,||Let Centre distribute vaccines, says Odisha CM||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has called for a consensus among all the States on a universal vaccination programme for COVID-19. In a letter to all Chief Ministers, and personal calls to a few, he expressed grave concern at the prevailing COVID-19 situation and suggested that the Centre procure the vaccines and distribute them. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, too, said on Wednesday, “The Centre must procure and make vaccines available free of cost to all the States.” She said Mr. Patnaik called her on Tuesday on the issue. “I fully support his views,” she said. Mr. Patnaik’s letter said many States had floated global tenders for vaccine procurement. “However, it is quite clear that the global vaccine manufacturers are looking forward to the Union government for clearances. They are unwilling to get into supply contracts with the State governments, while the domestic manufacturers are having supply constraints and are not able to commit required supplies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/let-centre-distribute-vaccines-says-odisha-cm/article34712450.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘New pension rules to gag critics of govt.’||The new pension rules notified on May 31 warning retired intelligence officials of forfeiture of pension benefits if they publish any information related to the organisation they served without government clearance are not applicable to their counterparts in the IAS, the IFS, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), former Union Ministers or the armed forces. Retired officials pointed out that such restrictions already exist and the notification was vague and will be used to gag the vocal critics of the government. Former Research and Analysis Wing (R&AW) chief A.S Dulat said the notification will discourage many from writing and hoped that the rule is uniformly applied. The said rules first drafted in 1972 have been amended 47 times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-pension-rules-to-gag-critics-of-govt/article34712651.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Heralding the monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heralding-the-monsoon/article34712978.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Immersion of ashes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/immersion-of-ashes/article34712496.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Monumental occasion||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monumental-occasion/article34712950.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Palestine flays India’s abstention||India’s abstention from the latest resolution on the Palestinian issue suppresses human rights of “all people”, Palestine’s Foreign Minister Riad Malki has said. In an unusually strong letter sent to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on May 30, Dr. Malki said the resolution titled “Ensuring respect for international human rights law and humanitarian law in Occupied Palestinian Territory including East Jerusalem and in Israel” was a product of long years of multilateral negotiation. “Republic of India missed an opportunity to join the international community at this turning point on the path to justice and peace,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/palestine-flays-indias-abstention/article34712918.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Welfare pensions to be hiked to Rs. 2,500||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said the government would incrementally increase welfare pensions from the current Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 2,500 during the tenure of the present government. Rounding up the debate on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s address, Mr. Vijayan said the government would soon bring homemakers and domestic maids under the ambit of its social welfare pension scheme. The government would reskill workers to meet the demands of the global labour market. It would aggressively promote the IT, tourism and biotechnology sectors. The State would support more than 15,000 start-up ventures. The government was in consultation with international companies to promote work-from-home jobs. Eradication of poverty was the government’s prime concern. Impoverished families would get up to Rs. 15 lakh as aid. The government would ensure that at least one family member was employed. The government aimed to attract Rs. 10,000-crore investment in the industrial sector. The Life Mission project would provide 5 lakh modern dwellings to indigent landless and homeless families. Tribal and Dalit families would get priority, he said. ‘Pay ex gratia’ Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan asked the government to pay families an ex gratia grant of Rs. 10,000 to help them tide over the COVID-19 crisis. Infusion of funds would help revitalise the economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/welfare-pensions-to-be-hiked-to-rs-2500/article34712656.ece
03 June 2021||Chennai,||Centre to find partner for vaccine complex||The Tamil Nadu government has been informed that the Centre will find a partner to operationalise the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-to-find-partner-for-vaccine-complex/article34712544.ece
03 June 2021||Chennai,||Decision on State board exams in two days||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will consider the views of stakeholders and take a decision in two days on Class 12 State board exams, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-state-board-exams-in-two-days/article34712545.ece
03 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||60 lakh people affected by Cyclone Yaas: Odisha||A week after very severe cyclonic storm, Yaas, struck Odisha coast, the State government on Wednesday said 60 lakh people in 11,000 villages were affected and the State suffered loss to the tune of Rs. 610 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/60-lakh-people-affected-by-cyclone-yaas-odisha/article34712649.ece
03 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya MLA faces rape charge||The Opposition Congress in Meghalaya has demanded the removal of an MLA accused of raping a woman from the committees of the 60-member Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meghalaya-mla-faces-rape-charge/article34712650.ece
03 June 2021||Mumbai,||Children orphaned by COVID-19 to get State aid||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday announced financial assistance for children who lost their parents to COVID-19, in which a sum of Rs. 5 lakh per child would be set up as a fixed deposit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/children-orphaned-by-covid-19-to-get-state-aid/article34713005.ece
03 June 2021||Mumbai,||How many 45+ prisoners are vaccinated, asks HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the State government to provide the number of jail inmates above the age of 45 and how many of them have been vaccinated. for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/how-many-45-prisoners-are-vaccinated-asks-hc/article34713006.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Lockdown extension likely with exceptions||Lockdown restrictions may be extended by at least a week after June 7. The State government is expected to relax restrictions for industries and construction sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extension-likely-with-exceptions/article34712499.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Only two districts have a TPR of less than 5%||If the State’s TAC recommendation that the lockdown should continue till TPR falls below 5% is considered, we have a long way to go As of now only Bidar and Kalaburagi have a TPR below 5%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/only-two-districts-have-a-tpr-of-less-than-5/article34712500.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC verdict today on Vinod Dua’s petition||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Thursday on a petition filed by senior journalist and Padma Shri awardee Vinod Dua to quash a sedition case registered against him in Himachal Pradesh for his YouTube telecast on the north-east Delhi riots last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-verdict-today-on-vinod-duas-petition/article34712920.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Caste categories for NREGS pay||The Centre has asked the States to split wage payments under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme into separate categories for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and others from this financial year. Workers’ rights advocates said this will complicate the payment system, and expressed fears that it may lead to a reduction in scheme funding. “Government of India has decided to provide separate budget heads for SC and ST categories under MGNREGS from the financial year 2021-22 for wage payment. The existing system for wages under the scheme is for only one type that is there is no category wise provision of wage payment,” said the advisory sent by Rural Development Ministry Director Dharmvir Jha to all State governments on March 2. The Hindu has seen a copy of the advisory, which does not include any rationale for the new procedure. A video conference was held with State representatives to lay out the new process in March. One of the participants said that States were asked to verify if job cards for SC and ST beneficiaries were being properly allocated at the field level. They were told they would be given fund allocations according to this criteria, indicating that labour budgets would also be segregated on a caste basis. “The Ministry may be thinking that this allocation is all being taken by the general category people, so they want to segregate based on the population of the district. And even the projection is done like that. Government thought: ‘Why not take exclusive allocation for SC and ST?’” said the State representative, who did not wish to be named. “These new modalities are bound to create complications in a payment system that is actually begging to be simplified,” said a statement by the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha. “All NREGA workers have the same rights. Segregating them into three groups for purposes of budgeting and wage payments serves no purpose,” it added. Some activists expressed the fear that the reform is meant to reduce funding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/caste-categories-for-nregs-pay/article34712383.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Some States too cancel Class 12 exams||Following the decision to cancel the CBSE Class 12 exams due to the pandemic, several State boards have followed suit. The BJP-ruled Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat were the first to announce cancellation on Wednesday, but Central officials expect a majority of States to follow their cue. “During the consultation with State governments last week, most of them indicated that they were looking to the CBSE as a reference point. A majority of State boards are now likely to cancel their exams as well,” a senior Education Ministry official told The Hindu . “If they instead choose to hold their own board exams later, and postpone it too much, it is their own students who will suffer once the higher education admission season begins. That is one reason this [cancellation] was done, so that the next academic session is not too badly impacted. We have learnt the lesson from last year,” said the official. States such as Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh said they are still considering their options and will take a decision in a day or two. Maharashtra Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad tweeted her appreciation of the CBSE cancellation, and said the State board would also take a decision “keeping students’ health and safety in mind”. The State has previously said the Centre and States need to follow a uniform policy. Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla also called for the Centre to coordinate better with States. “Out of the blue, they come out with a decision which was half-baked. We agree exams are cancelled in the interests of children, but they should have consulted and rolled out a plan on the alternative assessment formula and then made an announcement,” he told The Hindu . “The Government of India should convene a meeting, so States can give inputs for whatever formula is being worked out. Every State board looks up to the CBSE, and we want to ensure that our children are not being left behind,” he said. Evaluation criteria CBSE officials say it will take a few days to structure the criteria for Class 12 evaluation. “There is no need for students to panic. Tomorrow, we will inform the Supreme Court of the decision to cancel. Then we will start working on the assessment methodology. It will take some days,” said Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj. Another CBSE official indicated that two main options are being considered. “One option is to grade students based on their internal assessment and practical exam marks in Class 12, just as we are doing for Class 10 students. To prevent mark inflation by schools, the students’ grades would be rationalised based on the last three years’ board examination performance of the school. The mark distribution given by the school should be in tune with the historical data,” said the official. “The other option is to use the average of the Class 9, 10 and 11 marks. But this may not be reliable, because there may not be consistency over three years, plus the subjects taken by students in Class 11 and 12 are different,” said the official. The senior Education Ministry official said school boards must also strengthen their continuous assessment methods going forward, considering the possibility that COVID may prevent Class 12 exams even in 2022. “In a way, this can be seen as a blessing in disguise, if school boards are forced to realise it is possible to grade children without a singular focus on the year-end exam alone,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/some-states-too-cancel-class-12-exams/article34712416.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Economy resilient, will rebound: Thakur||Taking on former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram for his criticism of the state of the economy, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said that it was resilient and would rebound in the times ahead. He cited international agencies’ projections of India as the only “major economy” to record a double digit growth in 2021-22. “Is the Indian economy an island in isolation; have other major economies not faced a GDP contraction? Are you not aware that France, Germany, Italy and the U.K. contracted by 8.2%, 4.9%, 8.9% and 9.9%, respectively. Canada, Russia, South Africa and the U.S. too have seen contraction in their GDP in the past year,” he stated, referring to the 7.3% contraction in GDP in 2020-21. “Consistent reforms have ensured strong fundamentals through these difficult times… [so] India had a swift rebound from a contraction of 24.4% in the 1st quarter of FY 2020-21 to a growth of 1.6% in the 4th quarter.” India had been resilient despite the disruptions in the globalised world, he noted. “I am not surprised that the Former Finance Minister chose to ignore hard data and instead went ahead with ‘whataboutery’ - the Congress leadership has embodied this clueless approach over the years.” Facts belied Mr. Chidambaram’s advice on initiating cash transfers to people to help cope with the second wave, he said. Mr. Thakur urged Mr. Chidambaram to “shift gears from his gloom and doomsday prediction”. It was evident that the “lockdown saved lives and gradual unlocking allowed green shoots” in the economy, as reflected in the record GST collections, growth in auto sales, steel, cement and international air cargo, he pointed out. “The Index of Eight Core Industries grew 11.4% in March 2021 and a staggering 56.1% in April 2021… Steel and cement sectors grew 27.3% and 32.7%, respectively, in March 2021. Important to note, since this growth is over and above the pre-lockdown period of March 2020. The two sectors grew 400% & 549% in April 2021,” he said. Mr. Thakur told Mr. Chidambaram, “While you doubt the resilience of Indian entrepreneurs, small businesses, traders and MSMEs to revive themselves; various international agencies project India to grow by 12.5% in FY 2021-22 making us the only major economy to have a projected double digit growth.” Cash transfers On Mr. Chidambaram’s advice to initiate cash transfers to help the poor cope with the second wave of the pandemic, he cited the higher procurement of wheat, pulses and rice during the National Democratic Alliance tenure. He alleged that the Congress had misled farmers on agricultural laws. “Today, farmers are happy and have differentiated the truth from the false narrative of Congress leaders,” he observed. “Over Rs. 2.65 lakh crore has been sanctioned by public and private sector banks and NBFCs to over 92 lakh accounts. Does this not provide ‘cash’ flow for businesses?” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/economy-resilient-will-rebound-thakur/article34712401.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Palestine flays India’s abstention from vote||India’s abstention from the latest resolution on the Palestinian issue suppresses human rights of “all people”, Palestine’s Foreign Minister Riad Malki has said. In an unusually strong letter sent to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on May 30, Dr. Malki said the resolution titled “Ensuring respect for international human rights law and humanitarian law in Occupied Palestinian Territory including East Jerusalem and in Israel” was a product of long years of multilateral negotiation. “Republic of India missed an opportunity to join the international community at this turning point, both crucial and long overdue, on the path to accountability, justice and peace,” he stated. India abstained in the voting on the resolution at the Human Rights Council [HRC] on May 27 that came up against the backdrop of the latest round of conflict between Israel and Gaza strip, the coastal part of the Palestinian territories. Death of Indian citizen India had condemned the death of an Indian citizen in the rocket attacks by Hamas from Gaza but in a rare United Nations Security Council meeting on May 17, Permanent Representative T.S. Tirumurti expressed India’s support to the “just Palestinian cause”. India has maintained that two-state solution to equal sovereign rights is the way forward to resolve the century-old crisis. However, India abstained from voting on the resolution, which is aimed at securing Israel’s compliance with international human rights. “The resolution is not an aberration to the Human Rights Council. It is the by-product of extensive multilateral consultations. It is the consolidation of years and thorough investigations into and reporting on Israel’s grave violations by States, United Nations experts, Human Rights Treaty bodies, and international organisations...Therefore, your abstention stifles the important work of Human Rights Council at advancing human rights for all peoples, including those of the Palestinian people,” Dr. Malki wrote. The resolution was adopted with the vote of 24 members. Nine voted against, and 14, including India, abstained. The passing of the resolution led to the setting up of an independent commission of inquiry to investigate violation of international law by Israel. Dr. Malki said the Palestinian people were deprived of applicability of international law. The “root causes of the injustice” against the Palestinian people was “dispossession, displacement, colonisation” by Israel, the Minister noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/palestine-flays-indias-abstention-from-vote/article34712378.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||UNGA head: India to vote for Maldives||India will vote in support of Maldives’ Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid in the election of the President of the United Nations General Assembly next week, a decision which will disappoint another close neighbour, Afghanistan, which has former Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul in the running. The race between the South Asian neighbours for the post, which is being chosen this time from the Asia-Pacific grouping, will be decided in the election on June 7. According to a senior official in Kabul, the Ghani government has formally requested India to vote for Mr. Rassoul, and was still hopeful of securing support. However, at least three government officials aware of the process here have said that India has made it clear that it cannot vote for Afghanistan as it had committed support for the Maldives, and suggested that Mr. Rassoul’s candidature had been announced only in January, which was quite late for the race. “Normally it takes about a year to canvass for a position like the UNGA President,” said one official. “While Afghanistan had sounded us out earlier, they did take very long to announce the candidate, and by then we had already taken a call [on the Maldives].” Sources suggested that the announcement of Mr. Rassoul’s decision to run had taken many in Delhi by surprise, as they had hoped that Mr. Shahid to be a consensus candidate in the Asian grouping, which gets its turn once every five years. “A vote for the President of the GA is always very divisive both for the concerned regional group, as well as for the wider membership of the UNGA. Such a situation allows the major powers who have veto privileges outside the UNGA to use the elections to pursue their own agendas,” former Indian Permanent Representative to the United Nations Asoke Kumar Mukerji told The Hindu . In 2016, Fiji won the election after a bitter contest with Cyprus that saw the U.S. and China taking different sides. Officials suggested that in the current contest, China could support Afghanistan. While most countries have not disclosed their vote yet, India had confirmed its support to the Maldives during a virtual meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Shahid in August 2020, and Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had made a public statement during a visit to Male last November. “With his vast diplomatic experience and leadership qualities, Foreign Minister Shahid has the best credentials to preside over the General Assembly in these tumultuous times,” Mr. Shringla had said. Given major global moves on Afghanistan as the U.S. prepares to pull out all troops in September this year, New Delhi is keen that its stand is not seen as taking a position against Afghanistan, and officials stressed that the vote was not an indicator of bilateral ties with either country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unga-head-india-to-vote-for-maldives/article34712399.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi lost 107 doctors, Bihar 96: IMA||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has said that 594 doctors died in the second wave of COVID-19 across the country. It released an updated list on Wednesday and noted that Delhi (107), Bihar (96), Uttar Pradesh (67) and Rajasthan (43) lost the most number of doctors so far. While no such count is available for other medical staff currently, the Central government earlier this week announced a new system of processing their insurance claims under the ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) — Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19’. The Union Health Ministry noted that the claims would be certified by District Collectors and settled in 48 hours after approval. The move follows several States raising the matter of delays in processing the claims. “This latest order is aimed at cutting down delays and to further streamline and simplify the processing of the insurance claims,” said the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-lost-107-doctors-bihar-96-ima/article34712422.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Norms for foreign-made vaccines eased||To ease the supply of imported COVID vaccines, the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Tuesday waived the requirement of conducting bridging clinical trials and testing of every batch of vaccine by the Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL), Kasauli for foreign-made vaccines. The decision applies to vaccines that have the approval of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; European Medicines Agency; Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, U.K.; Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, Japan; or those listed in WHO Emergency Use Listing. As millions of individuals have already been vaccinated with them, the requirement of conducting post-approval bridging clinical trials and of testing every batch of vaccine by CDL, Kasauli can be exempted, if the batch/lot has been certified and released by the National Control Laboratory of the country of origin, the DCGI said. The DCGI, in its one-page notice, said scrutiny of the summary lot protocol and certificate of analysis of batch or lot shall be undertaken by the CDL for release as per standard procedures and requirement of assessment on the first 100 beneficiaries for seven days for safety outcomes before the vaccine is rolled out for further immunisation. The Health Ministry on Wednesday said with the aim of vaccinating the entire eligible population at the earliest, domestic production is being steadily ramped up. “As part of this initiative, three public enterprises are being supported by the Department of Biotechnology under Atmanirbhar Bharat 3.0 Mission Covid Suraksha. These enterprises are Haffkine Biopharmaceutical Corporation Ltd, Mumbai; Indian Immunologicals Ltd, Hyderabad and Bharat Immunologicals & Biologicals Ltd, U.P. Haffkine Biopharma is getting ready to manufacture Covaxin under technology transfer arrangement with Bharat Biotech Ltd, Hyderabad. The production will take place at the Parel complex of the company,’’ said the release. Sandeep Rathod, MD of Haffkine BioPharma, said the company proposes to produce 22.8 crore doses of Covaxin in a year. “For undertaking production of Covaxin, Haffkine Biopharma has been provided with Rs. 65 crore grant by the Centre and Rs. 94 crore from the government of Maharashtra,” he said. “We have been given a timeline of eight months and the work is being executed on a war footing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/norms-for-foreign-made-vaccines-eased/article34712407.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘New pension rules will gag critics of govt.’||The new pension rules notified on May 31 warning retired intelligence officials of forfeiture of pension benefits if they publish any information related to the organisation they served without government clearance are not applicable to their counterparts in the IAS, the IFS, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), former Union Ministers or the armed forces. Retired officials pointed out that such restrictions already exist and the notification was vague and will be used to gag the vocal critics of the government. Former Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief A.S Dulat said the notification will discourage many from writing and hoped that the rule is uniformly applied. The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) notified the Central Civil Services (Pension) Amendment Rules, 2020 on May 31. The said rules first drafted in 1972 have been amended 47 times. In 2008, Rule 8 pertaining to “pension subject to future good conduct” was first amended by inserting the condition that retired intelligence and security officials will not publish any material that affects the “sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, or relation with a foreign State or which would lead to incitement of an offence”. The May 31 amendment expands the scope to include any information related to “domain of the organisation, any reference or information about any personnel and his designation, and expertise or knowledge gained by virtue of working in that organisation”. It also requires the retired officials to sign an undertaking — Form 26 — and declare that without the prior approval of the competent authority they will not publish any information related to the “domain of the organisation and obtained by virtue of my working in the said organisation”. The rules would cover retired officials of the Intelligence Bureau, RAW, National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), Indian Revenue Service (IRS), Customs officials and all other organisations exempted under the Right to Information Act (RTI) such as the National Security Council Secretariat, Defence Research and Development Organisation, Border Road Organisation among others. The DoPT officials refused to comment and the immediate trigger for the fresh amendment was not clear. A government source said the rules were brought to bring clarity and the intention is always to safeguard national interest. “By no means do these rules deny any such former official from expressing his/her views. In fact, it makes it easier for them to do so, given that they can now contact the head of their former employer organisation and seek clarification on whether the proposed material is sensitive or non-sensitive,” said the source However, officials pointed out that the amendment has been under preparation for some time but it cannot be applied retrospectively The recent events when several retired officials wrote an open letter to the government criticising its policies highlighting the “steady erosion of the Cabinet system of governance and the worsening of federal relationships with the States” could have necessitated the notification. Another retired intelligence official said on condition of anonymity, “there are hundred ways to evade this rule, I could write under a pseudonym...but that is not the point. I am ready to sign an undertaking but not ready to send my articles to the agency for prior-vetting. They want to bulldoze us. They are rattled with different petitions of constitutional conduct group.” Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi said on Twitter that “intelligence personnel are already bound for life by their declaration under Official Secrets Act, when they join”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-pension-rules-will-gag-critics-of-govt/article34712386.ece
03 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Tejpal case order seems a ‘manual’ for rape victims: HC||Reacting to a disrict and sessions court in Goa’s judgement that acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape and sexual assault charges, the High Court of Bombay at Goa observed on Tuesday, “It seems like a manual for rape victims.” A single judge Bench of Justice S.C. Gupte was hearing Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the State of Goa, challenging the judgment passed on May 21 by Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi. Judgement quoted Mr. Mehta quoted from the 527-page judgement, which said, “The victim’s narrative is of extreme implausibility, and it is not possible to believe that she, a woman who is aware of laws, intelligent, alert and physically fit [yoga trainer], would not push or ward off the accused if she got pushed against the wall. If the prosecutrix [victim] had held her jaw firmly closed, how would it be possible for the accused [Mr. Tejpal] to put his tongue into her mouth? If the prosecutrix pushed the accused instinctively and reflexively, why wouldn’t she push the accused before he kissed her?” He also pointed out portions on the behaviour of the victim during and before the incident. To this, Mr. Mehta said, “It is a kind of manual for rape victims, on the behaviour of victims. There is a case for considering leave for appeal.” Mr. Mehta said there were details of the victim’s sexual history in the judgement, and the judge was a mute spectator to the defence divulging them. He urged the court to redact names of senior counsels who the victim approached before filing the complaint. However, the court said it was a vacation court and adjourned the matter to June 24. It admitted the appeal and issued a notice to Mr. Tejpal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tejpal-case-order-seems-a-manual-for-rape-victims-hc/article34712392.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central varsities wait for clarity on CUCET||With major school boards cancelling their Class 12 examinations, students looking to apply for college are now waiting for clarity regarding a new avatar of an old admission method — the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET). In March, about 45 Central universities were told that the National Testing Agency would conduct the CUCET this year for all aspiring students, but the pandemic may have cast a pall of uncertainty over those plans. “We were told that the NTA would take over the conduct of the exam, and it would be used for all admissions, with separate tests for UG and PG courses... About 45 universities consented,” said the admissions director of one of the newer universities in southern India, who did not want to be named. He claimed that the older universities such as the Jawaharlal Nehru University, the Delhi University (DU), Jadavpur and Shantiniketan were not so keen on a common entrance test, as they have their own admission processes. However, the controller of examinations from one of the older institutions said all Central universities were on board. “All the controllers were unanimous that apart from a common entrance test, we should have a common counselling process as well, as is done for [engineering admissions via] JEE,” he said. DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi told The Hindu on Tuesday that if the Education Ministry approves the use of the CUCET, that could be implemented, adding that the DU would not compromise on merit. Officials at the Education Ministry, NTA and UGC did not respond to queries regarding CUCET 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/central-varsities-wait-for-clarity-on-cucet/article34712414.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paid vaccination policy arbitrary, irrational: SC||The Supreme Court has called the Union government’s paid vaccination policy for citizens 18-44 years of age as “ prima facie arbitrary and irrational”. The court said the Centre’s “liberalised vaccination policy”, which covered the age group, expected them to pay through their noses. The first two phases of the vaccination drive had the Centre in the driver’s seat. The vaccination was also free of cost. However, the onset of the second wave and expansion of the immunisation drive to cover the 18-44 age group saw the Centre give ground and take responsibility for only 50% of vaccine purchase and distribution, leaving the States and private hospitals to buy vaccines at a higher price, it stated. “The policy of the Central government for conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first two phases, and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/UT Governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is, prima facie , arbitrary and irrational,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud observed in a 32-page order released on Wednesday. The Bench asked whether the Centre had taken a “means test” to ascertain beforehand whether even 50% of the 18-44 age group could afford to pay for their vaccines. The digital registration and booking of vaccine slots through CoWIN, coupled with the current scarcity of vaccines, ensured that the rich got vaccinated first, it said. To top it all, the “liberalised” vaccine policy did not prioritise people with comorbidities, disabilities or belonging to vulnerable groups within the 18-44 age group. The court directed the Centre to place on record a road map of projected availability of vaccines till December 31, 2021. It ordered the Centre to submit all the “relevant documents and file notings reflecting its thinking and culminating in the vaccination policy” along with an affidavit in two weeks. It asked the Centre to come clean on the preparedness with respect to specific needs of children in the event of a third wave. The Bench sought details on the percentage of population vaccinated (with one dose and both doses). “This shall include data pertaining to the percentage of rural population as well as the percentage of urban population so vaccinated,” it clarified. It asked the government to outline how and when it would vaccinate the remaining population. The court sought the complete data on the Centre’s purchase history of COVID-19 vaccines till date (Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V). It ordered the government to specify steps being taken to ensure the availability of the drug for mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paid-vaccination-policy-arbitrary-irrational-sc/article34712396.ece
03 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Vaccinators undertake trek on hills to inoculate tribes in Odisha||At a time when people make beeline in front of the vaccinators, some healthcare workers in Odisha’s Rayagada face peculiar challenges — trekking and negotiating slippery hilly roads. After COVID-19 positive cases emerged from the Dongria Kondh, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), the State government had prioritised to vaccinate the tribe even though it involves tough and treacherous trek to the upper slopes of the Niyamgiri hill range where they live. A team of vaccinators had to trek three kilometres with vaccine carrier boxes to reach Hangabadi PVTG village in Rayagada district on Wednesday. “The challenge does not end after reaching villages. Vaccinators with help of village headman have to convince the Dongria Kondh people to get the jab,” said P. Arthanari, Project Director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment and Livelihood Improvement. Many habitations in Niyamgiri hill range are scattered. Trekking is the only means to reach some villages. Sometimes, vaccinators have to reach the villages unannounced as there is every chance of the fearful tribals fleeing away into forest. When COVID-19 cases were first detected among the Dongria Kondh in the second week of May, it set the alarm bells ringing in the administration. The tribe announced that since they worship Niyamraja, presiding deity of Niyamgiri, nothing would happen to them. “Dongria Kondh were initially not ready to get tested. However, after much persuasion, we were able to break the ice. We tested them and motivated them to stay in isolation. The situation is much better now,” said Saroj Kumar Mishra, Rayagada District Collector. The administration had tested 375 Dongria Kondh and 136 of them had tested positive. Mr. Mishra said a very few were left infected following swift action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccinators-undertake-trek-on-hills-to-inoculate-tribes-in-odisha/article34712923.ece
03 June 2021||Chennai,||1.32 lakh new cases, 2,865 deaths recorded||India recorded 1,32,704 new COVID-19 cases and 2,865 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,84,39,675 cases and 3,37,980 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 25,317 new infections, followed by Kerala (19,661) and Karnataka (16,387). Maharashtra recorded 553 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (483) and Karnataka (463). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 32.65 lakh samples were tested in the country on Tuesday (the results for which were made available on Wednesday), which includes testing data reconciled by States. Positivity rate India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 7.5% on June 1 compared to 11.4% recorded a week before. About 23.97 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Wednesday, which is 3.83 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 3.58 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country stood at 24.43 lakh on June 1, which is marginally more than the 22.71 lakh recorded on May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/132-lakh-new-cases-2865-deaths-recorded/article34712420.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||New IT rules don’t apply to us, Google tells HC||Google urged the High Court to quash its April 20 order which applied the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines & Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 to it, while dealing with an issue related to removal of offending content from the Internet. It said the High Court in its April 20 order had “generally” observed that for removal or access disablement of offending content, they must be blocked throughout the world. This observation, it said, was “overbroad and cannot apply to all takedown orders for all grievances”. “Global removal is applicable to such objectionable content which is universally recognized as unlawful (for eg. child pornography). However, there may be content which is prohibited in India but is lawful in other countries,” Google said. Acting on Google’s plea, a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government, Internet Service Providers’ Association of India, Facebook, the pornographic site and the woman on whose plea the April 20 order was passed. The bench said it was not going to issue any interim order at this stage and posted the case for further hearing on July 25. Google said the function of a search engine was to only “crawl and index existing information as available or published or hosted by independent third-party websites”. This process of search did not censor the findings — it found material that corresponded to the request of the search, hosted by other independent third-party websites that were beyond the control of search engines. “Such a process of crawling and indexing is done in passive, automated manner, with no human intervention or inter se user interaction. It ex facie does not fall within the definition of a social media intermediary and the obligations under Rule 4 cannot be extended to such search engines.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-it-rules-dont-apply-to-us-google-tells-hc/article34712376.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Judgment will deter rape victims from fighting case’||The judgment acquitting Tarun Tejpal by a Goa court will deter women from fighting rape cases as it puts the survivor, and not the accused, in the dock, say over 300 women’s groups, activists and academics in a joint statement. Last month, a sessions court in Goa acquitted former Tehelka editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal of all charges in a 2013 rape case involving a junior colleague. The judgemnt has been widely criticised for detailing the woman complainant’s WhatsApp chats, email messages and past relationships to discredit her as an unreliable witness. The Goa government has appealed against the judgment. “The judgment showcases the kind of gruelling trial that a survivor of sexual assault has to face in an insensitive court atmosphere and the relentless, cruel and often scandalous, illegal and irrelevant cross examination that a prosecutrix also faces,” according to the joint statement. The signatories of the statement include organisations like the All India Democratic Women’s Association, All India Progressive Women’s Association, and Forum Against Oppression of Women and former MP Subhasini Ali, Prabhat Patnaik of the JNU and Arundhati Dhuru of the National Alliance of People’s Movement. It condemns the judgment for conducting an inquiry into every aspect of the survivor’s private life, “while no such wide evidence of the accused and his interactions were placed on record at all.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judgment-will-deter-rape-victims-from-fighting-case/article34712380.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Let Centre distribute vaccines, says Odisha CM||In his letter, Mr. Patnaik said, “After the second wave, people are very scared about future waves and variants. Every citizen in India has been affected by this pandemic in one way or the other. It could be losing a loved one or losing a job or loss in business or just the mental trauma because of the present situation. None has been spared by this pandemic.” After the Union government announced the Phase-3 of the vaccine policy, allowing vaccination of those above 18 years and procurement by State governments and the private sector, there has been great demand for vaccines, the five-time Chief Minister of Odisha said. No State was safe unless all the States adopted vaccination as a top priority and executed it on war-footing. “This cannot be a battle among the States to procure vaccines,” he wrote. Ms. Banerjee added that the Chief Minister of Kerala had also written to the Centre on the issue. She said there were about 140 crore people in India and unless the Centre provided vaccines, it was going to take a lot of time to vaccinate the population. Ms. Banerjee pointed out that the BJP had promised free vaccination to the people of Bihar during the Assembly polls but had not kept the promise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/let-centre-distribute-vaccines-says-odisha-cm/article34712388.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Dominica court adjourns hearing in Choksi case||On Wednesday, Mr. Choksi’s team claimed that his human rights were violated ever since he was allegedly “abducted” from Antigua. “My husband is in hospital and I have been able to speak to him. He is traumatised and has lots of wounds. He was also mentally tortured. We are deeply anguished by comments of Antigua PM Browne,” Priti Choksi told WION, a TV channel. During the hearing, Mr. Choksi’s team also raised questions about a female friend who allegedly plotted his removal from Antigua to Dominica. Lawyers appearing for Mr. Choksi argued that he is an Antigua citizen and he should be sent back to Antigua. Antigua maintains that Mr. Choksi remains an Indian citizen. Indian authorities who are closely watching the case maintain that Mr. Choksi should be extradited to India as he committed crimes while being an Indian citizen before taking the Antigua citizenship. Mr. Choksi’s team maintains that he should be sent to Antigua to face trial there where he enjoyed protection against deportation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dominica-court-adjourns-hearing-in-choksi-case/article34712389.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Why not buy 100% vaccines, SC asks Centre||The Centre’s liberalised vaccination policy gives it only a 50% role to purchase COVID-19 vaccines. The other half is equally shared between the States/Union Territories and private hospitals. The court said the Centre had left the States with very little bargaining powers by pre-fixing with the manufacturers both the quantity and the price of vaccines for the States. “ Prima facie , the only room for negotiation with the two vaccine manufacturers [Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech] was on price and quantity, both of which have been pre-fixed by the Central government,” the court reasoned. Besides, the court said the States were handicapped in their direct talks with foreign vaccine manufacturers as the latter preferred negotiating with federal governments. The court also sought confirmation from the States about the Centre’s claim that “every State/UT government shall provide vaccination free of cost to its population.” “It is important that individual State/Union Territory governments confirm/deny this position before this court. Further, if they have decided to vaccinate their population for free then, as a matter of principle, it is important that this policy is annexed to their affidavit, so that the population within their territories can be assured of their right to be vaccinated for free at a State vaccination centre,” the court explained. The Bench directed the States and UTs to file their affidavits in this regard within the next two weeks and clarify their individual policies for free vaccination. The court has asked the Centre to place on record its “written policy” to ensure the equitable distribution of vaccines, and how this would factor into the rationale of equal apportionment between State/UT governments and private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-not-buy-100-vaccines-sc-asks-centre/article34712390.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar on connections between law, humanities||The 12th of the 15-part webinar series — SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 — is scheduled to be held at 11 a.m. on on June 5. The SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, has launched the 15-part webinar series — SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 — that spotlights science, engineering, technology, law, humanities and medical health sciences courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. The 12th in this webinar series, “Interdisciplinary connections between law and humanities”, will feature eminent panellists such as V.M. Kannan, advocate at the Supreme Court; Sridhar Krishnaswami, Deputy Dean and Professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Science and Humanities, SRMIST; and Professor Gurudath Anantharamaiah Chilkunda, Dean, Faculty of Law, SRMIST. It will be moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, founder and CEO, AuxoHub. The session will conclude with question and answer with the speakers. To register for the free webinar, visit http://bit.ly/SRMTHE12 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-on-connections-between-law-humanities/article34712404.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Benevolent Rama||Kulasekhara Azhvar in his Perumal Thirumozhi sees Govindaraja, the deity reclining in Chidambaram, as Rama. Rama has lotus eyes and is like a dark cloud, says Kulasekhara. In his commentary, Periavachan Pillai says that this cloud, namely Rama, has drunk up the entire ocean. Water which evaporates from the ocean comes down to us as rain. This cloud called Rama does not merely take a few drops of water from the ocean, but sucks up the entire ocean, leaving only a dry sand bed! This shows the benevolence of the Lord, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. But the same Lord was fierce when it came to battling enemies. Periavachan Pillai says that He killed Tataka, Subahu and Mareecha at the same time. But this is not what Valmiki says. In the Ramayana, Mareecha’s life is spared and he later comes as a golden deer and meets his end at Rama’s hands. So why does Periavachan Pillai say that Mareecha was killed earlier? The slaying of Subahu put such fear in Mareecha’s heart that after that every moment of his life was lived in dread. He knew not a moment of peace. Such being the case, how can he be said to have been living at all? Of what use was such a life? It was as good as being dead. Rama’s eyes being red was of course because He was the Supreme One, who is identified by His lotus-like eyes. Andal in Her ‘Notru suvargam’ pasuram says Kumbhakarna went towards death. The Lord did not seek him out and kill him. He woke up from deep slumber, only to die opposing the Lord. Had Ravana surrendered to Rama, He would have spared his life. But Rama had already promised Lanka to Vibhishana. What would have then happened to Ravana? Sri Vaishnava Acharyas explain that Rama would, in that case, have given His own kingdom of Ayodhya to Ravana!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/benevolent-rama/article34712405.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC dismisses Juhi Chawla’s plea on 5G||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday termed the petition filed by actor Juhi Chawla against the roll-out of 5G technology in India as “defective” and done for “media publicity”. Justice J.R. Medha also asked why the actor had moved the court directly without first giving any representation to the government. “It is a defective plaint. This suit has been filed only for media publicity and nothing more than that. It is very shocking,” the judge said while reserving the order on the plea. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Central government, also said that the suit was frivolous. Mr. Mehta said 5G policy was obviously not prohibited in law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-dismisses-juhi-chawlas-plea-on-5g/article34712375.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet gives nod to Model Tenancy Act||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Model Tenancy Act to be sent to the States and Union Territories to enact legislation or amend laws on rental properties. The meeting was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It will help overhaul the legal framework with respect to rental housing across the country, which would help spur its overall growth…It will enable creation of adequate rental housing stock for all the income groups thereby addressing the issue of homelessness,” a government statement said. The model Act, if passed by the States and UTs, would prescribe the norms for lease agreements, deposits, dispute handling and other aspects of rental properties. “It will enable institutionalisation of rental housing by gradually shifting it towards the formal market and facilitate unlocking of vacant houses for rental housing purposes,” the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-gives-nod-to-model-tenancy-act/article34712379.ece
03 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Stolen shrouds: seven accused get bail in U.P.||A local court in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat has granted bail to seven persons, including three cloth traders related to each other, after the police failed to produce evidence regarding the fake stickers and ribbons they allegedly used to sell the cloth made by recreating shrouds stolen from crematoriums and graveyards. The seven were arrested by police last month on charges of allegedly stealing pieces of cloths used as shrouds in crematoriums and graveyards before cleaning them and packing them with fake stickers and ribbons of a Gwalior company. They allegedly sold the recreated cloth for a good price in the market. While arresting them, the police had claimed to have recovered over 500 pieces of shrouds and other cloth items from them.  Bail order Judge Sazia Nazar Zaidi, session judge (in-charge), in the bail order dated June 1 noted that the prosecution neither produced any document regarding any criminal case previously filed in the matter nor the fake stickers and ribbons of a Gwalior company allegedly used by the accused to market the refurbished shrouds. The accused pleaded that they were falsely implicated and said that the cloth recovered from them were not shrouds, stolen or otherwise. The accused persons Pravin Jain and his son Ashish Jain run a cloth store in Baraut, while their relative Rishab Jain, who also runs a separate store, was visiting them when he was arrested, the accused said. The other four persons are Pravin Jain’s staff who were allegedly working from home due to the lockdown. They submitted bills to show purchase of the cloth. Lockdown The Jain father-son argued that due to the lockdown, they were assorting “cut-piece cloth” after setting them right and packing them. The court said the cloth allegedly recovered from the traders and shown to be shrouds would be a matter of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stolen-shrouds-seven-accused-get-bail-in-up/article34712381.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. panel submits report on poll debacle||The Congress’s five-member panel, headed by former Maharashtra Chief Minister Ashok Chavan, that was set up to study the party’s poor performance in the recently concluded Assembly elections has submitted its initial report to party president Sonia Gandhi. While the post-mortem of Assam and Kerala results have been done, the process is yet to be complete for West Bengal, where Congress drew a blank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-panel-submits-report-on-poll-debacle/article34712384.ece
03 June 2021||Kolkata,||‘Row over Alapan a closed chapter’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said “the Alapan Bandyopdhyay chapter is now closed”. She said the government will continue to extend support to him. “No questions on Alapan Bandyopadhyay as the chapter is over now... Alapan has retired. So I do not want to talk about it,” she told journalists when asked about the Centre issuing show-cause notice to the former Chief Secretary. Mr. Bandyopadhyay opted to retire from services on May 31, despite a three-month extension after the Centre issued a notice to him on May 28 and May 31. The Centre has issued the notice to the former bureaucrat under the Disaster Management Act. TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee also defended Mr. Bandyopadhyay and said instead of him charges should be brought against those responsible for the eight-phase polls in West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-alapan-a-closed-chapter/article34712385.ece
03 June 2021||Special Correspondent NEW DELHI,||SC stays HC order on oxygen device||Purchasing an oxygen concentrator from abroad will now attract an IGST of 12% as opposed to 28%, following the Supreme Court stay on Tuesday of a Delhi High Court order on the issue. Commercial imports of concentrators are taxed at 12%. Imported concentrators received as a gift were tax-free after the HC order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-stays-hc-order-on-oxygen-device/article34712387.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Idea of GST is dead, says Chidambaram||In a scathing attack on the government’s implementation of the goods and services tax (GST), former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Wednesday said the idea of GST was dead. ‘Talking shop’ In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram alleged that the GST Council had been reduced to a talking shop and accused tax officers of turning into ‘hounds’. His attack on the Central government came a day after Congress Chief Ministers Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel slammed the Finance Ministry’s constitution of Group of Ministers of the GST Council by excluding Finance Ministers of their States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/idea-of-gst-is-dead-says-chidambaram/article34712393.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Activists flay choice of NHRC chief||A group of human rights activists on Wednesday raised concerns over appointment of former Supreme Court judge, Justice Arun Kumar Mishra, as the chairperson of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The Centre’s decision “smacks of brazen arrogance and indifference to public opinion and once again highlights the cynical disdain of the government for democratic norms and constitutional proprieties”. The activists pointed out that the selection of Justice Mishra by a committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was despite the objection of another committee member, Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge. The Congress leader had suggested appointing someone from Dalit, Adivasi or minority communities, “considering that the bulk of victims of state abuse comes from these communities”. It was “very clear”, according to them, that Justice Mishra seemed to have been “rewarded for having declared his fealty to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a judicial conference involving judges from 24 countries on 20th January, 2020”. Among the signatories were People’s Union for Civil Liberties president Ravikiran Jain, Supreme Court advocate Vrinda Grover, writer and activist Harsh Mander and former member of the Planning Commission Syeda Hameed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-flay-choice-of-nhrc-chief/article34712395.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC flags digital divide citing Co-WIN chaos||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said even the digitally literate are finding it hard to get vaccine slots on Co-WIN. “A vaccination policy exclusively relying on a digital portal for vaccinating a significant population of this country between the ages of 18-44 would be unable to meet its target of universal immunisation owing to such a digital divide,” a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said in an order released on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-flags-digital-divide-citing-co-win-chaos/article34712397.ece
03 June 2021||United Nations,||Only Delta is a variant of concern: WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said only B.1.617.2, one of the three strains of the B.1.617 COVID-19 variant first detected in India, is a “variant of concern” now and noted that lower rates of transmission have been observed for the other two lineages. The B.1.617 variant was first detected in India and was divided in three lineages — B.1.617.1, B.1.617.2 and B.1.617.3. In the COVID-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update published on Tuesday, WHO said available findings for lineages B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 were initially used to designate B.1.617 a global Variant of Concern (VOC) on May 11. “Since then, it has become evident that greater public health risks are currently associated with B.1.617.2, while lower rates of transmission of other lineages have been observed,” WHO said. “B.1.617.2 remains a VOC and labelled variant Delta — we continue to observe significantly increased transmissibility and a growing number of countries reporting outbreaks associated with this variant. Further studies into the impact of this variant remain a high priority for WHO,” it said. It said the B.1.617.1 strain has been reclassified to a Variant of Interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-delta-is-a-variant-of-concern-who/article34712408.ece
03 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||‘BJP-JJP govt. policies behind unemployment’||Congress national general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday said owing to anti-youth policies of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, the unemployment among the youth in both rural and urban areas of the State was on the rise. Mr. Surjewala said the latest unemployment figures of Haryana released by the Centre for Monitoring of Indian Economy have exposed the ‘anti-youth’ face of the BJP-JJP government. “The rate of unemployment is 29.10%... ... itis the result of the inefficiency, incompetence and the negative policies adopted by the Khattar-Dushyant Chautala government towards youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-jjp-govt-policies-behind-unemployment/article34712921.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||DRDO’s 500-bed COVID-19 care hospital inaugurated in Uttarakhand||A 500-bed COVID-19 care hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Haldwani was virtually inaugurated by Chief Minister of Uttarakhand Tirath Singh Rawat on Wednesday. “This facility comprises 375 oxygen beds and 125 intensive care unit [ICU] beds with ventilators. With 100% power backup, it is centrally air-conditioned for all weather conditions,” a DRDO statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drdos-500-bed-covid-19-care-hospital-inaugurated-in-uttarakhand/article34712412.ece
03 June 2021||Guwahati,||24 arrested for assaulting doctor at COVID-19 Care Centre in Assam||The police in Hojai district in central Assam have arrested 24 people for assaulting a doctor at a COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC). Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he would monitor the investigation into the assault. A mob had attacked Seuj Kumar Senapati, the doctor, and other staff of the Udali CCC on Tuesday besides damaging the healthcare facility, a video showed. The clip showed the mob hitting the doctor on his head. The attackers alleged that negligence by the doctor and his medical team led to the death of a patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/24-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor-at-covid-19-care-centre-in-assam/article34712413.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. launches online campaign for free universal vaccination||The Congress on Wednesday launched an online campaign to press for free universal vaccination against COVID-19. “Vaccines are the strongest shield to protect us against the COVID-19 pandemic. You all should also raise your voice for free vaccination of all citizens and wake up the Central government!” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted as part of the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-launches-online-campaign-for-free-universal-vaccination/article34712417.ece
03 June 2021||Mumbai,||Won’t allow use of repaired ventilators: HC||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court on Wednesday said it would not permit the Central government to use ventilators which undergo major repairs as it could put the lives of patients at risk. The Bench was hearing a case on the procurement and supply of faulty ventilators. The Centre submitted that ventilators would be replaced if they did not function after repairs. The court said it would not permit use of ventilators that had undergone major repairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wont-allow-use-of-repaired-ventilators-hc/article34712418.ece
03 June 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||‘Three members should not take part in MKU syndicate meetings’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday restrained three members from participating in syndicate meetings of Madurai Kamaraj University or getting involved in decision making process. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi restrained R. Sudha, M. Thangaraj and S. Nagarathinam from participating in syndicate meetings after it was alleged that their appointments as professors were not effected as per UGC norms. The court passed the order on a public interest litigation petition filed by M. Lionel Antony Raj of Madurai seeking a direction to quash their nomination as syndicate members. A high-level committee had found that there were serious lapses in promotions given to 36 associate professors, including the three members, as professors and four assistant professors as associate professors in 2017, the petitioner said. UGC norms The committee had said UGC norms were not strictly followed while considering the applications for promotions. It further ruled that the promotion process had to be reviewed, he said. The petitioner said the three members were ineligible to be syndicate members and their nomination had to be quashed. The court ordered notice to them and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-members-should-not-take-part-in-mku-syndicate-meetings/article34712680.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyclone Tauktae: solatium for kin of 21 missing fishermen||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday announced a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh to families of each of the 21 fishermen, reported missing in the Arabian Sea during Cyclone Tauktae. These fishermen from Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Kanniyakumari districts went missing in two incidents during Cyclone Tauktae last month and the search and rescue operations, involving the Coast Guard, could not locate them. Considering the poor financial conditions of the families of these fishermen, the Chief Minister has sanctioned Rs. 4.20 crore to be paid as solatium, an official release said. Following an alert issued by the India Meteorological Department on May 13 about Cyclone Tauktae, 246 fishing boats in the Arabian Sea returned to safety. However, there were reports of two incidents wherein 21 fishermen went missing. A boat from Nagapattinam drowned near Lakshadweep and nine fishermen on board went missing. During a search and rescue operation that followed, Coast Guard ship ICGS Vikram and two helicopters were involved. Another fishing boat with 23 fishermen that undertook the search too could not locate the missing fishermen. In another incident, a boat from Kozhikode in Kerala left Beypore fishing harbour on May 5 and went missing during the cyclone. Of the 16 fishermen on board, 12 were from Kanniyakumari district. The Coast Guard undertook a search to locate the missing fishermen. Despite continuous efforts involving the Coast Guard’s ship and aircraft, the missing fishermen could not be located. Mr. Stalin had written to Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh urging to locate the missing fishermen in both these incidents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solatium-for-kin-of-21-missing-fishermen/article34712555.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll crosses 25,000 even as daily cases fall||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 toll crossed 25,000 on Wednesday as 483 more people succumbed to the infection. Across the State, there was a further dip in fresh infections, with 25,317 people testing positive for COVID-19. The State has recorded 25,205 deaths till date. Of the 483 fatalities (204 in private hospitals and 279 in government ones), Chennai reported 77, taking its toll to 7,222. There were 38 deaths in Coimbatore, and 34 in Chengalpattu. There were 29 deaths in Vellore, 25 in Erode, 24 each in Ranipet and Tiruppur, 23 in Salem and 22 in Kancheepuram. As many as 115 of the deceased did not have co-morbidities. Among those who died was a 23-year-old man from Chengalpattu, who was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 18 and died on May 31 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The number of people discharged after treatment continued to exceed the fresh cases. As many as 32,263 people were discharged after treatment. The active caseload was down to 2,88,702. Of these, Chennai’s active cases dropped below 30,000. A total of 29,826 people are under treatment in the city, while Coimbatore has 39,112 active cases. Though Coimbatore recorded a marginal dip in new cases, it continued to lead the table, followed by Chennai and three districts in the western region — Erode, Salem and Tiruppur. Coimbatore recorded 3,061 new cases. In fact, the number of people discharged in the district — 4,488 — was more than the new cases. Chennai’s daily case count dropped to 2,217. There were 1,488 cases in Erode, 1,290 in Salem and 1,252 in Tiruppur. Chengalpattu’s daily count dropped below 1,000 after several weeks — as many as 996 people tested positive. In the last 24 hours, 1,74,329 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,80,16,841.  Chengalpattu’s daily count dropped below 1,000 after several weeks, as 996 people tested positive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-crosses-25000-even-as-daily-cases-fall/article34712577.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Focus turns to crematoria maintenance||The Greater Chennai Corporation has started renovating crematoria and improving the ambience of burial grounds in the city. Chennai has been reporting close to 100 deaths due to COVID-19 every day in the past week, putting crematoria under unprecedented pressure. Relatives of the deceased have to wait for long hours to get the ashes. The pandemic has spotlighted the need for more electric and gas crematoria and improving the ambience of the facilities, which are mostly decrepit. A senior official of the civic body said the city has 37 burial grounds and 41 plants — 7 electric, 13 gas and 24 biomass plants. Five of them are not functioning. While the northern region has eight units, the central region has 20 and the southern region has 13. A system has been put in place, under which an assistant executive engineer of the unit office will visit the crematoria. If more than two bodies are waiting for cremation, he will take steps to shift the bodies to the nearest facility available. This system is mainly meant to take the pressure off a few crematoria and distribute the work equally across the network of crematoria. At present, the system has been fine-tuned so that no cremation takes place after 8 p.m., unlike in the past few weeks, the official said. The civic body is also taking steps to renovate a number of burial grounds. The burial grounds at Virugambakkam, Vadapalani, Nesapakkam, Kasimedu, Injambakkam, Krishnampet, Mylapore and Guindy have been renovated with additional chimneys, repairs and plumbing and a new coat of paint. The Kannamapet burial ground has got two new gas plants, the official said. The civic body is also improving the ambience at the crematoria by repairing the floors and handrails, installing compost yards, clearing garbage and removing wild bushes. The official said that Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had been undertaking surprise visits to the crematoria in order to ensure that they are maintained in accordance with the standards set by the Corporation.  The burial grounds at several places have been renovated with additional chimneys, repairs and plumbing and a new coat of paint Senior officialGreater Chennai Corporation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-turns-to-crematoria-maintenance/article34712550.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cost of borrowing goes up for govt.||The State government’s cost of borrowing went up marginally by 4 to 6 basis points in this week’s bond auction, when compared to last week. On Tuesday, the State raised Rs. 3,000 crore through the issue of long tenure bonds of 30 years and 25 years with an interest of 7.03% each. The previous week, it had raised Rs. 3,000 crore through the issue of bonds with tenures of 20 and 25 years with interests of 6.99% and 6.97% respectively, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India. The weighted average cost of borrowing for governments across the States and tenures was 6.86%, 12 basis points higher than last week, the ratings firm CARE Ratings said. It said that the higher borrowing cost was due to lower demand for State government bonds, also known as State Development Loans (SDLs), in anticipation of higher supply in the coming weeks. CARE pointed out that investors were seen to prefer Union government securities as the RBI had been buying the securities in the secondary market. Tamil Nadu has so far borrowed Rs. 15,000 crore in 2021-22, when compared to Rs. 18,000 crore in the same period last year. For the first quarter of this fiscal (April-June), it indicated it will borrow Rs. 23,450 crore, which is lower than the Rs. 28,000 crore it borrowed last year. The cumulative issuance of SDL stands at Rs. 79,300 crore so far in Q1 of this financial year, about 36% lower than Rs. 1,24,200 crore indicated for this period, according to the rating firm ICRA. The total issuance has shrunk by 37.2% from Rs. 1,26,200 crore raised during the same period last year. The intense lockdown to curb the second wave of COVID-19 would impact the revenue collections of th States, including Tamil Nadu, and they have to resort to borrowings to meet the shortfall this fiscal as well. Unlike the other States, Tamil Nadu had not availed of the short-term borrowing facility available under RBI’s special drawing facility and ways and means advances. Instead, the State prepared to borrow from the market, especially through the issue of long-tenure bonds. ICRA pointed out that after trailing the indicated level in six out of eight weekly auctions, the SDL issuance on Tuesday was 16% higher than the Rs. 16,900 crore initially indicated for this week. This suggests that the windfall related to the additional unexpected Central tax devolution of Rs. 45,000 crore received by the States by the end of March 2021 had been exhausted, it added. The continued localised restrictions necessitated by the second COVID-19 surge were dampening consumption and the tax collections of the State governments had taken a hit, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cost-of-borrowing-goes-up-for-govt/article34712554.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss questions govt.’s reluctance on 10.5% quota||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Wednesday said the State government should not present “unfounded reasons” against the 10.5% internal reservation for Vanniyars within the Most Backward Class quota, which was passed by the previous AIADMK government. In a statement, he criticised the Minister for Backward Classes and Most Backward Classes and Minority Welfare S.S. Shivashankar for stating that the 10.5% reservation could not be implemented as there were cases pending in the Madras High Court. “Tamil Nadu does not have a Social Justice Department. The Minister for Backward Classes has a responsibility to safeguard social justice,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that the 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars had been passed in the State Assembly in February and had received the assent of the Governor. “The Governor’s consent was given to the Bill and a G.O. was published by the Higher Education Department on April 1. Other departments should have passed similar orders and 10.5% should have been implemented. It is the responsibility of the Backward Classes Minister to ensure social justice,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said while reservation had been implemented in education, it had not been done for government jobs. “In the circular that announced that 555 persons will be appointed as homeopath doctors, doctor assistants in PHCs temporarily by the Health Ministry, it has been said that the previous reservation policy will be followed. Similarly, for appointments to several posts in the Madras High Court, it has been said that the 10.5% reservation will be implemented once the pending cases are concluded. Both these decisions are wrong,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss said that the responsibility of implementing the 10.5% reservation falls on the Minister for Backward Classes. “However, the Minister is justifying the decision by pointing to the cases that are pending. I wonder if this is his position on the matter or if this is the government's decision. The Chief Minister should clarify,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss pointed out that similar cases against 69% reservation were pending in Supreme Court. “Yet, the reservation has been implemented for 27 years. Cases against reservation for Muslims and Arundhathiyars are pending in court. The reason why reservation has not been affected in these cases is because there is no stay on them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-questions-govts-reluctance-on-105-quota/article34712561.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V. Balakrishnan is IG, Central Zone||The State government on Wednesday effected a major shuffle of IPS officers. It has posted N.K. Senthamarai Kannan as Commissioner of Police (CoP), Tirunelveli, Najmul Hoda as CoP, Salem, and V. Vanitha, as CoP, Tiruppur, who are Inspector General of Police- level officers. Among IG-level officers, Sumit Charan has been posted as IG, Railways, and S. Murugan was shifted to Special Task Force (STF), Erode. R. Tamilchandran has been posted as IG, Administration. Salem CoP Santhosh Kumar has been posted as IG, North Zone. P.C. Thenmozhi has been moved as IG in the CB-CID and posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, Chennai, and Joshi Nirmal Kumar from Chennai to the CB-CID. Tiruchi CoP G. Karthikeyan has been transferred and posted as IG/Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board. Sanjay Kumar has been posted as IG, Modernisation. Five DIG-level officers have been promoted; Amit Kumar Singh and Ashwin M. Kotnis have been promoted without prejudice to their deputation to central services. V. Balakrishnan, DIG/Joint Commissioner of Police, Chennai, and R. Sudhakar, DIG, Madurai, have been promoted and posted as IG, Central Zone, Tiruchi, and IG, West Zone, Coimbatore, respectively. Pradip Kumar, DIG, Salem Range, on promotion has been posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai. Z. Annie Vijaya, DIG, Tiruchi Range, has been posted as DIG, Modernisation, Chennai, and A. Radhika as DIG, Tiruchi. B. Shamoondeswari, DIG, Kancheepuram, has been posted as Joint Commissioner of Police, Headquarter, Chennai, and M. Sathiya Priya as DIG, Kancheepuram. A.G. Babu has been posted as DIG, Vellore Range, and Praveen Kumar Abinapu, DIG, Tirunelveli range, who was recently shifted to the DVAC, has been retained in the previous post. K. Ejilearasanne has been transferred from Chennai City Police and posted as DIG, Armed Police, Chennai. C. Mageshwari has been posted as DIG, Salem. B. Vijyakumari, has been posted as DIG, Dindigul Range, while incumbent M.S. Muthusamy has been shifted to Coimbatore range. Rupesh Kumar Meena, DIG, Thanjavur, has been posted as DIG, CB-CID, Chennai. Seven SP-level officers have been promoted as DIGs. Pravesh Kumar, SP, Dharmapuri, on promotion has been posted as DIG, Thanjavur, and A. Saravanan, S. Xavier Dhanraj, Anil Kumar Giri, S. Prabakaran, A. Kayalvizhi and R. Chinnasamy are other officers who have been promoted. Twelve more officers have been posted in Chennai City Police: S. Rajendran, K.S. Narenthiran Nayar and R. Lalitha Lakshmi (all DIG-level officers) have been brought in as Joint Commissioner of Police, (Law and Order) East, South and (Traffic), North respectively. The other officers posted in the city police are: Disha Mittal – Deputy Commissioner (DC) Mylapore; R. Shiva Prasad – DC, Washermenpet; R. Karthikeyan – DC, Kilpauk; A. Pradeep – DC, Traffic, North, Chennai; N. Kumar – DC, Traffic, South; E. Sundaravathanam – DC, Madhavaram; S. Deepa Ganiger – DC, Anna Nagar; G. Ramar – DC, Modern Control Room; L. Balaji Saravanan – DC, Headquarters; and P. Mahendran – DC, Administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senthamarai-kannan-is-tirunelveli-cop/article34712988.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Call for free vaccination for all gaining ground||Not everyone can afford to pay for the COVID-19 vaccine. Hence, a demand for making the vaccine free for all has gained momentum, with social and health activists pointing out that offering the vaccine at a cost in the private sector will reduce access for many, including the urban poor and the rural population. When the emphasis is on vaccinating more people, pricing the vaccines, especially for the 18-44 age group, could have a huge bearing on different sections. With the vaccines priced at Rs. 900-Rs. 1,200 in the private sector, affordability is a key factor that may keep many away, a section of activists says. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary of the Doctors Association for Social Equality, says the lockdown led to economic constraints and unemployment for many, with middle-class families being one of the worst affected. “If a family has five to six members, not everyone can get vaccinated owing to the affordability factor. As such, awareness is key to getting vaccinated, but not much awareness has reached rural areas. Similarly, the urban poor will not pay for vaccination as they have already been hit financially,” he said. The Centre has allocated Rs. 35,000 crore for the vaccination programme in the Budget. “What is being done with this fund? The government did not utilise public sector units for producing vaccines. Like Kerala, more States should demand free vaccination in the private sector,” he says. C.S. Rex Sargunam, president of the Tamil Nadu Health Development Association, argues that complete vaccination of the 18-44 age group is crucial to protecting the paediatric population from COVID-19. “Everyone cannot afford to pay for vaccination. People who are aware and have money will get vaccinated. As a result, many will be left behind...” Rahul Kapoor, a Delhi-based social activist, who started a petition on change.org urging the Centre to provide free vaccination for all, says, “Starting with registration on CoWIN to paying Rs. 900-Rs. 1,200 for vaccines at private hospitals, the entire process is a niche process. How will the poor afford to pay for vaccines? How will people in rural and tribal areas with no access to the Internet register on CoWIN? Universal free vaccination, such as the polio vaccination, should be followed.” Already, there are many myths surrounding vaccination, he says. “The government must bust these myths, raise awareness and take up door-to-door vaccination. There should be an equal distribution of vaccines.” In his petition, which garnered nearly 1.14 lakh signatures, Mr. Kapoor notes that while many States have announced that they will provide free vaccines to their residents, citizens of the country cannot be discriminated against based on the State they live in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-free-vaccination-for-all-gaining-ground/article34712572.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. effects major reshuffle of IPS officers||The State government on Wednesday effected a major shuffle of IPS officers. N.K. Senthamarai Kannan has been posted as Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli city. Najmul Hoda has been transferred to Salem as Commissioner of Police in place of Santhosh Kumar, who has been transferred and posted as Inspector-General, North Zone. V. Vanitha is the Commissioner of Police in Tiruppur. Among Inspector General-level officers, Sumit Charan has been posted as IG, Railways, and S. Murugan has been shifted to the Special Task Force, Erode. R. Tamilchandran has been posted as IG, Administration. P.C. Thenmozhi has been moved from IG, CB-CID, and posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, Chennai City Police, while Joshi Nirmal Kumar goes from Chennai City Police to the CB-CID. G. Karthikeyan, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchi, has been transferred and posted as IG and Member-Secretary, Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board. Sanjay Kumar has been posted as IG, Modernisation. Five Deputy Inspector-Generals of Police (DIG)-level officers have been promoted. Amit Kumar Singh and Ashwin M. Kotnis have been promoted without prejudice to their deputation to the Central services. V. Balakrishnan, DIG and Joint Commissioner of Police, Chennai city, and R. Sudhakar, DIG, Madurai range, have been promoted and posted as IG, Central Zone, Tiruchi, and IG, West Zone, Coimbatore, respectively. Pradip Kumar, DIG, Salem range, has been promoted and posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Chennai city. Z. Annie Vijaya, DIG, Tiruchi range, has been transferred and posted as DIG, Modernisation, Chennai, and A. Radhika has been posted as DIG, Tiruchi. Similarly, B. Shamoondeswari, DIG, Kancheepuram, has been shifted and posted as Joint Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, Chennai City Police, and M. Sathiya Priya has been posted as DIG, Kancheepuram. A.G. Babu has been posted as DIG, Vellore range, and Praveen Kumar Abinapu, DIG, Tirunelveli range, who was recently shifted to DVAC, has been retained in the previous post now. K. Ejilearasanne has been transferred from the Chennai City Police and posted as DIG, Armed Police, Chennai. C. Mageshwari has been posted as DIG, Salem. B. Vijyakumari has been posted as DIG, Dindigul range, while incumbent M.S. Muthusamy has been shifted to Coimbatore range. Rupesh Kumar Meena, DIG, Thanjavur, has been posted as DIG, CB-CID in Chennai. Seven SP-level officers have been promoted as DIGs. Pravesh Kumar, SP, Dharmapuri district, has been promoted and posted as DIG, Thanjavur, and A. Saravanan, S. Xavier Dhanraj, Anil Kumar Giri, S. Prabakaran, A. Kayalvizhi and R. Chinnasamy have also been promoted. Twelve more DIG-level officers posted in the Chennai City Police are: S. Rajendran, K.S. Narenthiran Nayar, and R. Lalitha Lakshmi posted as Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and order) East and South and (Traffic) North respectively. Other officers posted in the city are Disha Mittal, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Mylapore; R. Shiva Prasad, DCP, Washermenpet; R. Karthikeyan, promoted and posted as DCP, Kilpauk; A. Pradeep, promoted and posted as DCP (Traffic), North, Chennai; N. Kumar as DCP (Traffic), South; E. Sundaravathanam as DCP, Madhavaram; S. Deepa Ganiger as DCP, Anna Nagar; G. Ramar as DCP, Modern Control Room; L. Balaji Saravanan as DCP, Headquarters; and P. Mahendran as DCP, Administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-effects-major-reshuffle-of-ips-officers/article34712556.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC upholds nomination of three Puducherry MLAs||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a writ petition that sought to declare as illegal and unconstitutional a notification issued by the Union Home Ministry on May 10 nominating three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) members to the Puducherry Legislative Assembly. The court agreed with the Centre that no case whatsoever had been made out to interfere with the nominations. Justices Anita Sumanth and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the litigant had challenged the notification on the sole ground that the three nominees were not suitable to hold the positions to which they had been nominated but had not contended that the nominees attracted any statutory disqualification. The scope of judicial review was limited in such matters, they pointed out. The Bench said Section 3 of the Government of Union Territories Act of 1963 empowered the Centre to nominate not more than three members to the Legislative Assembly and the only condition imposed under it was that the nominees should not be serving under the government. In the present case, none of the three nominees — K. Venkatesan, V.P. Ramalingam and R.B. Ashok Babu — were government servants. Section 14 of the Act states that those holding an office of profit and those who attract disqualification listed under the Constitution for being chosen as an MP would not be eligible for nomination. The three nominees in the present case could not be disqualified under this provision, the court said. Though litigant G.A. Jagannathan, a farmer, had alleged that Mr. Venkatesan had been charged with criminal offences, the judges agreed with the counsel that the petitioner had not provided details of the alleged charges and had not proved whether the MLA had been convicted in any case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-upholds-nomination-of-three-puducherry-mlas/article34712559.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Relief for kin of 21 missing fishermen||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday announced a solatium of Rs. 20 lakh to families of each of the 21 fishermen, reported missing in the Arabian Sea due to Cyclone Tauktae. The fishermen from Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Kanniyakumari districts went missing in two separate incidents and the search and rescue operations, involving the Coast Guard, could not locate them. The CM had sanctioned a total sum of Rs. 4.20 crore as solatium for the families of these fishermen, an official release said. Following an alert issued by the Indian Meteorological Department on May 13 about the cyclone, 246 fishing boats in the Arabian Sea returned to safety. However, there were reports of two incidents wherein 21 fishermen went missing. A boat from Nagapattinam drowned near Lakshadweep and nine fishermen on board went missing. In another incident, a boat from Kozhikode in Kerala left Beypore fishing harbour on May 5 and went missing during the cyclone. Of the 16 fishermen on board, 12 were from Kanniyakumari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-for-kin-of-21-missing-fishermen/article34712987.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre to find partner for vaccine complex||The Tamil Nadu government has been informed that the Union government will find a partner to operationalise the Integrated Vaccine Complex (IVC) in Chengalpattu, established by HLL Bio-Tech Ltd. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday urged the Union government to ensure that there is no further delay in the process. In response to the Tamil Nadu government’s repeated requests and its representatives personally calling on multiple Union Ministers in Delhi last week over the proposal to hand over the facility to the State, the DMK-led government has been informed that the Union government intends to bring in a partner on its own to operate the plant. “While I would like to reiterate our earlier request, I wish to highlight to you the urgency of the moment, given the need for immediate commencement of production. Irrespective of whether it is the Union government or the State government which is to find the partner to operationalise the plant, the need of the hour is to ensure that there is absolutely no further delay in the process,” Mr. Stalin wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday. ‘Unflinching support’ In his letter (a copy of which was circulated to the media), Mr. Stalin assured the Union Minister of “unflinching and wholehearted support” of his government for putting the national asset to its full use. He recalled his earlier letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. The Chief Minister said the COVID-19 vaccine supply to Tamil Nadu was almost exhausted and requested the Centre to prioritise Tamil Nadu and frontload June’s supplies from the first week itself. “This will help us recommence our vaccination drive and sustain the momentum generated by us in the last fortnight,” he said. Mr. Stalin also recalled his earlier communications over the vaccine allocation, which were not proportionate to the State’s population and caseload, and said it could be corrected only by a special allocation of 50 lakh doses each under the ‘Government of India channel’ and ‘Other than Government of India channel’. He thanked the Centre for the allocation of 25.84 lakh doses under the former and 16.74 lakh doses under the latter. “I would also like to point out that this allotment is just commensurate with the broader increase at the national level and our request for a special allotment to correct the earlier lower allocation is still to be addressed,” he said. He reiterated the request to the Centre to look into the issue and ensure that the State is allocated vaccines at levels commensurate with comparable States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-to-find-partner-for-vaccine-complex/article34712567.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decision on State Board exams in two days||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin will consider the views of stakeholders and take a decision in two days on conducting the Class 12 examinations for State board students in Tamil Nadu, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Wednesday. Addressing mediapersons, he said the School Education Department had sought the views of health experts, parents, teachers, students and academics. “The Chief Minister has said all sides should be heard... He has also said we should consider what the other States decide on conducting their State board examinations,” he said. Mr. Poyyamozhi encouraged parents, teachers and other stakeholders to send their views by post or e-mail to the Department. “Our Chief Minister and the government have always maintained that while the examinations are important for the future of students, their health is equally important,” he said. On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the Class 12 examinations for CBSE students were cancelled. In May, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held a meeting with the State governments. A majority of the States were willingness to hold the examinations once the situation improved. Most of the options suggested were in respect of CBSE students and not State board students. “Many States, including Tamil Nadu, had said the examinations could be held with safety measures when the number of cases came down,” he said. “As has been done before, we will go step by step and take a decision on conducting the Class 12 State board examinations, too,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-state-board-exams-in-two-days/article34712568.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Make vaccination free: Congress||Leaders of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee will present petitions to the Governor and the Collectors, demanding that the Central government make vaccination for COVID-19 free for all citizens of the country. The party began a campaign on Wednesday to garner people’s support for free vaccination, and it will submit the petitions on June 4. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the Central government should have purchased the vaccines six months ago, and that would have ensured that there was no vaccine shortage. Instead, the government gave Rs. 4,500 crore to the two vaccine manufactures — SII and Bharat Biotech — only in April to expand capacity, he said. “It is due to a lack of foresight and planning on the part of the BJP government at the Centre that thousands of people are losing their lives every day,” Mr. Alagiri added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-vaccination-free-congress/article34712575.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. scores hat-trick in Cauvery water realisation||For the third year in a row, Tamil Nadu received a higher quantity of Cauvery water during the water year 2020-21 (June-May) than its quota. Against the 177.25 tmc ft (thousand million cubic feet) prescribed by the Supreme Court, the State realised 34 tmc ft in excess. As per the readings taken by the Central Water Commission in Biligundlu on the inter-State (Karnataka-Tamil Nadu) border, it netted around 211 tmc ft from June 2020 to May 2021. But this was lower than what Tamil Nadu got in the previous two years — approximately 405 tmc ft in 2018-19 and 275 tmc ft in 2019-20. This was the second time in the last 20 years that the State recorded, at least for three consecutive years, higher realisation than its due. The previous occasion was the period from 2005-06 to 2011-12, when Tamil Nadu received a minimum of about 210 tmc ft in 2008-09 and a maximum of around 384 tmc ft in 2005-06. On an average, the annual realisation during those seven years was around 269 tmc ft. It remains to be seen whether the State’s luck would continue this year, too. There is an expectation among water experts in the State that the realisation during the year would be good, considering the favourable forecast on the southwest monsoon (June-September). Of the State’s overall share of 177.25 tmc ft, the four months account for 123.14 tmc ft. The State is dependent on the Cauvery flows during the period, as it does not benefit much directly from the monsoon, though water is required for sustaining paddy, raised as part of the short-term Kuruvai cultivation season, and commencing preliminary operations for the long-term Samba season. Last year, the State’s realisation during the southwest monsoon was 120.22 tmc ft, about 3 tmc ft short of its share. But, as in the past, it was during the northeast monsoon (October-December) that the State realised 75 tmc ft, though its quota was 41.35 tmc ft for the three months. Generally, the farmers of the Cauvery delta themselves are not reliant on supplies from the Mettur dam — the lifeline for agriculturists — during the northeast monsoon as the delta would even otherwise be reeling from heavy rain in those months. The government is yet to announce whether it would commence water supply from Mettur for irrigation on the scheduled date of June 12. As on date, the water level stands at 97.22 ft (full level: 120 ft), with storage being 61.3 tmc ft (capacity: 93.47 tmc ft).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-scores-hat-trick-in-cauvery-water-realisation/article34712580.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID Care Centres inaugurated||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday virtually inaugurated two COVD Care Centres at Thisayanvilai and Valliyoor in Tirunelveli district. While a 140-bed centre has been set up in St. Anthonys College of Education at Thisayanvilai, the one set up at Universal College of Engineering and Technology at Valliyoor has 180 beds. Medical essentials to these two centres would be provided from Primary Health Centres at Thisayanvilai and Vadakkankulam, an official release said. Assembly Speaker M. Appavu (elected from Radhapuram), Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, Nanguneri MLA Ruby R. Manoharan, Ambasamudram legislator M. Abdul Wahab and Tirunelveli Collector V. Vishnu were present in the virtual event from Tirunelveli. Minister for Water Resources Duraimurugan, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present in the virtual event from Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-care-centres-inaugurated/article34712989.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gangster ‘CD’ Mani arrested||Gangster ‘CD’ Mani was arrested by the police after a dramatic chase when he attempted to escape after firing at the police and jumped from a bridge in Porur. Police said that P. Manikandan alias ‘CD’ Mani has more than 30 criminal cases against him. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said, “CD Mani is a history-sheeter involved in many criminal cases for offences, including murder. He has cases for usage of illegal firearms, causing public disturbance and extortion. He was absconding for long and we were searching for him.” “When we checked his house in Kelambakkam, he was not there. However, our men spotted him moving in a sedan and a special team tried to stop him. He opened fire from an unlicensed pistol on our team. Sub-inspector Balakrishnan sustained injury on his shoulder,” he added. “Then he took to his heels. As he jumped off a bridge, he was injured on the leg and arm. He was apprehended and taken to hospital.” Talking to reporters after visiting the injured sub-inspector, the Commissioner said: “I want to drive home the point that there is no place for rowdy elements in the city and as far as the police are concerned, it is not a trigger-happy force. But we have certain powers for self-defence and to take maximum action against rowdy elements who go out of control.” He also said there was prima facie evidence on the allegation made by a woman actor against former Minister M. Manikandan, and steps were being taken to record the statement of the complainant soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gangster-cd-mani-arrested/article34712546.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister seeks advance bail||Former Minister M. Manikandan of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has moved the Madras High Court, seeking anticipatory bail in a rape case booked against him on the basis of a complaint lodged by an actor based in Malaysia. Denying all allegations levelled against him, the petitioner accused the complainant of being an extortionist who operated a gang to set up honey traps. The advance bail petition was listed before Justice R. Subramanian on Thursday. The petitioner said he was a general surgeon and a fellow of the Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endosurgeons. Hailing from Ramanathapuram district, he served as a government doctor for 12 years in Chennai and Madurai before joining politics. His wife was a gynaecologist in Madurai. Claiming that he lent the actor Rs. 5 lakh, he said a dispute arose when he demanded the money back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manikandan-seeks-advance-bail/article34712557.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMPRF gets more donations||Several philanthropists met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Wednesday and made donations towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). Lucas TVS Limited contributed Rs. 3 crore, with the cheque presented by its joint managing director Arvind Balaji. The group of TVS Srichakra, TVS Supply Chain Solutions and TVS mobile together donated Rs. 2 crore. The cheque was presented by its managing director R. Dinesh. The group has also spent Rs. 6 crore on COVID-19 relief work. Officials and students of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, donated Rs. 2 crore, and the cheque was presented by its Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar. An amount of Rs. 1.5 crore was given by Jesus Redeems Ministries founder Mohan C. Lazarus to Mr. Stalin. The Chennai Radha Engineering Works and Interface India IT contributed Rs. 1 crore through chairman and managing director S. Venkatesan. The Apparels and Handloom Exporters’ Association also donated Rs. 1 crore through president Ajay Agarwal. Members of the Tamil Nadu Poultry Farmers’ Association, represented by its president K. Singaraj, presented a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. Sri Pathy Associates chipped in with Rs. 1 crore. Workers of Aavin, who agreed to donate a day’s salary to the CMPRF, collected Rs. 55 lakh. The Tamil Nadu Pawn Brokers’ and Jewellers’ Association gave an Rs. 51 lakh. G.R. Balasubramaniam of GRB Dairy Foods handed over a cheque for Rs. 25 lakh. The Rane Group donated medical equipment worth Rs. 1.8 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmprf-gets-more-donations/article34712573.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||54,840 people vaccinated||As many as 54,840 people were vaccinated across the State on Wednesday. As of date, the vaccination coverage stands at 90,85,875. According to a daily report issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, 20,118 people aged 18-44, 23,150 people aged 45-59 and 8,767 senior citizens were inoculated, besides healthcare workers and frontline workers. Of the 4,20,570 doses of Covishield that arrived on Tuesday, 54,570 were allotted to Chennai, followed by 40,000 to the Coimbatore health unit district for those aged over 45. Of the 75,000 doses of Covaxin, Chennai was allotted 10,000 and Coimbatore 8,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/54840-people-vaccinated/article34712578.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. suspends four vendors||The Chennai Corporation suspended four vendors for charging above the maximum retail price (MRP). When Revenue Department officials conducted inspection in the Madhavaram, Alandur and Sholinganallur zones, they found four vendors selling products above MRP. Their vehicle pass has been confiscated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-suspends-four-vendors/article34712548.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajan Eye Care donates ECG machines||Rajan Eye Care Hospital donated ECG machines and plastic sheet rolls to the Omandurar Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. The eye care facility provided body bags to the authorities so that dignity of those dead could be maintained. Rajan Eye Care Hospital, in association with the Rotary Club of Madras, T. Nagar, has been donating oxygen cylinders, flow meters, and concentrators to several government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajan-eye-care-donates-ecg-machines/article34712552.ece
03 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Dean for college of engg.||L. Suganthi, professor and chairperson of Faculty of Management Studies, College of Engineering, Guindy campus, has been appointed Dean. Former Dean S. Iniyan retired on May 31. Ms. Suganthi is the senior-most professor in the university and only second woman to be made the Dean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dean-for-college-of-engineering/article34712547.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||New IG west zone, DIG Coimbatore range||In a shuffle, the State government on Wednesday posted R. Sudhakar as the Inspector General of Police, west one. He was serving as the Deputy Inspector General (IG) of Police, Madurai range, prior to the new post. Mr. Sudhakar will replace A. Amalraj who has been posted as the IG west zone on April 1 after the Election Commission of India ordered the transfer of R. Dhinakaran who had been holding the post. In another shuffle, M.S. Muthusamy has been posted as the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG), Coimbatore range. He was serving as DIG of Dindigul range. Mr. Muthusamy will replace K.S. Narenthiran Nayar who has been posted as the DIG/Joint Commissioner of Police, Law and Order, South, Greater Chennai Police. The government also posted Inspector General of Police V. Vanitha as the new Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police and ordered the transfer of Tiruppur District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal on Wednesday. Ms. Vanitha, who was serving as the Inspector General of Police, Railways, in Chennai has been posted in the place of G. Karthikeyan. Mr. Karthikeyan has now been posted as the Member Secretary of Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board. Meanwhile, Ms. Mittal was posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police – Mylapore under the Greater Chennai Police and the new Superintendent of Police for Tiruppur district was not announced on Wednesday. Najmul Hoda, Inspector General of Police/Chief Vigilance Officer, Tamil Nadu News Print and Papers Limited, Karur, has been posted as IGP/Commissioner of Police, Salem City in place of Santosh Kumar, Commissioner of Police, Salem City, who has been transferred as Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, Greater Chennai Police, Chennai. S. Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police, Salem District, has been transferred and posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police, Anna Nagar, Greater Chennai Police, Chennai. Her successor is yet to be announced. Pradip Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Salem Range, Salem, has been promoted as Inspector General of Police and posted as IGP/Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, Greater Chennai Police, Chennai. S. Murugan, Inspector General of Police, Modernisation, Chennai, has been posted as Inspector General of Police, Special Task Force, Erode, in the existing vacancy by downgrading the post of Additional Director General of Police, STF, Erode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-ig-west-zone-dig-coimbatore-range/article34712638.ece
03 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Karamadai, Pollachi markets shifted||The district administration has shifted the Karamadai and Pollachi markets. A release issued here on Wednesday said the Karamadai night market has been shifted to the Agriculture Marketing Department’s vegetable market complex in Chikkadasampalayam, where it would function from 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. Traders from the Nilgiris went to the market to buy tomato, brinjal, lady’s finger, greens, chillies, curry leaves and other country vegetables. Farmers from the district took carrot, potato, beans, cauliflower, peas, turnip and other vegetables to the market complex, from where it was being sent to the city and other markets in the district and in Salem and Oddanchatram. The administration had shifted the Pollachi Gandhi Market to a place near the old bus stand. Traders there bought produce from local farmers and also received vegetables from the Oddanchatram market for local distribution and sales to markets in Kerala. Likewise, the administration had established a market in Oonjavelampatty to compensate for the closure of Pollachi farmers’ market. The release further said that the administration had permitted the movement of vegetables from other districts to Kerala through the Gopalapuram and Meenakshipuram check-posts and also through the Nadupuni and Chemmanampathy check-posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karamadai-pollachi-markets-shifted/article34712889.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by wild elephant||A 66-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Karamadai in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The Forest Department has identified the deceased as M. Rangasamy from Ansur tribal village at Velliangadu. According to the Department, Rangasamy had a fatal encounter with a wild elephant while grazing a cow around 4 p.m. He died on the spot. Officials said that the incident happened on a densely vegetated plot of a patta land adjoining Gopanari reserve forest. Forest Department staff shifted the body to a government hospital. The Forest Department handed over immediate relief of Rs. 50,000 to the family of the deceased. This was a part of the Rs. 4 lakh given by the State government as solatium to the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephant/article34712637.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special trains announced||Salem Division of the Southern Railway announced fully-reserved special train services between Coimbatore and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Train No. 02198 Jabalpur – Coimbatore super fast festival special train will leave Jabalpur at 11.30 a.m. on June 5 to reach Coimbatore Junction at 4 a.m. on the third day. Train No. 02197 Coimbatore – Jabalpur super fast festival special train will leave Coimbatore Junction at 5.10 p.m. on June 7 to reach Jabalpur at 8.25 a.m. on the third day, a press release said. Advance reservations for Train No. 02197 will commence at 8 a.m. on June 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-announced/article34712639.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek early release of support under ECLGS||Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) here have urged the banks to release at the earliest the 10 % assistance announced by the government under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS). R. Ramamoorthy, former president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, said the units had sought 40 % support when the Scheme was announced last year. However, the government had announced 20 % assistance. It has now provided additional 10 % support. The government should provide another 10 % assistance under the Scheme and the banks should start releasing the funds at the earliest. According to Raja M. Shanmugham, president of the Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, the Scheme should be extended to all functional bank accounts of MSMEs. It supported nearly 90 % of the garment units in Tiruppur cluster. The pandemic disrupts the global market and manufacturing units here keep facing challenges as there is a second wave now. All the units need hand-holding, he said. The additional ECLGS assistance of upto 10% of the outstanding as on February 29, 2020 to borrowers covered under ECLGS 1.0 is a positive measure as it will increase cash flow to MSMEs, said Manoj Patodia, chairman of Cotton Textiles Export Promotion Council. President of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises J. James said that when the ECLGS was announced last year, micro units that had only current account were unable to get support from the banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-early-release-of-support-under-eclgs/article34712636.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Contributions to CM’s fund||Bankers and chartered accountants have contributed to the ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital here for COVID-19 management. As part of the Corporate Social Responsibility of Canara Bank, regional office II, the officials recently handed over surgical masks and N95 masks worth Rs. 1 lakh to the dean of ESI Hospital. Members of the Coimbatore branch of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Auditors Association of Southern India contributed medicines and equipment worth Rs. 11 lakh to the CMCH. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar gave a cheque for Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The money given was employees’ contribution, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-to-cms-fund/article34712883.ece
03 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Investigation wing comes up at all police stations||Implementing a 2019 circular issued by the then Director General of Police, Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore City Police have introduced ‘investigation wings’ at all the 15 police stations. The new arrangement which came into effect on Monday has done away with the nomenclature ‘crime station’. For example, henceforth, the Kattoor police station at Gandhipuram will not be known separately as Kattoor Law and Order station and Kattoor Crime station. Instead, the Law and Order station will have an investigation wing which will investigate all cases registered under Sections of the Indian Penal Code. According to officials, police personnel who earlier worked at the Crime stations, which operated out of the Law and Order stations, will work in the investigation wing. Till Monday, personnel attached to the Crime stations were only handling property related offences such as theft, robbery etc. From now, all cases except those registered under Section 174 CrPC, provisions of local laws and special acts, will be investigated by the investigation wing. “This arrangement will improve the efficiency and quality of investigation as personnel from the investigation wing will not be deputed for other duties like bandobust. They will get adequate time to devote for investigation,” said City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor. “Earlier, an officer who investigate a serious case like a murder would sometimes be called for bandobust. This would interrupt the flow of the investigation and affect its quality,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/investigation-wing-comes-up-at-all-police-stations/article34712634.ece
03 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘State needs roadmap for biotechnology industry’||With the State hit by the first and second waves of the pandemic, it is essential to have a think tank of experts and an action plan on the biotechnology needs of the State. P.M. Murali, chairman of Golden Jubilee of Biotech Park of Women, told The Hindu the existing biotech policy of the State had to be reviewed as the pandemic had created a need to revise the priorities. Think tank team “We need to continue doing some things and also plan for the future. We need a think tank team,” he said. The State should have a road map for the next five years. For instance, the State should look at creating adequate infrastructure, including the supply chain, to be self-sufficient in vaccines. There were several oxygen concentrators and beds that had been put in place to treat the COVID-19 patients. These need to be serviced and maintained in the months to come. Industries in different sectors should come in Tamil Nadu to meet the needs created by the pandemic and the State should budget to support setting up these facilities. Team of experts While the State had a COVID-19 task force, a team of experts in the field of biotechnology was required to drive the biotechnology industry and its growth, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-needs-roadmap-for-biotechnology-industry/article34712635.ece
03 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Ensure govt. schemes reach beneficiaries on time: Collector||District Collector S. Dhivyadarshini held a consultative meeting with the line departments on the action to be taken on petitions received under the Ungal Thogudhiyil Mudhal Amaichar programme, here, at the Collectorate. The meeting sought to take stock of the course of action to be followed by the line departments in dealing with the petitions. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin as part of the electoral promise had assured voters that the petitions collected as part of the campaign Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin will be redressed within 100 days of the formation of the government. Addressing the officials, Collector Dhivyadarshini urged the departments to take extra care in ensuring government schemes and benefits were made accessible to the public and reach the beneficiaries on time. Officials were asked to pay attention to the civil demands such as laying of roads through the rural development agency, power connections, issue of smart cards etc. Further, officials were asked not to summarily reject petitions and instead seek out additional information or documents to address a demand. Ms. Dhivyadarshini directed officials to ensure no eligible person was denied of rightful benefits, while attending to the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-govt-schemes-reach-beneficiaries-on-time-collector/article34712640.ece
03 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination stopped at Government Erode Medical College and Hospital||To prevent crowding on the premises of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH), where people turn up in large numbers for COVID-19 treatment, vaccination has been stopped on the hospital premises and instead it would be done at the Government Hospital at Perundurai from Thursday. According to District Collector C. Kathiravan, only COVID-19 patients are treated at the GEMCH. There is a steady flow of patients and their caregivers from the nearby districts to the hospital. This result in huge crowd on the hospital premises, where vaccination is also done. Failure to ensure personal distancing would pave way for the spread of Coronavirus. Hence, as a precautionary measure, vaccination has been stopped on the GEMCH premises from Thursday and instead it would be done at the GH in Perundurai. “Only COVID-19 patients are requested to visit the GEMCH from Thursday,” the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-stopped-at-government-erode-medical-college-and-hospital/article34712897.ece
03 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage protest||The residents ofBharathipuram in Surampatti staged a protest here on Wednesday demanding supply of essential commodities. With 10 COVID-19 positive cases reported, the area with 200 families was demarcated as containment zone and barricades were erected to restrict entry of outsiders. Residents said that essentials were not available to them in the last three days. They wanted the barricades opened, but the policemen on duty refused to do so. Corporation officials rushed to the spot and assured the residents that steps would be taken to ensure availability of all essentials near the barricades from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-stage-protest/article34712896.ece
03 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Foundation donates 20 oxygen concentrators to CCC||The Bengaluru-based ‘Give India Foundation’ has donated 20 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 20 lakh to the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) set up at the Christu Jyothi Hospital here. With a surge in cases and the demand for oxygen beds going up, the Olirum Erode Foundation (OEF) along with the hospital established the facility with 150-beds to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms from May 12. “Give India Foundation has promised to provide more support in the coming days,” OEF chairman M. Chinnasamy said. S. Dattathreyan, OEF trustee, said the facility was established to serve the poor and the needy. While 580 patients admitted to the CCC had recovered, 530 were treated as out-patients. “Food, medicine, treatment and oxygen is provided free of cost,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/foundation-donates-20-oxygen-concentrators-to-ccc/article34712886.ece
03 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the following areas:  Pungambadi and Villarasampatti line, June 04 : Moolakarai, Mettukadai, Nathakattupalayam, Pungambadi, Ilayaa Goundan Palayam, Kadirampatti, Aravilakku Mettupalayam, Vannankattu Valasu, Rasampalayam, Veerapanpalayam Pirivu, Kaikatti Valasu, Subramaniyam Nagar, Karuvilparai Valasu, Karuvilparai Kulam, Bharathiyar Nagar, Rasampalayam, Maruthi Nagar, Chinnamedu, Karaparai, Ruby Garden and Ishwarya Garden.  Thottampatti water station line, June 05 : Vidhya Nagar Pump House, Sengodampalayam Pump House, Thottipalayam Pump House areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34712884.ece
03 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s schoolmates donate Rs. 28.5 lakh for relief work||A few teachers and many students who studied in Vikaasa between 1981 and 1990 batches contributed Rs. 28.5 lakh in the form of dry ration, pulse oximeters and a cheque to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund here on Wednesday. Finance Minister P.T.R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, who is an alumnus of Vikaasa (1983 batch) recently addressed batchmates virtually and a few teachers also participated. During the interaction, Vijay C Bose, an alumni (1984 batch) and now an orthopaedic surgeon practising in Chennai, said their batch would contribute towards the CM Relief Fund. Within about a week, other batchmates too joined and raised Rs. 28.5 lakh, which included contributions from alumni residing overseas. Some of the alumni like Sharmila Devadoss, Arun Amarnath, T Palanichamy, Sudakar Thiagarajan, Arun Vijaaay Malli and Sudhir, who coordinated the work, said former principal of the school, M.S. Iyengar, too donated for the cause. In the meantime, Mr. Thiagarajan suggested that part of the money be used to give dry ration to people, especially those in BPL category, as many remained indoors without jobs due to the pandemic. So, the batchmates joined hands and procured provisions such as rice, dhal and tea packets and delivered them at 3,500 dwellings over the last three days adhering to COVID-19 protocols in Madurai city. Also, pulse oximeters to the tune of Rs. 3 lakh were delivered to Government Rajaji Hospital and Corporation of Madurai. Commercial Taxes and Registration Minister P. Moorthy, Collector Aneesh Sekhar and Corporation Commissioner S. Visagan were present on the occasion. The Finance Minister thanked his schoolmates for their participation in the relief work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-schoolmates-donate-rs-285-lakh-for-relief-work/article34712679.ece
03 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sustained efforts by govt. have ensured sufficient stock of oxygen in hospitals’||The arrival of oxygen from multiple sources had ensured sufficient stock in hospitals in Madurai, said Commercial Taxes Minister P. Moorthy here on Wednesday. After inspecting a few Covid Care Centres in rural pockets, he told reporters that sustained efforts by the government and officials designated for the task ensured sufficient stock of oxygen in the shortest time possible. “We have oxygen now. The virus has also been brought under control,” he said. Though rumours were agog that the virus had spread in many villages, the Minister said effective lockdown over the last nine days, physical distancing and vaccination through government hospitals, PHCs and enforcement of the Disaster Management Act by police had phenomenally worked. Still, people should get vaccine dosage voluntarily and remain indoors till the lockdown, which alone would help contain the virus, he added. Collector Aneesh Sekhar said voluntary contributions from philanthropists and support from volunteers had motivated frontline workers and doctors handling patients. Private hospitals had been instructed to collect fees stipulated by the government. There was a complaint from a patient that a particular hospital had charged in excess. Inquiry was under way and if it was found correct, the patient would get his money back, he said. TVS gesture TVS Supply Chain Solutions Managing Director R. Dinesh handed over 200 oxygen concentrators to Ministers P.T.R Palanivel Thiagarajan and P. Moorthy in Madurai. Already, the company had donated 200 oxygen concentrators to many of government hospitals in southern districts. They were handed over to Industry Minister Thangam Thennarasu two days ago, a company spokesman said. Rotarians donate Rotary India COVID Task Force handed over 100 oxygen concentrators valued at Rs. 66 lakh to Government Rajaji Hospital. According to a press release, TN Coordinator P. Gopalakrishnan and incoming District Governor R. Jeyakkan, A. Rathinavel, Dean, and others were present. The Ministers and Collector Aneesh Sekhar, Corporation Commissioner S. Visagan lauded the Rotarians for their yeomen service at a critical juncture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sustained-efforts-by-govt-have-ensured-sufficient-stock-of-oxygen-in-hospitals/article34712682.ece
03 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses bail plea of two company directors||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the bail petitions of N. Suresh Patel and S. Hitesh Patel, directors of Prabhat Group, accused of availing loans on the basis of inflated value of the properties mortgaged. The case of the prosecution was that the petitioners availed the loans and indulged in wilful diversion of funds through various group accounts. The group was into agriculture, sugar, timbers and other investments. It had units in Tiruchi, Dindigul and Tenkasi. A complaint was lodged against them by the Assistant General Manager, Zonal Office of Corporation Bank, Tiruchi. The total outstanding amount was Rs. 390.21 crore as on 2019. The bank noticed fraudulent connotations in 34 accounts of the group in three of its branches. It also noticed cash deposits of Rs. 17.10 crore during demonetisation period in 2016. Based on the complaint, a case was booked against the petitioners in 2018. The petitioners denied that inflated values of the mortgaged properties were submitted. They would cooperate with the inquiry. They were suffering from bipolar disorder, they said. Justice G. Ilangovan observed that serious allegations had been levelled against the petitioners that they siphoned off the loan amount obtained from the bank and forged documents for the purpose of laundering the money. The petitions were dismissed. The investigation in the case is being conducted by the CBI and Enforcement Directorate. The petitioners have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-bail-plea-of-two-company-directors/article34712684.ece
03 June 2021||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Fire damages temple roof||A fire broke out in the sanctum sanctorum of Mandaikadu Sri Bhagavathi Amman Temple on Wednesday and damaged the timber and tiles in the 15-foot-tall roof. After it was closed on Tuesday night following usual prayers, the temple was opened on Wednesday morning and priests came out of the temple around 6.45 a.m. after performing usual ‘deeparadhana.’ When a devotee, who was offering prayers from the road in front of the shrine, noticed smoke billowing from the roof of sanctum sanctorum around 7 a.m., he alerted others. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Nagercoil, Thuckalay and Colachel rushed to the spot to douse the flame that destroyed a portion of the timber and tiles in the roof and silk saris offered to the deity by devotees. As the devotees too joined the fire-fighting exercise, the flame was doused with ease. The devotees complained that the flame from the hanging lamps in the sanctum sanctorum might have caused the mishap while the temple authorities claimed that electric short circuit could have triggered the accident. Minister for Information and Technology T. Mano Thangaraj, Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind, MP A. Vijayakumar, MLAs J.G. Prince (Colachel), M.R. Gandhi (Nagercoil) and N. Thalavai Sundaram (Kanniyakumari) visited the shrine. “We’ve brought it to the notice of the Chief Minister, who has ordered for the immediate restoration of the damaged portions following the inspection to be done by Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment P.K. Sekar Babu within a couple of days,” Mr. Mano Thangaraj said. He said remedial rituals would be carried out as per ‘ahama’ and a comprehensive probe conducted to ascertain the reason for the accident. Former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan who visited the temple after the mishap, complained that the carelessness of the temple official had caused the fire accident. “The temple administration should conduct ‘prasannam’ as per Kerala tradition and perform remedial rituals,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-damages-temple-roof/article34712991.ece
03 June 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Shops sealed||The Perambalur municipality on Wednesday sealed two non-essential shops which had kept their premises open despite the lockdown. Officials at the Perambalur municipality said an office space, and a furniture showroom were open when officials had gone on an inspection after 12 p.m. “We have permitted essential shops to remain open only to facilitate home deliveries. These shops had no reason to be open,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-sealed/article34713024.ece
03 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity rate drops in Puducherry||The Union Territory reported 17 deaths on Wednesday, taking the cumulative COVID-19 toll to 1,567 even as the test positivity rate fell below 10% with 867 new cases detected from 9,151 tests. Puducherry reported 10 deaths, Karaikal (6) and Yanam (1). The patients, including four women, were in the 38-87 age group, and eight of them had no co-morbidities. The region-wise cumulative toll is Puducherry (1,265), Karaikal (178), Yanam (95) and Mahe (29). Puducherry recorded the highest number of 605 new cases in the Union Territory region on Wednesday, followed by Karaikal (189), Yanam (44) and Mahe (29). The test positivity rate was 9.47%, case fatality rate 1.47% and recovery rate 88.96%. With 1,393 patients posting recovery on Wednesday, the active cases stood at 10,166. Of these, 1,487 patients were in hospitals and 8,679 in home isolation. The Union Territory has recorded a cumulative aggregate of 1,06,299 cases and 94,566 patients have recovered. Of an estimated 10.67 lakh tests conducted to date, over 9.22 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, the number of people who took the vaccine rose to 2,69,757 on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-rate-falls-below-10-in-puducherry/article34712562.ece
03 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP to get Speaker’s post||After days of hard bargaining with its ally AINRC, the BJP had to settle for the Speaker’s post, apart from ministerial berths in the coalition government in the Union Territory. “The talks concluded on Tuesday evening. As per the agreement, a BJP nominee will be the Speaker. We agreed to share ministerial berths, but the final representation will be decided in a day or two by the leadership,” BJP leader V. Saminathan told reporters after chairing a meeting of the party MLAs on Wednesday. After the swearing-in of N. Rangasamy as Chief Minister of the first NDA government in Puducherry, the BJP had been demanding the posts of Deputy Chief Minister and the Speaker, besides two berths in the Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-to-get-speakers-post/article34712563.ece
03 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of tokens to PDS card holders begins in districts||The distribution of tokens to public distribution system (PDS) card holders to collect essential supplies for the month of June began here on Wednesday. Officials said the ration shop supervisors had started distributing tokens at the doorstep of the card holders and 200 tokens would be distributed every day till June 5. The token contains the date and time of distribution of essentials and card holders should visit the ration shop only on the mentioned time. They should comply with all COVID-19 precautions, the officials added. In Erode, tokens were given to rice card holders for receiving a pack of 13 grocery items from the ration shop. After Chief Minister M.K. Stalin inaugurates the scheme in Chennai on Thursday, card holders attached to all the 1,152 ration shops will receive it in the coming days, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-tokens-to-pds-card-holders-begins-in-districts/article34712895.ece
03 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||213 shops permitted to deliver groceries at doorstep in Salem||A total of 213 shops have been permitted to deliver groceries at the doorstep of residents in the Corporation limits here. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said the State government had extended the total lockdown without relaxations and steps were taken to ensure availability of vegetables, fruits and groceries to residents at their doorstep. At present, 612 mobile vehicles selling vegetables, 84 vehicles selling fruits, 72 vehicles selling groceries and other essential commodities and 11 vehicles selling bakery products were serving the residents in all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits, he said. The State government had allowed retail traders/shopkeepers to deliver groceries to the residents at their doorstep by taking orders through phone, whatsapp and e-mail. “A total of 213 shops were allowed to deliver groceries to the residents,” Mr.Ravichandran said and added that the list of shops permitted for the purpose was available on the Corporation’s website. In Erode, retail traders were asked to deliver groceries to customers only after obtaining permission from the local bodies concerned. District Collector C. Kathiravan said necessary groceries should be purchased from the wholesalers from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and sold to customers from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m. He warned that action would be taken against wholesalers and retailers if they were found doing business without permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/213-shops-permitted-to-deliver-groceries-at-doorstep-in-salem/article34712893.ece
03 June 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha hospital inaugurated at Sivagiri to treat COVID-19 patients||With the Siddha formulations doing wonders for the COVID-19 patients as per the study conducted by the doctors of Government Siddha Medical College in Palayamkottai, the district has got its full-fledged Siddha hospital for treating the COVID-19 positive patients. Collector G.S. Sameeran, who has established the hospital at Sivagiri near Sanakrankovil, inaugurated the facility in the presence of Tenkasi MP, Dhanush M. Kumar on Tuesday. The 75-bedded Siddha Hospital for COVID-19 patients has been created on the premises of Stella Mary’s College of Education with all facilities. Patients being admitted here would be given only Siddha formulations besides breathing exercises for strengthening lungs, exercises for increasing oxygen saturation, meditation, ‘aasanaas,’ relaxation, ‘varma,’ counselling etc. “The patients are given ‘kabasura kudineer’, nochchi leaf steam inhalation and nochchi leaf drinking water, ohm drinking water, cinnamon, clove, turmeric, cumin and ginger mixture concoction, inhalation of herbal plant steam etc. are also given to the patients as this procedure is a proven line of treatment as per siddha medical system,” the Collector said. He said that those who are getting discharged from the Siddha hospital, would be given Siddha formulations for strengthening their physique. “They will have to take these Siddha medicines for about a month,” he said. Vasudevanallur MLA T. Sadan Thirumalaikumar, District Siddha Medical Officer Usha, Joint Director of Health Services Nedumaaran, and Deputy Director of Health Services Yogananth were present. In Tirunelveli district, the Government Siddha Medical College Hospital is treating the COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/siddha-hospital-inaugurated-at-sivagiri-to-treat-covid-19-patients/article34712994.ece
03 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Two areas in Nanjikottai sealed as many test positive||Two areas in Nanjikottai panchayat on the outskirts of Thanjavur Corporation have been sealed after they were declared as containment zones to prevent the spread of COVID-19. While a total of 24 persons tested positive for COVID-19 at North Street, 46 persons were found infected with the deadly virus at Koothancheri and Innathukanpatti in Nanjikottai panchayat. Subsequently, these areas have been declared as containment zones and sealed with stern directions to all shopkeepers in the area to keep the shutters down until further instructions. The residents of these areas have been advised to stay indoors and to follow the Standard Operating Procedures laid down by the State government to prevent further spread of the novel coronavirus, according to village panchayat president Sathyaraj. Preliminary inquiries conducted by the officials revealed that the outbreak of the infection in these areas was due to the participation of large numbers of people in funeral ceremonies held at North Street and at Koothancheri recently. The Health Dept. had conducted a screening camp in the village panchayat on Wednesday where more than 100 persons were screened. Residents have been urged to approach the Health Department staff who would be camping at the Panchayat Union Middle School at Mariyal in the village panchayat for the next seven days in case they suffered from prolonged fever, cough or any other symptoms of novel coronavirus infection,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-areas-in-nanjikottai-sealed-as-many-test-positive/article34713032.ece
03 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Plea to release monetary benefits||The AITUC has called upon the State government to release the retirement benefits for the transport corporation employees who have opted for voluntary retirement, expired on duty or retired on medical grounds. In a statement issued here on Wednesday, the AITUC thanked the government for initiating steps for releasing Rs. 497.32 crore allotted by the previous AIADMK government for disbursement of retirement benefits for the 2457 transport corporation employees who retired between January 2020 and April 2020. A total of 462 employees retired after serving in the State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam division received Rs. 87.37 crore as retirement benefits. The trade union wanted the govt. to sanction retirement benefits for those who opted for voluntary retirement, expired on duty and retired on the grounds of medical reasons between May 2020 to April this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-release-monetary-benefits/article34713033.ece
03 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of COVID-19 victims left on the floor in Theni mortuary||Displaying a lack of accountability and scant regard for those who died of COVID-19 complications, the staff at the Government Medical College and Hospital here allegedly allowed some members of the public to enter the mortuary and take away a body for cremation. After watching a video that was doing the rounds on social media, senior health and revenue officials ordered a probe on Wednesday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Baladhandapani, 47, of Nallakaruppanpatti, near Periakulam, went to the Periakulam Government Hospital after developing symptoms of COVID-19. The doctors there referred him to the Theni Government Medical College and Hospital for admission. The patient required oxygen support. The treatment, according to his relatives, was not satisfactory. He died on Monday. The body was wrapped and kept in the mortuary. The relatives of the deceased claimed there was no proper response when they came to the hospital. When they went to the morgue, two government staff, identified as Gnanasekaran and Nagajothi, and another staff, Pandeeswaran, employed by a private contractor, said the bodies had been wrapped in polythene sheets. They reportedly permitted Venkatesh, a relative of the deceased, to go inside for identification. After Mr. Venkatesh spotted the body, the staff handed it over to him. As per the standard operating procedure, the bodies of victims declared “dead due to COVID-19 virus complications” should be cremated by the civic authorities in accordance with health protocols and should not be handed over to the relatives. Against this backdrop, the medical college’s Dean, Balajinathan, in an explanation to the authorities, apologised for the incident. He said action had been initiated against the erring staff. A gate had been put up at the mortuary, and it had been locked. Security personnel would guard it round the clock. The morgue had no space and hence, the workers left the bodies on the floor. There was a need to recruit staff and ensure adequate isolation of the doctors and para-medical staff. Infrastructure should be provided at the morgue, RTI activist C. Anandraj said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-of-covid-19-victims-left-on-the-floor-in-theni-mortuary/article34712565.ece
03 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies left on the floor in Theni GH mortuary||Showing scant regard for victims who died of COVID-19 complications and displaying lack of accountability, the staff of Government Medical College and Hospital here allegedly allow the public to enter the mortuary and walk away with the bodies for cremation. After a video went viral on social media, senior officials from the Department of Health and Revenue administration ordered a probe on Wednesday. Preliminary probe suggested that Baladhandapani, 47, of Nallakaruppanpatti near Periakulam was worked in Tirupur. Due to the lockdown, he went home. About five days ago, when he developed symptoms of COVID-19, he went for a screening at Periakulam GH. The doctors referred him for admission at Theni Government Medical College and Hospital. The patient required oxygen. The treatment, according to relatives, was not satisfying. Baladhandapani died on Monday. After wrapping the body in a plastic sheet, it was kept in the mortuary. Relatives claimed that when they went to the hospital, there was no proper response. When they went to the morgue, two government staff identified as Gnanasekaran and Nagajothi and another staff Pandeeswaran, employed by a private contractor, said the bodies were wrapped in polythene sheets. Hence, they reportedly permitted the relative of the deceased, Venkatesh, to go inside for identification. After Venkatesh spotted the body, the staff handed over the body. While as per the standard operating procedure, the body, which had been declared as “dead due to COVID-19 virus complications”, should be cremated by civic authorities as per the health protocol and not handed over to relatives. Medical College Dean Balajinathan, in an explanation to authorities, apologised for the incident. He said action had been initiated against the erring staff. A gate had been put up at the mortuary and locked. A security personnel would guard it round the clock. RTI activist C. Anandraj said the staff strength at Theni GH should be increased. Frontline workers alone could not be held responsible it. Conservancy workers had several issues and administrators had not responded to their demands. The morgue had no space and, hence, the workers had left the bodies on the floor. There was immediate need to recruit staff and provide isolation for doctors and para-medical staff. Infrastructure had to be upgraded at the morgue, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bodies-left-on-the-floor-in-theni-gh-mortuary/article34712683.ece
03 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||72 children, who lost parents to COVID-19, to get assistance||A total of 72 children in the district, who have lost their parents to COVID-19, will get the assistance from the State Government, Minister for Social Welfare P. Geetha Jeevan has said. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday after visiting at Arumugasamy Home here the children who have lost their parents to COVID-19, she said the State Government had created COVID Care Centres exclusively for COVID-19 positive children across Tamil Nadu where the children’s father or mother or guardian could stay with them. In Thoothukudi, 361 children with the viral infection were undergoing treatment in the COVID Care Centres. As the State Government had announced ex-gratia and monthly assistance to the children who have lost their father, mother or both to COVID-19, state-wide survey was going on to identify those children. In Thoothukudi, 72 such children would get the assistance. The guardian or relatives of those children could submit application to the Tahsildar or the Revenue Divisional Officer or the Collectors concerned for availing this assistance. She informed that panchayat-level committees were being formed to check child marriage. When the minister called on the family that lost a woman, who died after the cement plastering from the roof peeled off and fell on her, she handed over Rs. 1 lakh on behalf of DMK. She received 50 oxygen concentrators sponsored by TVS Srinivasan Trust. Collector K. Senthil Raj and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/72-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-to-get-assistance/article34712996.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits construction work at new terminal||Non- availability of certain key materials from other states due to the lockdown is impacting construction of the new integrated passenger terminal building of the Tiruchi airport. Fabrication works have completely stopped due to the non-availability of industrial oxygen. “About 55 per cent of the project works has been completed so far. Around 600 labourers are working at the project site,” said P. Sree Krishna, General Manager - Projects, Airports Authority of India, Tiruchi Airport. However, supply of a slew of materials such as granite, flooring materials, toilet fixtures and roof sheets besides spares for the cranes has been cut off, impacting the pace of the ongoing works. Granite has to come from Bengaluru and other materials from Maharashtra. But these were not being supplied at present owing to the current pandemic situation, Mr. Sree Krishna said. With fabrication works having been stopped, erection of trusses - which are rigid structures - have also come to a halt. Non-availability of industrial oxygen was affecting fabrication works. Concreting, laying of approach roads and other civil works were however going on as there was stock of cement and bitumen. Nevertheless, the project works were going on ‘satisfactorily’ at present, Mr. Sree Krishna said and added that all the labourers deployed at the project had been fully vaccinated. The works were being executed by duly following the COVID-19 related safety protocols and after obtaining permission from the district administration. The new terminal building at the airport is coming up on an area of 75,000 square metres at a whopping cost of over Rs. 950 crore. The terminal has been designed to handle 2,900 passengers during peak hours and to handle around 3.6 million passengers a year. It would be equipped with 48 check-in counters and 10 boarding bridges. Mr. Sree Krishna said construction of a new apron as part of the project was making good progress as well. Around 87% of the works connected with construction of the new apron had been completed. The new apron can accommodate 11 aircraft at a time. Runway resurfacing works taken up after nearly a decade at the Tiruchi airport was also apace. Nearly 80 % of the resurfacing works has been completed so far. Construction of a new Technical Block - cum - Air Traffic Control Tower at the Tiruchi airport also forms part of the project. The Airports Authority of India has already given height clearance for the proposed new structure. Clearance was given for 46 metres height for the new structure which would be taller than the new integrated passenger terminal building. The site for the construction of the new tower has been identified, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-hits-construction-work-at-new-terminal/article34713031.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camps for tribals on Pachamalai hills||As the tribals living in Pachamalai hills, a low range mountain of Eastern Ghats, remain hesitant to get themselves vaccinated against COVID-19 virus, the health authorities have decided to hold special camps at their settlements. According to an estimate, about 4,000 tribals are living in 14 hamlets served by the Primary health Centre at Top Sengattupatti. Though the majority of the hamlets were not affected during the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020, many residents have now been infected. So far, 35 cases have been reported in the hills. Of them, 10 persons, who had been tested positive for the virus, are under treatment. It was said that several residents had shown symptoms of COVID-19 infections but were reluctant to visit the PHCs or COVID Care Centres to take treatment. Since they believed in traditional and home-made herbal solutions, they took medicines suggested by the elders to treat fever, cold and cough. Moreover, they have shown lukewarm response towards getting vaccinated. The custom that they follow for decades on dealing with the onset of the airborne disease is said to have influenced them against taking the vaccination. To take stock of the situation, Collector S. Sivarasu visited Top Sengattupatti along with the revenue, health, tribal welfare and rural development officials on Wednesday. He met several tribals and advocated the need for getting a vaccination. “It is important to dispel misconceptions about the vaccine among the tribals. We will conduct special camps for vaccination. Moreover, the authorities and special team members will visit each and every household to screen them for fever,” Mr. Sivarasu said. Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi district, S. Ram Ganesh said that no one from the hills had died of COVID-19 related complications. However, they were some active cases. Out of ignorance and belief some preferred to self-medication. A section of tribes thought that they had better immunity against COVID-19 infections. The medical camps conducted in day time had evoked poor response as most of them went for farm works. Hence, it has been decided to hold special vaccination-cum -survey camps in the evenings. The aim was to vaccinate all tribals in Pachamalai hills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camps-for-tribals-on-pachamalai-hills/article34713021.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Delta region sees a spike in number of deaths||The central region on Wednesday recorded 4,321 fresh cases of COVID-19. While the number of cases reported witnessed a decline, there was a significant spike in the number of deaths reported. On Wednesday, 69 deaths were reported with all eight districts in the region reporting at least one death due to the viral infection. Karur reported the highest number of deaths with 17 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Nagapattinam came a close second with 15, Thanjavur reported 13, and Tiruchi 12. Five deaths were recorded in Ariyalur, four in Thanjavur, and two in Pudukottai and one in Perambalur district. Thanjavur reported the highest number of fresh positive cases with 920 patients. Tiruchi district reported less than 900 cases for the first time in over a month. As many as 882 patients reported COVID-19 positive. Meanwhile, a total of 108 patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Wednesday. Nagapattinam reported 674 fresh cases, while similar declining trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 629 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam had only four ICU beds and 14 oxygen-support beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had 10 ICU beds and 40 oxygen-support beds. Karur district reported a slight dip in cases with 415 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Karur had one of the least numbers of vacancies in ICU and oxygen-support beds. Only five ICU beds and 19 oxygen-support beds were available. Pudukottai reported 283 fresh cases, Ariyalur, 282 and Perambalur, 236. Bed vacancy in these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had only eight vacant ICU beds, Perambalur had seven, and Ariyalur, none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/delta-region-sees-a-spike-in-number-of-deaths/article34713034.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment, supplies donated to Tiruchi GH||The Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, through its Employees' Welfare Fund provided six lakh worth of equipment and furniture to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital to aid in the fight against COVID-19. The employees voluntarily contributed to the fund from their salaries, which is being utilised to support the district's medical infrastructure, officials said. In the first round of donations, 20 wheelchairs were purchased from the fund and donated to the Tiruchi MGMGH. While doing so, the officials noticed that the hospital had some furniture that was in disuse as it required some repair work. “We took eight truckloads of furniture- including cots, stretchers, wheelchairs and food trolleys to our campus, repaired it using our resources and returned it to the GH after servicing,” said Security Officer, OFT, Lt. Col. K Karthikesh. The medical equipment was serviced within a span of two weeks under a team led by Nakul Saini, Works Manager, OFT. All repair items, were purchased from the fund. The Joint Action Committee (JAC) of OFT on Monday also donated 20 stretchers with the facility of tethering an oxygen cylinder to it. “We are in touch with the authorities at the Tiruchi GH and mobilise our resources to purchase equipment according to their need,” Mr. Karthikesh said. Order for food trolleys has also been placed recently and will be delivered to the Tiruchi GH soon, he added. The Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endosurgeons (IAGES) also donated medical supplies to the Tiruchi GH. K. Govindaraj, Vice President, South Zone, IAGES and A. Zameer Pasha, Trustee, IAGES, along with other members of IAGES handed over 30 re-breather masks, 600 N95 masks and 25 quarantine kits to K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-supplies-donated-to-tiruchi-gh/article34713023.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Over 18,000 vehicles seized for violating lockdown norms||Law enforcers have seized over 18,300 vehicles all over the Central zone after the riders were found violating the intense lockdown ever since it was clamped on May 24. A vast majority of vehicles confiscated were two-wheelers in the zone comprising nine districts. Maximum seizure was reported in Thanjavur district where over 5,700 vehicles were confiscated followed by Tiruchi district where over 2,500 vehicles had been seized. Police sources said the vehicles were seized after the riders were found venturing out without any genuine reason during the intense lockdown clamped to contain the spread of COVID-19. Of the total number of vehicles seized since May 24, two-wheelers alone accounted for 18,200. A little over 130 four-wheelers and more than 60 three-wheelers were also confiscated. The seized vehicles were stationed at the respective jurisdictional police stations, said police sources. Teams of police personnel have been deployed at various places and at district borders all over the zone to enforce the intense lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-18000-vehicles-seized-for-violating-lockdown-norms/article34713036.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine stock for 45+ replenished||The Tiruchi District Vaccine Storage on Wednesday morning received a consignment of vaccines, enabling authorities to provide vaccination to people over 45-years-old. The district had reported a significant dip in the number of people receiving the jab as the vaccine stock had diminished over the last few days. On June 1, only 1,835 people had received the jab, compared to over 10,000 beneficiaries per day last week. “The stock was dwindling and we had prioritised the second dose of patients over the age of 45, and the vulnerable group between the 18-45 age group,” Deputy Director of Health Services, Tiruchi, S. Ram Ganesh, said. He also added that 15,000 doses of Covishield and 3,000 doses of Covaxin was delivered and distributed to the government vaccine sites and the urban and rural Primary Healthcare Centres across the district. However, the drive undertaken by the Tiruchi Corporation and the Primary Healthcare Centres in rural parts of the district to inoculate patients in the 18 to 45-years-old age group was suspended due to the lack of supply. “We have got a significant amount of doses from the centre for beneficiaries over the age of 45, however, the supply which has to be purchased by the state for the vulnerable group in the 18 to 45 age group is yet to reach us,” a senior health official said. The supply might take some time, and hence, the inoculation will be delayed, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-stock-for-45-replenished/article34712985.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic leads to trust deficit between pawn brokers and customers||Pawn brokers, the most sought-after people for the working class in times of financial crises, say they now find themselves in a predicament of turning down requests of long-time customers for money in lieu of jewels to meet their day-to-day expenses. Despite the lockdown restrictions, the working class, mostly comprising workers in small-scale industries, restaurants, malls, and construction sites, who face extreme hardship, continue to call up the pawn-brokers over phone to pledge their jewels, it is learnt. “We feel sad about not being able to comply with the request of our long-time customers with whom the transactions are mostly based on mutual trust. But then, we also face the problem of cash liquidity, as the cash flow is constant only when business is carried on unhindered,” said Shankar, who runs a pawn-shop at Ariyamangalam. There are some who avail themselves of the utility of jewel loans forwarded by banks at attractive interest rates, but not all are comfortable with going through the procedure starting from establishing identity, producing proof of residence, and making separate payments to appraisers. “Banks, in general, are indeed not suitable for those who require small amounts of money as jewel loans,” a branch manager of a nationalised bank said. The pawn-brokers, on the other hand, forward loans on pledged jewels, irrespective of the amount, on the basis of two to three percent interest per month, and give customers one-year time to redeem their valuables. The usual practice is to deduct the interest amount upfront and hand over the remaining amount as loan against the pledged jewels. After a year, the customers redeem the jewels. But, over the last one year, the process has not been that smooth. A good number of customers need to be reminded twice or thrice after a year, and they come around after much coaxing and, at times, even goading, Subramani, another pawn broker said. Fear in the minds of the pawn-brokers now is that there could be an erosion in their customer base, which they had been nurturing assiduously over decades, due to the tough situation caused by the pandemic.  Banks, in general, are indeed not suitable for those who require small amounts of money as jewel loans Branch manager of a nationalised bank||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pandemic-leads-to-trust-deficit-between-pawn-brokers-and-customers/article34713019.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Civic body to widen Konakarai Road||Tiruchi Corporation has decided to widen the existing Konakarai Road, running along Kudamuritti canal, from Woraiyur to Tiruchi-Karur highway in the city so that the road could cater to more traffic, especially four wheelers. The decision had been taken based on the instruction of Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, who visited the spot a few days ago. The proposal, which was seen as an attempt to reduce the volume of traffic on Karur Bypass Road, is expected to receive widespread appreciation from residents of the city particularly those living in Woraiyur. They had been urging the civic body to develop the road for long. They are of the view that it will help motorists, particularly from Woraiyur, to use Konakarai Road to reach Chathram Bus Stand and nearby areas instead of travelling via Karur Bypass Road. The Konakarai Road, which is under utilised for several years, is being projected as an alternative to Karur Bypass Road. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the Karur Bypass Road had become one of the most used roads in Tiruchi. It had been handling a large number of vehicles. There was a need to reduce the volume of vehicles. It could be possible if there was an alternative road and widening of Konakarai Road was a good option. He said a section of two-wheeler riders had started using Konakarai Road. If it was developed, it would eventually develop Woraiyur too. There were some encroachments on the road in Woraiyur and plans were on to relocate them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-to-widen-konakarai-road/article34713022.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two gaur calves rescued||Two gaur calves - one male and another female - which accidentally fell into an open well at Kannuthu village falling under the Thuvarankurichi Forest Range in the district were rescued by teams of fire fighters and Forest Department personnel on Wednesday. The two animals had fallen into the well on Monday night and on Tuesday the information was relayed to the Forest Department officials and attempts to rescue the animals were carried out. The operation resumed on Wednesday morning jointly by the fire fighters and forest department officials. The well had about five feet of water which was pumped out to carry out the rescue operation. The two animals were rescued from the nearly 60-feet deep well. A veterinarian examined the rescued calves and found them to be stable. Following this, the two calves were released into the Kannuthu reserve forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-gaur-calves-rescued/article34713026.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Some special express trains resume operations||The Southern Railway has resumed from June 1 operation of some special express trains which were earlier cancelled up to May 31 citing poor occupancy. Railway sources here said trains that had resumed operations were Chennai Egmore - Karaikudi - Chennai Egmore (Train No. 02606/02605); Chennai Egmore - Madurai - Chennai Egmore (Train Nos. 02636/02635); Tiruchi - Chennai Egmore - Tiruchi (Train Nos. 02654/ 02653); Tiruchi - Palakkad Town - Tiruchi (06843/ 06844); Mannargudi - Tirupathi - Mannargudi (Train Nos. 07408/ 07407); Thanjavur - Chennai Egmore - Thanjavur (Train No. 06866/06865); Tiruchi - Rameswaram -Tiruchi (Train Nos 06849/06850); Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore- Mayiladuthurai (Train Nos 02083/02084) and Puducherry - Mangalore - Puducherry (Train Nos. 06855/06856) (via Villupuram, Vriddhachalam and Salem. Besides these special express trains, the Southern Railway has also resumed operation of three passengers trains: Tiruchi - Karur - Tiruchi (Train Nos. 06123/06124); Tiruchi -Karaikudi- Tiruchi (Train Nos. 06125/06126) and Villupuram - Madurai - Villupuram (Train No. 06867/06868) via Tiruchi. All these trains were restored following instructions from the Southern Railway headquarters, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-special-express-trains-resume-operations/article34713037.ece
03 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New life at care centre||The special antenatal COVID Care Centre created at Reddiyarpatti Primary Health Centre on Palayamkottai outskirts welcomed a ‘new life’ in the early hours of Wednesday as a pregnant COVID-19 positive woman gave birth to a baby boy at 4.35 a.m. The centre, created by Collector V. Vishnu for treating the pregnant women after being tested positive for COVID-19, was opened a couple of days ago in the Primary Health Centre at Reddiyarpatti. During his visit to the district on last Monday, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu inaugurated the oxygen-supported facility. When patient Sathyabhama of Palayamkottai underwent mandatory screening at Gandhimathi School near Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Monday last, she was asked to go to the antenatal COVID Care Centre at Reddiyarpatti since she had symptoms of the viral infection. On arriving at the centre, she was screened again as the ‘due date’ was fast approaching. “She developed labour pain in the early hours of Wednesday and delivered the baby boy. The mother and the baby are doing great,” said the doctors who attended the lady. They are observing both the mother and the baby closely.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-arrival-at-care-centre/article34712998.ece
03 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two held for provocative video||The Tiruppur City Police on Tuesday arrested two youths after they were seen brandishing daggers in a video uploaded on social media platforms. According to the police, Peer Mohammed (19) and Rahman alias Abbas (20) uploaded a video of themselves last week, where they were seen dancing to a song with allegedly provocative lyrics and displaying the daggers in a threatening manner. The video was flagged by the Cyber Crime police, following which Tiruppur South police conducted investigations and arrested the two.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-provocative-video/article34712686.ece
03 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Second wave claims more lives in Virudhunagar district||Delayed medical attention on COVID-19 patients was attributed to more deaths while doctors in some Government Hospitals say that limitation in use of oxygen was a reason for some deaths. Only 232 deaths reported in 12 months (from March 2020 till March 31, 2021) in the first wave but the second wave has claimed 190 lives in 62 days till June 1. “Oxygen demand had increased manifold since first week of May yet the administration managed to meet the expectations despite all odds,” a government doctor said. The major reason for high number of deaths in May was due to transparent reporting of deaths, said Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran. “The Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has said all details about COVID should be transparent so that all deaths, including those occurring in private hospitals, were brought to light,” he added. Besides, the people coming to the hospital after much delay resulted in increased level of infection. “People hesitated to come to hospitals and were practising self-medication without going for swab test,” he said. By the time many of them reached hospitals, they had higher level of lung problem – 50% to 60% – and their condition worsened quickly. Another reason was that the private hospitals were pushing patients at the most critical moments to the Government Hospitals. “Doctors at GHs were not getting adequate time to stabilise patients. Many of them died within a few hours of admission,” Collector R. Kannan said. Private hospitals have been warned against taking patients with higher infection which was beyond their capacity to manage, he added. Stating that lack of understanding about the sudden worsening of health condition, a typical condition in second wave, among the people was also contributing to the higher death rate, the Minister said. “As more deaths were attributed to COVID, the people realised the danger and were coming forward for early detection and treatment,” he added. A doctor said lack of high flow oxygen facility was a handicap in providing advanced treatment to the patients with deteriorated lung condition. Virudhunagar district had oxygen tanks only in Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital (6KL) and at Government Hospital and ESI Hospital at Sivakasi. “Only these hospitals have facilities to increase the flow of oxygen. No other taluk hospital across the State has these facilities. Since Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, was overflowing with patients, we were not able to send the patients there and made all-out efforts at VGMCH, (which has very limited facilities now) to save highly-infected patients and succeeded in some cases,” Mr. Kannan said . Besides, to overcome lack of expertise in handling such cases, additional anesthetists have been deputed here. Efforts were being taken to provide technical facilities at the taluk hospitals to provide high flow nasal oxygen or continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) facility, the Collector said. Even as the Minister said all required facilities would be provided in GHs in the district, critically-ill COVID patients were sent to the GRH and Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital after the pressure on those hospitals have eased in recent past. The Collector said positivity rate was gradually coming down and the number of positive cases had come down in the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-wave-claims-more-lives-in-virudhunagar-district/article34713000.ece
03 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||10 deaths in Virudhunagar||Ten more COVID deaths were reported in Virudhunagar on Wednesday, which took up the district’s death toll to 432. Two of the deceased were women. There were 479 fresh cases recorded in the district. The number of patients discharged reached four-digit mark for the first time to stand at 1,091.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-deaths-in-virudhunagar/article34712677.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees further decline in cases||A total of 3,061 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Wednesday. The district recorded a decline from Tuesday’s 3,332 cases. Coimbatore district also registered a decline in the number of active cases on Wednesday, after a gap of many weeks. The district had 39,112 active cases on Wednesday against the 40,570 cases it had on Tuesday. After a gap of several weeks, the number of recoveries exceeded the number of fresh cases in the district. According to the Health Department, 4,488 persons recovered on Wednesday. The department said that 38 more persons from the district died of COVID-19 in the last few days, taking the overall death toll to 1,345. Erode district reported 1,488 fresh cases taking the tally to 59,768. While 1,538 persons were discharged, 16,020 continue to be under treatment. Twenty-five persons died, raising the toll to 381. Salem district reported 1,290 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 68,066. While 703 persons were discharged, 9,248 continue to be under treatment. A total of 23 persons died, raising the toll to 1,011. In Namakkal, 809 cases were reported taking the district’s tally to 34,005. While 620 persons were discharged, 7,451 continue to be under treatment. Nine persons died, raising the toll to 271. In the Nilgiris, 579 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 20,41. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district increased from 94 to 100 on Wednesday while 4,068 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-further-decline-in-cases/article34712882.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sero-prevalence stands at 23% in Tamil Nadu||With the results pending for Chennai, the city’s sero-positivity was 18.4% in the first sero-survey, followed by 30% in the second survey done by the Indian Council of Medical Research. The current hotspots — Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode — have shown an antibody prevalence of 20.5%, 23% and 17.2% respectively in the second sero-survey. This, the Directorate said, indicated “low antibody prevalence”. So the challenges remain, say health officials. The lesson learned is to push vaccination more to improve antibodies. “The survey ... indicates that if we look at vaccination levels of about 13% and sero-prevalence of 23%, the State has almost 64% population that can be termed vulnerable. So we have to keep following non-medical methods and focus on rural and other districts with low sero-prevalence. Also, vaccination of the vulnerable would help,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. The State had sent 518 samples for Whole Genome Sequencing to InStem, Bengaluru. The results of 192 samples, released as of now, have indicated virus variants, the highest being B.1.617.2, named Delta by the WHO. About 77% of the samples returned positive for Delta. The sero-survey results should be interpreted with caution because of a number of factors, said T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. “These include the protective effect (one may or may not get infected), the virulence and infectivity of the virus and the host effect (the individual’s reactivity to the virus). The variants may or may not have the protective effect. The overall protective effect may be due to the combination of vaccination and sero-positivity due to infection.”  The lesson learned is to push vaccination more to improve antibodies and reduce the vulnerability||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sero-prevalence-stands-at-23-in-tamil-nadu/article34712570.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deaths see a spike in Tiruppur||Tiruppur district reported 24 COVID-19 deaths and 1,252 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 63,552. The deaths were the highest in five days and was three times higher than that of Tuesday, which took the district’s overall toll past the 500-mark to 507 deaths. As many as 18,743 patients were active cases and 1,083 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Revenue officials ordered the closure of a garment unit in Thirumuruganpoondi on Wednesday after 47 employees tested positive for COVID-19. According to Revenue Department sources, 147 employees undertook tests in private laboratories, of which 47 had tested positive. About half of the patients were shifted to Avinashi Government Hospital and the rest were shifted to a COVID-19 care centre. The closed garment unit will be regarded as a containment zone, the sources said. Apart from this, five more units in Mudalipalayam, Andipalayam and Pongupalayam were ordered to be closed after they were found to be illegally functioning despite lockdown on Wednesday.  The district reported 24 COVID-19 deaths on Wednesday, the highest in five days. The toll stands at 507||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-see-a-spike-in-tiruppur/article34712891.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Explanation sought from private hospital||Following a petition alleging that a private hospital in Perumanallur had discharged a COVID-19 patient in a critical condition and collected over Rs. 19 lakh as fees from the patient’s relatives, the Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services of Tiruppur district issued a notice demanding an explanation for the alleged lapses. In a letter on Tuesday, Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services G. Shanthi ordered the hospital located on Kovai Main Road in Perumanallur, near Avinashi, to not admit any new COVID-19 patients till further orders from the district administration and to provide treatment for the existing patients. The petition submitted to Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday alleged that the 62-year-old patient was discharged on May 24 by the private hospital and died the next day due to lack of availability of non-invasive ventilation treatment in other hospitals. Dr. Shanthi identified four lapses on the part of the hospital as per the petition namely negligence of bounded duty, receiving Rs. 19.05 lakh as treatment charges, charging Rs. 40,000 per vial of Remdesivir and not issuing a discharge summary. The hospital administration was directed to explain within three days why its registration should not be cancelled under TNCEA and to withdraw from the empanelled list to treat COVID-19 patients, failing which further action will be initiated “based on the records available,” Dr. Shanthi wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/explanation-sought-from-private-hospital/article34712888.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Industries concerned ove r spread of COVID-19 among workers||District Collector S. Nagarajan on Tuesday said that while continuous processing units and those in the essential sector can continue to function, some of the industries here have expressed concern about the spread of COVID-19 among workers in some units. Industry sources said though workers are staying indoors and working in the essential sector, in some units there are a group of workers who are testing positive. Some industries are reporting mass cases. Similarly, some units are functioning without permission and officials have started taking action on units that are operating without permission. Though units are having workers in-house, there is a possibility of the workers going out or people coming from outside. There is spread in export, large-scale units and among MSMEs too, they added. The market is down and some of the units that have workers and stock of raw materials are trying to operate and keep stock of the products. Stringent measures The government and the district administration should look at stringent measures to control the spread among industries, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-concerned-ove-r-spread-of-covid-19-among-workers/article34712880.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Procedures to be followed during lockdown till June 7 announced||The district administration on Tuesday announced the activities that were permitted during the lockdown till June 7. In a release issued here, Collector S. Nagarajan said till 6 a.m. June 7, the following activities were permitted – medical stores, country drug stores and shops selling veterinary medicines, milk, water and newspaper distribution, vegetable and fruit sales as permitted until now, sale of essential commodities by doorstep delivery by neighbourhood shops that had the local body’s permission and fair price shops till noon. The Collector also said ATMs would remain open as would refuelling stations (petrol bunks), restaurants could supply parcels to food delivery service providers between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m., noon and 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. Likewise, e-commerce service providers could deliver goods between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. Wholesale trade in fruits and vegetables was permitted, but retail would not be allowed. Drinking water distribution, health and telecom services were allowed and all essential departments, including treasury, would function, the Collector said. Private sector employees and those working in banks, insurance and information technology companies would do well to work from home. Transport of agriculture produce and inputs was allowed. Blood banks could function and so could those in medical services. Employees in visa processing centres would be allowed to go to work based on employee identity card. Poultry and animal husbandry activities were permitted. Construction was allowed provided workers stayed at the site. Volunteers in differently abled care, elderly care or similar service could function provided they had completed e-registration, the Collector further said. Continuous processing industries and those producing essential commodities could remain open as per the order of the Revenue and Disaster Management Department. Export industries and or those industries catering to export industries would not be allowed to function during this lockdown till June 7. And, travel from Coimbatore to other districts and from other places to the district would be allowed only for medical emergency or death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/procedures-to-be-followed-during-lockdown-till-june-7-announced/article34712887.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Children who lost parents to COVID-19 have not sought rehabilitation’||Out of the 93 children identified by the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) who have lost one or both parents to COVID-19 in the district, none had sought rehabilitation so far, according to District Child Protection Officer R. Sundar. He said on Wednesday that the exercise to identify children who had lost their parents due to COVID-19 is under way in the district and 11 DCPU officials were involved in the process. Out of the 93 children identified so far, two have lost both their parents and the remaining 91 had lost one of their parents to the pandemic. The two children, who lost both their parents were living with their grandparents and relatives while the remaining were living with their surviving parent, Mr. Sundar said. Regarding the financial assistance announced by the State and Central governments for children who had lost both parents to COVID-19, the guidelines for the schemes were yet to be communicated, he said. Those seeking rehabilitation or any other assistance for children in the district who lost their parents to the pandemic shall contact the Childline helpline 1098, according to Mr. Sundar. In Tiruppur district, the DCPU commenced the exercise to identify the children who had lost their parents to COVID-19 on Wednesday, an official said. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan chaired a meeting on Tuesday, following which information was gathered from the Health Department and the identification exercise was commenced, according to the official.  Those seeking rehabilitation or any other assistance for children in the district shall contact the Childline helpline 1098||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-have-not-sought-rehabilitation/article34712890.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Be prepared for south-west monsoon’||Collector P. Uma Maheswari convened a meeting through video conference from her camp office here on Wednesday with officials of various government departments regarding the preparatory works to be taken ahead of the south-west monsoon and regarding COVID-19 prevention measures. The Collector asked the Rural Development department officials to plug breaches in waterbodies and mobilise adequate stock of sand in gunny bags. She advised the Public Works Department officials to carry out necessary repair works in the cyclone shelters and keep them in a state of readiness to accommodate the public. The Collector asked the Fisheries Department officials to alert fishermen about the weather conditions and make necessary preparatory works. The Health Department officials were asked to maintain adequate stock of medicines and take steps to mobilise medical teams. Personnel of the Fire and Rescue Services Department were asked to remain in a state of preparedness with necessary paraphernalia required for rescue operation. The Tahsildars were asked to convey the quantum of rainfall, the extent of damage caused to houses and about loss of lives of humans and cattle if it were to happen in their respective taluk to the Disaster Management Unit functioning at the Collectorate. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan and officials from various government departments participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/be-prepared-for-south-west-monsoon/article34713027.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||On the edge||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/on-the-edge/article34713029.ece
03 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Long silence of looms leaves weavers in the lurch||Dhavalesh Banakar has barely had any employment for over a year now. The greater tragedy has been that he has lost two of his family members to COVID-19. “I used to work for a power loom owner. He closed the unit after the first lockdown in April last year. In September, the unit was opened, only to close down after a few weeks. Since then I have been doing odd jobs like selling vegetables,” he said. He felt helpless when his sister and brother in-law were admitted to a private hospital, as he could not get beds in the government hospital. The 10-day treatment was not successful and they died within a gap of two days. He had to take a hand loan to settle the bills. Those who have their own looms are not much better off. Ravi Malleshappa belongs to a family of traditional weavers and had two handlooms at home. But he had to close them down after suffering losses in 2019. He started going to work as a daily wage labourer last year in loom, which is also shut now. He is now working as a security guard in a residential apartment in Belagavi. Nine of 10 hit Such stories are endless in the weavers’ communities. “Around 70% of the community members are daily wage labourers. Only around 20% have their own hand looms or power looms and the rest of around 10% are employed in the organised sector like big mills. Nine out of ten weavers are suffering due to the lockdown,” said Mohammad Mulla, a leader of weaver labourers. These sentiments are echoed by Gurulingappa Gombi, who has been running a weavers’ cooperative in Bagalkot. ‘Sector disorganised’ Gajanan Gunjeri, a leader of the weaver community and a BJP member, hopes that government will soon offer help. “Siddu Savadi, chairman of Karnataka Handloom development corporation, and other MLAs have met the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, seeking a special package,” he said. However, others are sceptical. “The government will find it easy to announce relief plans, but difficult to implement them,” said Ashok Chandaragi, social activist whose family members are engaged in weaving. The sector is highly disorganised and the government lacks even proper data about the numbers and conditions of weavers, he argued. Multiple communities He pointed out that several communities are involved in various aspects of weaving, raing from cleaning cotton to ginning, threading, weaving and colouring. “They include Nekar, Pattasali, Padmasali, Kuruvinashetty, Togatveer, Banakar, Rangrez, Devang, or Swakulsali and other communities and sub castes,” he said, adding that a larger number of traditionally non-weaving communities such as Lingayat, Muslim, Gauli, Hatgar, Kuruba, Koli-Kabbaliga, Jadar and Medar are also involved. “In the past, leaders of various communities have created obstacles in the fair distribution of relief,” said Mr. Chandaragi. “What is more, most weavers are poor and illiterate and don’t have smart phones or bank accounts. A direct cash transfer will not be easy.” After floods Weavers of north Karnataka have been suffering losses since 2019, says Parashuram Dhage, convenor of the North Karnataka Weavers Development Committee. “We were hit by the floods in 2019, and the successive lockdowns in 2020 and 2021,” Mr Dhage said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/long-silence-of-looms-leaves-weavers-in-the-lurch/article34712529.ece
03 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Department approves of BIMS director’s leave||The State government has made some changes in the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS), after an inspection by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on Monday. Mr. Savadi complained of negligence by doctors and staff and other problems in the hospital attached to the government medical college. He said that the hospital was worse than a cow shed and expressed helplessness about it. He said that most of COVID-19 deaths in the district had occurred in BIMS. He accused doctors and staff of negligence that he said had caused the deaths. On Wednesday, the Medical Education Department approved of the leave application by BIMS Director Vinay Dastikopp. Head of the Department of Anatomy Umesh Kulkarni will be in charge, in Dr. Dastikopp’s absence. The State government has also changed deputation of Sanjiv Katte, who was in charge of disposal of bodies. The government has transferred a matron and six nurses. Ashok Chandaragi, social activist, said that this was being done to show to people that the government is serious about COVID-19 management. “BIMS is in a mess. Doctors and nurses are not really concerned about treating patients properly. They are all negligent. We have complained to the government about this. The government is doing all this only to hoodwink the people as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is scheduled to visit the district,’’ he said. He pointed out that Dr. Dastikopp has been sent on leave despite a government order that has cancelled leave of all Health and Medical Education Department staff during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/department-approves-of-bims-directors-leave/article34712607.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only two districts have a TPR of less than 5%||If the recommendation by the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) that the lockdown should be continued till the State’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) falls below 5% is considered, the State still has a long way to go before unlocking restrictions. As of now only two districts, Bidar and Kalaburagi, have a TPR below 5%. Although there has been a considerable decline in the number of new cases in the last one week, the State’s average TPR for the last seven days (May 25 to May 31) is 12.79%. What is worrisome is that the TPR in 20 districts is higher than the State average during the last seven days prior to May 31. At 32.83%, Mysuru has the highest TPR followed by 25.53% in Chikkamangaluru. While eight districts have a TPR of over 20%, 12 districts have a TPR of less than 20% but still above the State average. Six districts including Bengaluru Urban have a TPR of less than 10% with the lowest in Bidar (1.26%), and Kalaburagi (3.56%). Sources said it will be impractical to wait till TPR falls below 5% for unlocking restrictions. “With only two districts having a TPR of less than 5% as of now, it may take at least a month for the State average TPR to further reduce from the existing 12.79%,” sources said. Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), who is also the head of Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health in Bengaluru, said it cannot be predicted when the TPR will reduce substantially. “During the second wave, both the ascent and descent of TPR has been more rapid. Different districts are peaking at different times and tests should be increased considerably depending on the test positivity rate in the particular district. TPR will increase when the background prevalence is really high and the number of tests done are less,” he said. “TPR is estimated using the formula comprising the number of positive cases in the numerator and the total number of tests done in the denominator. Test positivity will increase when the denominator is small or the numerator is high,” he explained. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and tests in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said as the disease cannot be uniform in all districts, graded relaxing of lockdown restrictions can be considered when the TPR is between 5% - 10% in a majority of the districts. “Even when unlocking is considered, it should be in a graded manner with continued restrictions on public, social, and religious gatherings including marriages. Inter-district transport and travel from high-risk to low-risk districts should also be regulated depending on the positivity rate in those districts,” Dr. Manjunath said. V. Ravi, TAC member and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said each district should be considered separately. “Restrictions should be relaxed in a graded manner in the districts depending on the positivity rate there,” he said. Asserting that aggressive testing should be taken up in districts with a high prevalence, Dr. Ravi pointed out that all symptomatic positive cases and their contacts should be identified and tested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-two-districts-have-a-tpr-of-less-than-5/article34712520.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pressure mounts on govt. to cancel SSLC and II PU exams||A day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) cancelled their respective class 12 board examinations, parents and students of second year pre-university and class 10 SSLC students are urging the Karnataka government to take a similar decision. Both national boards had earlier announced their decision to cancel class 10 board examinations in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. The Karnataka government, however, is yet to take a call on this issue. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, in a press statement on Wednesday, said that they have consulted extensively with teachers, educators and parents. “A right decision will be made in the coming days keeping in mind the health and the academic future of the students,” stated the Minister. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said that assessing students will be a challenge if the examination is cancelled. as the practice of continuous and comprehensive evaluation was not adopted in government and private PU colleges. That said, many colleges were able to conduct at least one test, assignment or exam during the academic year. According to the Department of Pre-University Education, 80% of second PU students have had some sort of assessment in the 2020-21 academic year. Around 30% of SSLC students have had no assessments for the same period.  ‘Disadvantage’ Students are worried that if their exams are not cancelled, they would be at a disadvantage. Ramesh S., a second PU student, said, “CBSE and ISC students will get scores and grades based on their internal assessment, and their schools will grade them liberally. Why should only PU students write a board based exam and compete with central boards students who won't have to do this?” Rishikesh B.S., Associate Professor, Azim Premji University hailed the decision of both national boards as ‘progressive’. “Examinations should not be held to test the performance of students under stress. It should be held in the most child-friendly environment. This will hopefully help different boards to reform their assessment methods and not rely only on the board examination marks,” he said. Political parties like the Congress are also leaning heavily on the Karnataka government to cancel the board exams. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D.K. Shivakumar tweeted: “I urge the Karnataka government to follow the Centre, and cancel both SSLC and II PUC exams.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pressure-mounts-on-govt-to-cancel-sslc-and-ii-pu-exams/article34712515.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown may be extended, but with relaxation for industries||Lockdown restrictions are likely be extended by at least another week after June 7 when the presently imposed restrictions will come to an end, in line with recommendations of the State’s COVID-19 Technical advisory Committee. However, the State government is expected to relax restrictions and allow all industries and construction sectors to resume work from June 7, a member of the COVID-19 task force said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who chaired two COVID-19 review meetings on Wednesday, also hinted the same. He said that the government would call on extending the lockdown and other stringent measures shortly, and added that “export oriented industrial units will be allowed to function with 50% staff strength from June 3”. Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar issued an order to this effect later in the day. Meanwhile, other industries, including MSMEs, will also likely be allowed to function with 50% staff strength, following all COVID-19 appropriate behaviour from June 7, a senior Minister said. The garment sector that employs over five lakh people, most of them women, will also likely be allowed to function with 50% staff strength, the Minister added. Industry bodies also met Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar and lobbied hard for relaxation of restrictions. “It has already been six weeks since most of our industries are closed, pushing industries, especially MSMEs into huge losses. Any extension of the lockdown will be unviable,” said Perikal M. Sundar, president, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry. A delegation from Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) also met Mr. Shettar and appealed to permit MSMEs to operate in the State without any hindrance immediately. “We have been given an assurance that we will be allowed to reopen from June 7 with 50% staff strength,” Mr. Sundar told The Hindu.   The industry bodies have also demanded that industrial workers be treated as a priority group and be vaccinated on priority. “The government must conduct vaccination camps in industrial areas and also establish COVID Care infrastructure in industrial estates,” FKCCI said. Meanwhile, the Government Order on Wednesday stipulated that all functioning industries that employ more than 1,000 employees have to get at least 10% of their staff strength tested for COVID-19 randomly, twice a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-may-be-extended-but-with-relaxation-for-industries/article34712535.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: State, its agencies should first remove their lake encroachments||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday said that the State government and its instrumentalities should first take steps to remove their encroachments on lakes and the surrounding buffer zones to set an example for others. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna made the observing in its order while hearing PIL petitions related to protection and maintenance of lakes and stormwater drains. Noticing that certain development activities were carried out by the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike and other instrumentalities of the State, the bench said that it is the obligation of the State and its agencies to protect the lake and buffer zones around lakes. If encroachments put up by State and its instrumentalities are removed, then the other encroachers can follow suit, the bench observed. Meanwhile, the bench directed the BBMP to give its response on implementing recommendations made by the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) for surveying Arehalli, Kamakshipalya and Tavarekere lakes and providing boundaries through GPS documentations. Also, the bench asked the BBMP’s Executive Engineer (Lake Development) to explain how the tender for preparing DPR for development of certain lakes were issued even before the NEERI submitted its restoration plans. The bench granted more time for the State government to carry out a survey of all lakes in Karnataka and the buffer zones around all the lakes as per an earlier order while pointing out that the government had not completed survey of even half of the lakes in the city and, moreover, buffer zones were not surveyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-state-its-agencies-should-first-remove-their-lake-encroachments/article34712509.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP gears up for monsoon||With the monsoon round the corner, civic officials have been instructed to not only identify flood prone areas, but also take up flood mitigation measures. On Wednesday, Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj, accompanied by BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, reviewed various measures taken in this regard. Sai Layout, Geddalahalli and a few other areas near Hennur Main Road get flooded with 80-90 mm of rainfall. The rainwater flows through the Hebbal Valley to Kalkere and Rampura lakes. Waterlogging can be solved if the railway under bridge near the valley is widened, said BBMP officials in a press release. B.S. Prahlad, Chief Engineer, Stormwater Drain Department, said the South Western Railways had already granted permission for the work. “Once widened, heavy rain of 130 mm an hour also will not cause any water logging or flooding in surrounding areas,” he claimed. The Minister said residents of the area were inconvenienced due to rainwater flowing to Hebbal Valley from Sarvajnanagar, C.V. Raman Nagar and Hebbal. The Kalkere lake, spread across 183 acres, is full. Wastewater treated by the BWSSB’s wastewater treatment plant near Horamavu is released into Kalkere lake. Mr. Gupta directed Mohan Krishna, BBMP Chief Engineer, Lakes Department, to remove two feet of water from the lake to ensure that heavy rains do not result in overflow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-gears-up-for-monsoon/article34712512.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBSE schools flooded with queries||With uncertainty over how class 12 grades will be calculated, many CBSE schools are planning to send students a break-up of their scores in the tests and examinations held earlier in the year to ensure that there is complete transparency over how they are graded. This comes in the wake of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) cancelling their class 12 examinations. A principal of a CBSE school in Bengaluru said parents have been continuously calling their teachers to find out how their children were graded in the tests. “We have decided to orally tell parents all the scores so that there is no confusion once CBSE decides how the students will be assessed,” he said. Students are worried of how they would be assessed as their class 12 scores will determine which college or university they will get admission in. “I have not done well in my class 12 internal assessment. But I prepared really well for the examination. I wanted to get into two top colleges in the city for B.Com. Now I am not sure if I will get admission in these colleges,” said a class 12 student of a CBSE school in north Bengaluru. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, Delhi Public Group of Schools, said that the decision to cancel the examination was a much needed move during such testing times. “We hope that the board will also ask schools to consider class 11 marks as well,” he said. M. Srinivasan, founder, Gear Innovative International School said that for the most part, teachers, students and parents, were happy with the board’s decision. “We will however have to wait for CBSE to send us the assessment format so that we can begin grading students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cbse-schools-flooded-with-queries/article34712511.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State reports 16,387 fresh infections, 463 deaths||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 16,387 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 26,35,122. Of these, 4,095 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 463 deaths, the toll rose to 30,017. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 21,199 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 23,12,060. The State now has 2,93,024 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 11.22%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.82%. As many as 1,45,923 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,07,846 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 2,99,99,107. Meanwhile, the Medical Education Department has announced payment of risk incentives to staff of COVID-19 testing laboratories in 20 medical colleges in the State. While Group ‘D’ workers and nurses in these labs will be paid a monthly incentive of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 8,000 respectively, research scientists, research assistants, lab technicians, data entry operators will be paid Rs. 5,000 monthly incentive, according to an official order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-state-reports-16387-fresh-infections-463-deaths/article34712522.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Slim pickings for waste warriors||On a regular day in what has come to be known as the ‘pre-COVID era', as most people went about their life, a section of invisible workers would start sifting through piles of garbage. With a sack on their back, this small army of waste-pickers would help reduce – even if marginally – the burden on the city’s waste management infrastructure. Today, many of them still under the informal category without ID cards, have been badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown with little or no work coming their way. Most waste-pickers The Hindu spoke to had two major challenges – reduced quantities of waste and lockdown restrictions for those who don’t have ID cards. Amit, a native of West Bengal, is physically challenged. He came to Bengaluru just before the pandemic and is among many families settled in Hebbal who make a living as waste-pickers. “Before COVID-19, I used to make Rs. 600-Rs. 700 a day. But then the [national] lockdown was announced , which was a terrible time,” he said. A year later, he is still struggling to earn a livelihood due to the restrictions imposed by the Karnataka government in the ongoing lockdown. “Even now, because we don’t have ID cards, we go to fewer places. Also, the amount of waste appears to have come down. I barely collect enough to earn Rs. 300 a day. But Bengaluru is expensive. With rent and other expenses, and without regular work, it is becoming increasingly difficult,” he said. Saiful and his wife Sanjira are out of work. Residing in Ramamurthynagar, Saibul is a waste-picker while Sanjira is a domestic help. “We came to Bengaluru two years ago. Earlier, I used to collect Rs. 500 worth of waste in a day. Now, the figure has reduced to Rs. 250. During lockdown, I can’t go to work," he said. Waste-pickers with organisations such as Hasiru Dala are slightly better off, given that they have ID cards and uniforms. But they too rued the impact of a dip in quantities of waste. Kumudha, who works at the Dry Waste Collection Centre in J.P. Nagar, said, “I don't know whether people are not shopping enough or if waste is not making it to the right channels, but we are collecting only 300-400 kg a day now as opposed to two tonnes earlier. This is causing huge losses as the 12 waste-pickers at the centre have to be paid. We have so far not reduced pay, but I don’t how long we can sustain this,” she said. According to Kumudha, no payment or work order has come from the BBMP since this January. Pinky Chandran, trustee, Hasiru Dala said the because of the lockdown, there's limited movement on the road, therefore limited access to ‘throw waste’. Though organisations such as hers have lent social support, those under the radar are the ones that are in dire circumstances. “When the BBMP started registering waste-pickers in 2013-14, 4,125 were identified. After that, the BBMP has registered more,” she said. However, these numbers are said to be an underestimation. “What we've seen is that the numbers are high or low depending on many factors. It is even seasonal at times. In addition, the definition of migrant is also something to think about. But it has to be one of the most marginalised sections with little access to social security,” said Ms. Chandran. Rosey M. from Migrant Workers Solidarity Network made a case for waste-pickers to be acknowledged as frontline workers and vaccinated on priority. "They are the most vulnerable to COVID-19 because the nature of their work involves picking waste, which includes used face masks and medical wastes," she said. ( This is the second in a three-part series on the struggles of communities that have fallen through the cracks in the Karnataka government’s health machinery )  I don't know whether people are not shopping enough or if waste is not making it to the right channels, but we are collecting only 300-400 kg a day now as opposed to two tonnes earlier Kumudha, works at DWCC in J.P. Nagar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/slim-pickings-for-waste-warriors/article34712508.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industry bodies seek relief package from govt.||With the lockdown expected to be extended, industry bodies have sought a relief package from the government. While the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) has sought a total relief of Rs. 21,550 crore, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) has sought a host of measures to help them. “The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) - 8.75 lakh units of them in the State employ over 60 lakh individuals - contribute Rs. 84,000 crore to the State’s GST and Rs. 1.2 lakh crore to Income Tax, totalling to Rs. 2 lakh crore. In times of such a deep crisis, we are asking the government to invest 10% of our annual contribution as relief,” said Perikal M. Sundar, president, FKCCI. The industry bodies have sought 25% concession on property tax for two years, exemption from payment of electricity tax/interest for six months, deferment of all proposed hikes in power and water tariffs, and waiver of interest on KSFC loans for three months. FKCCI has demanded reimbursement of salaries for workers for three months. On long-term issues, KASSIA sought relaxation in NPA norms, permitting quarterly GST payment, and giving extension of six months for statutory payments like ESI/PF. Meanwhile, KASSIA thanked the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade and the Disaster Management Division of the Home Ministry for acceding to its request to resume supply of oxygen for MSMEs and continuous process industries such as furnaces, refineries, steel, aluminium, copper processing plants, exporters in manufacturing sector requiring oxygen for production and food processing units. KASSIA office-bearers and manufacturers of liquid oxygen met Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Tuesday and requested to allot 130 tonnes of oxygen to MSMEs, including 30 tonnes to small industries operating in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industry-bodies-seek-relief-package-from-govt/article34712533.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP leaders face flak for ‘preferential’ vaccination||In the last one week, three BJP leaders from Bengaluru, including Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, have drawn the ire of citizens and the Opposition over allegations of “undue preference” and “diversion” of COVID-19 vaccines for certain sections of society including party workers and caste-based groups. One vaccination drive that came under criticism was held in Malleswaram by Mr. Narayan who is the MLA of the constituency. Photos of priests, who are not on the list of priority groups, being given shots elicited allegations of “caste based vaccine camps” by Congress leader B. K. Hariprasad and Twitterati alike. The Opposition Congress is running a “BJP vaccine scam” campaign on Twitter even as it launched a scathing attack on the Union government’s vaccine policy on Wednesday. On the drive held by the Deputy CM, Mr. Hariprasad alleged that Dalits and other people who came to get vaccinated at the camp on Monday were sent back. However, the minister’s office denied these allegations. The camp was for senior citizens and a group of Brahmin priests had turned up, they claimed, arguing that the photo was used out of context. Meanwhile, another MLA S. Raghu is accused of diverting vaccines from a primary health centre (PHC) to a kalyana mantapa he owns and administering them to BJP party workers and their family members, on Tuesday. Nearly 300 persons who had booked slots to get the jab at the CV Raman Nagar PHC had to return disappointed and even they held a protest. Mr. Raghu also denied allegations and cried “political conspiracy” to defame him. He said the vaccination centre was shifted out of PHC as per government guidelines. Last week, another MLA Ravi Subramanya was accused of “vaccine trade” when a private hospital employee claimed in a viral audio the hospital paid Rs. 700 to the MLA, defending the steep cost of the vaccine Rs. 900. He also denied all allegations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-leaders-face-flak-for-preferential-vaccination/article34712526.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. must listen to Kang on providing jabs: Congress||The Opposition Congress on Wednesday said the State government should listen to its vaccine adviser Gagandeep Kang, virologist and professor of virology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, for implementing vaccine strategy and providing vaccines to people. The State government had roped in Prof. Kang as advisor for vaccine strategy last month. “We thought the BJP government is finally taking scientific advice. However, it is clear it is only headline management because the government’s actions don’t reflect its own adviser’s advice,” said KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar. “The government must listen to their vaccine adviser to defeat COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-must-listen-to-kang-on-providing-jabs-congress/article34712531.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Losing orders, say component manufacturers||Component manufacturers in Karnataka have urged the State government to allow them to function, as they have been heavily losing out on orders and staring at huge losses. In a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the Karnataka Employers’ Association (KEA) highlighted their plight and pointed out that since component manufacturing continues in other States, new orders are going there while manufacturers in Karnataka are facing cancellations. Karnataka is a major hub for component manufacturing, it said. The industries, the KEA said, are worried that their orders could go to other States permanently. These industries are yet to recover from the impact of the first wave of COVID-19. Supply chain has been affected since vendor units have been shut, it said, adding that the lockdown has caused uncertainty about the availability of workmen for day-to-day activities. If allowed to operate, the KEA said that the industries would provide transport to the workmen by hiring KSRTC buses, which will in turn help the State-run transport corporation too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/losing-orders-say-component-manufacturers/article34712530.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sell surplus power, says Yediyurappa||With Karnataka generating surplus power from its plants, the government is planning to enter a long-term agreement with power deficit States to sell power. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday chaired a meeting to assess the power situation in the State and instructed officials of the Energy Department to take steps to enter an agreement with buyers to sell power for long term. The State has hydro and thermal power plants having generating capacity of 30,562.56 MW. The State’s average generation is about 8,750 MW these days, said an official source. ‘No shortage’ There was no shortage of power now and the State’s reservoirs had sufficient water storage to meet the electricity demand, the officials informed the Chief Minister. About 18% of the total power generation has been consumed by the industrial sector and the Chief Minister told the Energy Department officials to take measures for ensuring uninterrupted power supply to industries. Owing to the lockdown imposed by the State, the State’s average electricity use in May fell to 10%, according to sources. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, officials of energy, finance, and industry and commerce attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sell-surplus-power-says-yediyurappa/article34712540.ece
03 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||International award for C.N.R. Rao||Bharat Ratna Professor C.N.R. Rao has been selected for the International Eni Award 2020 for research in energy frontiers. This is considered to be the Nobel Prize in energy research. Professor Rao has been working on hydrogen energy as the only source of energy for the benefit of all mankind. Storage, photochemical and electrochemical production of hydrogen, solar production of hydrogen and non-metallic catalysis were the highlights of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/international-award-for-cnr-rao/article34712506.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for car theft||ofThree months after a security guard was attacked and two cars were stolen from a showroom in Yelahanka, the police on Wednesday arrested two foreigners for the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-car-theft/article34712510.ece
03 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 ‘cops’ held for stealing scooter||The Kengeri police on Wednesday arrested four youths, including an engineering student and a civil engineer, for allegedly posing as cops and stealing a two-wheeler from a construction labourer by pretending to seize the vehicle. The accused have been identified as Sharath Shetty, 25, a civil engineer from Basaveshwara Nagar working in a private firm and his associates Proovik Raj, 21, an engineering student from Mudalapalya, Mohan Kumar, 24, a computer operator from Cholarapalya, and Tapas Rai, 24, from Abbigere. On May 25, while he was returning to his home in Jalahalli, Tapan Biswas was stopped by the gang on Kommaghatta bridge, NICE Road. They claimed they were cops and seized his bike on the ground that he was violating the lockdown. “They also took his mobile phone and ATM card, and forced him to share the pin with them,” said a police officer. They instructed him to collect the bike from the local police station. The accused went to a nearby ATM, transferred Rs. 84,000 from the victim’s bank account to their accounts, and withdrew Rs. 10,000 in cash. The police tracked down the accused with the help of bank account details. One of the accused, Tapas Rai, was a friend of Tapan. “He knew that Tapan had saved some money, and shared the information with his associates. As they did not have jobs during the lockdown and were in need of money, they decided to rob Tapan,” said Sanjeev Patil, DCP, West division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-cops-held-for-stealing-scooter/article34712513.ece
03 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Test positivity rate will fall to 15% in a week’||Excise Minister K. Gopalaiah has said that the district administration is taking all measures necessary to bring down test positivity rate in Hassan. Now, it stands at 23.21% and it will come down to 15% in a week, he told presspersons after a meeting with officers here on Wednesday. Doctors visits to rural areas have been helpful in identifying infected people and providing them with timely treatment. As many as 75 doctors have been on the job and so far, they have identified 1,278 infected people. The doctors will continue to visit rural areas for a house survey. In Hassan, so far nine black fungus cases have been reported. Among them, three people died and the rest are in treatment, he said. The Minister during his visit to the district inaugurated a 150-bed step-down hospital on HIMS campus and a COVID Care Centre at Konanur in Arkalgud taluk. Senior officers and elected representatives attended the meeting chaired by Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in-charge of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/test-positivity-rate-will-fall-to-15-in-a-week/article34712620.ece
03 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Tusker tramples coffee planter to death||A tusker trampled a coffee planter to death at Kiruhunase near Vadur in Sakleshpur taluk on Wednesday morning. The victim was identified as K.S.Biddaiah (Rajanna), 77, of Aditya Estate. He encountered the elephant near his house around 6.45 a.m. He died on the spot. He is survived by a son and a daughter. This is the sixth human death owing to man-elephant conflict in Hassan district since January. Around 60 elephants spread over different groups have been roaming in parts of Sakleshpur and Alur taluks. A couple of tuskers, separated from the herds, are said to have been responsible for such incidents. The Forest Department has radio-collared female elephants that lead herds. The movement of herds is tracked and the public are informed about their whereabouts to the local people. However, there is no mechanism to track the individual elephants. Following this incident, residents of the village and relatives of the victim gathered at the spot and demanded the Forest Department capture all the elephants and relocate them. Blaming the department for the death, the protesters said that there had been no concrete steps to avoid the conflicts despite repeated fatalities. Sakaleshpur MLA H.K. Kumaraswamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests K.N. Basvaraj, and other officers visited the spot. The body was handed over to the family after a postmortem. Later in the day, MLA and senior officers held a meeting with representatives of Hassan District Planters’ Association on the measures required to avoid such incidents in future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tusker-tramples-coffee-planter-to-death/article34712523.ece
03 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four arrested for assaulting doctor||Tarikere Police on Tuesday arrested four people, including a minor, on the charge of assaulting a doctor while holding him responsible for a child's death. Paediatrician Deepak, who works in a private hospital in Tarikere, was assaulted while he was returning home from hospital on May 31. The arrested persons are Venugopal (23), Nitin (23), Ventakesh (23) and the minor boy. The police have recovered two swords from the accused. A press release issued by Chikkamagaluru District Police said that Venugopal’s six-year-old nephew was admitted to Basaveshwara Hospital on May 25 after he developed a health complication. Dr. Deepak treated the boy and later referred him to a private hospital in Shivamogga. The boy died in Shivamogga on May 29. Venugopal, who believed that Dr. Deepak was responsible for his nephew’s death, conspired to murder him with the help of his friends. He and his friends then assaulted the doctor with lethal weapons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor/article34712619.ece
03 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Cloth merchants urge Nirmala for GST waiver||The Cloth Merchants Association of Dharwad has urged the Union government to waive GST for one year to help cloth merchants to recover from losses and return to their normal business. Senior members of the Cloth Merchants Association Lalit Bhandari, Vijay Solake, Hemraj Bhandari and others have written to the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking GST waiver and released to the media on Tuesday copies of their letter. In the letter, Mr. Lalit Bhandari and the others have said that cloth merchants have been undergoing losses due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown and other restrictions. They have demanded special relief package such as the one announced for the MSME sector to bail them out. They have said that for the second year in succession, cloth merchants have been barred from carrying out their businesses, first due to the first wave and now, the second wave. They have mentioned that the cloth merchants in the State have been forced to close down shops due to the second wave and it has been 42 days without business now. Last year, shops were closed for nearly a 100 days and this year, during the peak marriage season, lockdown has been imposed forcing closure of business at a time when they were hoping for a recovery. They have pointed out that youths, particularly girls from humble backgrounds from rural areas employed in cloth shops, are being paid salaries despite the lockdown on humanitarian grounds. They have urged through the letter the Union Finance Minister to consider their problems and that of weavers and waive GST for a year so as to help cloth shops to at least recover losses and make minimal profit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cloth-merchants-urge-nirmala-for-gst-waiver/article34712603.ece
03 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Haveri chosen for pilot under NFSM||Haveri district has been chosen for implementation of National Food Security Mission (NFSM)’s inter-cropping scheme in the State on a pilot basis. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai made this announcement at a joint press conference in Haveri on Wednesday after formally distributing seed kits for inter-cropping. The Ministers said that the project has been designed with an objective of helping farmers get better revenue through cultivation of multi-crops. Mr. Bommai said that Mr. Patil has taken special interest in getting the project for Haveri district. Mr. Bommai said that maize is being grown in over two lakh acres in Haveri district. If through inter-cropping, different crops, including pulses and oil seeds, are cultivated, farmers have a chance of getting guaranteed income, he said. Mr. Patil said that steps have been taken to promote inter-cropping with an objective of helping farmers. Even if one crop is lost, the other crop will help farmers and prevent them from falling into debts, he said. The Minister said that the district has been allocated seed kits of pulses worth Rs. 2.44 crore for distribution among farmers for cultivation in 600 hectares. Seeds of pulses and oil seeds will be distributed in all the Raita Samparka Kendras in the taluks, he said. Joint Director of Agriculture Manjunath said that mono-cropping resulted in deterioration of soil fertility leading to a fall in production. Inter-cropping will help in restoring soil fertility and subsequent increase in productivity. In Haveri district, where mainly maize and cotton are grown, pulses, including red gram and oil seeds such as soyabean, are being given to farmers for inter-cropping, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/haveri-chosen-for-pilot-under-nfsm/article34712612.ece
03 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Action sought against V-C, Registrar of Central University||A few organisations, including Karnataka Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Ambedkarite) and AHIND Forum, and Rajiv Gandhi Panchayat Raj Organisation, have said that Vice-Chancellor (Acting) of Central University of Karnataka M.V. Alagawadi and Registrar (Acting) Basavaraj Donur have violated norms and rules governing the institution. In a letter to President Ramnath Kovind, State convenor of Karnataka Dalit Sangharsh Samiti (Ambedkarite) S.R. Kollur, State president of AHIND Forum Saibanna Jamadar, Divisional Convenor of Rajiv Gandhi Panchayat Raj Organisation Shoukat Ali Alur and social activist Ramesh Neelur have listed out what according to them are various violations and irregularities committed by the Acting Vice-Chancellor and the Acting Registrar and sought action against the two. Copies of the letter have been sent to the Ministry of Education, Chairman of University Grant Commission, Chancellor of Central University of Karnataka and members of the Executive Council and the Academic Council of the university. They have accused Prof. Alagawadi of giving financial powers to the Acting Registrar to spend money up to Rs. 4 lakh whereas the Executive Council, the highest governing body of the university, had authorised the Acting Registrar to spend only up to Rs. 50,000. The activists also said that Prof. Alagawadi and Prof. Donur, being in-charge Vice-Chancellor and in-charge Registrar, misused their positions and violated the procurement procedures by purchasing items worth up to Rs. 5 lakh without calling for tenders. The third major charge is that the two top officers continued Shivanandam, who was on deputation as Finance Officer in the university, even after the expiry of the deputation period and his superannuation. “Prof. Alagawadi and Prof. Donur are not holding their offices as regular Vice-Chancellor and regular Registrar and they cannot take decisions on vital issues. Being Acting Vice-Chancellor and Acting Registrar, they can take decisions only on routine matters. But, they are making decisions on vital issues such as appointments and financial matters. We will wait for response from the President, who is a Visitor to the Central University, and the Union government to our letter. If action is not taken against the Acting Vice-Chancellor and Acting Registrar, then we will plan for a larger agitation,” Mr. Alur told The Hindu . A few days ago, the legality of continuation of Mr. Shivanandam as Finance Officer in the university even after his deputation period had expired was questioned by the university staff. As many as 26 members from teaching and non-teaching staff recently wrote to the Acting Vice-Chancellor objecting to the decision. The Acting Vice-Chancellor, in turn, took objection to their “gross misconduct” and issued show-cause notice to 12 members. It may be mentioned that the Executive Council meeting was held on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/action-sought-against-v-c-registrar-of-central-university/article34712615.ece
03 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Charge is false and incorrect’||When contacted, Registrar (Acting) Basavaraj Donur said that he cannot divulge details of the discussions at Friday’s meeting. “Minutes are finalised only after the approval of all members present in the meeting and this takes time. Such details cannot be divulged before that,” Prof. Donur told The Hindu . And, Prof. Donur dismissed the allegation by the employees saying that they are “false, incorrect and far from the truth”. He also justified the show-cause notice issued to them. “These employees, as stakeholders of the university, have the right to approach the administration on matters concerning their service. But, they cannot threaten to boycott work and forward a joint representation to the higher authorities without first exhausting the internal redressal mechanism as it amounts to violation of CCS Conduct Rules and Conduct Rules of the university,” Prof. Donur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/charge-is-false-and-incorrect/article34712618.ece
03 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Insurance policy for journalists||The Dharam Singh Foundation in collaboration with Kalaburagi District Congress Committee has extended insurance cover for all journalists in Kalaburagi, according to Jewargi MLA Ajay Singh. His decision to extend insurance cover for journalists came after a senior journalist, Jayateerth Kagalkar, died of COVID-19 in Kalaburagi district on May 13. Dr. Singh said that it will be a term policy for one year and the policy holder’s nominee will receive Rs. 2 lakh in case of an untoward incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/insurance-policy-for-journalists/article34712609.ece
03 June 2021||Kochi,KARNATAKA||Consider plea to include vaccine brand in certificates, Centre told||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Centre to consider a plea for including the original brand name of the Covishield vaccine, Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, as well as the passport number in the vaccination certificates of Non-Resident Indians. The Bench directed the Centre to take a decision on the plea in three weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consider-plea-to-include-vaccine-brand-in-certificates-centre-told/article34712623.ece
03 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MP Kateel unhappy with BSNL mobile phone services in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel said here on Tuesday that though BSNL is a leading telecom company, it is not providing quality mobile telephone services to customers in the district. Speaking at a meeting called to discuss mobile phone network issues in the district, Mr. Kateel said that BSNL should address its network issues and ensure that customers got unhindered mobile voice phone services and internet connectivity. All other telecom companies too should provide quality mobile phone services, he added. Mr. Kateel said that due to COVID-19 many are working from home. Students are attending to online classes. In rural areas, those working from home and students have been forced to go to elevated areas to get mobile phone and internet connectivity. Network issues have also come in the way of arranging for treatment for COVID-19 patients, distribution of ration food, sanctioning funds for construction of houses for poor under various government schemes and the like. Hence, telecom providers should attend to network issues without laxity. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada and Minister for Welfare of Backward Classes Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that the government authorities should not delay in giving approvals for setting up mobile towers if documents furnished by telecom companies are in order. The companies too should pay government taxes properly. Minister for Fisheries, Ports and In-land Transport S. Angara said that telecom companies should contact local MLAs to get issues addressed in the taluk-level to provide quality service. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked the companies to make alternative arrangements for power supply to telecom towers in case of power cut. Mobile towers in rural areas are facing this issue frequently due to power cut, especially during the rainy season. Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat Kumara said that 26 applications filed for construction of new mobile towers are pending to be approved. The district has 676 mobile towers in 223 gram panchayat limits. Various telecom companies owe Rs. 83 lakh to the government for building towers in rural areas. They have to pay the government an annual fee of Rs. 12,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mp-kateel-unhappy-with-bsnl-mobile-phone-services-in-dakshina-kannada/article34712605.ece
03 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||People finding it difficult to buy rain gear||The monsoon is coming and people, particularly in the coastal and southern parts of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, are bound to get drenched in heavy rain, as shops selling rain gear — umbrellas, raincoats, plastic sheets — have been ordered to be closed by the State government in the view of enhanced COVID-19 restrictions. With the government mulling further extension of lockdown beyond June 7, it is more likely that people get exposed to torrential showers for an indefinite period of time. This process could lead to two kinds of confusions at a time when the pandemic is ruling the roost. Either some getting common cold and fever due to drenching may believe they are affected by COVID-19 and rush to healthcare facilities or others actually infected by COVID-19 and having symptoms might think that it is just common cold, cough and fever. Consulting physician at Indiana Hospital here Aditya Bharadwaj said recently that he received a patient who had actually tested positive for COVID-19 but remained home thinking that the symptoms were due to his recent exposure to rain. Rain gear is normally sold at shops selling textiles, fancy items and such other shops that have been declared non-essential by the government since April 27 when it announced a curfew that was followed by a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24 and now continued till June 7. People in South Karnataka start preparing for the oncoming rainy season in May second week itself. The closure of textile and other shops has severely affected their preparation for the season. With the coastal areas witnessing continuous rain since May second week following Cyclone Tauktae, those venturing out to buy essentials and other permitted activities have no option but to get drenched. With the deteriorating quality of the available rain gear, it is impossible to use the ones bought last year in this season, said Karunakara Rai, a resident. One has to buy new umbrellas or raincoats every monsoon, he added. People in rural areas, including agriculturists, generally stock groceries required for three months of the rainy season in May itself as it is difficult to bring them in heavy rain. It is similar in the case of agricultural activities also. With almost all district administrations imposing complete lockdown irrespective of urban and rural areas, farmers and the rural population are now finding it difficult to prepare for the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-finding-it-difficult-to-buy-rain-gear/article34712617.ece
03 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for assaulting doctor||The Mangaluru East Police have arrested two persons on the charge of assaulting a doctor in the city. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar gave the names of the accused as Shamsher Ali of Marnamikatta and Sarfarosh of Chokkabettu. The police have launched a search for the main accused and others involved in the attack. The two arrested persons were among those in a group that came to Athena Hospital on May 21 along with relatives of Jasmine, a pregnant woman who had been admitted to Government Wenlock Hospital after getting treatment at a few other private hospitals. Accusing doctor Jayaprakash of making Jasmine roam around for treatment at different hospitals, the arrested persons and other members of the group assaulted the doctor and asked the latter to return to the family members the expenses incurred on the treatment of Jasmine at another private hospital. Following a compliant by the doctor, the police registered a case under Sections 143, 147, 149, 341 and 504 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 4 (2), 5 and 9 of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and Section 4 of the Karnataka Prohibition of Violence against Medicare Service Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Services Institutions Act 2009. Mr. Kumar told reporters that the Mangaluru unit of Indian Medical Association gave a representation seeking action against those involved in the assault of the doctor. Mr. Kumar said that the family members of Jasmine gave a representation accusing the doctor of medical negligence. This representation will be referred for inquiry by the district-level committee, he said. Stating that the police had no tolerance to assaults of frontline workers, Mr. Kumar said that they recently arrested four persons for assaulting a panchayat development officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-for-assaulting-doctor/article34712621.ece
03 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Help clear fears over material recovery facility’||Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday asked officials to clear apprehensions among people on material recovery facility for processing dry waste proposed at Ulepady village of Ganjimutt Gram Panchayat in Dakshina Kannada. Speaking at a meeting to review Swachh Bharat Mission, Mr. Kateel said that the facility in Ganjimutt Gram Panchayat is being set up at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. Officials should convince villagers of the fact that this new facility will not cause any harm to environment. District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that waste collected door-to-door in rural areas should be scientifically segregated at source. Processing of dry waste at the recovery facility will help panchayats in earning good revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/help-clear-fears-over-material-recovery-facility/article34712606.ece
03 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Amidst COVID-19, Kodagu gears up for monsoon||Ahead of the monsoon’s imminent onset, the administrative machinery in Kodagu district, which faced floods and landslides for three continuous seasons, is geared up for the rains with officials visiting flood-prone areas and supervising preventive measures that are being put in place. After a series of disaster preparedness drills in Talacauvery and other places in the recent past with the NDRF team already camping in the district, the areas prone to floods and landslides based on the previous years’ data had been identified and accordingly steps had been taken for preventing loss of human lives besides readiness for rescue and relief operations. The NDRF team, along with the members of SDRF and other rescue teams, had consultations on the tasks ahead and all of them will coordinate in minimising the impact. Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal has asked the officials to be ready for tackling any eventuality. An action plan has been prepared with focus on areas known to have been recording highest rainfall besides places where the floods and landslides had wreaked havoc in the previous calamities. In the last few days, the Deputy Commissioner and the Superintendent of Police, Kshama Mishra, have been inspecting vulnerable areas to understand the ground realities and accordingly recommend steps. The places where houses collapsed, and damage was caused to roads and estates in the last three seasons had been covered. Ms. Somal also inspected flood-prone areas in Virajpet and Somwarpet taluks which bore the brunt of rain fury last year. Bethri, Tora, Kondageri, Halugunda, and Karadigodu in Virajpet taluk and Nellihudikeri and other villages in Somwarpet taluk were among the places the Deputy Commissioner visited with a battery of officials for making suitable arrangements ahead of rains. She has fixed responsibilities to the officials based on the ground reports. The Public Works Department and the Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (CESC) had been asked to be ready for immediate operations in case of damage to roads and uprooting of electric poles and disruption of transmission lines due to heavy rains. The officials had been asked to keep earthmovers in all vulnerable areas ready for operations for clearing uprooted trees and poles and roads damaged by landslides. Ms. Somal gave instructions to the departments of Agriculture and Horticulture to prepare reports immediately as per the NDRF norms. The Coffee Board too has been asked to visit estates and make estimates in case of any loss due to rains.  Also, steps had been taken to identify schools where relief centres can be set up for the rain-affected and flood-affected. In the previous calamities, shelters had been opened in schools, which had toilets and hot water facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/amidst-covid-19-kodagu-gears-up-for-monsoon/article34712517.ece
03 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Ashes of nearly 850 virus victims immersed||Ashes of nearly 850 COVID-19 victims in Bengaluru were immersed in the Cauvery in a ceremony near Belakavadi village in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district on Wednesday. This is the first mass immersion of ashes on such a scale during the pandemic in the State. The State government had taken up the responsibility of ensuring dignified farewell to COVID-19 victims whose bodies were not claimed by their family members. Nearly 850 urns were unclaimed. Hence the government decided to conduct the last rites. The ceremony was supervised by Bhanuprakash Sharma and conducted in the presence of Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Mandya in-charge Minister K.C. Narayan Gowda, MLA Annadani, Deputy Commissioners of Bengaluru and Mandya, and other officials. “The last rites are being held as per the religious background of the deceased. While the unclaimed bodies of Christians and Muslims were buried as per their traditions, the bodies of Hindus were cremated and the ashes immersed in the river,” Mr. Ashok added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashes-of-nearly-850-virus-victims-immersed/article34712525.ece
03 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Mysuru Mayor to be elected on June 11||Elections will be held to choose a new Mayor of Mysuru on June 11 in the wake of the High Court decision to disqualify Mayor Rukmini Made Gowda as a member of the Mysuru City Corporation. Ms. Gowda’s election as a JD(S) corporator of ward number 36 in 2018 was annulled by the court last week after her Congress rival Rajani filed a petition against her for false declaration of assets in the election affidavit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysuru-mayor-to-be-elected-on-june-11/article34712538.ece
03 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Family of four found dead||A family of four in Mookalli village in Chamarajanagar district were found dead on Wednesday. The vcitims were identified as Mahadevappa, 47, his wife Mangalamma, 40, and two daughters Jyothi and Shruti, aged 14 and 12 years.   (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-of-four-found-dead/article34712524.ece
03 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||U.K., Ireland doctors to help Mysuru patients||Medical practitioners from the U.K., Ireland, and India have come together to offer free online consultation to COVID-19 patients and their families in Mysuru. An initiative of Global Indian Nurses’ Association and the JSS College of Nursing, Mysuru, the consultation will be available for two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uk-ireland-doctors-to-help-mysuru-patients/article34712631.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KARNATAKA||In biggest revision, Kerala adds 213 virus deaths||With new daily cases in Kerala stabilising at around 20,000 post-lockdown, the epidemic curve was set for a long plateau. There were 19,661 new cases on Wednesday, from 1,28,525 samples, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 15.3%. Active cases, at nearly 4.5 lakh in the past, were below two lakh. The State added 213 deaths to its list, including recent ones, on Wednesday – the highest figure till date – taking cumulative COVID fatalities to 9,222. From an average of 3,500 hospitalisations daily, the number came down to below 3,000 for the past four days. On Wednesday, there were 2,840 new hospital admissions, while patients under treatment for moderate or severe COVID showed a reduction to 36,782. The active case pool reduced in all districts. Malappuram and Ernakulam, which had over 50,000 patients now had 38,892 and 28,088 patients respectively. In Thiruvananthapuram district, the figure was 14,633.  Thiruvananthapuram district reported the highest number of new cases at 2,380. It was another day of nearly 100 deaths in Andhra Pradesh, and the State reported over 10,000 new infections. On Wednesday morning, 98 deaths and 12,768 new infections were reported taking the death toll to 11,132 in the State, and the TPR for 98,048 daily samples was 13.02%. This was one per cent higher than the previous day. Active cases dropped to 1,43,795. Chittoor district had the highest death toll with 15 more fatalities, Nellore reported 10 deaths, while all other districts reported fresh mortality in single digit. East Godavari reported 2,703 new cases, while Chittoor and Anantapur reported 1,551 and 1,506 respectively. Incidence data in other districts were: West Godavari (1,052), Visakhapatnam (844), Krishna (841), Nellore (785), Guntur (765), Prakasam (734), Kadapa (699), Srikakulam (561), Kurnool (474) and Vizianagaram (253). Telangana tests more Telangana recorded 2,384 fresh COVID cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday even as testing was ramped up to a high of 1.08 lakh against 94,189 the previous day. There were 2,493 more cases and 15 deaths. Active cases stood at 33,379 against 33,254 the previous day. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and surrounding districts had the maximum positive cases but showed a small decline with 307 cases in the core city as against 318 the previous day. Other districts with high positive case numbers were Nalgonda with 170, up from 165 cases the previous day, Khammam 167, up from 121, Siddipet 102 up from 68, Suryapet 90 up from 73, Peddapalli 95/96, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 113/115, Karimnagar 103/129 and Mahabubabad 94/105.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/in-biggest-revision-kerala-adds-213-virus-deaths/article34712627.ece
03 June 2021||YAGDIR,KARNATAKA||KSMSL promises medicine supply to Yadgir district||Karnataka State Medical Supplies Corporation Limited (KSMSL) has promised Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir R. Ragapriya that necessary medicine for COVID-19 disease and black fungus will be supplied in a day or two. Attending a Zoom meeting on the availability and requirement of medicine for Yadgir district on Wednesday, Anjum Parvez and Latha Kumari, Chairman and Managing Director of KSMSL, respectively, held a detailed discussion with Dr. Ragapriya and officials of the district Health Department. Dr. Ragapriya told them that a majority of medicine for treating health conditions are available in the district. But, Enoxaparin and Methylprednisolone injections which are used to prevent blood clots and other complications arising from angina (chest pain) and heart attacks and treat other different inflammatory conditions are in shortage and are needed immediately. Responding to her, Mr. Parvez and Ms. Latha Kumar assured her of supplying the required injections in a day or two. They further advised Dr. Ragapriya and the medical officers that treatment for patients suffering from black fungus should be given after thorough investigation. Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, which is used to treat black fungus, will be supplied in addition to medicine for treating COVID-19, they added. District Health Officer Indhumathi Kamashetty and District Surgeon Sanjeev Kumar Raichurkar and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksmsl-promises-medicine-supply-to-yadgir-district/article34712610.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MIS-C cases see an increase across Karnataka||Doctors across the State are seeing more cases of a rare inflammatory syndrome in children, a post-COVID-19 complication that was reported during the first wave too. Known as Multi-system Inflammatory Syndrome in Children (MIS-C), this is a rare complication characterised by fever, inflammation, and multi-organ dysfunction that typically manifests two weeks after the child has been cured of COVID-19, doctors said. Although there is no centralised data on the number of affected children, doctors said it is being reported in around 0.5% of COVID recovered children. Over 50,000 children in the 0-9 age group have been infected in the State since March 1. Sagar Bhattad, Paediatric Immunologist at Aster CMI Hospital, said 14 new cases have been reported in the last 15 days in Aster CMI and Aster RV hospitals. “Overall since last year, we have seen nearly 45 cases. As symptoms of this syndrome are similar to Kawasaki disease, it is also referred to as Kawasaki-like illness,” he said. Ravi Kiran, Senior Consultant, Pediatrics and Neonatology at Sakra World Hospital, said early diagnosis and treatment is the key to successful management of MIS-C cases. “We cannot predict which particular child is vulnerable but once symptoms appear, there are set criteria to diagnose it accurately. Hospitalisation is required and in some cases ICU care may be necessary also,” he said.Six cases were reported in Sindhanur town of Raichur district last week. Asha Benekappa, former director of the State-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health, said in the preparedness process for the third wave when children are likely to be the most hit, having a centralised database for MIS-C cases is vital. “Early identification and referral to a super speciality hospital is important. Treatment requires intravenous immunoglobulins, which are very expensive and there is a need to stock up this drug now,” said Dr. Benekappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mis-c-cases-see-an-increase-across-karnataka/article34712518.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC notice on plea questioning minor’s anointment as seer||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday ordered issue of notices to the State and Central governments on a PIL petition questioning the legality of appointing a minor as the 31st seer of Udupi Shiroor Mutt, and seeking directions to the authorities to take him to their custody for his welfare and continuation of education. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the petition filed by P. Lathavya Acharya, secretary and managing trustee of Sri Shiroor Mutt Bhaktha Samiti, Udupi, along with three other office-bearers of the samiti. The petitioners have sought a declaration that the practice of balasanyasa or imposition of sanyasa on a minor amounts to material abandonment of the minor and that it violates the rights of the minor guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and consequently such practice violates Article 39 (e) & (f) of the Constitution of India. “The protection of the rights of the children forms an integral part of the judicial review mechanism under the scheme of the Constitution in terms of Article 226 /Article 32 of the Constitution of India. In the present case, the minor is imposed with sanyasa while the authorities concerned have remained dormant and inactive permitting the rights of the minor child being violated,” it was contended in the petition. While claiming that “the minor was not from an affluent background and perhaps the economic condition had been misused in taking the child’s parents into confidence in undertaking this exercise,” it was contended that the “laws relating to the rights of a guardian, even a guardian, whether legal or natural is not empowered to give any consent for material abandonment or imposition of sanyasa on the minor child.” While complaining that district administration has failed to protect the rights of the minor despite various representations to the authorities, the petitioners claimed the religious rituals of anointment were conducted in violation of lockdown restrictions. The petitioners sought a declaration from the court that Sri Vishwavallabha Tirtha swami of Sri Sode Vadiraj Mutt had no power to appoint 16-year-old Aniruddha Saralathaya (now named as Vedavardhana Titrtha) as the peetadhipathi of Shiroor Mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-notice-on-plea-questioning-minors-anointment-as-seer/article34712537.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cyber cell blocked 1,312 transactions, recovered Rs. 48 crore since January||Since its inception in January this year, the cyber cell of the city police has blocked 1,312 transactions and recovered Rs. 48 crore. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the cyber cell team, which operates from the command centre, attended to 3,175 complaints from eight divisions and managed to resolve 1,312 cases by blocking the transactions. This team works at the city police command centre round the clock in shifts, attending calls and resolving issues related to online frauds within an hour, which is considered the ‘golden hour’, said Mr. Pant. However, not all complaints are taken up with such alacrity. Last Thursday, a conman posing as an executive of a mobile service provider conned a subscriber, Azamathullah, by convincing him to download an app to update his mobile service. As soon as he downloaded the app and paid Rs. 10 as a recharge fee, Rs. 35,500 was debited from his account. Even though Mr. Azamathullah immediately informed the police control room on 112, provided details and even later filed a formal complaint with the cyber crime police station, the police are yet to act on this case. Senior police officials say the cell needs to be expanded given the volume of cyber crime being reported every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cyber-cell-blocked-1312-transactions-recovered-rs-48-crore-since-january/article34712539.ece
03 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Pettimudy still out of mobile coverage||With another monsoon approaching, the poor mobile connectivity at Pettimudy and nearby areas here has come into focus yet again. A major landslip in the area on August 6 last year had claimed 70 lives and as per an inquiry report on the tragedy, lack of communication facilities had delayed rescue efforts, thereby raising the death toll. Patchy connectivity Most of the deceased were estate workers of Kanan Devan Hills Plantations (KDHP) Ltd. Though the company shifted the workers from the quarters there after the tragedy, migrant workers still live in the area. Pettimudy is the entrance to Edamalakkudy, the only tribal grama panchayat in the State. After the landslip, the district administration had promised proper communication facilities at Pettimudy and adjoining areas. It is yet to be realised. Selvaraj, who moved to nearby Rajamala after the landslip, said even a drizzle would cut out mobile connectivity in the area. It is restored only after two or three days. Even when there is connectivity, it is often patchy, he added. The upgrade of the satellite tower station of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), promised after the landslip, is yet to happen, local people say. According to Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan the district administration has already begun works for the upgrade of the BSNL satellite tower station at Pettimudy. The area would have access to quality mobile network soon, he said. 3G services Shinoj J. Vattakuzhi, BSNL sub-divisional engineer, said fibre cable was being laid in association with KDHP Ltd. The aim is to bring Pettimudy and vicinity under 24-hour mobile coverage soon. He said 3G services would be available at Rajamala in a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pettimudy-still-out-of-mobile-coverage/article34713011.ece
03 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||T.N. draws water from Mullaperiyar dam||Tamil Nadu has started drawing water from the Mullaperiyar dam for the first crop after five years. This time, there is better storage in the dam following good summer rains, with the water level at 131 ft prior to the southwest monsoon season. The catchment area of Peerumade taluk received good summer rain, which resulted in a steady rise in the water level. Tamil Nadu is drawing water at 300 cubic feet per second, say officials of the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department. Irrigation of 5 districts Water from the Mullaperiyar dam is stored at the Vaigai dam and is used for irrigating five districts of Tamil Nadu in addition to meeting the drinking water needs. The annual repair works of the penstock pipes and the power station at Lower Periyar are usually done in March after closing the shutters. Last year, Tamil Nadu started drawing water from the Mullaperiyar dam in August as the monsoon got delayed. However, the Tamil Nadu PWD decided to draw water early in view of the chances of water reaching the maximum allowed level of 142 ft. In the 2018 August floods, the dam shutters were opened leading to large-scale damage in downstream areas of the Periyar. As per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission, there is a limit to the allowed water level in the dam which is in conformity with the water calendar. Tamil Nadu had drawn only limited water from the Mullaperiyar dam last summer as there was water storage in the Vaigai dam for meeting non-irrigation needs. The agriculture sector in in Theni, Madurai, Sivaganga, Dindigul, and Ramnad is depended on the water supply from the Mullaperiyar dam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tn-draws-water-from-mullaperiyar-dam/article34713009.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MG varsity to offer PG, degree courses online||Mahatma Gandhi University will soon launch online degree programmes. The university became eligible for offering the online degree courses as it figures in the top 100 higher educational institutions under the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). “Mahatma Gandhi University is ranked 30 among the top 100 higher educational institutions as per the NIRF. The University Grants Commission has given permission to the first 100 institutes to start the online degree programmes,” said Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor. The university has proposed undergraduate programmes in commerce and business administration and a postgraduate course (MCom) in the online mode. “We are hopeful of launching the 100% online degree programmes by July-August. The courses will have an end-to-end digital approach,” pointed out Robinet Jacob, Director of the Internal Quality Assurance Cell, and Professor, School of Tourism Studies. UGC provisions The online degree programmes will be offered as per the provisions under the UGC (Open and Distance Learning and Online programmes) Regulations, 2020. “The BSc course in Programming and Data Science being offered by the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, is one such example. The online degree programmes are treated on a par with the regular courses offered in the traditional mode,” said Prof. Jacob. Digital platform The university will offer its online degree programmes under its Centre for Online Education. The courses will be made available through the university’s own digital platform. The academic sessions will consist of lectures by experts and interactive sessions. Students will have to take up short-term projects and other assignments online. The examinations will be held in the proctored mode and in tune with the UGC norms. The courses will be open to candidates meeting the basic qualifications prescribed by the university. Working professionals in various sectors who wish to enhance their learning skills can also enrol for the online programmes, according to the university authorities.  The university now figures in the top 100 higher educational institutions under NIRF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-to-offer-online-degree-pg-courses/article34712714.ece
03 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Collaborative mapping of local body wards under way||A few months ago when the Kochi Corporation brought out a crude map for the visualisation of pandemic-related restrictions, volunteers of OpenStreetMap (OSM) Kerala, associated with a global project of creating a free and editable world map, helped the authorities fine-tune it. Though the Corporation wanted to prolong the association, lack of access to inter-departmental geospatial data put paid to the idea. That remains the single biggest hurdle as OSM-Kerala goes about the GIS (Geographic Information System) mapping of 21,000 local body wards in the State with the help of openly available images and data since last November. This is being done through remote mapping that helps map a large area more rapidly though with obvious disadvantages in terms of data accuracy and detailing. “For greater accuracy, we need to undertake field works with community-level participation. The advantage of such an initiative can be gauged from the mapping of Koorachunde and Velloor panchayats in Kozhikode and Thrissur respectively where we could embed the maps with geospatial data such as road networks, buildings, etc.,” says Manoj Karingamadathil, a volunteer engaged in digital mapping. So far, they have completed mapping of 4,400 wards spread across the local bodies of Kasaragod, Kannur, Wayanad, and Kozhikode. But with limited resources, it may take another year-and-a-half before the rest of the wards are remotely mapped. Earlier initiative Before undertaking the initiative, OSM-Kerala had brought out the digital maps of nearly 1,100 local bodies in the State, which were released on November 1 last year. “The digital maps we prepare are openly accessible and can be downloaded from the portalopendatakerala.organd are being widely used in the Wikipedia pages of local bodies and COVID-19 visualisation portals. The availability of more accurate geospatial data will be of great help during disaster management,” says Naveen Francis, another mapper. He recalls how the rescue operations during the 2018 deluge were crippled by the absence of such data as Google Maps service, which was heavily relied on, was not freely available beyond a point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collaborative-mapping-of-local-body-wards-under-way/article34712721.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC bus station to be shifted to Karikkamuri||Antony Raju, Minister for Transport, said on Wednesday that preliminary discussions were on to shift the present KSRTC bus station in Ernakulam to the nearby 3.46-acre land at Karikkamuri. In his reply to a submission by T. J. Vinod, MLA, on the flooding at the bus station and its poor infrastructural condition, Mr. Raju said that the State budget presented in January had proposed a modern bus station at the 3.46-acre plot in the financial year 2021-22. The present bus station and garage will be shifted. Discussions were on to set up a commercial complex at the 4.7-acre land in which the bus station is currently located, he said. The Minister said that efforts would be made to explore funding under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) or through joint ventures with government agencies. The development of the road from the railway station to the bus station as part of the Ernakulam South-Ernakulam North corridor will ease the transportation hurdles in the region, he said. Mr. Raju sought the cooperation of the district administration, Irrigation department and other agencies in checking waterlogging and flooding at the bus station. The situation could be improved through the Operation Breakthrough initiative of the district administration to clean up the canals, he said.  Waterlogging and flooding at the bus station could be addressed through the Operation Breakthrough initiative Antony Raju Minister for Transport||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-bus-station-to-be-shifted-to-karikkamuri/article34712719.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ravi Pujari flown in to Kochi||Two days after the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court here granted them his nine-day custody, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Kerala Police brought the gangster Ravi Pujari here on Wednesday night in connection with the Panampilly Nagar beauty parlour firing case. The ATS team flown him down to Kochi airport from Bengaluru by an Air Asia flight around 8.50 p.m. A heavy posse of ATS contingent was present at the airport and the accused was moved to a facility at Nedumbasserry. He was taken to the Bengaluru airport under a security blanket around 4.30 p.m. ATS has bern granted his custody till June 8. He was being lodged at the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru since his extradition from Senegal with the help of the Interpol in January 2019. He is the third of the five accused in the case related to the firing near a beauty parlour run by actor Leena Maria Paul on December 15, 2018. ATS had taken over the case from Crime Branch midway through the probe and had recorded the arrest of Pujari in February 2021. The police case is that the accused had allegedly hired two persons to open fire outside the beauty parlour. The police had arrested two persons and recovered arms and ammunition from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ravi-pujari-to-be-flown-in-to-kochi/article34712624.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Away from school, special children a stressed lot||As Joseph James (name changed) spoke over the phone, loud thuds could be heard in the background. A carpenter, said Mr. James, was at work, repairing a door lock knocked down by his 21-year-old autistic daughter, who had turned increasingly violent after being confined to the house for over a year due to the pandemic. The situation is as bleak or worse in households across the State as nearly 250 special schools tending to about 25,000 children continue to remain shut. “Without the familiar environs of their schools and the company of their understanding teachers and friends, these children are at sea. Both children and parents are a frustrated lot, left only to each other’s company. Recently, when a video of a father allegedly beating up his mentally challenged child went viral everyone blamed the parent. While he deserves to be blamed, I can imagine how he may have lost his control,” said Mr. James. In one of the recent meetings of the Parents’ Association for Intellectually Disabled Kerala (PAID Kerala), a mother from Mannarkkadu was in tears describing how her increasingly violent autistic child was beating up his younger brother, forcing her to stay home unable to open her bakery. Online classes “Online classes can hardly be a substitute for actual classrooms for these children even as many families are slipping down the quicksand of poverty as parents are forced to stay home at the cost of their jobs,” said K.M. George, State president of PAID Kerala. Nirmala Sadan, a Muvattupuzha-based special school, had recently opened its hostel to 10 such children as the father of an adopted autistic child was diagnosed with cancer and the mother had to be by his bedside. As lodging him alone without company posed a problem, the school management took in nine other children. “There have been instances where many of our children had to be admitted to mental hospitals owing to the psychological complications of living in claustrophobic conditions. A meeting of parents was a heart-wrenching experience as most parents were in tears sharing their despair,” said Sr. Rosebel, Principal of the school. “Attending schools brought an order to the lives of these children and helped them channelise their creativity. But that now stands disrupted and opening special schools by bringing in children in batches in strict compliance with COVID-19 protocol remains the sole solution,” said Susheela Kuriachan, vice chairperson, Association of the Intellectually Disabled (AID), a combine of special schools. Mable Davis, a clinical psychologist, said that special children missing their regular therapy sessions might regress, making it increasingly difficult to manage them. The anxiety of stressed parents would further complicate it, she added.  Special children missing their regular therapy sessions might regress, making it increasingly difficult to manage them Mable Davis Clinical psychologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/away-from-school-special-children-a-stressed-lot/article34712710.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lockdown hits livelihood of domestic helps||The second wave of COVID-19 has thrown the life of Rukhiya, a domestic help from Puthuvypeen here, out of gear. The 63-year-old, who has been rendered jobless since the lockdown, is surviving solely on the food kit being provided by the State government. Besides fending for herself, she needs to take care of her ailing husband. “I used to earn Rs. 400 a day working as a domestic help at a house at Elamakkara. I could not go for work since the lockdown and is living in abject poverty. Repayment of loans, including one from a micro-finance institution, is long overdue. There is pressure from banks too,” she said. Driven out of their workplaces and pestered by moneylenders, scores of domestic helps across the State are languishing in misery. Though the government had permitted domestic helps to go for work during the lockdown after collecting e-passes, it has not helped them. “The lockdown has affected the lives of domestic helps, and a large number of them are surviving on food kits,” said Sonia George, State secretary of Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA). It is quite difficult for women workers, who are mostly semi-literate or illiterate, to obtain e-passes. Even if they manage to obtain them, they are unable to reach the houses where they work in the absence of public transport, she added. Online protest It is estimated that around 75% of the nearly six lakh domestic helps have been rendered jobless since the lockdown. They staged an online protest on Wednesday demanding measures to save them from poverty. “Almost all workers in the sector, who have raised loans from banks, private moneylenders, micro-financing institutions, and Kudumbashree units, are now in deep debt,” said Ms. George. “Though unable to turn up for work, my employer helped me during the lean days. I used to repay the loans on a weekly basis. Each month I need around Rs. 7,000 for repayment of loans, which I am unable to earn,” said Ms. Rukhia. SEWA has demanded financial support for the workers, besides priority vaccination so that they can get back to work at the earliest. Financial institutions shall write off the interest component of loans for the lockdown period. The government shall resume rural and urban employment guarantee schemes to support the workers, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-hits-livelihood-of-domestic-helps/article34712673.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Cartoonist Ibrahim Badusha passes away||Ibrahim Badusha, cartoonist and former vice chairman of the Kerala Cartoon Academy, died at Aluva on Wednesday. He was 37. He was undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications at the Aluva taluk hospital. He was active in creating awareness about the pandemic through cartoons. Mr. Badusha had trained hundreds of students in cartoon and held shows on television as well. He was a resident of Thottumukham near Aluva and is survived by wife and three children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cartoonist-ibrahim-badusha-passes-away/article34712630.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea for flood mitigation in Chalakudy river||The Chalakudy River Protection Council has urged the authorities to initiate flood mitigation measures in the river ahead of the monsoon. Reminding that many regions along the river had faced the fury of the floodwaters in 2018 and 2019, council representatives suggested measures to reduce the impact of the possible flooding owing to the heavy rain. “The local bodies concerned need to collect the data on the houses that could be impacted in a flood situation. The details of households and regions affected by the floods should also be collected as part of this process,” it said. In a letter sent to Benny Behanan, MP, S.P. Ravi, secretary of the council, recommended formation of a team to ensure real-time monitoring of the river at the block-panchayat level. The team could carry out round-the-clock inspection in the flood-affected areas. The authorities also have to provide timely inputs on the intensity of rain to make adequate preparations, he said. The authorities have to ensure that water will not be released in to the Peringalkuthu dam in the wake of a flood situation. They have to make arrangements to have adequate flood cushion in the dams above Peringalkuthu to reduce the impact of flooding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-flood-mitigation-in-chalakudy-river/article34712711.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks details of COVID treatment facilities||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to inform the court about the availability of ventilators, ICUs and oxygen supported beds for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in Tirurangadi in Malappuram district. The Bench comprising Justices A. Muhamed Mustaque and Kauser Edappagath issued the directive on a public interest petition filed by K. P. A. Majeed, Indian Union Muslim League leader and Thirurangadi MLA. According to him, the availability of ventilators and oxygen beds was inadequate in Malappuram district. There had been a big surge in the COVID cases in the district. The ventilators and oxygen beds available could not cope with the increasing number of cases. In fact, many patients had lost their lives due to the non-availability of treatment facilities in the district.  The MLA sought a directive to the State government and Malappuram District Collector to immediately establish ventilators, ICUs and oxygen supported beds for the treatment of the COVID-19 patients in the Government Taluk Headquarters Hospital at Tirurangadi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-details-of-covid-treatment-facilities/article34712697.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Public opinion to be taken on coastal zone plan||Kerala will get the benefits of the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) Rules 2019 only when the revised Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) is accepted and notified by the Union Ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the Assembly. Replying to a calling attention motion from K. Babu, Mr. Vijayan said the draft CZMP would be made available to the public for suggestions. Later, the State government will forward it to the Centre for approval, he said. The Centre has decided to include Kerala in the second phase of the Integrated Coastal Zone Management Project, which aims at conserving coastal and marine ecology, preventing coastal pollution, developing basic infrastructure facilities, and protect livelihood options of coastal communities. For Vembanad Lake, projects for sustainable tourism and ecological conservation have been included. A proposal for preparing a master plan for wetlands, prepared by Wetland International, is under the consideration of the government, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-opinion-to-be-taken-on-coastal-zone-plan/article34712662.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||23 released, Lakshadweep tells HC||The Lakshadweep administration on Wednesday informed a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that 23 protesters detained by the executive magistrate, Kiltan Island, were released on bail after they were produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Amini, via videoconferencing. The submission was made by S. Manu, counsel for the Lakshadweep administration, when a public interest litigation seeking the release of the protesters came up for hearing. The Bench had issued an order on Tuesday for the release of the protesters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/23-released-lakshadweep-tells-hc/article34712723.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Court seeks response of ICMR on test rate||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to inform the court whether State governments had been given the authority to fix the cost of RT-PCR tests. The Bench issued the order on a petition by some private lab owners challenging the government order reducing the charge for RT-PCR tests from Rs. 1,700 to Rs. 500. In response to a query by the court, P. Narayanan, senior government pleader, submitted that the State government had the power to issue orders on the test rate under Disaster Management Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. Moreover, the Centre had also authorised States to fix the rates of the tests relating to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/court-seeks-response-of-icmr-on-test-rate/article34712724.ece
03 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2,325 test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 2,325 people tested positive for SARS-COV2 on Wednesday at a test positivity rate of 16.25%. The source of infection of 72 patients remained untraced. There were 15 health workers among the infected. Thrikkakara topped the day’s count with 126 new patients followed by Chendamangalam (101), Thripunithura (76) and Udayamperoor (71). There were 4,910 recoveries. A fresh set of 14,299 samples were sent on Wednesday for testing. A release said the district had 3,466 vacant beds to treat COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2325-test-positive-in-ernakulam/article34712717.ece
03 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,906 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,906 new cases of COVID-19 and 4,139 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,892 patients contracted the virus through contact, others include two NRIs, two persons from other States and 10 health workers. Kollam district currently has 44,771 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,00,932. While 4,979 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 2,49,453 primary and 16,600 secondary contacts of the cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1906-new-cases-in-kollam/article34713014.ece
03 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Meenachil river valley project now back in focus||The inclusion of the Kerala Congress (M) in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) Cabinet appears to have given a fresh lease of life to the Meenachil River Valley project, which remains a non-starter more than three-and-half years after it was first proposed. KC(M) leader and Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine has expressed his interest in establishing the project, actively pursued by the late K.M. Mani, the founder leader of his party. The project envisages irrigating about 10,000 hectares of agricultural land, besides catering to various drinking water projects. First blockade “As far as Central Travancore is concerned, the project is a necessity as it will directly benefit thousands of lives in the Meenachil basin. Plans are afoot to examine the shortcomings in the existing plan so as to kick-start the project in a time-bound manner,” Mr.Augustine told The Hindu . While the initial proposal was to construct a 75-metre-high dam along the Meenachil basin at Adukkam with a reservoir area of 228 hectares, the project hit its first blockade when the Kerala State Electricity Board began diverting water from the Meenachil basin by constructing a diversion weir at Vazhikkadavu with a tunnel to the Idukki dam. An expert committee appointed by the State government in 2012, however, found the dam construction at Adukkam clearly infeasible. It instead recommended an alternative plan to reroute water from the upstream of the Malankara dam and to construct a series of mini-dams in the Meenachil and its three major tributaries. Surplus water Noting that the Muvattupuzha river basin will get surplus water even after diverting up to 8 cumec (cubic meter per second) of water to the Meenachil basin, the committee also proposed the diversion by ensuring that ‘the system shall not affect the Malankara reservoir or the tail race channel of the Moolamattom power house.’ In limbo Following this, the State government gave an administrative sanction for constructing six mini-dams and technical sanction for four among these. Later, an administrative sanction of Rs. 131 crore too was accorded for a dam at Pazhukkakanam and its canals. The project, however, has since remained in limbo following strong protests from various quarters, including local residents, and non-allocation of funds in the State Budget.  KC(M) leader and Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine has expressed his interest in establishing the project||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meenachil-river-valley-project-now-back-in-focus/article34713012.ece
03 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) plans strategic transition to cadre-based structure||The Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani is planning a transition from a mass-based structure to a cadre-based organisation. KC(M) sources said the party would take up the proposal for consideration in the upcoming steering committee meeting, slated to be held in the second half of June. The proposal is part of the regional party’s strategy to re-invent itself by building an army of full-time workers in party offices. Besides pooling the membership base into different categories, the system of levy for party workers too will be brought back. “All members of the State committee, legislators, Ministers and their personal staff used to pay a certain amount as levy to the party till its merger with the Joseph group in 2010. In fact, only those who had paid the levy were permitted to attend the core events of the party including the leadership camp at Charalkunnu,” said a party leader. The introduction of a cadre system, according to him, will also bring in significant changes in the nomination culture within the party. “The idea of cadre-based discipline may not be what many will be comfortable with. But this is important to end the practice of some leaders pulling strings to get posts in corporations or boards if not a party ticket to contest the elections,” he added.  Shock defeat in Pala Though the KC(M)’s recent association with the LDF is generally regarded as a success, the shock defeat of Mr. Mani in Pala, a seat long regarded as its citadel, in the recent Assembly elections, also exposed chinks in the party structure at the grassroots. In fact, the regional party has been unable to retain the seat ever since the death of its founder leader K.M. Mani, who had held the seat for 52 years till 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-plans-strategic-transition-to-cadre-based-structure/article34713015.ece
03 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,513 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 1,513 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Wednesday even as District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has urged people to inform rapid response team members and health workers if they develop any of the symptoms. A release said that there were 1,491 cases of local transmission of the infection while the source of 22 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 325 cases of locally acquired infections, Vadakara 69, Koduvally 65, Payyoli 47, Feroke 45, and Kadalundi 41. A total of 11,899 samples were tested and the daily test positivity rate is 13.03%. With 1,963 people recovering from the infection, the active caseload from the district dropped to 17,144, of whom 12,498 are under home isolation. Meanwhile, the DMO said that those who have symptoms such as fever, cough, breathlessness, fatigue, body pain, lack of smell, or loose stools should immediately undergo COVID test. Symptomatic people should avoid becoming critically ill as it could lead to their death. Those who come in contact with these people should immediately inform health workers and go in quarantine. This would help avoid spread of the infection and protect people who are vulnerable to the infection. If the infected persons don’t have bathroom facility in their houses, they should shift to the domiciliary care centres set up by local bodies. This could avoid the infection spreading to their family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1513-fresh-cases-in-kozhikode/article34712707.ece
03 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mucormycosis drugs’ shortage to continue||Shortage of amphotericin B and liposomal amphotericin B, the medicines used to treat patients with mucormycosis symptoms, is likely to continue for some more days in the State though authorities are hopeful of procuring more doses very soon. Liposomal amphotericin B is given as an injection to infected persons who are kidney patients and amphotericin B is for those without renal problems. Kidney patients need continuous medication and the drug is costlier too, with the price per vial going up to Rs. 7,000. “The Centre has directed pharma firms to ramp up production. But the companies are taking time to do it as their capacity had been low. Also, a batch of new drugs take at least 25 days to reach the market after the mandatory quality assurance tests. These are causing the current shortage,” a senior official in the State Drugs Control Department said on Wednesday. Priority basis Sources said the Centre had devised an allocation plan for various States depending on the number of patients and their condition. Though Kerala had earlier sought 5,000 doses anticipating a high demand, in view of the large number of cases from northern States, they were given priority. Very few doses are reaching here now. Hospitals in the State procure these drugs mainly from companies such as Mylan and Cipla based in Mumbai and Bengaluru, the senior official said, adding the allocation of the drugs in the State now is only through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation. Procurement Only government hospitals are directly getting it. “Private hospitals can buy them only from Karunya Community Pharmacy outlets run by the corporation. This is expected to stop black-marketing and hoarding,” he said. Sources said this infection was not widespread earlier with only fewer than 10 cases being reported from States in a year. Pharmaceutical companies never produced the drugs in large quantities because of low demand. The surge in COVID-19 cases, however, changed all that and there was a dramatic rise in the number of patients. This led to a corresponding rise in demand, but the drugs are in short supply, they added.  Companies are taking time to ramp up production as their capacity has been low. Also, a new batch takes at least 25 days to reach the market after quality tests||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mucormycosis-drugs-shortage-to-continue/article34712722.ece
03 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccination drive on to cover vulnerable sections||The special vaccination camps organised by the Health Department to save the vulnerable backward segments from the pandemic threat have so far covered 17,665 Scheduled Caste (SC) community members in Kozhikode district. This includes 5,471 persons in the 45-plus category who have received their second dose completing the total course of immunization. “Based on the availability of vaccines, we will be organising more such camps in SC settlements. The target is to cover 38,869 more persons in the above 45 category to wind up the first phase,” says K.P. Shaji, District Development Officer, SC Development Department. According to him, there are over 1,500 SC colonies in Kozhikode district alone, of which 30 per cent of the total population above 45 category has already been covered. Meanwhile, the drive to cover the 18-plus category in the SC group is yet to begin with the continuing shortage of vaccine and scheduling issues. According to the official figures of the department, the total eligible SC population, including the youngsters above 18 years old, will come around two lakh in Kozhikode district. In the Scheduled Tribes (ST) category, 234 persons have already received their first and second doses of preventive vaccines. Of this, 84 persons fall in the above 60 category. There are also 82 persons between the 18 and 44 age group who were given the vaccine under priority care. According to ST Department officials, 2,108 more persons including youngsters and elders have to receive their second dose to complete the first phase. The total number of all eligible ST beneficiaries above the age of 18 is now 8,139 in Kozhikode district. The latest figures available with the ST Department say 262 ST community members are now undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Kozhikode district. However, the total number of affected persons from various ST colonies till date is 606. The department has also confirmed four COVID-19 deaths within the ST community.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-on-to-cover-vulnerable-sections/article34712698.ece
03 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Marked rise in use of party drugs||The use of synthetic narcotic drugs or party drugs such as methamphetamine and MDMA (methylened ioxy-methamphetamine) has gone up noticeably in the State in the last couple of years. Narcotic control authorities, including the excise and police wings, point out that more and more educated youngsters are falling prey to drug rackets. Many factors such as ignorance about the dangers of such drugs, ease of handling and carrying, avoidance of detection, and misplaced notions of sexual satisfaction have been found to be driving youngsters into using synthetic drugs. The use is more in cities than in villages. Codenamed ‘meth’, ‘ice’, ‘molly’, ‘ecstasy’, ‘crystal’, and ‘love doctor’, the flow of party drugs has increased considerably into the State from tourist centres such as Goa and Bangaluru. “Even parcel services are being cleverly used to transport drugs,” said T. Anil Kumar, Assistant Excise Commissioner (Enforcement), Malappuram. MDMA seizures made in recent weeks from different parts of the State, including Malappuram, have thrown light on the involvement of young professionals in the peddling of party drugs. Unlike the peddling of ganja and hashish oil, those involved in the use and peddling of synthetic drugs have been found to be from educated well-to-do families. Many unaware “Most of those found using these drugs are in the age group of 20-30 years. They are not fully aware of the actual dangers and consequences. Several of them are unaware of the dangerous fact they are in possession of a commercial quantity of drugs having the potential to invite a heavy punishment,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. A large number of youngsters questioned in connection with the use and peddling of synthetic drugs in the State have been women, including college students. They have been found obsessed about partying in dim-lit rooms with multi-coloured laser rays. The police said a good number of those using party drugs were from the field of cinema. A recent car accident near Kollam in which a youngster was killed and three others badly injured was found to have occurred after a bout involving synthetic drugs. Experts say synthetic drugs alter one’s mood and perception and produce feelings of increased energy, pleasure, and emotional warmth. They also produce distorted sensory and time perception in the user. “It is this false perception that makes them think that they could enjoy their life much more, including sex,” said Excise Inspector T. Rajeev. Several youngsters from Malappuram were found to have been involved in the wholesale business and transport of synthetic drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marked-rise-in-use-of-party-drugs/article34713017.ece
03 June 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Parents seek immediate vaccination for medicos||Medical students and their parents in the State have demanded that all students of medicine and allied courses be given two doses of COVID vaccine in view of the uncertainties about the beginning of regular classes in the State’s medical colleges. Only half of the medical students in government and private medical colleges in the State have been vaccinated. When a section of them got the first dose, there are many who have not been vaccinated at all. “Vaccinating all of them is the best way out to circumvent the crisis looming over medical education in the State,” said Habeeb Rahman, father of an MBBS student at M.E.S. Medical College, Perinthalmanna, and joint secretary of the Parents Coordination of Medical Students (PCOMS). About 28,000 students of MBBS and paramedical courses are currently studying in the State’s medical colleges in different batches. When the government included them in the priority list in the first vaccination drive, about 15,000 of them took the jabs. However, more than 13,000 of them still remain unvaccinated. Although classes are being held online for medical students, the effectiveness of such classes without lab experiments and any hands-on or practical experience has become a matter of contest. Parents of MBBS students in private medical colleges are a worried lot. “It is painful to see them hanging on to online classes, at times boring. We are paying a hefty annual fees of Rs. 7 lakh and upwards. The loss for our children if they continue in this online mode will be quite heavy,” said Jaleel Mambad, a parent from KMC Medical College, Kozhikode, and State treasurer of PCOMS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/parents-seek-immediate-vaccination-for-medicos/article34712702.ece
03 June 2021||Staff Reporter,KERALA||A surprise farewell on road in pandemic times||The National Highway 966 on Kozhikode-Malappuram border on Tuesday witnessed a rare farewell of men in khaki. The policemen on vehicle inspection duty on the district border accorded a memorable farewell to their colleague T.P. Mohammed Basheer, Assistant Sub-Inspector (Traffic Enforcement) who retired from service on Tuesday. Mr. Basheer’s farewell took place on the road as he was on vehicle screening duty on the last day of his service. Mr. Basheer was thrilled to see his superior officer Ashraf K., Deputy Superintendent of Police, Kondotty, walk up to him, gracefully accepting his salute. Wishing him a peaceful and healthy retired life, the DySP handed over a memento to Mr. Basheer in a brief function held on NH-966 at 11th Mile. Representatives of the Kerala Police Association and Officers Association too offered him mementoes. Mr. Basheer was a contented man as he showed a sense of fulfillment and dedication to his service even on the last day. With a smile on his face, he thanked his colleagues who made his day memorable with the rare farewell. Hailing from Kizhisseri, Mr. Basheer had nearly 25 years of service since he joined the Kerala Police in 1997. He was with the Malabar Special Police (MSP), Malappuram, in the initial days of his service. Mr. Basheer’s retirement with his last day being hectic on NH duty was highlighted by his colleagues as the police personnel’s dedication to service during the COVID time. “The selfless good work being done by the police personnel, including women, often go unnoticed and unacknowledged whereas some rare and sporadic excesses happening in the force are exaggerated and portrayed with undue importance,” said District Police Chief Sujith Das S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-surprise-farewell-on-road-in-pandemic-times/article34712704.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smart City works resume||The various works related to the Smart City project in the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation which had come to a grinding halt yet again due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown have restarted on the ground, with smaller projects where COVID protocols can be maintained being taken up first. On Wednesday, the Minister for Local Self-governments carried out a general review of schemes in the urban areas, including Smart City and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). Though the normal deadline for the Smart City projects is 2022, the Corporation might get one more year as its works began only in 2018, and a five-year window is allowed. Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited has an almost fresh team now at the top, with a new CEO taking charge in March and the new Corporation Mayor taking charge in January. Meeting this month The first meeting of the new Board of Directors is expected later this month. The Smart City team had recently made presentations for the councillors from the nine wards in the core city area, where many of the key projects under the scheme have been planned. All projects envisaged under the project have already been tendered, but execution has been a problem with multiple roadblocks since last year, beginning with the first COVID-19 lockdown, the two extended periods in which model code of conduct were in force for the local body and Assembly elections, the most recent lockdown due to COVID-19 and the heavy summer showers. Some of the time lines could be maintained because the team had ensured the preparation of the Detailed Project Reports and the tendering work was completed even when the office remained closed due to the pandemic. “Work has been restarted in five sites from last week onwards. Contractors were given permission to begin the work if they were sure of maintaining COVID-19 protocols. Due to the unexpectedly heavy summer rain, some of the worksites have been inundated. Every morning, water is pumped out before beginning the work. Not all of the work can be taken up during rains as excavation work can be done only after ensuring that it won't cave in during the rains,” said a Smart City official. Major projects The execution of some of the major projects, including the multi-level car parking lot in Thampanoor, the renovation work at the Connemara market in Palayam and Smart Roads have already begun. The Smart Road works have begun from the Fort area, with work on the Charithra Veethi near the Transport Bhavan and the Kothalam Road. A majority of the workers, who are from outside the State, might take some more days to return to the State. Only after that and the easing of the current lockdown restrictions would the execution hit full swing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/smart-city-works-resume/article34712667.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s epidemic curve plateauing||With new COVID-19 cases reported daily in the State stabilising around 20,000 during the current lockdown, the epidemic curve in the State seems set for a long plateau. Kerala reported 19,661 new cases on Wednesday when 1,28,525 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate has dipped to 15.3%. On Wednesday, the active case pool came down to 1,92,165 patients with 29,708 recoveries. Dip in hospitalisation The State added 213 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths on Wednesday – the highest figure till date – taking the cumulative fatalities the State to 9,222. With the daily decrease in new cases, it is a matter of great relief that hospitalisations and ICU occupancy in the State are finally beginning to show signs of dipping. From an average of 3,500 hospitalisations daily in the State, the number has now come down below 3,000 for the past four days. On Wednesday, new hospital admissions numbered 2,840. The number of patients being treated in hospitals also dipped to 36,782. ICU admissions Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients have come down to 3,699, while the number of patients requiring ventilator support went up to 1,490. The active case pool is dwindling rapidly in all districts. Malappuram and Ernakulam, which had over 50,000 patients in the active case pool, now have 38,892 and 28,088 patients respectively. In Thiruvananthapuram, the active case pool has come down to 14,633. Hospitalisations have also come down in the district but still it has 5,805 patients with moderate or serious infection in hospitals. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 25,66,000. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,380, followed by Malappuram 2,346, Ernakulam 2,325, Palakkad 2,117, Kollam 1,906, Alappuzha 1,758, Kozhikode 1,513, Thrissur 1,401, Idukki 917, Kottayam 846, Kannur 746, Pathanamthitta 638, Kasaragod 461 and Wayanad 307.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-epidemic-curve-plateauing/article34712730.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kottoor elephant centre reels under COVID impact||The raging COVID-19 spread has begun to take a toll on the residents of the Forest Department-run elephant rehabilitation centre at Kottoor, near here. Twenty-three forest personnel, including 15 mahouts, are among those who were diagnosed with COVID-19 last week. The situation has left the remaining 19 mahouts and two cleaners with the task of attending to the 17 captive elephants at the centre. Activities hit One of those infected, N.V. Satheesan, who retired as Deputy Warden of the Agasthyavanam Biological Park on Monday, said the routine activities of the elephants took a hit. Normally, each elephant would be assigned two mahouts. But now, two elephants — 79-year-old Soman, the oldest captive elephant in the State, and nine-year-old Rana — are facing the absence of any of their mahouts, while most others faced the temporary loss of at least a mahout. Under the circumstances, the elephants are being bathed by their handlers only once a day in the Neyyar river, while Soman and Rana are being cleaned in their tethering sheds by other ‘unfamiliar’ mahouts. The Forest Department is yet to decide on subjecting the elephants to COVID-19 tests. Tests on elephants Nonetheless, official sources said that they were mulling the possibility of collecting swab samples, considering these animals had come in close proximity with the infected persons. Kottoor ward member A. Nizar said while some of the infected mahouts had been quarantined at the centre, others were being monitored in COVID-19 care centres. One of them was hospitalised in the city with mild symptoms. They were among the over 40 people who tested positive during an RT-PCR testing camp last Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottoor-elephant-centre-reels-under-covid-impact/article34712661.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,380 new cases in capital district||The district added 2,380 new cases to its COVID-19 caseload on Wednesday, while the test positivity rate (TPR) stood at 16.8%. In all, 2,531 people have recovered from the infection. The active caseload stands at 14,633 cases. In the past 24 hours, 14,134 COVID-19 tests were conducted in the district. Of the newly reported cases, local transmission accounted for 2,241 cases. Wednesday's list also included 10 health workers who tested positive for the infection, the district administration said.  4,374 in quarantine Meanwhile, 4,374 people were quarantined in the district on Wednesday as part of the COVID-19 management measures. This takes the total number of people in quarantine to 71,649. As many as 6,898 people completed the observation period on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2380-new-cases-in-capital-district/article34712670.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourism to get a leg-up along West Coast Canal||The 633-km West Coast Canal (WCC), the main arterial waterway in the State traversing through 11 districts, will be made a ‘tourism water highway.’ “As many as 50 tourism spots will be created along the banks of the WCC corridor from Kovalam to Kasaragod with local bodies’ involvement. All these spots will be developed based on a master plan, protecting the flora and fauna,” Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas told The Hindu . Local cuisine, culture, folk arts and handicrafts will be promoted so that local communities reap the benefit. River cruise The Malanad-Malabar River Cruise that would attract tourists to less-explored places in Kannur and Kasaragod would be expedited, said Mr. Riyas. Listing the priorities for the lockdown-battered tourism sector, the Minister said aggressive marketing campaigns would be launched within the country and outside to increase footfall of foreign tourists to 20 lakh and domestic tourists to 3.65 crore by 2025. Mr. Riyas is of the view that the best way to revive the sector now is to promote domestic tourism. More circuits For this, roads to tourism destinations would be developed and more tourism circuits formed by linking these destinations. A master plan would be prepared for all major tourist destinations and local bodies would have a major say in the development of these sites. Mr. Riyas said Responsible Tourism would be strengthened and homestays would be promoted. Promoting cleanliness with the involvement of the local community, ban on plastic, restoring the prominence of the Kovalam beach, and heritage and tourism circuits would get prominence. Modern technology would be used to dispose of waste generated by houseboats. Completion of works Mr. Riyas, who also handles Public Works, said top priority would be accorded to the completion of the Rs. 25,000-crore works initiated under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and the Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP). Modern technology and materials would be used for topping roads so that they withstand the vagaries of weather better, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tourism-to-get-a-leg-up-along-west-coast-canal/article34712727.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CBSE students worried over assessment method||Aron Selestin is disappointed that he would not be appearing for the Class 12 CBSE boards this year, but also understands how health has been prioritised in the decision to cancel the examinations. A Class 12 Science student at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Akkulam, Aron says he cannot imagine contracting the infection and having to miss the rest of the examinations. As he is preparing for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), he thinks the effort put in gearing up for the boards would stand him in good stead there. Not everyone though shares his sentiments, and it is perfectly understandable, says Aron. Many students feel that as they did not have a conventional academic year, conventional examinations too do not make sense. While respecting the government’s decision, Selestin K. Thomas, Aron’s father, fears the right assessment may not be followed if the marks of Class 11 or Class 9 are considered. Students put their maximum efforts in Class 12, appearing for multiple pre-boards and so on, but they may not get the deserved recognition for it, he says. He is also apprehensive that as students embark on their careers in future, the perception may be that the marks they received were not deserved. A scaled-down version of the examinations could have been considered, he says. Stepping stone Amal Krishna, a Class 12 Humanities student at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, says students’ worry about the examinations has ended, but the criteria for their assessment is not yet out. “The board examinations are seen as a stepping stone to higher studies, and an alternative assessment strategy that takes into account marks in Class 11 or Class 9 may not do justice to the hard work they put in throughout this academic year,” he says. Amal points out that many students do not do their best in Classes 9 or 11. Some others may not do well in assessments and school-level examinations even in Class 12, reserving all their efforts for the boards. Such students may find themselves at a disadvantage. This is also the perfect time to think of assessments that are not based on students cramming the textbook and notes and regurgitating them in examinations. Mixed response School authorities say the cancellation of board examinations has evoked a mixed response, as students performing well in school wanted to appear for the examinations, and others not so much. Many feel that inclusion of Class 9 and 11 grades in the assessment would drive down their marks. Entrance exams They also worry that CBSE students may find it more difficult to get their due in the State entrance examinations with the board examinations being cancelled. The impact of the cancellation of the examinations on the prospects of students looking to go abroad for higher studies is unclear too. “Students undergo a rigorous scrutiny but we are not sure what value would be placed on marks obtained through alternative assessments,” a school Principal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cbse-students-worried-over-assessment-method/article34712664.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||6 more panchayats containment zones||Six more grama panchayats in Thiruvananthapuram have been declared critical containment zones to check the spread of COVID-19. The panchayats of Balaramapuram, Karumkulam, Kulathur, Poovar, Pullambara and Anchuthengu were declared critical containment zones as the test positivity rate (TPR) is above 34%, District Collector Navjot Khosa said on Wednesday. The administration had declared 15 grama panchayats as critical containment zones on May 29 after the TPR shot above 34%. The overall TPR in the district hovers around 17% at present. The following regions in the district were declared containment zones on Wednesday: Kochalummoodu in Pangode panchayat, Parandakuzhi in Pazhayakunnummel panchayat, and Nedunganda, Kapaleeswaram and Mudippura in Anchuthengu panchayat. New FLTC A new 120-bed COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (FLTC) has been arranged at the medical college block of the General Hospital to ensure more beds for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/6-more-panchayats-containment-zones/article34712668.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Payment’ allegation puts Surendran, Janu in a spot||A payment controversy appeared to dog the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday. It seemed centred on BJP State president K. Surendran and tribal leader and chairperson of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) C.K. Janu. Ms. Janu’s party colleague and JRP State treasurer Praseeda Azheekode ignited the scandal by claimed that Mr. Surendran had paid Ms. Janu Rs. 10 lakh in cash to ensure her allegiance to the National Democratic Alliance and her presence at an election meeting attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Ms. Praseeda claimed that she was party to the deal. Hours before Ms. Praseeda met journalists, a voice clip, allegedly a recording of a conversation between her and Mr. Surendran, surfaced on social media. Soon, Ms. Praseeda alleged the male voice was that of Mr. Surendran, and she was also part of the conversation. Janu threatens to sue Ms. Praseeda alleged that Ms. Janu had demanded Rs. 10 crore for election expenses, five Assembly seats, and a berth in the Union Cabinet. However, the JRP leader had settled for less and Mr. Surendran had paid her Rs. 10 lakh. The alleged transaction took place in Thiruvananthapuram ahead of the conclusion of Mr. Surendran’s Vijay Yatra. However, Ms. Janu told reporters in Wayanad that a conspiracy was afoot to scuttle the JPR. She said she would sue Ms. Praseeda for defamation. The JRP had witnessed feuding in recent times, and Ms. Janu hinted that the controversy was a fallout of the intra-party dispute. BJP remains silent The BJP has not responded to the insinuations. It has repeatedly maintained that it transferred party funds only via banking channels. The financial transactions, election-related or otherwise, were accounted for fully.  K. Surendran gave Rs. 10 lakh to tribal leader C.K. Janu to cement allegiance to NDA: JRP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-bjp-paid-rs-10-lakh-for-tribal-leaders-support/article34712629.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to start capital circular services||The KSRTC will soon commence city circular services linking important government offices in the capital for the hassle free movement of citizens. The services will be worked out in such a way that the commuters will not have to reach East Fort for travelling to these offices, Transport Minister Antony Raju said. The buses will have different colours- Blue, Red, Orange and Purple- to indicate the route they ply. Initially, buses will be launched in seven routes and later 15 routes. The low-floor JNNURM buses will be used for services and the buses will operate in fixed intervals. The low-floor buses are being revamped by removing some seats to carry more passengers. Mr. Raju visited the Central Works Pappanamcode on Wednesday where the buses are being revamped. He said the KSRTC will introduce daily pass that enables the commuter to travel on all circular routes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rtc-to-start-capital-circular-services/article34712663.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lion Safari Park’s last inmate too dead||The three-decade-old Lion Safari Park at Neyyar, near here, is on the verge of closure after the death of its lone inmate, 21-year-old lioness Bindu, on Wednesday. Bindu, born in the park in December 2000, has remained under observation for around a week as she has been showing reduced appetite and other ailments related to old age. She is reported to have died around 6 a.m. The lioness, whose mother Ramani died nearly five years ago, had witnessed the death of her last companion, 12-year-old lion Nagaraj, two weeks ago. Former Chief Forest Veterinary Officer E.K. Easwaran led the post-mortem examination on the park premises. Swab samples were collected to be sent for COVID-19 testing. J.R. Ani, Wildlife Warden, Thiruvananthapuram, confirmed that Nagaraj had tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. The State Institute for Animal Diseases, Palode, had received the test findings from the ICAR - National Institute for High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal a few days ago. With the deaths of its last surviving members, the park faced an uncertain future. It currently accommodated two tigers that awaited transfer to the animal hospice and palliative care centre coming up in Wayanad. 15 in heyday Though it had been established in 1984, the park meant to house Asiatic lions gained prominence only a decade later when the Forest Department undertook a course-correction in its strategy. Soon, visitors began to arrive in droves for the safari in the park on closed vehicles as the big cats roamed around in their natural environment. The facility used to have 15 lions in its heyday. The department has been making attempts through the Central Zoo Authority to bring more lions to the park from various zoos. Nagaraj and a lioness, Radha, had been brought from the Sakkarbaug Zoological Garden in Gujarat two years ago in exchange for two giant Malabar squirrels. Radha died shortly after her arrival at the Thiruvananthapuram Zoo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lion-safari-parks-last-inmate-too-dead/article34712666.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State retains trademark ‘KSRTC’||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has won the right to use ‘aanavandi’ (elephant vehicle), a reference to the two elephants in the KSRTC official logo, and also the acronym ‘KSRTC’ from the Trade Mark of Registry. The KSRTC had approached the registry in 2014 through the then Managing Director Antony Chacko after the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation issued a notice against using the acronym ‘KSRTC’ in its fleet of buses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-retains-trademark-ksrtc/article34712695.ece
03 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Monsoon trawl ban for 52 days||The Cabinet has decided to impose a 52-day ban on trawling from midnight of June 9. Kanjirappally MLA N.Jayarajan will be appointed Chief Whip with Cabinet rank. The meeting decided to provide an assistance of Rs. 5 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund for the family of Sowmya Santhosh who was killed in a rocket attack in Israel. The amount would be transferred as a fixed deposit in the name of Sowmya’s son. The government would also take over the educational expenses of the child. The Cabinet decided to recommend the Governor to commute the sentence of six convicts at the Central Prison and Correctional Home for early discharge. The decision was based on the recommendation of the Jail Advisory Committee and the Law Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monsoon-trawl-ban-for-52-days/article34712696.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 2,670 cr. from NABARD for fresh loans||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has disbursed Rs. 2,670 crore to Kerala State Cooperative Bank (KSCB) and Kerala Gramin Bank for providing fresh short-term loans. Out of the Rs. 1,670 crore provided to the KSCB, Rs. 870 crore is towards short-term agriculture loans and Rs. 800 crore is for short-term non-agriculture loans. The assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore given to Kerala Gramin Bank is fully towards agriculture loans, according to Chief General Manager P. Balachandran.  4.4% interest rate The Rs. 2,670 crore is being provided at an interest rate of 4.4% as part of a package announced by the Reserve Bank of India and is meant for improving credit dispensation by banks at the field level..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-2670-cr-from-nabard-for-fresh-loans/article34712660.ece
03 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Devikulam MLA takes oath again||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] member representing the Devikulam Assembly constituency A. Raja had to take his oath again as a Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) on Wednesday. The swearing-in was held in the presence of Speaker M.B. Rajesh following the finding by the Legislature Secretariat that the oath he took on May 24 before pro tem Speaker P.T.A. Rahim was neither with solemn affirmation nor in the name of God. The word indicating the solemn pledge had been missing from the note given to the legislator during the earlier swearing-in ceremony. In Tamil An inquiry by the Legislature Secretariat had found that the word was missed when the Law Department translated the oath. The 36-year-old legislator from Idukki district took the oath again in Tamil before the Assembly commenced session on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devikulam-mla-takes-oath-again/article34712725.ece
03 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Hospital closed after three COVID deaths||The Health department closed a palliative care hospital at Vallachira, near Thrissur, on Wednesday after three COVID patients died at the hospital. In an inquiry at the Santhi Bhavan Palliative Care Hospital, the health department team found that there was no full-time doctor for attending to the critically ill patients. Of the 23 patients, 11 had tested positive for COVID-19. “I got a complaint three days ago from a nurse in Kollam. Her father died in the palliative care hospital recently. The body was shifted to Kollam saying he was COVID negative. The body was kept openly for the public to pay homage. As they couldn’t produce COVID negative certificate at the time of cremation, the body was taken to a private hospital and he was tested positive posthumously,” said District Medical Officer K.J. Reena. “Yesterday night, another person died of COVID-19 in the centre. During an inquiry, we found that it was the third COVID death in centre recently,” she said. “There are 23 patients in the hospital and all are in category C. The hospital does not have a full-time doctor. When asked they said their doctor had tested positive for COVID recently. But they have not informed the health department about it. The centre has not registered under Clinical Establishment Act,” the DMO said. The hospital has been evacuated. All the COVID patients were shifted to the Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital. The other patients were sent with their relatives to their homes after COVID screening tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-closed-after-three-covid-deaths/article34712701.ece
03 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur reports 1,401 new cases||There were 1,401 fresh COVID cases in Thrissur district on Wednesday while 1,706 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 16.38%. The number of active cases in the district is 10,204 and 76 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. So far, 2,39,039 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 2,27,425 people have recovered. According to official data, 1,394 people, including one health worker, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 201 people are above the age of 60 and 100 children are below the age of 10. In all, 5,417 people are under home care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thrissur-reports-1401-new-cases/article34712705.ece
03 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Police allege parallel probe by BJP in black money case||Two accused in the Kodakara black money robbery case were summoned to the BJP office by the party leaders, according to the police sources. It is suspected that the BJP leaders got indications about the robbers even before the police got any clue about them. Renjith and Deepak, two of the accused in the case, allegedly told the police that they were questioned by the BJP leaders in the party office. The BJP tried to recover the money because it was the party fund, suspect the police. Allegation denied However, BJP Thrissur district president K.K. Aneesh Kumar told the police that it was not the party fund. He added that the party had no link with the hawala robbery case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-allege-parallel-probe-by-bjp-in-black-money-case/article34712699.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Double whammy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/double-whammy/article34712982.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Echoing islands’ voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/echoing-islands-voice/article34712980.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||In the report titled “Cusat to publish B.Tech final semester results by July first week” published on June 2, there was a mention about holding the first semester B.Tech exams offline. The university has informed that it will be held online from June 15 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/correction/article34712712.ece
03 June 2021||AMALAPURAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Vedanta, Cairn Energy donate oxygen cylinders||Vedanta and Cairn Energy donated 50 medical oxygen cylinders to Konaseema region in response to a call given by Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop. The capacity of each cylinder is 50 litres. The two groups are engaged in oil and natural gas exploration in the Krishna-Godavari Basin in Andhra Pradesh. “A total of 30 oxygen cylinders have been supplied to the Amalapuram Area Hospital and 20 cylinders will be made available at the Primary Health Centre at Surasani Yanam in Konaseema region,” said Mr. Viswaroop in an official release. Mr. Viswaroop appealed to the corporate firms to extend their support to fight against the COVID-19 in Konaseema region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vedanta-cairn-energy-donate-oxygen-cylinders/article34713057.ece
03 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare halo around Sun witnessed in Anantapur||People in Anantapur were treated to an unusual sight in the sky an hour after mid-noon on Wednesday when a large rainbow-like halo was formed around the sun. Initially, with many people remaining indoors due to the lockdown restrictions, only a few noticed it from around 1.10 p.m. to 1.40 p.m. But as the social media platforms were abuzz with people from Kurnool, Hyderabad and other places in Telangana and Karnataka posting pictures capturing the event and alerting others, many came on to the terrace to witness the ring formed around the afternoon sun. On May 24, Bengaluru had witnessed a similar phenomenon.  Rainfall prediction Rekulakunta Agriculture Research Station Agrometeorologist K.Ashok Kumar said circular halos are created due to the thin cirrus clouds that are detached. In the atmosphere, these clouds are formed somewhere between 15,000 feet and over 20,000 feet. The halos are generally indications of rainfall in the next 24 hours. The A.P. State Disaster Management Authority has predicted moderate to heavy rains on Thursday in Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts. A release from Special Commissioner Disaster Management Authority K. Kanna Babu has asked farmers to take note of this warning and be alert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-witnesses-rare-suns-halo/article34712457.ece
03 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, woman found hanging||A man and a woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging to a tree H.R. Palem village, near Madakasira, in Anantapur district in the early hours of Wednesday. According to the Madakasira police Boya Eswarappa, 36, an agriculture labourer, and Rangappagari Nandini, 30, who were both married, and allegedly in a relationship, left their houses in Madakasira on Tuesday night after they were reportedly chided by the community elders for allegedly continuing their relationship despite warnings. Both were found hanging to a tree near Eswarappa’s agricultural land in H.R. Palem. Eswarappa is survived by wife and two children.  There is always someone to talk to at 100; 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com in Anantapur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-woman-found-hanging/article34712454.ece
03 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staffer at DMHO’s office ‘ends life’||An employee working with Additional District Medical and Health Officer in Anantapur reportedly committed suicide in the early hours of Wednesday by jumping from the terrace of the three-storied building. A roadside shop owner noticed the man, L. Vijay Kumar, lying on the ground and informed the police. Two Town Circle Inspector S. Jakeer Hussain Khan said according to the CCTV footage of the office, Vijay Kumar had jumped off the building at 4.48 a.m. Debt burden The police said Vijay Kumar(36), who was appointed on compassionate grounds four years ago following his mother’s demise while working in the same office, had allegedly told family members that he was unable to overcome the debt burden. Drawing a salary of Rs. 25,000 a month, he reportedly had debts running into lakhs and found it difficult to run his family. There is always someone to talk to at: 100 or 9989819191 or reach over email: ananthapuramupolice@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staffer-at-dmhos-office-ends-life/article34712455.ece
03 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete pending works at AIIMS, Collector tells officials||District Collector Vivek Yadav on Wednesday asked the officials to complete all the pending works pertaining to drinking water supply and road connectivity to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Mangalagiri, at the earliest. Mr. Yadav, along with AIIMS Director Mukesh Tripathi and Medical Superintendent Rakesh Kakkar inspected the facility and reviewed the progress of the works. He instructed the Roads and Buildings officials to expedite laying of two connecting roads to the AIIMS from the National Highway and from Mangalagiri. “A survey should be done on the forest land at the entrance of the hospital and proposals should be sent to the State government. The dumping yard should be shifted to another locality,” he said. The Collector also said that a proposal to lay water pipeline at an estimated cost of Rs. 10 crore had been sent to the government for approval and assured that the works would begin soon. The 1,000-bed premier tertiary health care facility is a boon to the region, he said. The Collector inmspected the out-patient block, radiology and digital mammography wings.  Meanwhile, the Collector issued orders pertaining to extension of the partial curfew imposed to check coronavirus pandemic till June 10 as per the guidelines issued by the government. “After a thorough review of the COVID-19 prevalence, the government has extended the partial curfew from 12 noon to 6.00 a.m. till June 10. Any violation of the guidelines shall result in prosecution under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws,” said Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-pending-works-at-aiims-collector-tells-officials/article34712468.ece
03 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arif Hafeez takes charge as Guntur Urban SP||K. Arif Hafeez, a 2015 batch IPS officer, took charge as the Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police here on Wednesday. He succeeded R.N Ammireddy, who was transferred on Tuesday and was asked to report to the Police Headquarters. Mr. Hafeez inspected the guard of honour before assuming the office. He met Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang and DIG C.M. Trivikram Varma. Mr. Hafeez has served as Additional SP of Special Enforcement Bureau, Guntur Rural and cracked several key cases of smuggling of liquor from the neighbouring States. He had also cracked the whip on the rampant and illegal transportation of sand in the coastal areas and gambling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arif-hafeez-takes-charge-as-guntur-urban-sp/article34712459.ece
03 June 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to S.V. Prasad||Floral tributes were paid to former Chief Secretary of undivided Andhra Pradesh S.V. Prasad who died due to COVID-19 in Gudur on Wednesday. It was from Gudur that he started his long innings, from the position of a Sub-Collector. He had played a key role in the selection of Dugarajapatnam for setting up port, recalled former Union Minister Chinta Mohan. He had endeared himself to the people in the district by implementing the 20-point economic programme of the then PM Indira Gandhi, recalled Congress party Sarvepalli Assembly segment in-charge P. Chandrasekar. He had ensured distribution of 5 cents of land to the poor in Gudur sub-division then, added Congress party Venkatagiri in-charge P. Srinivasulu Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-sv-prasad/article34712462.ece
03 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: single day toll spikes in South Coastal A.P. again||After reporting fewer number of deaths in the past few days, the daily toll rose again as 17 more patients succumbed to the infection and more than 1,500 persons tested positive in a span of 24 hours. Though the number of recoveries was better when compared to fresh cases, the unrelenting toll remained a cause of concern. On Tuesday, the districts reported four deaths each giving a momentary sense of relief. Active cases have come down to around 30,000 in the region from a peak of 40,000 earlier this month. With 10 deaths in SPSR Nellore district and 7 in Prakasam, the cumulative toll in the region reached 1,642 in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Wednesday. So far, 832 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 810 in Prakasam district died from the infection, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. New cases The new infections were up by 140 in a single day as 785 persons in SPSR Nellore district and another 734 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease, taking the cumulative tally to over 2.28 lakh. As many as 1,216 patients in Prakasam district and 1,083 in Nellore were declared recovered, bringing down the active caseload to 11,889 in SPSR Nellore district and 18,695 in Prakasam. The recovery rate improved further to 85.86%. Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal led the personnel on the streets in Ongole to ensure that the lockdown restrictions were strictly followed and to curb irregularities in hospitals and drug stores. Barricades and check posts were set up to check the violation of curbs. Violators booked So far, 1,665 cases were registered against those violating the partial curfew rules across the district. Another 6,041 cases were registered against shops, restaurants, public places and vehicles for violations and a fine of Rs. 16.04 lakh was collected from them. As many as 19,086 persons were booked for not wearing face masks and a fine of Rs. 21.25 lakh collected from them. As many as 3,427 vehicles were also seized so far, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-single-day-toll-spikes-in-south-coastal-ap-again/article34712461.ece
03 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two members of ‘blade batch’ gang arrested||The police on Wednesday arrested two members of a ‘blade batch’ gang in the three town police area in Rajamahendravaram of East Godavari district. According to Rajamahendravaram city SP Shemushi Bajpayee, the accused have been identified as Y. Sai Kiran and Pilli Devendra who were found carrying sharp tools. The police have intensified the search to nab the rest of the members of the gang. A case has been registered and the accused were produced before a court on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-members-of-blade-batch-gang-arrested/article34713056.ece
03 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case filed against Ruia Superintendent||Telugu Desam Party leader Mohan Rao Pawar has filed a case in the IV Additional Junior Civil Judge’s Court in Tirupati on Wednesday against the Superintendent of Sri Venkateswara Ramnarain Ruia Government General Hospital (SVRRGGH) for the short supply of oxygen that led to many deaths. The case, which named Superintendent K. Bharathi as the accused, also mentioned that only eleven were declared dead in the tragic incident, though forty COVID-19 patients had died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-filed-against-ruia-superintendent/article34712464.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. outsmarts other southern States in GST collections last fiscal||Andhra Pradesh outperformed other southern States by registering an impressive growth in the GST collections between June and March of the 2020-21 financial year. The months of April and May 2020 had witnessed lockdown following the outbreak of COVID-19. The Unlock process had begun from June 1, 2020. In spite of the pandemic situation, Andhra Pradesh had registered a growth of 8.83% during the 2020-21 financial year. The growth rate in other southern State was between 0.18% and 3.78% during the period. As per information, Andhra Pradesh’s State GST collection during the period was Rs. 24,386.66 crore against Rs. 22,407.46 crore during the 2019-20 financial year. “The high growth rate indicates the State’s economic activity and GST compliance. The State’s total GST revenue is known once the Integrated GST is settled with other States,” the officials say. According to the Commercial Taxes officials, the tax compliance is significantly high in Andhra Pradesh. “To improve the collections, the department had take a few measures such as conducting surprise checks, identifying the defaulters, and making them fall in line. Most of the defaulters could not file returns due to the pandemic situation,” the officials say. The GST collection in the neighbouring Telangana was only 0.81%. States ahead of A.P. The States that were ahead of Andhra Pradesh on this count are Chhattisgarh and Odisha, which had registered a growth of 11.99% and 11.24% respectively. Maharashtra, the financial capital of the country, had registered a negative growth of 0.92%. Similarly, New Delhi registered a negative growth of 7.57%, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-outsmarts-other-southern-states-in-gst-collections-last-fiscal/article34713047.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AICTE chief to deliver a talk in SRM university event||Chairman of the All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) Anil Sahasrabudhe will deliver a talk on “Higher Education in India for the Post-COVID-19”, in virtual mode on June 5 (Saturday) on the SRM University’s Andhra Pradesh campus. The event will be conducted at 3 p.m. The unprecedented COVID-19 crisis has resulted in the temporary closure of about 1,000 universities and about 40,000 colleges in the entire country, disrupting the teaching and learning and research process. The pandemic, in a way, has played a major role in bringing the people together across the world and people are more globalised than ever before. The objective of the event is to delve deep into the key aspects of education sector such as what one can learn from this pandemic-induced crisis, especially in the higher education sector, how to emerge out of this crisis and become stronger and the lessons to be drawn by educationists, scientists and engineers. Registration To register for this lecture, interested people can visit: https://bit.ly/SRMAPUDL10 or scan the QR Code given here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aicte-chief-to-deliver-talk-on-education-at-srm-varsity/article34712962.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APUCF plans protests against property tax hike||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Citizens’ Federation (APUCF) would stage protests in all municipalities and cities against the property tax and users’ charges for garbage collection. The federation would also submit memoranda to the officials concerned. Addressing the media on Wednesday, APUCF convener Ch. Babu Rao said the State government was hell-bent on burdening people with hefty property taxes and levy users’ charges at a time when they were reeling under financial crisis induced by the COVID pandemic. The government is not focusing on improving the living conditions of people suffering from COVID, he said. The federation would organise protests in strict adherence to the COVID guidelines, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apucf-plans-protests-against-property-tax-hike/article34712465.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy demand in State surged by 8% in May||The energy demand in Andhra Pradesh surged by 8% in May on a month-on-month basis against a 14% fall at the national level, an official release said. While meeting the demand by various means, including procurement from the spot markets, emphasis had been laid on providing uninterrupted power supply, especially to the hospitals, the release added. The demand, which was 4,364 MU in May 2020, reached 4,724 MU during the corresponding month this year. Thrust area On the other hand, the power utilities had spent about Rs. 3,763 crore on new lines and substations, which helped them in bringing down the supply interruptions by 74%. Besides, the government had laid special emphasis on increasing the renewable energy (RE) generation capacity. The installed capacity has increased to 3,800 MW in 2021 from 3,029 MW in 2018-19. The government is working on a plan to set up 33.70 GW of pumped hydro storage projects and ultra mega renewable energy parks that are aimed at achieving self-sufficiency in the power sector and exporting power to other States. In a review meeting on Wednesday, Energy Secretary N. Srikant exhorted the officials to strive to make the State No.1 in cost-effective power. He sought the cooperation of the District Collectors in resolving any issues hampering power supply. Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said the government gave top priority to power supply and all steps were being taken to achieve the goal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-demand-in-state-surged-by-8-in-may/article34713052.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch Jagananna Colonies project today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the YSR Jagananna Colonies project on Thursday in virtual mode. As part of the ambitious project, around 15.60 lakh houses will be constructed at a cost Rs. 28,084 crore in the first phase which is targeted to be completed by June next year. According to an official release issued here on Wednesday, of the 8,905 layouts developed in the first phase, 11.26 lakh houses are being constructed in what are going to be called YSR Jagananna Colonies. Similarly, construction of as many as 2,92,984 houses for the beneficiaries on their own lands along with 1,40,465 houses for the beneficiaries with allotted land will also be undertaken as part of the project.  Uniform design The houses will have a uniform design and be built on 340 square feet with a bedroom, hall, kitchen, bathroom and porch. Also, each house will have two fans, two tubelights, four bulbs, and an overhead tank. The mapping and registration of the houses has already been completed and the process of geo-tagging them is in the final stages. The housing project will provide 21.70 crore man-days of employment to the labourers. The State government is procuring 69.70 lakh metric tonnes of cement, 7.44 lakh metric tonnes of steel, 310 lakh metric tonnes of sand and other material for construction of the houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-launch-jagananna-colonies-project-today/article34713051.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP govt. pushing State into debt trap’||TDP politburo member Kimidi Kala Venkata Rao has alleged that the YSRCP government is pushing the State into a debt trap. “The situation is so bad that the government is going for fresh debts to clear the old ones. Andhra Pradesh has become a care of address for debts and atrocities, and the plight of the poor is unimaginable,” alleged Mr. Venkata Rao in a statement on Tuesday. The former Minister said that in just two years, the State government had borrowed Rs. 1.65 lakh crore but hardly any wealth was created. The government must spell out the details of expenditure met with the loans and debts,” he said. He further said that the government was paying peanuts to the beneficiaries under various schemes through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). “Not a single house has been constructed till now for the homeless poor. The government is implementing over 90 % of welfare programmes by availing loans,” said Mr. Venkata Rao. ‘Growth rate declined’ He said that the State’s growth rate had declined from 11.2 % to 3 % since the YSRCP government assumed office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-govt-pushing-state-into-debt-trap/article34713045.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel Intermediate and SSC exams: Lokesh||TDP national general secretary and MLC N. Lokesh on Wednesday demanded that the State government cancel the SSC and Intermediate examinations. The YSRCP government should take a cue from the Centre that cancelled the CBSE examinations , Mr. Lokesh said while addressing the students, parents, and members of the student associations virtually. Mr. Lokesh took jibes at Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for not taking proactive steps. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was finding time to hold review meetings on the students’ issues, but Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy seemed to have no time. Mr. Lokesh said he would launch a legal battle on if the State government did not cancel the examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancel-intermediate-and-ssc-exams-lokesh/article34713048.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress bats for free, universal vaccination||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) have planned to meet Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Friday and urge him to advise the State government to ensure vaccination for coronavirus infection to people of all sections free of cost. In a statement on Wednesday, APCC president Sake Sailajanath said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should procure sufficient stocks of vaccines and ensure inoculation of all sections of the society within a month. The senior Congress leader said that the Narendra Modi Government at the Centre had pushed the nation into an unprecedented health crisis, despite repeated advice of his party’s Central leader Rahul Gandhi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on universal immunisation programme.  ‘Skewed priorities’ Accusing the Central government of thriving in skewed priorities, he said the Prime Minister was focussed on the Central Vista project at a time when thousands of virus-infected people were dying for want of medical attention. He said a universal immunisation programme implemented free of cost across the country was the only way to prevent further loss of lives. The Congress leader also found fault with the Centre’s vaccine policy. The fact that it was selling at three different rates reflected the lack of coherence in the government approach, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-bats-for-free-universal-vaccination/article34713050.ece
03 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor extends birthday wishes to Tamilisai||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan extended birthday greetings to his Telangana counterpart Tamilisai Soundararajan through Twitter on Wednesday. “I, along with the people of Andhra Pradesh, extended my heartiest felicitations and warm greetings on your birthday. May Lord Jagannath and Lord Venkateswara bless you with good health, happiness and many more years in the service of people,” Mr. Harichandan posted on Twitter. BJP greets BJP State president Somu Veerraju also extended birthday wishes to the Telangana Governor and Lt. Governor of Puducherry through the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-extends-birthday-wishes-to-tamilisai/article34712466.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treating black fungus a priority, says Minister||Agriculture Minister and district in-charge Minister K. Kannababu said that there are 113 black fungus cases in the district, out of which 82 are being treated at King George Hospital (KGH). “Keeping in view future needs, we have notified nine hospitals for treatment of black fungus,” Mr. Kannababu said. “KGH and Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) will have 200 beds each, while ENT Hospital, Apollo, Pradhama, Gayatri, and GITAM will have 100 beds each. Pinnacle and Care Hospitals will have 50 beds each,” he said. Mr Kannababu said that though cases have been gradually declining, people need to follow all safety protocols to break the chain of transmission. The positivity rate is around 13%, he said, adding that bed occupancy including demand for ventilators is also gradually declining. Out of 570 ventilator beds in the district, 465 are occupied as of now, he said. Hospitals fined According to Mr. Kannababu, with cases declining, several hospital managements have been requesting the government to de-notify their hospitals. However before doing that, Collector V. Vinay Chand will assess the situation, he said. “Many people from surrounding districts depend on hospitals in Vizag for treatment. The Collector will look into the demand and availability of hospital beds, after which a decision will be taken,” he told reporters. The Minister also said that penalties worth Rs. 57 lakh were slapped on hospitals for alleged irregularities in treatment of COVID cases. He also said that 30 cases were booked against those hospitals and notices served on eight hospitals for not implementing Aarogya Sri properly. The Minister said that the vaccination drive is being conducted in a smooth manner at 27 centres in the city. “We have come to know that people are complaining about the waiting period at the vaccination centres. To sort out the issue, we have decided to introduce a time-slot method soon. Beneficiaries will be given a time slot in which to arrive and take the jab,” he said. Projects Officials also discussed the status of ongoing projects under GVMC and VMRDA during the meeting. Mr. Kannababu said that several projects of GVMC are getting delayed due to delay in environmental clearances. YSRCP MP V. Vijayasai Reddy has assured that he would speak to officials at Delhi regarding such issues, he informed. “Discussions were also held on the progress of drinking water supply projects for Anakapalle, Aganampudi and Kommadi. These projects will be ready by April 2022,” the Minister said.  Ward development plan Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the Collector and Municipal Commissioner to prepare a ward-wise development plan for the city. Parks and water bodies will be developed, he said, adding that Mudasarlova Park will be developed as a world-class park and that the government will give a special grant of Rs. 100 crore for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/treating-black-fungus-a-priority-says-minister/article34713064.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shed fear surrounding COVID-19 pandemic, says expert||The impact of the second wave of COVID-19 is such that some people are getting disturbed mentally, and behavioural changes are seen in them. A few persons are resorting to the extreme step, fearing that there is no escape from the virus, while others are seeking psychiatric help. Against this backdrop, psychiatrists are advising people to shed unfounded fears, while adopting established prevention protocols, and, if necessary, right treatment on the advice of doctors. Lack of beds, drugs and oxygen, and high hospitalisation costs are resulting in anxiety and stress among the people. A final year B. Tech student has been living in extreme fear of COVID-19. The youngster, living with his parents in the city, has been refusing to step out of the house. The family members are well-educated and follow all the safety norms. “His parents are worried as their son has developed shivering, and has been behaving abnormally,” says Balasubrahmanyam Kovvali, a physician and specialist in Cognitive Behaviour Therapy (CBT) and psychological counselling, trained in India and the U.K. “In a counselling session arranged online, the youngster initially hesitated to speak, but opened up after he felt reassured that I would keep the conversation confidential,” says Dr. Balasubrahmanyam. “The student, who has been closely following the social media posts, is under the impression that there is no escape from the pandemic. He is also worried about the safety of his parents. He seems to have forgotten that only 2% of the COVID-19 patients are dying. The youngster has overcome his anxieties after a few sessions,” he says. A 28-year-old man and his wife, both working as software engineers for an MNC in Hyderabad, had returned to his parents’ home in Srikakulam district as they were asked to work from home (WFH) after the first wave last year. ‘Info overdose’ “During my counselling sessions, I found that the young man had fed his brain with an overdose of information on the pandemic and how it was snuffing out the lives of people. He developed anxiety and COVID phobia after the death of a relative,” says Dr. Balasubrahmanyam. “After the counselling sessions spread over three weeks, he called up me to tell that he got over his fears, and he proved it when his parents tested COVID-19 positive later. He isolated his parents in a separate room and took good care of them, while taking care of himself and his wife by following all norms,” he says. “There is no need to panic even if you test positive for COVID-19. A lot of misinformation is being circulated in the social media, and it should be taken with a pinch of salt. Some youngsters are throwing caution to the winds while meeting friends and acquaintances. This can also contribute to the spread of the virus,” says Dr. Balasubrahmanyam.  There is no need to panic even if one tests positive for COVID-19. A lot of misinformation is being circulated in the social media, and it should be taken with a pinch of salt. Dr. Balasubrahmanyam Specialist in Cognitive Behaviour Therapy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shed-fear-surrounding-covid-19-pandemic-says-expert/article34713041.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. burdening State with loans, alleges TDP leader||TDP Visakhapatnam Parliamentary Party general secretary Pasarla Prasad on Wednesday criticised the State government for spending heavily on welfare schemes by taking loans, and not creating any wealth. The TDP leader said that instead of creating employment, the State government was ordering closure of companies belonging to Opposition leaders. “Employees of these companies have lost their jobs and are unable to fend for themselves,” Mr. Prasad said. Refuting the claims of the government that revenue sources had dried up due to the pandemic, Mr. Prasad sought to know what had happened to the revenue generated from sale of liquor and hike in taxes. “A mere 22.19% was allocated in the budget for economic services in 2019-20 and 24.91% was allocated in 2020-21. The borrowings of the government, which was Rs. 52,090.63 crore during 2019-20, went up to Rs. 79,191.58 crore in 2020-21 (up to February 2021) and the non-budget loans were Rs. 34,650 crore, taking total borrowings to Rs. 1,65,932.21 crore,” Mr. Prasad said, wondering what would be the fate of the State exchequer if loans are taken at this rate. New role for Balakrishna? Conveying a message from Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna, Mr. Prasad said that the veteran leader would no longer confine himself to his constituency but would soon involve himself in active politics all over the State. He said that Mr. Balakrishna had spoken to the family members of TDP cadres who had died of COVID-19 and assured them of all support during their hour of grief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-burdening-state-with-loans-alleges-tdp-leader/article34713055.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily cases below 1k for third day in a row||The district reported 844 new cases on Wednesday, making it the third day in a row that fewer than 1,000 cases were reported in a single day. The active caseload declined to 12,252 after 1,369 persons who had contracted the virus tested negative on Wednesday. The total caseload of the district now stands at 1,39,513. The death toll increased to 923 after six persons succumbed to the virus. According to the COVID-19 update released by the health department, the number of recoveries rose to 1,26,338. Around 28,000 people suffering from COVID have recovered in the last two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/daily-cases-below-1k-for-third-day-in-a-row/article34713063.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Many hospitals operating ICUs sans fire safety NOC||At a time when the health infrastructure is crumbling under the load of coronavirus patients in need of emergency care , the Fire Services Department officials fear the possibility of accidents as many hospitals including those being run by the government are yet to obtain the mandatory no-objection certificate (NOC). Since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic in March last year, the country has seen close to 25 fire accidents in various hospitals in different cities, of which 14 were reported in the ICU units where COVID patients were undergoing treatment. In Visakhapatnam city, there are about 2,000 ICU beds in 80 hospitals, including about 900 under the State’s control . Sources in the Fire Services Department say that a majority of over 20 government hospitals including the CHCs do not have the NOC. According to the officials, the overuse of ACs and electrical gadgets are to be blamed for fire accidents in the ICUs. Given the severity of the pandemic, the ICUs are over-stressed. The units are full of electrical gadgets with the air-conditioners being run continuously. All the doctors and nurses don PPE kits made up of synthetic material and use of alcohol-based sanitisers make the ICUs vulnerable to fire accidents, they say. “Most of the fire accidents in ICU units have occurred due to overheating of electrical wires or use of sub-standard MCBs (miniature circuit breakers) leading to short circuits. We need an electrical and fire audits of all healthcare facilities,” says a senior officer. It is learnt that the staff in many hospitals are not trained to handle eventualities and there is no full-time electrician present to handle the equipment. Members of ISHRAE (Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers), say that at least two full-time electrical experts should be present in the ICUs to ensure the use of ACs on a rotational basis and electrical gadgets are not overheated. Violation of safety norms Sources in the Fire Services Department and the fire wing of the GVMC say that some hospitals have equipment in place, but the staff are not trained to handle them. “Some hospitals did not even have fire extinguishers. We had to provide the equipment from our stock,” says another officer. “The hospital, however, can recruit technicians to ensure that the equipment are rotated and the wiring are checked regularly, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-hospitals-operating-icus-sans-fire-safety-noc/article34713043.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo offers virtual summer camp||Officials from the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) are going to organise a Virtual Summer Camp from June 28 to July 4, for students aged 12-18 years. IGZP curator Nandani Salaria said that due to COVID-19, IGZP is conducting the camp online, where students will get to know about the importance of nature and wildlife conservation and management of wild animals at the zoo. Students will have two hours of classes every day on the animal world of Vizag zoo, animal behaviour studies, management of animals at the zoo, rescue of wild animals, and veterinary care of zoo animals. Children will also have fun activities and assignments daily, she said. Participants will get an e-certificate, special souvenir kit and one free visit to the zoo after it reopens. For details, call 0891 2552081 or 9441130894, or visit the zoo website. Last date to submit the application is June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-offers-virtual-summer-camp/article34713061.ece
03 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online yoga classes||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University is conducting online yoga camp for children from June 5 to 18, 2021. Officials said during this camp, children will be taught fun activities along with yoga techniques to increase their immunity, concentration, and memory and to refresh their body and mind. The timings for the class are 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. For further details, contact 9963637744 or 9398019922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-yoga-classes/article34713060.ece
03 June 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||VCC gesture||Members of the Visakha Camera Club (VCC) distributed food packets to the attendants of patients at KGH here on Tuesday. Club members will take up this activity by turns for the next 15 days. Tuesday’s food was sponsored by Prabal Mohanty in memory of his brother Prajwal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vcc-gesture/article34713058.ece
03 June 2021||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hundis yield Rs. 32.42 lakh||The three hundis Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam, yielded collections of Rs. 32,42,439 after they were counted on Wednesday. The hundi collections included 70 euros and 20 dollars. The counting was done by the temple staff, under the supervision of Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala. The date for counting of remaining hundis will be announced later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hundis-yield-rs-3242-lakh/article34713059.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Caught unawares||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caught-unawares/article34712472.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cool idea!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cool-idea/article34713054.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,384 fresh COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 2,384 fresh COVID cases and 17 deaths on Wednesday, even as testing was ramped up to a high of 1.08 lakh persons against 94,189 the previous day. The active COVID cases were 33,379 against 33,254 the previous day, and the results of 1,847 samples were awaited. The total number of those infected since March now, rises to 5.84 lakh and deaths rise to 3,313. Recoveries have been lower at 2,242 (3,308 on Tuesday) taking the number of recoveries to 5.47 lakh. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and surrounding districts maintain the top position in terms of positive cases but with a slight decline with 307 cases in the core city as against 318 the previous day, Rangareddy 135/151 and Medchal-Malkajgiri 116/137. Other districts with high number of positive cases were Nalgonda with 170 up from 165 cases the previous day, Khammam 167 up from 121, Siddipet 102 up from 68, Suryapet 90 up from 73, Peddapalli 95/96, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 113/115, Karimnagar 103/129 and Mahabubabad 94/105. The low number of cases were reported from Adilabad 11, Nirmal 9, Narayanpet 13, Kamareddy 13 and Kumram Bheem-Asifabad 15. Dr. Srinivasa Rao urged people to contact on Whats app 9154170960 for complaints about private hospitals and laboratories. They can also call ‘104’ for any grievances/telemedicine or help. Children less than 10 years of age and elders above 60 years should avoid going outdoors unless mandatory along with those in 20 to 50 years’ age group, unless absolutely necessary like going for work/essential shopping. Face mask and social distancing should be a must for those going out. Flu/influenza like symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, running nose, difficulty in breathing, body pains and headache, should be reported to the nearest government health facility for required health services without any delay. For COVID Hospital bed status, click on link https://health.telangana.gov.in/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2384-fresh-covid-cases-in-telangana/article34712958.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination of high risk groups not touching target||The special vaccination drive initiated by the GHMC for high risk groups or “super spreaders” may not achieve the intended target, going by the daily vaccination figures. While a target of 30,000 beneficiaries has been fixed per day for the GHMC at the rate of 1,000 per circle, daily number of vaccinations have never reached this target. The figure mostly hovered between 21,000 and 24,000 per day. During the 10-day drive which began on May 28, a total of three lakh beneficiaries from selected nine trades were to be vaccinated. They included owners and workers of grocery stores, street vendors, liquor shop vendors, and workers at fruit, vegetable and flower markets, wholesale markets and rythu bazars among several others. After six days, the figure of vaccinated super spreaders stands at over 1.4 lakh, with the highest vaccinations performed on Tuesday at 27,117. As glaring irregularities have come to fore with regard to issue of tokens for vaccination, the process of registrations has been shifted to online from Wednesday onwards. Accordingly, details of the beneficiary will be entered into an online app along with their phone numbers. Vaccination slot for the next day along with a reference number will be sent to their mobile, and they can be vaccinated after producing the reference number. On Wednesday, vaccination was administered to mere 21,946 beneficiaries. Officials attribute this to the vaccine hesitancy among beneficiaries in several areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-of-high-risk-groups-not-touching-target/article34712735.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,000 cr. more to procure paddy||Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation (TSCSC) is planning to raise an additional loan of Rs. 1,000 crore to purchase paddy arriving at the procurement centres in excess of the estimated quantity. Emergency meeting The corporation has already borrowed about Rs. 20,000 crore of short-term loans from different banks with State government standing guarantee to procure paddy during the 2020-21 rabi marketing season at the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the Centre. Chairman of the Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy on Wednesday asked officials at an emergency board meeting in virtual mode to scout for banks and financial institutions offering low-interest rates. The corporation is expecting about 5 lakh tonnes of excess paddy to arrive at the purchase centres before closure of procurement exercise over the next few days. Mr. Srinivas Reddy said that procurement of paddy was expected to go beyond the targeted procurement quantity of 80 lakh tonnes this rabi procurement season. He stated that the corporation had already purchased 75 lakh tonnes this season and 10 lakh more tonnes was expected to arrive at the purchase centres. He stated that production of paddy was higher than the estimated quantity in Narayanpet, Gadwal, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubnagar, Sangareddy, Medak, Siddipet and Yadadri districts this rabi season. As a result, the arrivals were expected to be around 85 lakh tonnes against the target of 80 lakh tonnes fixed by the government. With the higher arrivals, the requirement of gunny sacks had also increased and it was estimated that another 2 crore gunny sacks were needed to procure 10 lakh tonnes. Mr. Srinivas Reddy asked the officials to constantly monitor and speed up loading of paddy purchased at procurement centres and unloading at rice mills as rainy season was on the threshold. He reviewed the district-wise availability of gunny sacks and the quantity required to procure the arriving paddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1000-cr-more-to-procure-paddy/article34712966.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bracing for COVID spike in children||The Telangana government is bracing for the high number of paediatric COVID-19 cases if there were to be a surge of cases in this age group. Senior Health officials said that their plan was to increase the paediatric bed capacity to 5,000 including around 2,000 ICU beds. A few reasons have put officials on alert. One is the uncertain behaviour of coronavirus and second, the high number of coronavirus cases among children in neighbouring States. The possibility of a third wave impacting children too, is another reason. Advanced preparations anticipating another crisis helps to bring down possible distress, believe officials. Around 1,500 cases in the paediatric age group were attended at Gandhi and Niloufer hospitals in the first wave, and around 800 were treated at the two hospitals in the second wave, said senior officials from Health department, who added that severity of COVID in children was less compared to adults. There are around 1,200 beds at Niloufer Hospital. Director of Medical Education Dr. K. Ramesh Reddy, who visited the hospital on Tuesday, said that they were planning to increase the bed capacity there to 1,800-2,000. Auditoriums, classrooms used to hold examinations and other spaces would be put to use to add more beds. Besides, a temporary structure was being planned for the purpose. He said that Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has been preparing for this for the last three weeks. Suggestions and views were sought from senior paediatricians and experts. “The focus is not only on Hyderabad. Dedicated paediatric set ups in other teaching hospitals, Area Hospitals and other centres in districts will also be enhanced. There will be some ICU beds in Area Hospitals,” Dr. Reddy said. Along with additional beds, proportionate number of staff would be required to avoid burdening the existing HCWs. They would be provided a refresher course on treating COVID complications in children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bracing-for-covid-spike-in-children/article34712952.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A visual story of Gussadi, a tradition in Adilabad||Each year during Deepavali, the Raj Gond tribe of Adilabad observes the Dandari festival where those chosen by a village chieftain are part of the Gussadi rituals. Their faces and bodies smeared with ash, armed with indigenous musical instruments and sporting specific headgears, the chosen Gussards perform the dance-like Gussadi tradition and visit people’s homes and temples. Hyderabad-based documentary filmmaker Jennifer Alphonse witnessed an introduction to Gussadi at Shilparamam as part of a cultural programme, and was fascinated. “I thought it was a dance form; then I learnt that it is a tradition being practised over centuries,” she says. From 2014 to 2019, she visited villages in Adilabad district to film a documentary on Gussadi and has now brought out the coffee table book ‘ Gussadi: Celebration of Being God! ’ (priced at Rs. 2,000, available on e-commerce platforms), in association with the Telangana ITDA (Integrated Tribal Development Agency). Initially, she visited the villages of Keslapur and Indravelly villages in the Utnoor area of Adilabad, without a camera. “They tend to freeze the minute you keep a camera in front of them, so I avoided it. I had to convince them that the Dandari-Gussadi tradition needs to be documented so that the world knows about it. Gradually people welcomed me into their homes and shared the lores of Gussadi,” says Jennifer, who has also filmed documentaries on the Nagoba jatara and the Kolam tribe. She visited the villages for three years during Deepavali. The idea of a book came about in 2017 when she was perusing the visuals she had thus far, on the editing table. The documentary (also titled ‘ Gussadi: Celebration of Being God! ’) was partly self funded; monetary support also came from friends who responded to her Facebook post. The ITDA and Divya Devarajan, district collector of Adilabad, supported the coffee table book. The amount generated through the sales of the book, says Jennifer, will go towards tribal welfare projects. The 148-page book gives an introduction to the Gond, Kolams, Thoti and Pardhan tribes of Adilabad. The visuals offer a glimpse into the Gussadi tradition, music instruments, accessories such as masks, bags and the wooden roller considered a sacred symbol, garlands made of wild nuts, and the peacock-feathered headgear. “While conducting a masterclass at the University of Hyderabad, I learnt from my anthropology friends that there isn’t enough documentation on Gussadi. So it felt important to bring out both a documentary and a coffee table book. Between me and the cinematographers who worked on the film, we had enough images to publish a book,” she says. Guidance came in from scholars who had been researching the tribal traditions: “A Gussadi entering a village home is considered to bring in prosperity. Their rhythmic movements and jumps are much more than dance,” she adds. She intends to submit the 30-minute documentary to international film festivals and later release it on a digital platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a-visual-story-of-gussadi-a-tradition-in-adilabad/article34712965.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Civic body razes left wing of Amberpet Serai||The left wing of the Amberpet Serai has been bulldozed by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on Tuesday to make way for a four-lane flyover. “The corbels, the architecture, the construction material show that this is a Qutb Shahi era structure. This was part of the historical topography of Amberpet and now it is wrecked,” says Sibghat Khan, an architecture student and history buff. “Our shop has been here for the past 50 years. We are not sure about the compensation we are going to get,” said Afroz, who lost his shop in front of the Serai. Other shops, which were razed earlier, are now operating from different locations in the same area. Sections of the National Highway 163 look like a war zone with wrecked buildings and scattered building rubble on either side of the road. Amberpet gets its name from Hazrat Amber Shah Baba, whose dargah is yards away from the wrecked Serai. Adjacent to the Serai is a Qutb Shahi era congressional masjid. A later day building in the area is the Amberpet Burj. Incidentally, the Amberpet Serai is not listed as a protected monument by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. “All Qutb Shahi era monuments need to be protected as heritage buildings. The government should have constituted the Heritage Conservation Committee so that there are norms and procedures for development activities,” says historian Sajjad Shahid. For years, the front portion of the Serai was built over by shopkeepers who plied various trades. Serais or wayfarers’ inns were integral part of the Qutb Shahi kingdom which was dependent on trade in items like Warangal carpets and wootz steel for revenue. The Amberpet Serai was on the trade route between Hyderabad and Warangal before other routes were developed. Ironically, the Serai has been demolished for construction of a flyover between Golnaka to Ramanthapur to reduce the travel time. While the foundation stone for the flyover was laid on May 5, 2018 by Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari, there has been little progress on the ground. But things are changing rapidly during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/civic-body-razes-left-wing-of-amberpet-serai/article34712738.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registration of non-agri properties gains pace||Registration of properties, non-agricultural properties in particular, is picking up since the government has allowed opening of the sub-registrar and district registration offices since Monday. The department has registered Rs. 20 crore revenue on Tuesday as against the Rs. 8.16 crore on Monday, the first day of the opening up of the transactions. Tuesday’s revenue of Rs. 20 crore included Rs. 18 crore on registered documents – stamp duty and registration fee – and another Rs. 2 crore income from other transactions, according to senior officials. The day witnessed 1,148 transactions in the limited four-hour time for which the offices were kept open. Of these, 949 pertained to slots booked in advance and another 199 walk in – persons who booked their slots before May 12, the day when the registration process was stopped on account of imposition of lockdown. The number of transactions on Monday was 574. Registration of non-agricultural properties which picked up momentum after the department was allowed to take up transactions through the old process however suffered on account of lockdown and subsequent closure of activities at the sub registrar office and district registrar office levels. The department had been set a target of achieving Rs. 12,000 crore revenue during the current fiscal and it progressed well during the first month when it realized revenue of Rs. 717 crore. The momentum continued in May too till the day the lockdown was imposed. The department generated revenue of around Rs. 250 crore in less than 10 working days of May before the process came to a standstill. Senior officials are hopeful that the department’s revenue would be in excess of Rs. 800 crore during the current month if the pace of registration continues. Relaxation of lockdown norms would further improve the growth of real estate and related sectors giving boost to the department’s revenues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/registration-of-non-agri-properties-gains-pace/article34712976.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Huge vaccine demand, less supply: DPH to HC||There is a huge demand for COVID vaccine but the supply is less, said Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday. Attending the hearing of PIL petitions on COVID-19 connected matters in the Telangana High Court through virtual mode, the top official said that by July-end the State was likely to secure adequate supply of vaccines. Instead of solely relying on the Central government, the State had gone for global tenders to secure vaccines. The Telangana government was procuring one crore doses of vaccines from two international companies, he told a Bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. Already, lakhs of people in different age groups were vaccinated though it was a long way to reach cent percent vaccination in the State, he said. Instead of the highly-priced drug being used for Black Fungus, the government had freshly started procuring a second drug which had the same efficacy as that of the first one. While the first drug cost around Rs. 3,500 for one vial, the second one was priced at Rs. 200 for one vial. “Moreover, five vials of the first drug had to be used in a single day for a patient affected by Black Fungus, whereas one vial of the second medicine was sufficient for a day,” Mr. Rao informed the court. Conceding that government could not start 14 RT-PCR labs in the State as assured earlier to the HC, Mr. Rao said all these labs would become functional in a fortnight. Assuring that government was geared up to meet the challenges of possible third wave of the virus, the Director informed the court that there was no proof that only children would be more vulnerable during the third wave. He told the court that government had decided to equip all beds available in government hospitals with supply of oxygen. Replying to a query from the Bench, Mr. Rao said 90% of the complaints received from people about COVID-19 were related to excessive billing. He maintained that government had ensured Rs. 3 crore were returned to patients in complaints of excessive billing during the first wave. Similar efforts would be continued now also, he assured the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/huge-vaccine-demand-less-supply-dph-to-hc/article34712954.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||How will you handle mental health of COVID-19 patients, asks HC||Vaccination, vaccination and more vaccination. That should be the strategy of the State government to face the pandemic of Coronavirus, Telangana High Court observed on Wednesday. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID-19-connected matters, said if more people were vaccinated the chances of people falling prey to the virus would be less. In fact, the government should introduce and encourage walk-in vaccination at all places. With private and corporate hospitals being permitted to administer COVID-19 vaccines, the government should not have any barriers to promote walk-in vaccination. This would help citizens overcome the fear of contracting the virus if they went to crowded places for vaccination, the Chif Justice observed. The bench wanted to know from the government why mobile ambulances were not being sent to remote rural areas to administer vaccines. The bench said that among other issues connected to COVID-19, mental health of patients and their attendants was of paramount importance. “How do you handle mental health of patients/attendants who lost their loved ones,” the bench sought to know. Public Health Director G. Srinivasa Rao participating in the virtual hearing informed the court that services of the Institute of Mental Health can be availed in this regard by the government. “Does the institute conduct webinars...Does it have any specific programmes to treat the mental health issues faced by people due to Coronavirus?” was question Chief Justice Hima Kohli put to Dr. Rao. The Chief Justice suggested to him that the Institute should have a tie-up with NGOs on the matter and help people by conducting webinars and making CDs on the subject. Referring to the outbreak of a possible third wave of the virus, the bench asked Public Health Director what was the government’s blue print to face the situation. It also wanted to know if there were any other government children hospitals in the State apart from Niloufer Children Hospital located in State capital of Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/how-will-you-handle-mental-health-of-covid-19-patients-asks-hc/article34712967.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Formation Day celebrations subdued again||Like last year, Telanagna Formation Day celebrations across the State were subdued on Wednesday due to COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao paid floral tributes to Telangana Martyrs’ column near Assembly and hoisted the flag at his camp office. While greeting people of the State, Prime Minister Narendra Modi prayed for their good health and well being. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also offered his greeting on Twitter in Telugu. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan returned from Puducherry where she is Lt. Governor to participate in the celebrations at Raj Bhavan. She felicitated police Commissioners Anjani Kumar (Hyderabad), Mahesh Bhagawth (Rachakonda) and V.C. Sajjanar (Cyberabad) for their outstanding services and blood donation activities during the pandemic. Incidentally, Ms. Soundararajan also celebrated her birthday on Wednesday. The Chief Minister conveyed his birthday greetings. As announced by the government in advance, the celebrations were low key and there were no major public gatherings. The occasion was also observed in the offices of TRS, Congress, BJP and the CPI. Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy hoisted the national flag at Assembly and then at Kamareddy Collectorate later. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao hoisted the flag at the Collectorate in Sircilla. The remaining Ministers also paid tributes to martyrs memorials and hoisted flags in districts assigned to them. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar led the administration in the celebrations by hoisting the tricolour at the BRKR Bhavan. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the celebrations were low key in the erstwhile Medak district. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao hoisted the national flag at Siddipet followed by Home Minister Mohd. Mahmood Ali at Sangareddy and Fisheries Minister T. Srinivas Yadav at Medak. Lok Sabha members K. Prabhakar Reddy, BB Patil and others have also participated in the celebrations. ‘Role model’ Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar hoisted the national flag on the occasion of Telangana Formation Day at the Police Parade Grounds in Khammam on Wednesday. Zilla Parishad chairman L Kamalraj, Collector R V Karnan, Khammam police commissioner Vishnu S Warrier and others attended. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, Government Whip and Pinapaka MLA Rega Kantha Rao unfurled the national flag at the ceremony held in Kothagudem town. Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, greeting people of Suryapet on the seventh State Formation Day, said Telangana remained one of the best performers in the country. Mr. Reddy compared agriculture, irrigation and the welfare sector to pre-2014 and now, and said Telangana is already a ‘role model State’ in the country. In Nalgonda, State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy hoisted the national flag at the district Collectorate along with Collector Prashant J Patil and SP A.V. Ranganath. Alair legislator and Government Whip G. Sunitha along with District Collector Anita Ramachandran and other officials steered the low-key ceremony in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. Several other legislators and leaders paid their tributes to the martyrs of Telangana and garlanded the statues of Telangana Talli.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-formation-day-celebrations-subdued-again/article34712969.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Symbiosis Law School students’ plea to cancel exam||Students of Symbiosis Law School, Hyderabad are seeking justice from the authorities, who they claim, are forcing them to write exams in the pandemic despite requests for cancellation or some relief in a changed format. The students of first to fourth year pursuing their LLB course online due to the pandemic have requested the authorities to cancel the exams or at least give them some relief in the form of Multiple Choice Questions (McQs) format. But the law school authorities have apparently denied them that benefit. “We have requested the authorities to take into consideration the Bar Council of India’s decision to constitute a high-powered committee to study similar issues with several law schools in the country. But the authorities want to go ahead with the exams without even considering the recommendations likely to be given in a week,” a student wishing anonymity said. In fact, the Symbiosis International University, Hyderabad to which the law school is affiliated, has cancelled the examinations last year citing the pandemic. For the next semester, when the situation was improved, the authorities conducted the exams with multiple choice questions only. “But now when the situation is worse than the previous year they want the students to write descriptive answers,” the students claim. Students say the administration should consider providing relief in the form of MCQ format at least as they are under tremendous pressure with some students losing the near and dear ones. “Since the classes too were held online for major part of the year it is unfair to ask us to write long descriptive answers sitting on the system.” In several emails sent to the administration, the students have posed various questions related to the software, timings, and technical aspects but they were not answered satisfactorily . Moreover, an internal survey conducted among 650 students also saw majority favouring cancelling the exams or change in the format. These law students also claimed that the administration has not consulted with the students at any point during the course of this year and this goes against several norms of fairness and guidelines. “Given the present circumstances and stressed environment it is unfair to force us to write the exams,” the students said while requesting the authorities to consider their demand. Efforts to reach out to the university proved futile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/symbiosis-law-school-students-plea-to-cancel-exam/article34712736.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||23 Oxygen Expresses get 2,026 MT of LMO||Indian Railways have successfully delivered 2,026 MT of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) to Telangana till date with the 23rdOxygen Expressarriving at Sanatnagar with 37.94 MT LMO in two container tankers from Rourkela,Odisha, on Wednesday. While it took 23 days to achieve the first 1,000 MT of LMO, the next 1,000 MT has been achieved within 8 days. A total of 22 Oxygen Expresses have been received at Sanatnagar through 113 tankers. About 16 trains have come from Odisha, another 4 trains have come from Jharkhand, followed by 2 trains from Gujarat. These trains are run along the ‘Green Corridors’ so that the medical oxygen requirements of the State can be met at the fastest possible time frame and with minimum en route detentions. Multi-disciplinary teams have also been formed to ensure that the trains reach at the least possible time with average speeds of over 60 kmph. General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the officers and staff for the hassle-free and seamless operation of these trains, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/23-oxygen-expresses-get-2026-mt-of-lmo/article34712744.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sonia granted TS; KCR destroyd it: Cong.||The credit of Telangana formation goes to Sonia Gandhi, who sacrificed the party in Andhra Pradesh to deliver the promise made to people of Telangana but the TRS has destroyed the dreams of that Telangana with unbridled corruption and suppression of people, Congress leaders said. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, who unfurled the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan on the 7th formation day of Telangana, thanked Ms. Gandhi and called upon people to fight against the undemocratic and corrupt rule of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to save Telangana. ‘Sonia moved’ “Sonia Gandhi was moved by the sacrifice of lives for Telangana by many and granted statehood to Telangana but by establishing family rule KCR has destroyed the very foundations of Telangana,” he said. The TRS government, he said, had failed to fulfil the promises made and had turned a supporter of the BJP government at the Centre rather than questioning it on the fulfilment of the promises made by the UPA while granting the new state. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka at a separate press conference accused KCR of failing all sections on all fronts and turning it into a debt-ridden State with his corrupt policies. He was running the State with people who shirked responsibility while dancing to his tunes rather than functioning with Constitutional spirit. The only success of KCR was splitting the political parties and encouraging defections of elected representatives insulting the Constitution. Those opposed to him were suppressed brutally by the police and the power of the State, he charged and called upon people to get rid of this government. The utter failure of the government in COVID handling was an indication of the arrogance of the Chief Minister who refused to listen to experts and the inhuman attitude reflected the way tests were not done or cases were under-reported, he said. PCC former presidents Ponnala Laxmaiah, V Hanumantha Rao, AICC secretary Madhu Yaski, former union minister Balaram Naik, former CLP leader in Council Shabbir Ali, party leaders Anjan Kumar Yadav, Nerella Sarada, B Kishan, Nagesh Mudiraj, Kumar Rao, Mahesh Goud, Srikanth and Mettu Sai were present at Gandhi Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sonia-granted-ts-kcr-destroyd-it-cong/article34712970.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB, Meril join hands to scale up dry swab tests||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Wednesday tied up with Meril Diagnostics for commercially scaling up the dry swab-based tests across diagnostic labs in the country. Meril’s extraction-free dry swab kit can be used to isolate the viral RNA from dry swab samples and these isolates can then be directly used for RT-PCR. This ‘simple and fast method’ of dry swab-based Direct RT-PCR has been developed by CCMB and approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) based on their independent validation. It is a simple variation of the existing gold standard RT-PCR method and can easily scale up the testing by two-three-fold with no new investment of resources, said director Dr. Vinay Nandicoori. “In this method, one can simply break open the cells by using appropriate buffer solution and use them for RT-PCR directly. There is no need for separate steps of RNA extraction and purification,” he pointed out. “RNA extraction, even with automation, takes four hours for roughly 500 samples. Viral Transport Medium (VTM) and RNA extraction add a significant burden on money and time required for mass testing for coronavirus. We believe this method has the potential of bringing the costs and time of testing by 40-50% in all kinds of settings,” added CCMB adviser Dr. Rakesh Mishra. Meril’s vice-president Sanjeev Bhatt said the firm believes that the “use case for the dry swab collection sample technique is very large. It is imperative in these times to get a quick RT-PCR result and this method helps in doing so by eliminating the lengthy RNA extraction process. We believe this will help scale testing in India, and help government and private labs in reducing their turn around time. This is the need of the hour.” Meril is currently equipped to manufacture 2 crore kits a month. Each kit suffices for 100 tests and each test costs Rs. 45-60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-meril-join-hands-to-scale-up-dry-swab-tests/article34712955.ece
03 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ola Foundation to provide oxygen concentrators||Ola Foundation, the philanthropic arm of app-based cab aggregator Ola, has launched its O2ForIndia initiative aimed at providing free and easy access to oxygen concentrators for home isolation patients during the ongoing wave of COVID-19 infections in the city. The firm launched O2ForIndia in the presence of Industries and IT Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan here on Wednesday. The initiative to be availed through Ola app would be free of cost, including doorstep delivery and pickup. The foundation had made available 500 oxygen concentrators initially and this would be scaled up as per need with about 10,000 concentrators available across the country. Ola Foundation partnered with GiveIndia for the O2ForIndia initiative which would enable caregivers and home isolation patients to place requests for oxygen concentrators through Ola App by providing few basic details. Once necessary details were provided, Ola would arrange for free delivery of oxygen concentrator by specially trained personnel through Ola cabs. These concentrators would be picked up and thereafter, sterilised for making them ready for use by the next patient.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ola-foundation-to-provide-oxygen-concentrators/article34712733.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police medals announced||Gajwel Assistant Commissioner of Police Palakuri Narayana and Hyderabad city police constable Y Ram Reddy have been awarded Mukhyamantri Sarvonnatta Police Pathakam by the State government on the occasion of State Formation Day on June 2 for their outstanding performance. Constable Reddy played a crucial role in establishing and implementing State and police station level social media and public interface platforms for better service delivery. Greyhounds junior commando G Anjaneyulu was awarded Shourya Patakamu, while Hyderabad city police's ACP (Special Branch-North zone) Jogula Narsaiah and seven other bagged Mahonnatha Seva Pathakamu. Hyderabad Commissioner's Task Force (North Zone) Inspector K Nageswar Rao was among 92 other police personnel from across the State who were awarded Uttama Seva Pathakamu. City’s Additional DCP Traffic (North) Aggadi Bhaskar and 464 others were selected for Seva Patakamu. Likewise, nine officers from the Anti Corruption Bureau, seven officers from DG (Vigilance and Enforcement), 17 officers from Disaster Response and Fire Service personnel and 18 officers from Special Protection Force have been selected for various awards by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-medals-announced/article34712741.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ATA donates 400 oxygen concentrators||The American Telugu Association (ATA) has donated 400 oxygen concentrator units to government hospitals in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, as part of its COVID-19 disaster relief efforts. ATA president Bhuvanesh Boojala said that more help is on the way as Telugus in USA have responded to reach out to their motherland with prayers for those affected. ATA leadership delivered 100 oxygen concentrator units to Warangal, Mulugu, Karimnagar, Banswada, Jadcherla, Mahabubnagar, Achampet, Narayanpet and Wanaparthy hospitals. Another 50 units have been dispatched to AP and handed over to meet the needs of local government hospitals. Sixty oxygen concentrators are scheduled to be delivered to Rayalaseema region this weekend. ATA India representatives Krishna Reddy, Lohith Reddy, Jyothsna Bobbala, Jyothirmai Reddy, Dr. Siva Bharath Reddy and Srinivas Bandari oversaw the distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ata-donates-400-oxygen-concentrators/article34712960.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vaccination for students going abroad||As resolved by the Cabinet, the government proposed to open a separate facility for vaccination of students going abroad for higher education at the IPM, Narayanguda. An online slot booking system will be rolled out on June 4. Visithttps: //www. health. telangana.gov.in. Sots will be available from June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-for-students-going-abroad/article34712959.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EPTRI-ASCI pact||Environment Protection Training and Research Institute (EPTRI) on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) for collaborating in the areas of climate change, urban environmental management, urban water and sanitation management, municipal waste water management, faecal sludge, sewerage management etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eptri-asci-pact/article34712731.ece
03 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Blood donation camp||Sixty units of blood was collected on Wednesday by Red Cross Society, Warangal, at a blood donation camp organised jointly by the Telangana Real Estate Developers Association (TREDA) and Seva Bharathi in association with the Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC), Commissionerate of Police, Cyberabad, in Saket Pranamam, a gated residential community at Gowdavalli, near Kompally. Dr. Anil Reddy from Seva Bharathi said these camps will go a long way in meeting the shortfall of blood supply in all government and private hospitals as well as blood banks including Red Cross Society, Gandhi Hospital, Osmania Hospital, NTR Blood Society, Thalaseema & Sickle Cell Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/blood-donation-camp/article34712732.ece
03 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Oxygen concentrators donated||Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar on Wednesday handed over as many as 250 oxygen concentrators worth a little over Rs. 2 crore, donated by the Indian Friends of Atlanta (IFA), U.S, and the Puvvada Foundation, Khammam, for the benefit of COVID-19 patients requiring oxygen support, to the district authorities here. The vital medical devices will be utilised in government hospitals, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article34712974.ece
03 June 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||One more agitation needed in Telangana, says Sharmila||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of late Chief Minister of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, said that there was a need for another agitation in Telangana as Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao failed to fulfil the dreams of the people. She has alleged that Telangana has become home for unemployed youth and their wait for employment is unending. Ms. Sharmila arrived at Sherila village in Veldurthi mandal on Wednesday and consoled the family members of Venkatesh, who had committed suicide a few months ago as he was unable to get employment. She came early in the morning and spent some time with the family. “Even after seven years of formation of Telangana the youth are depressed and the case of Venkatesh is an example for that. Unemployed youth are waiting for government notifications and their age limit is getting crossed. What happened to the promise of unemployment allowance? When will it be implemented?” asked Ms. Sharmila while speaking to reporters after consoling the family. She wondered how all the family members of Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao were able to get employment. She said that formation of Telangana is a result of the sacrifice by 1,200 youth, students and unemployed in addition to the fight for the past six decades. She also demanded that treatment for COVID-19 should be included in Arogyasri, the health scheme introduced by her father Rajasekhara Reddy for the poor. She questioned the rationale behind joining Ayshman Bharat scheme, which was opposed by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao in the past. While returning to Hyderabad, Ms. Sharmila stopped and interacted with farmers at Nagulapally near Toopran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/one-more-agitation-needed-in-telangana-says-sharmila/article34712972.ece
03 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Man held for selling fake biodiesel||A kerosene dealer from Nalgonda was held and remanded to judicial custody on Wednesday for allegedly manufacturing and selling fake biodiesel. Nalgonda DSP Venkateswara Reddy said Gunda Santosh has been selling the product on an industrial scale to parts of AP and Telangana through a network of agents. Disclosing details, he explained that the accused has been operating under the label ‘Maharaja Enterprises’ from a leased premises at Gopalayapalli village in Narketpally police station limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-selling-fake-biodiesel/article34712739.ece
03 June 2021||suryapet,TELANGANA||Panchayat secretary found dead||A 23-year-old junior panchayat secretary was found dead, hanging from the ceiling of his house, here in Anantagiri mandal early hours of Wednesday, the police reported. The victim was identified as A. Mahesh, a native of Ameenabad. Police suspect the incident to have taken place after midnight, apparent from the victim’s last seen status on WhatsApp. According to Anantagiri police, the victim was first seen on Wednesday by his grandparents when they woke up around 5.30 a.m. Preliminary findings by the police show that Mahesh’s engagement was planned for Thursday, and also, a few love letters were recovered from the victim’s room.  (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline: 040 66202000/66202001)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/panchayat-secretary-found-dead/article34712971.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exams for final-year DU students from June 7; freshers must wait||Senior officials of the Delhi University (DU) on Wednesday said that examinations for terminal-year students will begin from June 7, as scheduled and will not be cancelled. Officials added that assessment for students who are currently in their second year will be the same as what was followed last year. Equal weightage will be given to internal assessment marks and results of the previous semester, for those students who are in their fourth semester now, officials explained. No effect D.S. Rawat, DU’s Dean of Examinations told The Hindu , “Examinations for the final-year students will begin from June 7 as scheduled and the cancellation of the CBSE Board exams has no effect on it. It has also been decided that assessment for the intermediary batch will be based on marks obtained in the previous semester — that is, in their third semester — and internal assessment marks” “A 50% weightage will be given to both the internal assessment marks and results of the previous semester. This is the same as what was followed last year,” said Mr. Rawat. Plea to cancel exams The year-end semester examinations were initially scheduled to be held in May. However, the university deferred the same due to the raging second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Several students and teachers’ groups had urged the university to cancel the examinations in view of the pandemic. Officials also added that a decision about examinations of first-year students will be taken at a later date. “Students who are in their second semester now had their first semester examination only in March this year. Their second semester examinations will not be due before July-August. So a decision about that will only be taken at a later date,” Mr. Rawat said. Owing to the pandemic, the varsity saw a delayed admission process last year with the first cut-off list for undergraduate courses being released only in October. Classes for the first-semester students had commenced on November 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/exams-for-final-year-du-students-from-june-7-freshers-must-wait/article34712928.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Class 12 students heave a sigh of relief||Responding to the cancellation of the CBSE Class 12 board examination, students in the Capital said that they were relieved as the wait was finally over. Several students in the city said that they could have gotten higher marks if they sat for the examination but felt that they were not in the frame of mind to sit for such an examination during the COVID-19 pandemic. The CBSE is yet to announce the formula for calculating the process they are going to use, but students feel that since they have an option to sit for the examination on a future date, this is the best possible way to not let them left hanging without a score to seek admission into programmes of study at the undergraduate level. Ananya Sangwan who was scheduled to take the examination this year said, “Most of us are not even able to meet our family and friends at the moment, so the idea that we would have to sit in a room with other people and give exams was quite ludicrous. Our lives are worth more than any marks we could have secured.” She added that she could have possibly scored better than her predicted grades given by the school but after spending one and a half years studying the same course and not being able to move past it, she and her friends were too mentally drained to take the examination. Faced hardships Some of the students said that the past year has been anything but ordinary and the exam being conducted also needs to be a reflection of the way teaching took place. “Given the familial, social and financial hardships that children have gone through this year, including losing loved ones to the virus and caring for those infected by it, most children may not have performed to their full potential in offline exams,” said Aman Sharma. He feels that the due to irregular classes in rural areas and a large digital divide between sections of society, the decision of cancelling offline boards was a fair and equitable socio-economic decision taken by the government to favour students and their health. Admissions abroad On the issue of admissions to universities, Mr. Sharma said that most universities aboard have already finished taking student admissions, and many colleges in India require entrance exams anyway, so the CBSE score will only be a qualifying examination. “For those who may still want to sit for an exam in case they are not happy with their internal marks, they can always do so once the situation is conducive as the CBSE has given them an option to choose this too,” he added. For Ms. Sangwan who has already secured admission abroad, she said that she is happy that the CBSE has taken a decision as she was worried with her results getting delayed as many universities had sent out emails to their students saying that if the boards did take place, and the marksheets came post the due date to submit the final results, the offers would be rescinded and students would have to reapply next year, which would mean taking a gap year and competing with a larger pool of applicants as well. “While my intended university hadn’t made a statement yet, I was quite worried as the semester there starts in mid-August, and it seemed as though I wouldn’t be able to go, or even get my final marksheet by then,” she said. JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said that in most higher educational institutes, the admission into undergraduate programmes is through an entrance examination and where their isn’t one, the universities can devise appropriate procedures for admission which are fair and transparent. “We will conduct the entrance examination whenever it is safe for the students to write. We need to find optimal solutions rather than feel anxious about the challenges faced by the pandemic. Our Indian educational system is capable of meeting these challenges,” Mr. Kumar said. Devastating impact Some students however, felt that the cancellation of exams would have a devastating impact on their college admission chances where even a single mark could make the difference. Sehaj Chaudhary said that students and their parents spent years and resources on education that ultimately is defined by Class 12 board marks. “I wanted to secure admission into SRCC, Delhi University, and had worked hard for it. Now I am not sure what the admission criteria is going to be. For years, the criteria has been on the final examination and not on the internal assessments so I was aiming to do well in them,” Ms. Chaudhary said.  For those who may still want to sit for an exam in case they are not happy with their internal marks, they can always do so once the situation is conducive as the CBSE has given them an option to choose this too Aman Sharma  Student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/class-12-students-heave-a-sigh-of-relief/article34712926.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC verdict today on Vinod Dua’s petition||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce its judgment on Thursday on a petition filed by senior journalist and Padma Shri awardee Vinod Dua to quash a sedition case registered against him in Himachal Pradesh for his YouTube telecast on the Delhi riots last year. Mr. Dua and his wife are recovering from COVID-19. A Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit would primarily decide whether Mr. Dua’s argument that government meets criticism with charges of sedition holds. “There is a recent trend against the media where State governments, who do not find a particular telecast to be in sync with their political ideologies, register FIRs against persons of the media primarily to harass them and to intimidate them so that they succumb to the line of the State or else face the music at the hands of the police,” Mr. Dua had submitted in the apex court. The judgment comes even as the Supreme Court, in a separate case on sedition charges levelled against two Telugu channels by the Andhra Pradesh government, had said it was time to define the limits of the sedition law. Accused of fake news The complaint against Mr. Dua was filed by a BJP leader. The senior journalist was accused of spreading fake news. Besides sedition, the other charges include causing public nuisance, printing of defamatory matter and making statements conducive to public mischief. During the court hearing, senior advocate Vikas Singh had read out excerpts from Mr. Dua’s telecast and submitted that “if this makes out to be sedition, then half the country is committing the crime”. Mr. Singh had argued that criticism of public measures or a comment on government action, however strongly worded, would be within reasonable limits of free speech. Fair criticism was not sedition The apex court had protected Mr. Dua from arrest in June 2020. Mr. Dua had approached the Supreme Court after the Himachal Pradesh Police appeared at his residence on June 12 last year and ordered him to be present at the remote Kumarsain police station — at least a 20-hour drive from Delhi — the very next day (June 13) at 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sc-verdict-today-on-vinod-duas-petition/article34712937.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Murder case: Sushil Kumar sent to 9-day judicial custody||A Delhi court on Wednesday sent wrestler Sushil Kumar to nine-day judicial custody in the alleged murder case of wrestler Sagar Dhankar. He was produced before a magistrate at Saket court where the police requested extension of his custody by three more days, citing more recoveries were to be done. However, the magistrate refused their request. Upset since morning A police officer said that Mr. Kumar was upset since Wednesday morning and was crying in the lock-up as he did not want to go to jail. It was his last day of police custody. During his days in police custody, he used to tell his stories of wrestling days when he had won national and international medals for India. “When we used to question him about his involvement in the crime, he used to start telling his stories or go silent. He used to follow a strict routine while being in the custody,” said the officer. He used to start and end his day with exercise. The officer said that Mr. Kumar and his accomplice Ajay Sehrawat were taken to Haridwar on Monday for the recovery of mobile phones and other articles but they returned empty-handed. Sagar died after being allegedly assaulted by Mr. Kumar and others at Chhatrasal Stadium on May 4.  When we used to question him [Sushil] about his involvement in the crime, he used to start telling his stories or go silent Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/murder-case-sushil-kumar-sent-to-9-day-judicial-custody/article34712931.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four arrested for stabbing teenager to death following quarrel over girl||A 19-year-old teen was stabbed to death in South Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar on Tuesday night. Four persons have been arrested in the case, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the victim has been identified as Kunal Sanwariya. Sohil (18), Gaurav (19), Roop (18) have been identified among the four accused. The knife used in commission of crime has also been recovered, the police said. Kunal’s family said that around 9 p.m., he had stepped out of the house to buy a cake for his father’s birthday surprise. “An hour later, we got worried and while we thought we should look for him, his friends came and told us that he had been stabbed,” Kunal’s aunt Sunita said. Kunal was rushed to Max Hospital where he was declared brought dead. Video surfaced A video of the incident surfaced in which the accused can be seen ganging up against the victim, thrashing him and later stabbing him multiple times. They had an argument about a girl they both liked, the police said. Due to the enmity between the two and Gaurav decided to kill Kunal. Mr. Thakur said that a case on charges of murder was registered and investigation was taken up. During the probe, it was found that two knives were ordered online by the accused. The four accused were subsequently arrested, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-arrested-for-stabbing-teenager-to-death-following-quarrel-over-girl/article34712929.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: plea in SC challenges HC’s dismissal of petition to halt work||A Supreme Court lawyer on Wednesday appealed to the apex court against a Delhi High Court judgment dismissing a plea to stop construction activity at the Central Vista area in the Capital amidst a surge in the pandemic. Advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav said the High Court erred in concluding that the workers stayed at the site whereas they were brought in daily from outside at a time when restrictions were in place on public movement to halt the spread of the virus, which has claimed thousands of lives. “The High Court failed to appreciate that allowing a big construction work with a huge number of innocent labourers to continue during peak COVID-19 pandemic period is a serious public health issue concern,” Mr. Yadav’s petition said. Not justified The special leave petition was not justified in holding that the Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment project was an essential activity during the peak pandemic crisis “The HC was not justified in holding that the workers of Central Vista Avenue Redevelopment project was residing at the site... government and SPCPL in their respective affidavits have clearly stated that the workers of the project were staying at the Sarai Kale Khan camp which is not project site... Movement pass was issued to labourers and supervisors to construction site,” the plea stated. The Delhi HC had found no reason to suspend the construction activities as the workers were staying at the project site. It concluded that “COVID-19 protocols are being adhered to and COVID-19-appropriate behaviour is being followed”. It imposed Rs. 1 lakh costs on the petitioners, Anya Malhotra and Sohail Hashmi, for filing a “motivated petition”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/central-vista-plea-in-sc-challenges-hcs-dismissal-of-petition-to-halt-work/article34712935.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC on CBSE policy on Class 10 marks||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday issued notice to Centre and Delhi government on a plea contending that policy of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for calculating marks of Class 10 students based on the internal assessment by schools was unconstitutional and requires to be modified. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Education, the Directorate of Education of Delhi government and the Board seeking their stand on the issue raised by an NGO. NGO Justice for All, in its plea said, “The policy of moderating the average marks assessed by the school, based on the historical performance of the previous average result of the school, in terms of the best overall performance of the school would be injustice to the students as the performance of school is not relatable in any manner with the performance of the student”. It said moderating the marks in consonance with the overall average score of the district, national and state average “was absolutely unreasonable, illogical and punitive for the students of a school which would appear in the board exams for the first time”, with no previous data of performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-in-hc-on-cbse-policy-on-class-10-marks/article34712924.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Light rain likely today||The Capital recorded a maximum temperature of 36.6 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, four degrees below normal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature settled at 22.2 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. The IMD has forecast that light rain is likely on Thursday. The Capital had on Tuesday logged a minimum of 17.6 degrees Celsius, 10 notches below normal and the lowest temperature ever recorded in June, owing to rainfall, thunderstorm and gusty winds under the influence of a western disturbance. The maximum temperature on Tuesday was 33.6 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. Delhi, this year, recorded a mean maximum temperature of 37.5 degrees Celsius in May, the lowest for the month in 13 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/light-rain-likely-today/article34712932.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Picking up steam||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/picking-up-steam/article34712934.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||China, Pakistan, Afghanistan to hold talks amid U.S. withdrawal||China on Thursday will chair a meeting with the Foreign Ministers of Afghanistan and Pakistan, as Beijing looks to step up its engagement with both Kabul and Islamabad amid the withdrawal of U.S. forces. China’s Foreign Ministry said on Wednesday the fourth meeting between the three countries’ Foreign Ministers will be held via video link and would be chaired by China. The trilateral dialogue, started by China, would address “new uncertainties” in the wake of “the unilateral withdrawal of U.S. and NATO forces at a critical stage” of the reconciliation process, the Ministry said. The U.S. Central Command said this week between 30-44% of the withdrawal of troops had been completed, with President Joe Biden announcing in April acomplete withdrawal by September 11 this year. The three countries’ Vice Foreign Ministers, at a virtual dialogue in July, had “urged for an orderly, responsible and condition-based withdrawal”. Afghanistan’s Ambassador to China, Javid Qaem, was quoted as telling Chinese media this week that China’s “good relations with both Afghanistan and Pakistan” could see Beijing playing “a critical role in building trust between these two neighbouring countries”. The Afghan envoy “appreciated China’s offer to facilitate Afghan peace talks in the future,” the official Xinhua news agency quoted him as saying, noting that Foreign Minister Wang Yi had in a May 17 phone call with Afghan National Security Advisor Hamdullah Mohib offered "to facilitate internal negotiations among various parties in Afghanistan, including creating necessary conditions for negotiations in China." He also called on India and China to work together despite their other bilateral problems. "Afghanistan being a stable country is in favour of countries such as the U.S., China and India,” the Communist Party-run Global Times quoted him as saying. "It is more important how we and Pakistan can build trust and how China and India can build trust regarding Afghanistan regardless of other issues.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-pakistan-afghanistan-to-hold-talks-amid-us-withdrawal/article34712374.ece
03 June 2021||Tehran,||Massive fire breaks out at Iran oil refinery||A massive fire broke out on Wednesday night at the oil refinery serving Iran’s capital, sending thick plumes of black smoke over Tehran. It wasn’t immediately clear if there were injuries. The fire struck the state-owned Tondgooyan Petrochemical Co. to the south of Tehran, said Mansour Darajati, the director-general of the capital’s crisis management team. Firefighters believe it struck a pipeline for liquefied petroleum gas at the facility, Mr. Darajati told Iranian state television. He did not elaborate. Ambulances deployed Mojtaba Khaledi, the spokesman for Iran’s emergency department, told the semiofficial ISNA news agency that 10 ambulances and other equipment had been deployed at the scene of the fire. Hospitals in the area are on standby as well, he said. It wasn’t immediately clear what started the blaze. Temperatures in Tehran reached nearly 40 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. Hot summer weather in Iran has caused fires in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-iran-oil-refinery/article34712369.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Remembering the Tulsa race massacre 100 years later||This week, U.S. President Joe Biden became the first sitting American head of state to officially recognise one of the worst incidents of violent racial hate in the country’s modern history — the Tulsa Race Massacre of May-June 1921. The widespread killings in Tulsa, Oklahoma, targeting relatively well-to-do African Americans, and the extensive damage to their property by rampaging white mobs at the time shocked the nation and world. Over the decades since then, it has led to introspection and policy actions that have sought to bridge the racial chasm that continues to haunt American society. In 1921, it was the affluent, predominantly African American neighbourhood of Greenwood, Tulsa, founded by descendants of slaves and having earned a reputation as the “Black Wall Street” of the U.S., that faced the carnage unleashed on May 31 and June 1. Tulsa was especially known for being an unofficial sanctuary city for African Americans suffering the consequences of harsh segregation or Jim Crow laws in pre-civil rights America. It appears that deep resentment that a community of colour, and one subject to centuries of oppression, had risen to the higher echelons of the economic pyramid blended with historical racist hatred, resulting in lethal violence culminating in the deaths of hundreds, bodily injury to thousands and millions of dollars of damage to the homes and neighbourhoods burned down by the rampaging mob. Covering up tracks What followed was in a sense even worse — survivors, gripped by fear of reprisals and unable to speak out about the violence they had faced, and losses suffered, had to contend with an elaborate attempt to cover up the massacre and protect the perpetrators. For years, the massacre was barely mentioned in government circles, and in newspapers and textbooks. It was only in 2000 that it finally made an appearance in the Oklahoma public schools’ curriculum. Immediately after the massacre, the Tulsa police chief reportedly ordered officers to confiscate from photo studios all the pictures taken of the violence unfolding. Further, according to historians who have studied the events surrounding the massacre closely, not only did Tulsa city officials cover up the crimes committed, they also “deliberately shifted the narrative of the massacre by calling it a ‘riot’ and blaming the Black community for what went down”. While the Tulsa “Race Riot” Commission was formed to investigate the events in 1997 and officially released a report in 2001, it is clear that much has remained buried — quite literally. Towards reconciliation It is this painfully sordid, and as yet unresolved history of racist hatred that has prompted Mr. Biden to say, “We do ourselves no favours by pretending none of this ever happened... We should know the good, the bad, everything. That’s what great nations do: They come to terms with their dark sides.” Yet the greater challenge for Mr. Biden’s government is to go beyond the question of reparations to survivors and address the root causes of disparity that continue to plague American society. In that regard African-American communities may welcome Mr. Biden’s plans to address racial discrimination in the housing market by issuing new rules on fair housing practices and curbing inequities in the home appraisal process; by directing more federal spending to small and minority-owned businesses; and to close the wealth gap between the African American community and others through new initiatives focused on economic opportunities for minorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/remembering-the-tulsa-race-massacre-100-years-later/article34712371.ece
03 June 2021||Jerusalem,||Labour veteran Herzog elected Israel President||Israel’s Parliament elected the even-keeled Labour veteran Isaac Herzog as its 11th President on Wednesday, a vote that came as Opposition lawmakers scrambled to forge a coalition to unseat Benjamin Netanyahu. Mr. Herzog, 60, beat former headmistress Miriam Peretz to replace President Reuven Rivlin, who was elected in 2014 to the largely ceremonial position decided by the Parliament, or Knesset. Wednesday’s presidential vote came as Israeli politicians from across the spectrum were holding 11th-hour negotiations to cobble together a new administration aimed at ending Prime Minister Netanyahu’s 12 straight years in office. The presidency exerts little power, primarily meeting with party leaders after legislative elections and tasking candidates with forming governments. It is the Prime Minister who wields actual executive authority.  The scion of one of Israel’s most prestigious families, Mr. Herzog was first elected to Parliament in 2003, but was most recently leading the para-governmental Jewish Agency for Israel, an organisation focused on relations with Jewish immigrants and the diaspora.  The son of Chaim Herzog — Israel’s sixth President and a former Ambassador to the United Nations — and nephew of the famed diplomat and statesman Abba Eban, the new President supports the two-state solution to the conflict with Palestinians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/labour-veteran-herzog-elected-israel-president/article34712363.ece
03 June 2021||Washington DC,||President Biden vows to strengthen voting rights||Speaking from Tulsa, Oklahoma, on the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa race massacre — in which an estimated 300 blacks were killed by white supremacists and many left homeless — U.S. President Joe Biden said he would “fight with every tool at my [his] disposal” to ensure the Senate passed its version of a voting rights Bill, the For the People Act, already passed by the House of Representatives earlier this year. The President also announced that he had appointed Vice-President Kamala Harris, who is African American and Indian American, to head the White House’s efforts to strengthen voting rights. Describing the massacre in the Greenwood neighbourhood (called the ‘Black Wall Street’ as it was the most prosperous black neighbourhood in America at the time), accounts of which have not made it into most history lessons, Mr. Biden described a belief that America did not belong to everyone. “A belief enforced by law, by badge, by hood and by noose,” he said following remarks after he met survivors of the massacre. Mr. Biden toured the Greenwood Cultural Center and met the only three known survivors, now aged 107, 106 and 101. Mr. Biden’s actions come at a time when Republicans on Capitol Hill and State legislators are advancing legislation which they say is to curb voter fraud but Democrats say they are aimed at restricting access to the ballot box, especially for minority communities. The President said the “sacred right” [voting] was under assault with “incredible intensity like I’ve never seen”. On Monday Texas’s Republican Governor, Greg Abbot, threatened to cut the salary of legislators after Democrats, on Sunday, boycotted a vote on a Bill they said would restrict voting and make it easier to overturn results. Florida, Arizona and Georgia have also passed voting restriction legislation this year. Following the loss of several key swing States and the presidency, Republican lawmakers across the country have acted to bring further controls on voting, echoing former President Donald Trump’s unfounded claims of large-scale voter fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/president-biden-vows-to-strengthen-voting-rights/article34712372.ece
03 June 2021||Colombo,||Burnt-out container ship sinking off Sri Lanka||A burnt-out container ship that has already caused Sri Lanka’s worst maritime environmental disaster was sinking on Wednesday with nearly 350 tonnes of oil in its fuel tanks. The MV X-Press Pearl , carrying hundreds of containers of chemicals and plastics, burned for 13 days just outside Colombo’s harbour before rescue workers finally extinguished the blaze on Tuesday. Dutch salvage firm SMIT attempted to pull the still-smoking wreckage of the 31,600-tonne vessel into deeper water on Wednesday but the effort stalled. Navy spokesman Indika de Silva said the stern had sunk to the bottom at a depth of 22 metres. “The bow is still afloat, but the stern is resting on the sea bed,” Mr. de Silva said. The 186-metre ship was still tethered to a powerful tug as experts mulled whether to attempt to refloat it. A huge amount of plastic debris has inundated beaches, and authorities now fear an even greater disaster should the ship’s 297 tonnes of heavy fuel oil and 51 tonnes of marine fuel oil leak into the Indian Ocean. Some oil was already visible near the beaches of Negombo, about 40 kilometres from Colombo, although it was not clear if it was from the stricken ship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/burnt-out-container-ship-sinking-off-sri-lanka/article34712361.ece
03 June 2021||Tehran,||Iran’s largest warship sinks||The largest warship in the Iranian Navy caught fire and later sank on Wednesday in the Gulf of Oman. The blaze began around 2.25 a.m. and firefighters tried to contain it, the Fars news agency reported, but their efforts failed to save the 207-metre Kharg , which was used to resupply other ships in the fleet at sea and conduct training exercises. At least 400 sailors and trainee cadets on board fled the vessel, with 33 suffering injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/irans-largest-warship-sinks/article34712367.ece
03 June 2021||Geneva,||Pandemic plunges 100 mn more workers into poverty: UN||The pandemic has pushed over 100 million more workers into poverty, the UN said, after working hours plummeted and access to good quality jobs evaporated. The UN’s International Labour Organization cautio- ned that the labour market crisis was far from over, with employment not expected to bounce back to pre-pandemic levels until 2023 at the earliest.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pandemic-plunges-100-mn-more-workers-into-poverty-un/article34712365.ece
03 June 2021||Moscow,||Russian Senators adopt ‘extremist’ Bill that would bar critics from polls||Russia’s Upper House on Wednesday backed legislation expected to be used to ban allies of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny from running in elections. The Bill would make it impossible to run in parliamentary elections for leaders, sponsors and rank-and-file members of “extremist” groups.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russian-senators-adopt-extremist-bill-that-would-bar-critics-from-polls/article34712366.ece
03 June 2021||Washington,||Biden administration halts oil drilling in Alaska wildlife refuge||The Biden administration has said it was halting petroleum development activity in Alaska’s Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, reversing a move by former President Donald Trump to allow drilling. The Interior Depart- ment said it was notifying firms of the freeze, pending an environmental review.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-administration-halts-oil-drilling-in-alaska-wildlife-refuge/article34712360.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Adverse changes, federalism imperilled||When Dr. Vinod K. Paul, NITI Aayog Member (Health), asserted last week that it was the lack of centralisation that has led to poor management of the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive, States joined issue with this statement. Going by the response to this assertion from State governments, it was clear that this claim was not backed by good evidence. Not many could have misread the subtext of this claim for centralisation. It lies within, and simultaneously contributes to, a narrative and practice of the growing centralisation of power by the current government. This sits well with the growing incursions of the Union government into sectors where State governments have a primary responsibility to govern such as health, education and agriculture. Slogans such as ‘one nation-one tax, one market and one ration’ are again part of such appeals to a narrative of a strong nation state rather than one of governance. Union encroachment To be sure, such moves to erode the powers of State governments are not new. In post-independent India, the Centre, on several occasions, has used its powers to dismiss or use the Governor to intimidate democratically elected governments. During the Emergency, education was moved to the Concurrent list which was until then a State subject under the constitutional division of responsibilities. However, the adverse changes to federal relations at present are more systemic. To understand what has changed, at the risk of repetition, there has been increasing centralisation in resource allocations and welfare interventions. The gap between the revenue that State governments are allowed to generate and the expenditure that they are expected to incur has been widening, particularly with the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST). The shortfall of GST this year and the Centre’s lackadaisical response to demands for compensation by State governments are again known. On the other hand, the Centre has been encroaching into domains under State government control through centrally sponsored schemes in sectors such as education and health where States are required to spend about 85% and 82% of public expenditure, respectively (https://bit.ly/3z734Ai). Though some of these have been initiated and supported by previous governments, the intensification of this process is aligned strongly with the rise of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) since 2014. This is particularly visible across the following three domains. While we identify these domains based on Tamil Nadu’s experience, they are equally relevant to States such as Assam, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal. State-capital relations While coalition governments in the past enabled the rise and the visibility of regional businesses in post-reform India, the current dispensation is working towards centralising economic power in conjunction with political centralisation. It is becoming clear that aligning politically with the BJP is critical to do business. While the rise of yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s business empire is indicative of this, the decline of business groups from southern India over these last few years suggest the reverse of this process. We can also see the consolidation and expansion of a few big business groups seen to be close to the BJP, probably at the expense of smaller players. On the one hand, the Centre has sought to insulate Indian big business from global competition by choosing not to enter into the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), but has eroded the power of small businesses through support for GST and the call for a single national market. Clearly, bigger players are more likely to benefit from a removal of State-level barriers to trade at the expense of smaller regional players. This re-calibration of State-capital relations works against smaller entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship. The BJP also seeks to centralise rent-seeking in parallel to restrict the political financing of regional parties. Regional parties tend to rely on region-specific rent-thick sectors for political funding such as mining and real estate. The BJP has sought to curtail this through a levelling of corruption allegations and the use of central agencies to keep them in check. The reduced avenues for accumulation among regional capital weaken the ability of regional parties to compete with the BJP electorally. Institutional transgression The second challenge is in the use of executive and legislative aggression. Central institutions are increasingly weakening the policy levers of State institutions. Institutions such as the Income Tax Department, the Enforcement Directorate and the National Investigation Agency are being used to intimidate opponents. Appointments are not untouched either. For instance, the Centre has been meddling with the appointments of vice-chancellors in universities funded and run by State governments. Direct transfers to beneficiaries of welfare schemes bypassing States are also contributing to this dynamic. Further, as recent events suggest, the Centre is increasingly ignoring elected representatives of State governments, holding meetings with State secretaries and district collectors on issues that are primarily under State control. An example was a recent meeting by Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank with State Education Secretaries on implementation of the New Education Policy. Such transgressions, often with the help of Governors, allow the BJP to actively control administrative decisions including faculty recruitments to align with a majoritarian agenda. Governors perform active administrative roles instead of their signatory roles. Importantly, such moves are also meant to ensure national uniformity in educational institutions. One such example is NEET, or the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test in medical education, which subverts the affirmative action policies developed at the regional level in response to local political demands. This is evident in the domain of health as well. Apart from imposing a national lockdown during the first wave of the novel coronavirus pandemic without consulting State governments, the Centre has now put State governments at a disadvantage in vaccine usage by fixing differential pricing for procuring vaccines for them. This forces State governments to pay more even as they are deprived of their revenue shares. Socio-cultural foundation The third and crucial challenge lies in the social-cultural foundations of federalism. As Partha Chatterjee argues, beside the legal-constitutional aspects of federalism, it is diversity in cultural foundation of regions that sustains Indian federalism. Regional identities and cultural traditions have worked against the homogenisation agenda of the BJP. However, this diversity is being challenged at present. Markers of regional identities and regional socio-cultural practices are now interpreted as belonging to a pan-Indian Hindu tradition. Tamil, which has stood as a symbol of an anti-Vedic tradition, is now seen as a segment of that Hindu past, with Tamil Muslims and Christians becoming outsiders. ‘Dravidian’ is attacked as a creation of the British with support from Christian missionaries, emptying the term of its anti-caste politics. Tamils, therefore, need to be mainstreamed by reuniting them with their ‘Hindu’ past. A similar narrative is being built in other regions — Muslims and Christians become less Malayalee, less Bengali and less Assamese. In Bengal, the BJP tried a strategy of linking “Sonar Bangla” to a Hindu past. Key variables This erosion of federal relations is often countered through appeals to restore the constitutional powers of States. However, history tells us that such calls may not amount to much in the absence of regional political assertion. Constitutional powers including fiscal relations are inherently biased towards the Centre. Vesting of all residuary powers with the Centre and giving over-ruling powers to the Centre on matters in the Concurrent list are the primary sources of this bias. What is seldom recognised is that the degree of federalism in India has depended largely on two variables: the nature of political coalitions at the Centre and role of States in such coalitions (the period 1996 to 2014 for example), and the cultural diversity of regions. Hence, what is needed is a federal coalition that looks beyond the legal-constitutional aspects of federalism to preserve the idea of a plural India in terms of both culture and politics. Kalaiyarasan is a Fulbright-Nehru postdoctoral fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs, Brown University, U.S., and Assistant Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies, Chennai. M. Vijayabaskar is Professor at the Madras Institute of Development Studies. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/adverse-changes-federalism-imperilled/article34712348.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The cautionary tale in Osaka’s exit||Naomi Osaka withdrew from the French Open tennis championship after the organisers would not accept her request to be excused from post-match interactions even as she cited a history of suffering from bouts of depression and severe anxiety while facing the media. Indeed, the organisers had imposed a fine of $15,000 after Osaka excused herself from the post-match press conference after her first-round victory. This despite the fact that she had already communicated her concerns about her mental health to the organisers at the beginning of the tournament. They, in turn, threatened her with expulsion if she did not participate in post-match media interactions. Osaka was as gracious in her exit statement as she is in her tennis. She said she did not want to be a distraction to other players because of the continuing controversy. She explained that she had suffered long bouts of depression since the US Open in 2018. “Anyone who knows me knows that I am introverted and anyone that has seen me at tournaments will notice that I’m often wearing headphones as that helps dull my social anxiety,” she said, adding, “I am not a natural public speaker and get huge waves of anxiety before I speak to the world’s media.” Deep hypocrisy The French Tennis Federation did not cover itself in glory when it displayed an utter lack of empathy towards a vulnerable young woman who rose to the top of the game because of her immense talent and not because of her speaking abilities. What would the Federation do if a player with a severe speech impediment requested to be excused from answering questions at a press conference? Would they be as unyielding in dealing with a physical disability as they were while dealing with a serious mental health concern? To add irony and insult to injury, Gilles Moretton, the president of the French Tennis Federation, made a statement to the press about Osaka’s withdrawal and left without fielding questions. The incident lays bare deep hypocrisy. The example of Norway Contrast this with the experience of a Norwegian Prime Minister, who took leave to address his mental health issues while still serving in office. Kjell Magne Bondevik was Prime Minister of Norway from 1997 to 2000 and from 2001 to 2005. He was diagnosed with depression in 1998 during his first term in office. The pressure of an intense workload and the recent deaths of three close friends, all from brain cancer, weighed heavily on his mind. He revealed his illness to the public and went on medical leave for three weeks to recuperate, while a colleague became the acting Prime Minister. In an interview with Ben Jones, published in the Bulletin of the World Health Organization (WHO) in December 2011, Mr. Bondevik revealed the reasons for the public disclosure. He said, “I could contribute to more openness about mental health problems and help to combat the stigma attached to them.” He came back from his leave better equipped with greater mental tranquillity to lead his nation as Prime Minister, not once but twice. Not only does his candour deserve appreciation, but the understanding shown by the people of Norway also calls for applause. The unstinted support extended by his ministerial colleagues, who did not see this as an opportunity to replace him, is unusually generous and upright in the world of politics, which is notorious for high ambition and low intrigue. In recent years, we have had several celebrities open up about their mental health concerns, from Deepika Padukone and J.K. Rowling to Beyonce and Meghan Markle. That is because the world has started responding with greater empathy and replacing stigma with solidarity. But for the 23-year-old Osaka, not only such support was unavailable, but she was also made to publicly expose her vulnerabilities and pay the price of severe damage to her mental health. Such conduct by unfeeling officials is callous, cruel, and characteristic of the highly commercialised sport. The high priests of tennis tournaments must be reminded that Osaka was there to demonstrate her sporting talent in an open court, not for a gladiatorial display of psychological wounds in the enclosed arena of a press room under the glare of flashing lights. Even if media interaction was written into her contract, special circumstances must merit exceptions. The WHO Special Initiative for Mental Health, which was launched in 2019 and will extend till 2023, aims to bring to attention the high global burden of disability arising from disorders of mental health, and accelerate a multi-sectoral response to improve care for a whole range of mental health problems. The Naomi Osaka episode comes right in the middle of the period chosen for this special initiative. Will the WHO speak up for her and other sportspersons who face similar challenges? Many other prominent sportspersons have extended support to Osaka. However, as the leading global public health agency of the world, the WHO’s open support would add weight to the cause of mental health in tennis and other competitive sports. A wake-up call In Harper Lee’s classic, To Kill A Mockingbird , the young girl protagonist, Scout, wants to reveal to the world that it was the shy and reclusive Boo Radley who had come out of his self-imposed home isolation to save her life when he saw that she was in danger of a murderous attack on the street outside. Atticus Finch, her lawyer father, was a man of great wisdom and moral courage. He gently advised Scout not to do so, as it would expose a sensitive soul who was scared of contact with others to the glare of unwanted attention and distressing public interaction. Atticus told Scout that it would be like killing a mockingbird. In Lee’s book, the mockingbird represents innocence and vulnerability. Scout’s confidante and neighbour, Miss Maudie, later explained to her the significance of what Atticus said: “Mockingbirds don’t do one thing but make music for us to enjoy … but sing their hearts out for us. That is why it is a sin to kill a mockingbird.” Perhaps the guardians of the Grand Slam galaxy should revisit that book. They might then allow Osaka to do the one thing she does best — make music with her racquet. Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, a cardiologist and epidemiologist, is President, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-cautionary-tale-in-osakas-exit/article34712355.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Close the vaccination gap, in global lockstep||By the end of May 2021, only 2.1% of Africans had received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. We need to close the vaccination gap between advanced economies and developing countries to avoid what the World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesu has called “vaccination apartheid”. Doing so is both morally right and in everyone’s interest. Therefore, we need global multilateral action to increase the production of vaccines and accelerate the roll-out worldwide. Since the beginning of the novel coronavirus pandemic, this is the path chosen by the European Union (EU). It is now also the path defined by the G20 leaders at the Global Health Summit in Rome on May 21. A worry The pandemic is still killing thousands of people every day and at the current pace, the whole world will not be vaccinated before 2023. Yet, a widely vaccinated world population is the only way to end the pandemic; otherwise, the multiplication of variants is likely to undermine the effectiveness of existing vaccines. Vaccination is also a prerequisite for lifting the restrictions that are holding back our economies and freedoms. These restrictions penalise the whole world, but they weigh even more heavily on developing countries. Advanced countries can rely more on social mechanisms and economic policy levers to limit the impact of the pandemic on their citizens. If the vaccination gap persists, it risks reversing the trend in recent decades of declining poverty and global inequalities. Such a negative dynamic would hold back economic activity and increase geopolitical tensions. The cost of inaction would for sure be much higher for advanced economies than what we collectively would have to spend to help vaccinate the whole world. Therefore, the EU welcomes the $50 billion plan proposed by the International Monetary Fund in order to be able to vaccinate 40% of the world population in 2021 and 60% by mid-2022. EU’s lead role To achieve this goal, we need closely coordinated multilateral action. We must resist the threat posed by linking the provision of vaccines to political goals and “vaccine nationalism”. The EU has rejected both since the beginning of the pandemic. The EU has been vaccinating its own population, while exporting large volumes of vaccines and contributing substantially to the vaccines roll-out in low-income countries. Europeans can be proud of this record. India’s “Vaccine Maitri” is another example of global solidarity. In 2020, the EU supported the research and development of vaccines on a large scale and contributed significantly to the new generation of mRNA vaccines. The EU then became a major producer of COVID-19 vaccines with, according to WHO, around 40% of the doses used globally so far. The EU has also exported 240 million doses to 90 countries, which is about as much as we have used within the EU. The EU with its member states and financial institutions — what we call “Team Europe” — is also donating vaccines to neighbours in need, particularly in the Western Balkans. It aims to donate at least 100 million more doses to low- and middle-income countries before the end of 2021, as agreed at the last European Council. With €2.8 billion, Team Europe has also been the main contributor to the COVAX facility, which enables poorer countries to access vaccines; around one-third of all COVAX doses delivered so far have been financed by the EU. However, this effort is still far from sufficient to prevent the vaccination gap from widening. To fill this gap, countries with the required knowledge and means should increase their production capacities, so that they can both vaccinate their own populations and export more vaccines, as the EU is doing. In cooperation with vaccine manufacturers, we are working to increase the EU vaccine production capacities to more than three billion doses a year by the end of 2021. Our European industrial partners have committed to deliver 1.3 billion doses of vaccines before the end of 2021 to low-income countries at no-profit, and to middle-income countries at lower prices. They have also committed themselves to further deliver over 1.3 billion doses for 2022 — many of which will be delivered through COVAX. Supporting Africa All countries must avoid restrictive measures that affect vaccine supply chains. We also need to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and technology, so that more countries can produce vaccines. For our part, we are strongly encouraging European producers to do so, especially in Africa. I participated at the Paris summit on financial support for Africa on May 18, where the continent’s leaders stressed that Africa imports 99% of its vaccines. This has to change. Team Europe is launching an initiative to this end — backed by €1 billion funding from the EU budget and European development financial institutions — with African partners to boost manufacturing capacity in Africa for vaccines, medicines and health technologies. Issue of licensing Voluntary licensing is the privileged way to ensure such transfer of technology and know-how. If it turns out to be insufficient, the existing Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) Agreement and the 2001 Doha Declaration already foresee the possibility of compulsory licensing. We have been listening carefully to countries complaining about how difficult it is to use these flexibilities. To speed up these technology transfers, the EU will come forward with a new proposal in the World Trade Organization framework by early June. The COVID-19 pandemic has reminded us that health is a global public good. Our common global COVID-19 vaccine action to close the vaccination gap must be the first step toward genuine global health cooperation, as foreseen by the Rome Declaration recently adopted at the Global Health Summit. Josep Borrell is European Union High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the European Commission||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/close-the-vaccination-gap-in-global-lockstep/article34712350.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||A far-reaching tax measure||The Pillar Two proposal was the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) plan to plug the remaining Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) issues and provide jurisdictions the right to “tax back” where other jurisdictions have either not exercised their primary taxing right or have exercised it at low levels of effective taxation. The move intends to achieve minimum effective taxation of more than 10%, possibly up to 15%, given the latest proposal put forward by the United States. The objective is to minimise tax incentives and ensure that companies choose to be situated in a particular country based on other commercial benefits. In its recent proposal, the U.S. sought to impose a global minimum tax on foreign income earned by U.S. corporations. The proposal is perhaps intended to disincentivise American companies from inverting their structures due to the increase in the U.S. corporate tax rate. The proposal is similar to Pillar Two, except for the rate of the effective minimum tax. While the OECD was considering a 10-12% rate, the U.S. proposed a 21% rate. This caused pushback from countries such as Ireland, which made a case for fiscal autonomy for smaller jurisdictions to compete with larger economies. The U.S. is now discussing a floor of 15% for the minimum tax rate despite the fact that it may have difficulty securing Congress support if the floor is too low. Even at 15%, it is unclear whether Ireland would agree, given its 12.5% marginal rate, thereby impacting a European Union-wide adoption of the 15% rate. India has been part of the Pillar Two discussions and has not objected in principle to the proposal. The proposal, along with the increased tax bill for U.S. companies, may benefit the Indian revenue department. The tax department might benefit even at a 10% rate since the proposal would cover offshore structures set up by Indian companies. Pillar Two acts as a set of controlled foreign corporation rules, where, for instance, if an Indian-headquartered multinational corporation (MNC) has an entity in Singapore or the Netherlands through which global operations are run, and its income from global operations is not taxed at an effective rate of 10% or 15%, then it can be taxed in India. The State of Tax Justice report of 2020 notes that India loses over $10 billion in tax revenue due to the use of offshore structures, particularly through investments made by Indian residents through Mauritius, Singapore and the Netherlands. This is supported by the overseas direct investment (ODI) data from 2000 to 2021 published by the Reserve Bank of India, where the cumulative ODI for the period primarily went through Singapore, Mauritius, the U.S., the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Start-ups and large Indian conglomerates commonly use offshore structures for conducting global operations. Revenue from such operations is often retained offshore and not repatriated to India. Tax advantages incentivise such structures, due to which taxes on such income are not paid in India. Once these proposals are implemented, Indian companies would have to pay additional taxes on their offshore structures to the extent that the effective rate of tax is lower than the global minimum tax rate. Other major factors With tax incentives neutralised, countries may have to compete on other factors like better regulatory regimes, ease of doing business, access to global talent, among others. The U.S. proposal indicates that the country is pushing the OECD to swiftly achieve consensus on the global minimum tax rate, in the absence of which the U.S. proposes to apply its domestic law version of Pillar Two at a rate of 21% (which may now be 15%). Several countries have taken a different approach to the rate of global minimum tax. While France and Germany have expressed support, the EU has raised concerns regarding the high rate proposed by the United States. Countries have stated that the proposal infringes upon their tax sovereignty and that the fight against unfair tax competition should not become a fight against competitive tax systems. Given that the U.S. is now pushing for a 15% rate, the fate of Pillar Two will depend on whether this proposal is acceptable to other countries. The U.S. appears keen on closing the negotiations around the 15% floor, which should also benefit India. Presumably, the remaining obstacles to gaining a consensus are the issues with Pillar One. As economies struggle amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the necessity of encouraging trade and economic activity should be prioritised over disagreements on tax allocations. A tax-related trade war or entrenchment of unilateral levies may further harm both global and national economies. The authors are tax experts with Nishith Desai Associates||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-far-reaching-tax-measure/article34712359.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Asking the right questions||Naomi Osaka attended a post-match press conference at Brisbane in 2019 in her usual style — a paradoxical mixture of uneasy calm and assured self-deprecation. A reporter questioned her on the upcoming round, and she answered in jest, “Do you have anything interesting to ask? I’m sorry. You guys are so serious.” The room burst into guffaws. “Just doing our jobs,” the reporter ploughed on. It is this part of the job that has catapulted Osaka into a controversy, leading to an abrupt withdrawal from the ongoing French Open tournament. Predictably, the entire episode has garnered polarising reactions, most lacking any nuance or understanding of an issue that is comprised of many angles. What went wrong Osaka has been a voice of reason on several issues in the past. This time, too, with her media boycott, she stood up for the mental well-being of athletes. But the timing and method of her announcement left much to be desired. Osaka posted a poorly-worded statement on social media barely four days before the tournament. The Grand Slams are sticklers for tradition and post-match pressers, which are considered sacrosanct and which players are mandated to attend irrespective of whether they win or lose. Of course, rules pertaining to players can and must change in an ever-evolving sport, but that requires time and conversation. Osaka was expectedly fined $15,000 after missing her round-one press conference. But being the highest-paid female athlete in the world as per the latest reports, she can afford penalties till the dawn of Championship Day. Other players, who may be living on a shoestring budget, struggling to merely qualify tournaments without any support system, cannot. The conversation surrounding players’ mental health must accommodate all. The four Grand Slams, in a joint statement, threatened Osaka with defaults and suspensions in future tournaments. If the governing bodies were worried about optics, then firing such heavy artillery was hardly a genius move. It backfired horribly — they wanted Osaka to talk about the tennis she was playing, but she has now stopped playing because she does not want to talk about it. Osaka’s statement after her withdrawal was telling, hinting at larger battles such as depression and anxiety. But she acknowledged that the press has always been kind to her. The fact that Osaka could tell the media to do a better job by asking “interesting questions” and be rewarded with laughs and not scorn shows what she is — a media darling. Her popularity is as much about her forehand shots as it is about how the media has portrayed her, which has been fairly positive. It explains why several journalists are surprised at the suggestion that their questions caused her anxiety. It is yet another example of the disconnect between what critics and spectators interpret the gruelling nature of this sport to be and what it actually is. There exists a larger question of what we expect from our sporting icons. Are we satisfied with them just doing their job — playing, winning — or do we want to get to know the person, the tactical genius, behind the champion? It takes a particular brand of mental fortitude to thrive in a punishing and lonely sport such as tennis. It is this trait that journalists most often want to probe and showcase. The ideal way to do that would be through long-winded, private chats. But those are offered only to a select few. Others are then left with only one avenue — the press conference. If it is such an integral part, the powers that be must then focus on making it more player-friendly and nurturing a connection with journalists based on trust and empathy. The effect of a star’s presence, both on and off-court, permeates deeply. It means more coverage, and, in turn, more income for the sport, which trickles down to every player. A champion’s night match increases television ratings. In this case, a few minutes spent in an interview room can make millions in sponsorship deals. Hopefully, the sport and its players will be able to figure out ways to work together on this. preethi.r@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/asking-the-right-questions/article34712356.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Exam fear||Several anxieties faced by students, parents and schools have been calmed by the decision to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education Class XII examination following a review by the Centre. Shaken by the carnage wrought by the second wave of the pandemic, the Government had little choice but to act against possible fresh clusters of infection, although that will mean considerably limited opportunities for students. Hopes for predictability in 2021, after the traumatic experience of students all through last year, have been dashed by the emergence of the double mutant variant of the coronavirus that has spread far and wide because of superspreader events. The Government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were obviously anxious to be seen as acting decisively on the examination question, after a long phase of dithering in formulating a national response. The decision to cancel the crucial Class XII public examination and replace it with an objective assessment for certification will help boards of education in the States to move in the same direction. Some pointers to an assessment scheme can be found in the CBSE’s submission to the Supreme Court last year, when the pandemic prevented the completion of Class XII examinations: for students who could not take the examination, as in Delhi, the internal, practical, and project assessment was proposed as a proxy to arrive at results, with an option to improve performance at a subsequent examination. The Board must now come up with a model scientific scheme. The decision to cancel the examination in 2021 may have resolved a prickly issue, but the question of national entrance examinations — such as NEET and JEE — need to be addressed. Importantly, the Centre must recognise that major factors such as non-availability of enough vaccine doses, absence of a systematic vaccine coverage plan, and poor understanding of where virus variants are spreading, contributed to the second wave, and may, in fact, cause a third. For instance, there is better comprehension in Britain of where the variant of concern initially isolated from India, B.1.617.2, is spreading in that country because it has a robust genome sequencing programme. Such sharp insight, together with the availability of free and widespread testing, is crucial to stop waves of infections that threaten to hobble the country. The plight of students, which is engaging governments, has to become a top priority. Singapore has just approved mRNA vaccine coverage for children 12 years and older, just as the U.S. regulator FDA has for 12 to 15-year-olds. Britain has thought of 100 extra tuition hours for schools from 2022. There cannot be an interminable wait for vaccines to trickle down to all. The Centre must take responsibility to provide them to everyone, including students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/exam-fear/article34712342.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Embracing children||Well begun is not always half done, and, in any case, half done is never good enough. The Centre’s response to the Supreme Court that the modalities of the expansive assistance programme for children orphaned by COVID-19, announced by the Prime Minister, were yet to be formulated comes as a disappointment. While rightly feted for its announcement of a comprehensive programme for the most vulnerable section of the population during this COVID-19 pandemic, children, the Centre did not lay down procedural formalities for implementation. It is clear from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights’ submission in the Supreme Court that nearly 10,000 children are in need of immediate care and protection. They include children aged between zero and 17 years orphaned or abandoned during the COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020. The total was 9,346 children who have been affected, including 1,742 children who lost both parents, 7,464 who have lost one parent, and 140 who have been abandoned from March 2020 to May 29, 2021. It further told the apex court that these children run a high risk of being pushed into trafficking and the flesh trade. There is thus no doubt that time is of the essence here. Given the urgency of rescuing these children, the Government cannot dawdle over figuring out implementation strategies. A swift laying down of processes and monitoring mechanisms to kick start rescue and relief, besides undertaking the continuing process of estimating beneficiaries is needed. Children have little or no agency of their own and are still dependent on adults to get by, and the disruption that COVID-19 has wrought on their lives is devastating. The experience of States that sprang to the assistance of children orphaned by the Indian Ocean tsunami can be factored in — they were embraced into the safety net of the social security system, and funds were placed in a trust for them for use when they reach a certain age. While the plans announced under the PM CARES Fund include this, and are far more expansive looking at funding schooling, higher education, even health insurance, a promise is nothing if not fulfilled. The responsibility of the Government now is to go the full mile to ensure that these benefits reach every child fitting the criteria, besides making sure that the children are not exploited with an eye on the eventual bounty. Several States have announced their child-care packages on similar lines too, with some setting up monitoring committees to ensure implementation. Sincere implementation through committed staff, and using existing systems such as 1098 for periodic identification of children in need would be the cornerstones of such a project, especially at a time when the onslaught of COVID-19 is far from over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/embracing-children/article34712343.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Swaran Singh to visit four nations||[New Delhi, June 2] Before the Minister for External Affairs, Mr. Swaran Singh, visits the four major world capitals, the Government of India is looking into all aspects of the Bangla Desh problem in greater depth to determine the line he should take in his talks with the American, Soviet, British and French Governments and what the international community could do to ensure a fair deal for the East Bengal people, who do not want to remain any longer under the Pakistani yoke. Mr. Swaran Singh is leaving for Moscow on Sunday, and he will thereafter go to Bonn, Paris, New York and Washington, before visiting London on his way back home. Bonn and Ottawa are the latest additions to Mr. Swaran Singh’s itinerary, but he is still awaiting word from the Canadian Government about mutually convenient dates for the stopover in Ottawa en route to London. In the preparatory talks now going on through diplomatic channels with them, the Big Four Powers are reported to have broadly indicated that it should be possible to preserve the political entity of Pakistan as a single State by persuading the Yahya regime to get back to Sheikh Mujibur Rehman’s six points, which would give East Bengal the substance of separate existence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/swaran-singh-to-visit-four-nations/article34712352.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports surge 67% narrowing trade gap||India exported merchandise worth $32.21 billion in May 2021, 67% higher on a year-on-year basis and almost 8% more than May 2019’s pre-pandemic shipments. The country’s merchandise trade deficit shrank to an eight-month low. Imports grew 68.6% to $38.53 billion, compared with May 2020, but were 17.5% lower than the same month in 2019. Major sectors that saw a spurt in exports in May, compared with the pre-COVID times, included cereals, iron ore, cotton yarn and handloom products, jute, rice and ceramics. However, leather, tea, readymade garments, oil seeds, handicrafts and gems and jewellery, saw a significant dip over the same period. The Federation of Indian Exporters’ Organisations (FIEO) chief Sharad Kumar Saraf said that 19 out of 30 major product groups had recorded impressive growth over May 2020, and that the gradual opening up of major global markets was bolstering orders. ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar attributed the contraction in the trade deficit to $6.3 billion in May from $15.1 billion in April to the State-level restrictions that widened over May and curbed domestic demand for both gold and oil. “A predominant 63% of the decline in the trade deficit in May 2021 relative to April 2021 was on account of the collapse in gold imports, with the balance led by a narrower oil deficit, led both by higher exports and lower imports,” she said, adding that exports had displayed a mixed trend. Rise in oil exports “There is a sharp sequential rise in oil exports, even as non-oil exports dipped for the second consecutive month to $26.9 billion in May from $31 billion in March. Importantly, non-oil, non-gold imports remained largely steady over April and May. To an extent, rising global commodity prices would have masked a dip in domestic demand,” she said. “The need of the hour is to soon notify the RoDTEP [Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products] rates to remove uncertainty and help expedite new contracts with foreign buyers,” said Mr. Saraf. “The government must address... key issues including priority status to exports sector,” he added. Engineering Exports Promotion Council president Mahesh Desai said the release of assured duty refunds would provide a major push to the sector which recorded a 53% growth in May over last year and 16% over May 2019 levels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-surge-67-narrowing-trade-gap/article34712333.ece
03 June 2021||Shenzhen,||Huawei unveils operating system in fight for survival||Chinese tech giant Huawei introduced its highly-anticipated homegrown mobile operating system (OS) on Wednesday, opening a new front in its fight for survival in the smartphone arena after the U.S. blocked it from using Android. The company said its new HarmonyOS system is packed with special features and capitalises on growing demand to seamlessly link devices — known as “Internet of things”. But analysts said Huawei faced an uphill climb getting enough app developers to devise software and content for the OS to keep consumers buying the firm’s phones in a world dominated by Google’s Android and Apple’s iOS. HarmonyOS is based on open-source elements of Android that Huawei and other companies remain free to use, and the company unveiled the first mobile devices pre-loaded with the system in an online launch. Lead developer Wang Chenglu said the OS would see Huawei get ahead of the curve as IoT development accelerates, spurred by new technologies such as intelligent vehicles and the coming advent of super-fast 5G connections. “With HarmonyOS, we weren’t going to just produce another Android or iOS. It would be the same and have no consumer value,” Mr. Wang told reporters ahead of the unveiling. HarmonyOS smartphone users will, for example, be able to access files, documents and other content on everything from computers to wearables and other linked devices, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/huawei-unveils-operating-system-in-fight-for-survival/article34712325.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Favour tech transfer for vaccines, says Nasscom||Given the extraordinary situation due to the global pandemic, the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom) is in favour of transfer of technology for COVID-19 vaccines, its newly elected chairperson Rekha M. Menon said. “We strongly support IPR [Intellectual Property Rights] protection. Yet, considering this extraordinary situation where the world needs to come together to fight a global pandemic, and India’s position as the largest manufacturer of vaccines, we welcome the transfer of technology,” said Ms. Menon, the first woman to chair the industry group. With the pandemic still raging in India and other parts of the world there is a debate over whether COVID-19 vaccines should be exempted from IPR protections to address shortages and disparity-related issues. ‘Humanitarian crisis’ On the impact of the COVID-19 second wave on the information technology (IT) sector, Ms. Menon said while the first wave of the pandemic had been more of a business continuity planning crisis for companies, the second wave had turned out to be a humanitarian crisis for the industry. “We recently conducted a survey of technology companies, where most organisations reported a 2-3% impact on workforce, but they also reported zero to minimal productivity and business impact with the industry continuing to witness a robust deal and demand pipeline,” she said. Ms. Menon, who is also senior MD and chairperson, Accenture in India, said scale was one of the biggest challenges in the vaccination efforts for India, and a public-private partnership was needed to overcome it. “We had asked the government to allow the import of WHO-approved vaccines and have also offered to work with manufacturers directly to support them with supply chain issues. We are also collaborating with other associations such as CII to procure WHO-recognised vaccines,” she said, adding that the industry was committed to getting its more than 40 lakh employees and their families vaccinated. The IT association, which recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging a temporary relaxation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) norms, has also sought a comprehensive data utilisation strategy with a focus on quality, access, responsible usage, and security. “We also recommend [that] States learn from proven models and set up processes and resources to monitor data around vaccination, supply of emergency medical equipment, hospital beds and testing, among others, to ensure proactive planning for future calamities,” the Nasscom chairperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/favour-tech-transfer-for-vaccines-says-nasscom/article34712329.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||FICCI urges graded tack to unlock economy||With the number of coronavirus infections declining in the country, industry chamber FICCI has urged the government to follow a graded approach in unlocking economic activities. It said any unit that is able to create an isolation bubble should be allowed to operate at all times even if it does not qualify as essential. The chamber said the ferocity of the second wave highlighted that waiting too long to impose restrictions can result in a surge of cases thus putting immense strain on medical infrastructure. Learning from the first and second coronavirus waves, “FICCI suggests a graded approach to permissible economic activity which balances lives and livelihoods”, it said in a letter to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. It said that there should be surveillance testing on a continuous basis, even if the number of cases come down sharply. It added that units that have vaccinated at least 60% of the workforce with a single dose can be exempted from restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ficci-urges-graded-tack-to-unlock-economy/article34712332.ece
03 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Jewellers seek extension of moratorium||The All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council (GJC) has urged the Finance Minister (FM) and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide immediate financial assistance and banking related relief for the stressed gem and jewellery sector and allied businesses. In a letter, the GJC cited the K.V. Kamath Committee report which had included the gem and jewellery sector among ‘stressed industries’. Since several jewellers affected by the spate of lockdowns were finding it difficult to repay loans, the GJC sought extension of the moratorium on interest payments for a period of six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jewellers-seek-extension-of-moratorium/article34712326.ece
03 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Mercedes rejigs business model in retail||Mercedes-Benz India on Wednesday said it has unveiled a business model ‘Retail of the Future’, making a fundamental transition in its retail business by shifting to the ‘direct-to-customer’ model. In the new business model, Mercedes-Benz India will own the entire stock of cars, sell them through dealers, and invoice new cars to the customers directly. The company said it would also process the orders and fulfill them, offering one transparent price and purchasing experience to customers. Rather than blocking money in inventory and facing cash flow issues, dealers will act as the firm’s service providers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-rejigs-business-model-in-retail/article34712327.ece
03 June 2021||COIMBATORE,||‘Raise ethanol blending in surplus States’||The Indian Sugar Mills’ Association (ISMA) has said that to achieve the target of 8-8.5% ethanol blending, it is important to increase the blending level to at least 12% in surplus States and adjoining ones. In a release, the association said on the ethanol front, against the total Letter of Intent quantity of 346.52 crore litres, 321.18 crore litres were contracted for and 145.38 crore litres of ethanol were supplied, as on May 24, 2021. On an average, in the current ethanol supply year (December 2020 to November 2021), the blending percentage is 7.56%, it said. Meanwhile, oil companies have floated expressions of interest (EOI), inviting bids from producers for another 26 crore litres of ethanol for supply till November 30, ISMA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/raise-ethanol-blending-in-surplus-states/article34712330.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||No burden of expectations||Given India’s forgettable track record in Eventing in the 1996 and 2000 Olympics, twice Asian Games silver medallist Fouaad Mirza has no burden of expectations when he arrives in Tokyo for the Games. After over two decades, India will be represented in the Olympics Eventing arena when Mirza along with his two qualified mounts — Seigneur Medicott and Dajara 4 — starts his campaign. Last week, in the Baborowko Equestrian Festival in Poland, Mirza completed the Minimum Eligibility Requirement (MER) to clear his passage to Tokyo. Having sealed the Olympic quota place in November, 2019, Mirza has now met all stipulations. What will be factors for Mirza to consider when choosing his mount in Tokyo? “I will be looking at many factors. Medicott is more experienced. He was out of injury for two years. A fighter, he is back and really wants to compete. We have managed to help him back to form. “Dajara is less experienced but has far more potential. A very exciting horse for the future. Change in surroundings “Medicott does not take well to his change in surroundings. He stops eating. He is like any athlete. You cannot have an athlete not eat and perform well. Now the focus is on keeping the horses fit and in good form. “We will have to think hard about different ways of managing these horses. I will pick the horse that is in the best shape.” As per Mirza’s estimate, around Rs. 2 crore was spent in the past two years on his preparation for Tokyo. Surprisingly, in spite of booking the Olympic quota place in 2019, Mirza was inducted into TOPS in April this year. Thereafter, he gained an entitlement of Rs. 50,000 per month as out of pocket expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-burden-of-expectations/article34712479.ece
03 June 2021||MUMBAI,||WTC final will be fought on ‘equal terms’: Kohli||The conditions early in the English summer could suit New Zealand better than India in the inaugural World Test Championship final. And with the benefit of having played a two-Test series in England ahead of the big clash, New Zealand could well be the better-prepared side. But India captain Virat Kohli has stressed that the WTC final will be a clash of equals. “Things are as potent for New Zealand as they are for us. Australian conditions should have favoured Australia but we beat them twice in two series,” Kohli said on Wednesday in a virtual interaction with the Indian media ahead of the squad’s departure to England. “If you want us to board the flight from here feeling like New Zealand has got the edge, then there’s no point taking that flight. We’re going to board that flight knowing that we’re on equal terms and whichever team performs well session by session, hour by hour, is going to win that championship.” Kohli also disagreed that India would be less prepared than New Zealand. No issues “In the past we have landed even three days prior, even in proper schedules, and have had a hell of a series,” he said. “It is not the first time you are playing in England, we all know what the conditions are like. We don’t have any issues heading into the game. We are absolutely sure of what we can do as a team.” With India having topped the complicated league stage on route to the final and multiple Test specialists equating the WTC final to a World Cup final, head coach Ravi Shastri summed up the occasion. “It is the first time that there is a WTC final and when you look at that and the magnitude of the game that is going to be played, I think this is the biggest ever [moment],” Shastri said. Toughest form “It is the toughest form of the game. It is not that it has happened over three days or three months, it has happened over two years where the teams have played each other around the world and earned their stripes to play the final. It is one heck of an event.” While Kohli said that the final “holds a lot of value” to the squad since Indian cricket has progressed “in the last five-six-seven years”, Shastri hoped that in the future the WTC final would be contested over three Tests. “Ideally, in the long run, if they want to pursue this WTC, a best-of-three final would be ideal, as a culmination of a two-and-half-year cycle,” Shastri said.  Ideally, in the long run if they want to pursue this WTC, a best of three final would be ideal Ravi Shastri India head coach||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wtc-final-will-be-fought-on-equal-terms-kohli/article34712431.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Happy with show despite loss: Panghal||He is still a bit angry about that “unfair” loss in the final but Olympic-bound Indian boxer Amit Panghal (52kg) on Wednesday described his silver-winning performance at the Asian Championships as the best of his career. The 25-year-old was the defending champion before he lost to his nemesis, Uzbekistan’s reigning World and Olympic champion Shakhobidin Zoirov, 3-2 in Dubai. A protest, seeking a review of the bout’s second round, was rejected by the jury. “This is by far the best performance by me in the 52kg category. I should have won that final and I was angry when I did not,” said Panghal, the reigning Asian Games champion. “I had given it my all and I felt I deserved to win but it’s OK, it can happen. It was still way better than the last time I lost to him. The scoreline has narrowed down to 2-3, it was 0-5 earlier,” he said referring to the Worlds final loss to Zoirov in 2019. Proud of his performance he might be but Panghal said there are some chinks in the armour that he hopes to iron out before the Olympics. “I have improved but my third rounds can be better. I don’t think I land enough scoring punches in the third round. I have improved enough to ensure that my first rounds start early, I used to hold back earlier,” he elaborated. Panghal’s performance through the Asian Championships was quite compelling. If his pace was eye-catching in the quarters, the semifinal win was a master-class in effective close range boxing. A new-found ability to score through body shots while being held in clinches was another addition to his skill set. “This was the first time, I tried that (punching during clinches),” Panghal said. “It is something that my personal coach Anil Dhanker ji taught me. He told me that clinches should not be about stopping, that I should keep hitting. I had worked on this,” he added. Panghal said he has his concerns about the pandemic but they wouldn’t come in the way of what he does inside the ring. “ Practice mein to disruption hua hi hai (Our practice has been disrupted). Another fear that we face is that if we test positive and are put in quarantine, we would miss out on crucial training time. We cannot afford that now. He promises to be at his best at the Olympics. “ Pehla Olympics bhi hai, saath mein COVID bhi hai (My first Olympics and this COVID is also there). Let’s see what happens but I intend to make it special,” said Panghal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/happy-with-show-despite-loss-panghal/article34712476.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘I will miss you at the Olympics’||Star Indian shuttler P.V. Sindhu on Wednesday wished Spain’s Carolina Marin a speedy recovery, after the latter was forced out of the Tokyo Games due to a freak knee injury, and said she will miss the reigning Olympic champion at the quadrennial event. Marin, a prime contender at the Tokyo Games, suffered a torn anterior cruciate ligament in her left knee during training and pulled out of the showpiece event on Tuesday. “So sorry to hear about your injury. Hoping that you will recover soon and come back stronger,” Sindhu, who claimed the silver medal at Rio Games after losing to Marín in the final, said in a video message posted on twitter. Good competition Recalling the epic final match, Sindhu said: “I remember the last Olympic Games when we played in the final. It was really good competing against you so I’m going to miss that again, and I’ve been missing you, seeing you on court. “I will miss you at the Olympic Games but hope we compete against each other soon, so come back fast and recover soon. Lots of love.” Marin, a three-time World Champion, was a title favourite as she had been in red-hot form this year, winning four of the five finals that she played.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-will-miss-you-at-the-olympics/article34712483.ece
03 June 2021||LONDON,||Conway makes dream debut with century at Lord’s||Devon Conway became just the sixth player to hit a Test century on debut at Lord’s, with the left-handed opener brilliantly anchoring New Zealand to 246 for three against England on day one of the first match of the series on Wednesday. The 29-year-old was unbeaten on 136 to maintain the stunning start to his international career in all formats. Just before stumps, Conway ran for three to surpass Ganguly’s 131, which stood as the highest ever score by a debutant at Lord’s. He is the 11th New Zealand Test debutant to reach three figures. Henry Nicholls closed the day on 46 not out and was sharing an unbeaten fourth-wicket stand of 132 with Conway, after skipper Kane Williamson and Ross Taylor had fallen cheaply.   Hundred on debut   at Lord’s  Harry Graham 107 (Aus vs Eng, 1893) John Hampshire 107 (Eng vs WI, 1969) Sourav Ganguly 131 (Ind vs Eng, 1996) Andrew Strauss 112 (Eng vs NZ, 2004) Matt Prior 126 n.o. (Eng vs WI, 2007) Devon Conway 136 batting (NZ vs Eng, 2021)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/conway-makes-dream-debut-with-century-at-lords/article34712424.ece
03 June 2021||Paris,||Zverev cruises into the third round||Down 4-1 in the third set, Alexander Zverev decided it was time to shorten his match at Roland Garros. He was determined to avoid another lengthy fight following a five-set battle in the previous round, so he applied pressure on qualifier Roman Safiullin. The sixth-seeded German won the next game at love, broke back by pushing his rival into unforced errors and was nearly flawless in the tiebreaker. The reward was a 7-6(4), 6-3, 7-6(1) victory to advance into the third round at the French Open. Fighting spirit Zverev, facing a rival he has known since their days in the boys’ categories, dropped his serve three times on Court Suzanne Lenglen but managed to catch up with Safiullin with his fighting spirit. It wasn’t smooth — he hit 10 double faults and challenged several calls — but he kept his cool when it mattered. For the third straight year, Stefanos Tsitsipas will be playing in the third round at Roland Garros following another straight-set win Wednesday. The fifth-seeded Greek player excelled at the net and saved 11 break points to defeat solid baseliner Pedro Martinez of Spain 6-3, 6-4, 6-3. Kei Nishikori needed five sets again to win at the French Open. The former U.S. Open finalist rallied past 23rd-seeded Karen Khachanov 4-6, 6-2, 2-6, 6-4, 6-4. Nishikori next faces Swiss qualifier Henri Laaksonen, who upset 11th-seeded Roberto Bautista Agut 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 6-2 for his first victory against a top-20 player. Easy for Djokovic World No. 1 Novak Djokovic kicked off his bid for a 19th Grand Slam title with a 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 win over Tennys Sandgren inside an empty stadium. In the women’s draw, 2019 runner-up Marketa Vondrousova reached the third round with a 6-1, 6-3 win over wild card Harmony Tan. Divij, Ankita pairs lose Divij Sharan and Federico Delbonis of Argentina lost to the Australian pair of Matt Reed and Alex De Minaur 6-3, 6-7(11), 4-6 in a men’s doubles first round contest. There was disappointment for Ankita Raina too as she and her American partner Lauren Davis fell to the 10th-seeded Czech-German combination of Lucie Hradecka and Laura Siegemund 4-6, 4-6. The new doubles partnership of Venus Williams and Coco Gauff didn’t go very far at the French Open. The 40-year-old Williams and 17-year-old Gauff lost to 13th-seeded Ellen Perez and Zheng Saisai 6-7 (5), 6-4, 6-3 in the first round.   Fallen seeds   Men: 11-Bautista-Agut, 23-Khachanov  Women: 10-Bencic, 29-Kudermetova||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/zverev-cruises-into-the-third-round/article34712426.ece
03 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Multiple national teams could be the way to go’||Head coach Ravi Shastri and captain Virat Kohli said that countries may increasingly be forced to field different teams at the same time, if international fixtures across formats begin to overlap. India is faced with such a situation — with the Test squad engaged in England, a separate group of white-ball cricketers will tour Sri Lanka for ODIs and T20Is in July. “At the moment it is happening because of the current situation and restrictions on travel. But you never know in future... if you want to expand the game in the shorter formats, it could be the way to go,” Shastri said ahead of the team’s departure to England. “If you want to have that kind of volume of cricket ... If you are talking about Olympics in four or eight years’ time, then you need more countries to play the game.” Kohli added that the mental toll of life in a biosecure bubble could also contribute to the trend. “It’s very difficult for players to stay motivated for long periods of time and find the right kind of mental space,” he said. “Just confined in one area and just doing the stuff day in, day out, and dealing with high-pressure situations... so, this will definitely become a norm where apart from the workloads, I think the mental health side of things will also come into picture big time because you don’t have an outlet at all in today’s day and age.” Kohli said that the team management is trying its best to help players deal with the COVID-19 protocols. “As much hard work as we have done to create this team, you don’t want players falling out because of the mental pressures and not having the capacity or space to express themselves,” he said. “That channel has to be always open — the management has left it open — for the players to approach them and tell them: ‘Look, I am not feeling right in the head. I just need a little break and I just want to disconnect from the game.’ That’s going to be a huge factor and I am sure Ravi bhai and the management feels the same.” Shastri hinted that a rotation policy is likely to be adopted in the series against England, considering the mental health aspect and the challenges of “playing five Tests in six weeks”.  You don’t want players falling out because of the mental pressures and not having the capacity or space to express themselves||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/multiple-national-teams-could-be-the-way-to-go/article34712429.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Veda recalls the trauma in family||India women’s team cricketer Veda Krishnamurthy, “completely destroyed” after losing her mother and sister to COVID-19 recently, says she is slowly learning to tune herself out of that grief and stressed on the importance of mental health assistance in crisis situations. Nine members of Veda’s family battled the disease and her mother and sister passed away within two weeks of each other last month in Karnataka. “I’m a big believer in what destiny holds for you, but I really hoped that my sister would come back home. When she didn’t, I was completely destroyed. All of us were broken to pieces,” Veda told ESPNcricinfo in a lengthy post detailing her trauma. Keeps coming back “...I still had to put up a brave face for the rest of the family. What I had to do in those testing couple of weeks was learn to tune myself out of my grief. But it keeps coming back to haunt you.” The middle-order batter said she was the only one in the family not to contract the virus and ended up coordinating all the medical needs at that time.  Mental aspect Speaking about the mental aspect of dealing with a health crisis and the ensuing tragedy of such a magnitude, Veda said her mother and sister also suffered from anxiety while battling the illness. “Mental strength is important. My oldest sister, Vatsala, had panic attacks before she passed away due to COVID-19,” the 28-year-old said.  Veda revealed that she has dealt with mental health issues of her own in the past and called for a structured support system for those in need.  “I’ve had mental-health issues and I’ve sought support to resolve them myself.” Veda has played 48 ODIs and 76 T20Is. The BCCI had drawn flak from several quarters for not keeping in touch with the bereaved player after which Veda received a phone call from Board secretary Jay Shah. “I’m not upset with people who didn’t call me or message me. I thank everyone who checked on me. “ I did get a call from the BCCI secretary, which I didn’t expect, to be honest. He said when he is in Bengaluru, he would visit me,” she said.  I really hoped that my sister would come back home. When she didn’t, I was completely destroyed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/veda-recalls-the-trauma-in-family/article34712486.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ronak emphasises on process||Ronak Pandit has been a top-class shooter, shaping into a sharp coach. “Heena Sidhu and Shahzar Rizvi set world records and achieved world No. 1 ranking under my training,” recalled Ronak. Isolated in his room in a hotel in Zagreb as part of the protocol, the pistol coach of the Indian team that has been based in Croatia, Ronak expressed happiness that the outfit was “in the best space”. After having Ved Prakash Pilaniya as the only pistol coach to accompany the team when it took a chartered flight to Europe on May 11, the Indian team will soon have five pistol coaches. “Our duty is to prepare the whole team. We are together and delegate work on a daily basis. Everyone responds differently to instructions. Going into a high pressure event like the Olympics, we have to ensure that our communication is clear, concise, positive and without scope for interpretation,” said Ronak. Different approach Different coaches have different approach heading into the Olympics. “Stay process oriented. Our entire team is high on skill, experience and motivation. It has performed well. We have to stay focused on the process and keep building on it. The key is to keep working on making one a better athlete and a better human being on a daily basis,” he said. With dentist wife Heena, a phenomenal shooter herself, expecting the couple’s first baby in a few months, it was hard for Ronak to detach from home and join the team promptly. He answered the national call. Having learnt a lot from coaches Tibor Gonczol, Antaolii Piddubnyi and sports scientist Dr. Pierre Beauchamp, Ronak has tons of knowledge, which he combines with his practical ability to still shoot “competitive scores” with minimum training.  “There is an aura around the Games. A medal at the Olympics validates your prowess as an athlete. The aura makes it tougher to perform at the Olympics. To find your way around all these challenges and to come out on top on that given day is something every athlete lives for.”  Going into a high pressure event like the Olympics, we have to ensure that our communication is clear, concise, positive and without scope for interpretation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronak-emphasises-on-process/article34712481.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Neeraj Chopra’s departure delayed||Olympic-bound star Indian javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra’s training-cum-competition stint in Europe, which will mark his return to international competition after more than a year, has been delayed “by a few days” as he awaits an authorisation letter from France. The 23-year-old was originally set to leave on Monday to prepare for the Tokyo Games. “...Neeraj Chopra’s travel plan to France has been delayed by few days as India is currently placed as a high-risk country with COVID-19 infection and thus a person travelling to France requires an internal authorisation letter issued by French Interior Ministry to travel,” the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said in a statement. Accordingly, his travel plans have been rescheduled and SAI is in regular touch with officials of MEA, who are further pursuing the matter with the Indian Embassy in Paris,” it added. An AFI source said that he could be leaving on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-chopras-departure-delayed/article34712473.ece
03 June 2021||Doha,||India faces a daunting task against Qatar||India will take inspiration from the draw against Asian champion Qatar in 2019 when it faces the same opponent in the second-leg of the joint World Cup and Asian Cup qualifiers, here on Thursday. India is playing its home match here as the Qatar capital was chosen as the centralised venue for all the remaining Group E matches after the qualifiers were halted last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. India’s performance, however, has gone south since then while Qatar, the group topper, comes into Thursday’s match on a high. It beat Luxembourg (1-0) and Azerbaijan (2-1) and played out a 1-1 draw against Ireland in the international friendly matches in March. India is coming in after a 6-0 drubbing at the hands of UAE in an international friendly in March. On the positive side, coach Igor Stimac will have the chance to field a full strength team. Sunil Chhteri’s return return will surely boost the confidence of the young Indian side. Currently fourth in Group E with three points from five matches, India is already out of reckoning for a World Cup berth but still in contention for the 2023 Asian Cup.   Match starts at 10:30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-faces-a-daunting-task-against-qatar/article34712340.ece
03 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Debut for senior team at Olympics will be a fairytale, says Manpreet Kaur||Aspiring to make a “fairytale” debut for the Indian women’s hockey team at the Tokyo Olympics, young defender Manpreet Kaur wants to stay on top of her game by putting in the hard yards. After gaining useful exposure representing the junior team, the 22-year-old earned a maiden call-up to senior group in January last year. “Debut for the senior national team at a dream event like the Olympics will be a fairytale for me. It will be a different feeling altogether. I want to keep my feet on the ground and continue doing my work,” Manpreet was quoted in a media release.  “Team selection is not in my hands, but I would say this phase is really exciting. “It is bringing the best out of me in training and I would like to continue doing it without bothering about selection. “We all are pumped up and working hard, making each and every day count in the training,” she said. About the transition from the junior to senior camp, Manpreet said one needs to adapt quickly. Learning process “You are surrounded by experienced players on and off the field, so there is so much to learn every day. Things are very different to what I experienced when I was with the junior team. From training to diet to fitness, everything is at a different level here, and you need to adapt to it as quickly as possible.” She was also a part of India’s recent Argentina tour. “I was given a chance by the coaches to express myself on my maiden international tour with the senior team. I was very nervous, but the seniors motivated me, and match-by-match, I kept gaining confidence.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/debut-for-senior-team-at-olympics-will-be-a-fairytale-says-manpreet-kaur/article34712488.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sania set to compete in UK||Sania Mirza was relieved on Wednesday to get the visa for her two-year old son Izhaan to travel with her for the grass court tennis circuit in the UK. “It gives me peace of mind. I could not have travelled without Izhaan for five weeks and then gone on to play the Olympics in Tokyo. In the current scenario, it is more challenging. I am grateful to Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju for his proactive role, Prime Minister’s Office, SAI, the Embassy in UAE and the UK government,” said Sania. With the clearance coming late, it will be difficult for her to compete in the Nottingham Open starting on June 6, as originally planned. Sania will leave for UK as quickly as possible, as there will be a 10-day quarantine before she plays a tournament. “My sister will be with me to take care of Izhaan,” she said. Sania will compete in the Birmingham and Eastbourne events before Wimbledon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-set-to-compete-in-uk/article34712335.ece
03 June 2021||MADURAI,||Arul Anandh stuns Rohit||S.P.K. Arul Anandh defeated higher-ranked S. Rohit in the fourth round of the Tamil Nadu State online under-18 chess, organised by Golden Knights CA, on Wednesday.  Important results (fourth round):   Open: L.R. Srihari 4 bt A. Rathina Sabapathi 3; S. Suganthan 3 lost to Ajay Karthikeyan 4; Shree Ganesh Muthu Annamalai 3 lost to S. Harshad 4; S. Aswath 3.5 drew with Ayushh Ravikumar 3.5; S.P.K. Arul Anandh 4 bt S. Rohit 3; S.K. Kanishk 4 bt Avinash Ramesh 3; G. Gugan 4 bt S. Aravinth Shanmugam 3; A.R. Ilamparthi 4 bt C. Mukhesh 3; Nitin Shankar Madhu 4 bt Hariganesh Thinakaran 3; B. Vignesh 4 bt Ahigith Chowdhary 3; S. Rohith 3 lost to Dinesh Kumar Jaganathan 4; K.A. Vipin 3 lost to Harsh Suresh 4.   Girls: Savitha Shri 4 bt Yashavi Shree 3; L. Jyothsna 3.5 drew with S. Annapurni 3.5; G. Tejaswini 4 bt V. Rindhiya 3; Divyabharathi Masanam 4 bt Trisha Baskaran 3; K. Sindhusree 3 lost to V. Meenatchi Rajam 4; Rebecca Jesumarian 3.5 bt K. Hephzibah Beryl 3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/arul-anandh-stuns-rohit/article34712581.ece
03 June 2021||Biella (Italy),||Ramkumar advances||Ramkumar Ramanathan outplayed Blaz Kavcic of Slovenia 6-1, 6-1 in the first round of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here.  The results:   €44,820 Challenger, Biella: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sriram Balaji & Ramkumar bt Marco Bortolotti & Luca Vanni (Ita) 6-1, 7-6(7).   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Singles (first round): Siddhant Banthia bt Thomas Fancutt (Aus) 7-6(2), 6-4. Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Alejo Lorenzo Lingua Lavallen & Juan Bautista Torres (Arg) bt Ajeet Rai (Nzl) & Siddhant 7-6(3), 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Heraklion, Greece: Singles (first round): Ugo Blanchet (Fra) bt Rishab Agarwal 6-4, 7-6(5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-advances/article34712336.ece
03 June 2021||Sydney,||Aussie players to help in India’s COVID-19 relief||Top Australian cricketers including star pacer Pat Cummins will participate in a 12-hour gaming live stream on Thursday to raise money for UNICEF Australia’s India COVID Appeal. The brainchild of pacer Josh Lalor, the initiative will let fans watch the likes of Cummins, spinner Nathan Lyon and the pace duo of Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood on a live stream when they talk about cricket and showcase their gaming skills in a bid to raise AU$ 100,000. The fundraiser will begin at 1:30 pm IST and will also see participation from all-rounder Moises Henriques, women cricketer Alyssa Healy and South African Rilee Rossouw among others. Unique relationship “Being a cricketer from Australia, we have a unique relationship with Indian people,” Lalor told cricket.com.au. It’s a beautiful part of the world, they’re absolutely cricket mad and they bend over backwards to make every cricketer feel welcomed and accommodated. If we’re able to raise any money at all to help what’s going on in India, that’ll go a long way,” he added.  Cricket Australia’s new CEO, Nick Hockley and Todd Greenberg, the CEO of the Australian Cricketers’ Association will also make an appearance.  “I thought it’d be great for those guys (Hockley and Greenberg) to sit back and talk cricket with the public,” Lalor said. The live-stream will be available on Lalor’s Twitch page. Australian Cricket has so far raised more than AU$ 280,000 as part of UNICEF Australia’s India COVID-19 Crisis Appeal.  Being a cricketer from Australia, we have a unique relationship with Indian people — Lalor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aussie-players-to-help-in-indias-covid-19-relief/article34712474.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 07:49 IST,||Sudoku — June 3, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-3-2021/article34713210.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Beetle scuttles again||Thanks to a new method developed at IIT-Delhi, owners of vintage cars need not keep their beauties locked up. The 1948 VW Beetle and 1946 Austin can now zoom out on the streets, retrofitted to be electric and so, eco-friendly.  “I acquired a 1948 Volkswagen Beetle around 14 years ago. The car originally belonged to the German Ambassador to Nepal and I added it to my collection,” says Major Manjith Rajain (retired), speaking from Gurugram. “I don’t call myself a collector. I acquire cars that I can restore and use as I believe these beautiful cars should be kept in running condition and enjoyed, not just locked up for a few private eyes,” adds Maj Rajain, who also owns a Chevy 1926, a Morris Eight and a Morris Minor Atlantic, among other rarities. Maj Rajain recalls how his first grandchild loved riding with him in the Chevy. “On one hand, I was aware that we were polluting the atmosphere by driving these vintage models. At the same time, I wanted my granddaughter to enjoy this car.” As luck would have it, a conversation with his friend, Arun Duggal, founder of Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) at IIT-Delhi, led them to a solution. “Converting a classic car into an electric one would still preserve its beauty and charm, and at the same time address the issue of pollution,” says Duggal. Earlier in 2019, one of Duggal’s acquaintances had seen the protoype of a ‘converted’ electric car at the Inno-Fest global summit in Singapore presented by Jawaad Khan, a student of Electrical Engineering from Swami Vivekanand Institute of Engineering and Technology (SVIET) in Punjab. Following the summit, Khan was invited to IIT-Delhi where he met with Duggal and Rajain, and the project to make the Beetle eco-friendly took off.  2030 EV goal in sight Hailing from Chenab Valley in Jammu, Khan (23) says he used to tinker with machines even as a young boy. While a student at SVIET, he converted a Maruti 800 into an electric vehicle for his college project. Named SVIET Volta, the car quickly garnered a lot of attention and won him a sponsorship to the Inno-Fest. Working over a period of six months, Khan replaced the Beetle’s internal combustion engine with lithium-ion batteries, taking care to ensure they sourced the perfect motor, gearbox and batteries to suit both the car and the major’s requirements. Using the term ‘retrofitted’ to describe the internal makeover he gives cars, Khan believes this method can help India reach its 2030 EV goal. “I knew my design could make electric cars more popular without adding new cars on Indian roads.” He founded Tadpole Projects, a start-up currently working with IIT- Delhi. “It is not just rare models — a lot of people are sentimental about their first cars or family heirlooms. Sadly, most of these cars don’t pass emission control norms. Retrofitting them is an eco-friendly solution.” “We have converted four cars till now. Two vintage vehicles — the major’s 1948 VW Beetle and 1946 Austin as well as two modern cars — a Swift DZire and a Honda City. Retrofitting a car can cost between three lakh to nine lakh rupees, and based on the model it can achieve a mileage of 80-500 kilometres.”  “When it was finally ready and I drove it for the first time I was pleasantly surprised. It was smooth and soundless. While it has lost its ‘classic’ status, it drives far better than it did with a petrol engine,” says Maj Rajain. The Department of Posts introduced a rubber stamp earlier this year, commemorating the successful conversion of the Beetle from classic to eco-friendly . As for Maj Rajain’s 1948 VW electric Beetle, he donated it to CERCA and it is now permanently stationed at the IIT campus where visitors can view it.    What qualifies as vintage? Cars manufactured before 1939 are termed vintage; those manufactured before 1979 are called classics. If a car has had its parts removed or replaced, it no longer qualifies as a classic or a vintage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-beetle-scuttles-again/article34712323.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The don from Madurai||Eyebrows were raised when Tamil film Jagame Thandhiram was acquired by Netflix earlier this year. The film’s director Karthik Subbaraj and actor Dhanush have been outspoken proponents of supporting theatres, and the film was labelled one of Kollywood’s sure-shot attempts at reviving the pandemic-ravaged industry. However, the second COVID-19 wave well and truly put paid to any chance of Jagame .... having a simultaneous theatrical and Netflix launch, and now, fans eagerly wait to watch the action-thriller from the safety of their homes. The storyline follows Dhanush as Suruli, a gangster from Madurai, who is initially recruited by, and then crosses paths with Peter (James Cosmo), a politically-affluent honcho in London. But it is not guns and gore throughout; the film also explores themes of xenophobia, cultural shifts, and also what the meaning of ‘home’ is to different people. Also starring the likes of Joju George, Aishwarya Lekshmi and Kalaiyarasan among others, Jagame Thandhiram is set to premiere on June 18. Ahead of its release, director Karthik Subbaraj, producer S Sashikanth and music composer Santhosh Narayanan join us for a virtual chat. Excerpts: The film has, unwittingly so, landed in the middle of the theatres versus digital platforms debate. How challenging was it to make that call at a time like this?  Sashikanth : For now, it’s more in terms of what is possible, as the industry is in survival mode. Maybe later, there will be a discussion on how theatres and platforms co-exist. But currently, filmmakers and producers need to be in this understanding together that the circumstances are an exception to the rule. As a producer, I have to think about the best way to take my product across to the maximum number of people. I have a high-quality product, and Netflix is a great fit for it. So I’m not looking at the negative aspects of a non-theatrical release, and am instead focussing on the fact that world-class homegrown content is reaching out to the same audience that is watching Narcos or House of Cards . Jagame... is a quality production from Tamil cinema to the rest of the world. Santhosh, songs like Bujji and Rakita … are chartbusters, but what can you tell us about your background score for a film that flirts between continents, cultures and aesthetics?  Santhosh : My first film with Karthik was Pizza , and that in itself was like a dream. I would call it one of my most favourite scores. But I wanted Jagame … to steer away from what I’ve done for him earlier. We had a lot of groundwork to do, as well as study the cultural aspects of the two countries involved. It was imperative that we stayed as rooted as possible to the themes that we are showcasing in the movie. Obviously, one part of the film is set in rural Tamil Nadu, so there was a lot of extensive research undertaken there. We did a lot of pre-production work in terms of the score, and laid out what kinds of sounds we might end up using. Karthik, the most iconic character to come from your staple of films is probably the gangster Assault Sethu from Jigarthanda . Is there any point of reference between Suruli and Sethu?  Karthik : Suruli and Sethu are poles apart. While Sethu was the quiet, serious type, Suruli is loud and boisterous. Dhanush’s character, in fact, is inspired by some people I know in real life. They are part of small-time gangs, but are incredibly funny and affectionate, and loyal to their parents and friends. It was this kind of personality on which I modelled Suruli. How did you rope in James Cosmo, known for his work in international projects like Ben-Hur (2016), Wonder Woman and Game of Thrones ?  Sashikanth : Karthik was very clear that, on-screen, Dhanush had to go up against somebody big, not just in terms of star quality, but also acting chops. We wanted the villain to have a clear screen presence and possess a certain kind of heft. What James Cosmo has done is just phenomenal; I think all those years of being a trained professional actor really comes through. Karthik, how have the events of the recent past affected you creatively in your writing or thought process?   Karthik : As a writer, I actually want to forget this time entirely. I definitely don’t want to bring this experience or mood into my writing as it makes me sick. Even recently, I was part of an anthology for another platform ( Putham Pudhu Kaalai ). Even though it was about stories in lockdown, I wanted it to be humorous and not serious or sad. Everyone wants to come out of this as soon as possible and forget this nightmare. Finally, could you talk about the underlying themes in the film?  Karthik : Jagame ... started off as a gangster story initially, where two explosive personalities face off against each other; one from the Western world and one from Madurai. After that, the script demanded we go to a foreign land and shoot there; we didn’t travel to London just for the sake of fancy locations. The themes explored in the film are real and relevant. I can’t give away too much, but it hinges on the line: What do you call home? Most of us are lucky to say that this is the land we belong to. But there is a different world, where it is tough for many people to even identify what their idea of ‘home’ is, where they come from and most importantly, where they belong. Jagame Thandhiram is about that perspective.  Jagame Thandhiram streams from June 18 on Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-don-from-madurai/article34712281.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Did it hit the Sweet Spot?||There is a lot one can discover over dessert. As I plunge my spoon into a gooey chocolate cake, my palate is surprised by what lies beneath: shreds of coconut, coated in luscious Belgian chocolate. Keeping me company is a soulful Nepali track — a recommendation by the Sweet Spot team. It came written on a neon sticky note, attached to the neat box laden with brownies, tarts and cookies. Sweet Spot, started in April by Zeeshan Anees, Ahad Anaikar, Mohamed Faraaz, Pooja Reddy and Mohamed Samee aims to give home bakers a platform to promote their products. The desserts are sold under the label of the person who created them, explains Samee. The idea is not to monopolise the dessert market, but to even out the playing field. And along with the goodies come song recommendations from the team. These include: ‘Hataarindai, Bataasindai’, ‘Parchaiyon Main’, ‘Heat Waves’, ‘100 words’... “The idea came to us during the last lockdown, when we noticed an increase in home bakers. We were ordering a lot of desserts from them,” says Samee. Soon, they transformed a small space, in the same compound as the old Nolita, into a dessert parlour. The team put all interested home bakers through a series of quality checks, filtering out what did not work for them. On an average, the boutique features items by 15 home bakers, the number goes up to 20 during the weekends. Each bakers typically stocks two to three of her creations. “Sixty to 70% are products by our anchor brands such as Meltz by Aishwarya, Whisk by Safra, Serendipia, Chef Srishti, Coucou, Baked by Faz, Zoya’s bakes, and the rest are from upcoming bakers,” says Samee. The bestsellers list includes milk chocolate salted caramel cake, baklava tart and dark chocolate cheesecake. The latest entrant on the menu is sheer shahi kurma. They are trying to bring in variety with Indian desserts as well as savoury snacks like quiches and cream cheese-filled Korean buns.   Order via their Instagram page, @sweetspot_chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/did-it-hit-the-sweet-spot/article34712302.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Sly sighting||When Chennai wildlife photographer Karthik Ramamurthy realised he would be spending this lockdown at his home in Kanchipuram, he anticipated the rural joys of birdwatching and clear, starry skies. What he did not expect, however, was to chance upon a creature he had not seen since 2011. “It wasn’t just one of them; it was a whole family. Two adult Bengal foxes, and two puppies, playing in a trench,” says Karthik about his recent late evening tryst. Out on a walk with an eye out for birds, he could not believe his luck when he spotted them. He only had binoculars with him then, but could not give up on the thought of a picture. “These foxes are notoriously difficult to catch sight of, because they are nocturnal, and even harder to photograph because they are quick,” he explains. Sure enough, when he came back next morning, the spot was empty. In the evening, he saw them, but they saw him too, and the puppies scurried away immediately. “It was only by the third day that they got used to my presence. I took care not to scare them; I stayed inside my car, by a bush, a good few metres away,” says Karthik. So it was on day three and four that the family was carefree in its movements again, allowing him to take some treasured shots from afar with his trusty 600 mm lens.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/sly-sighting/article34712311.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Like father, like son||When 24-year-old Vasudev Krishna, son of popular singer Unnikrishnan, sings superhit Tamil tracks from the ‘90s like ‘Poovukul Olinthirukkum’ ( Jeans ) or ‘Ennavale’ ( Kaadhalan ), the most common compliment is: ‘You sound just like your dad.’ “Certain musical nuances are similar,” he admits candidly, over a telephonic interview, “In one particular scale, our voice tones are the same. But the similarity doesn’t really bother me.” Vasudev does want to create a niche of his own and attempt a radically different style of singing, but that is for later. For now, he is happy doing covers and sharing screen with his father and sister (Uthara Unnikrishnan) on musical collaborations. Their official YouTube channel was started as a lockdown activity a year ago, but has now, with more than a lakh subscribers, gained a considerable following among music lovers. “We always used to do small renditions and send to our close family and friends, who kept suggesting we take it up in a bigger way. The lockdown in 2020 gave us that opportunity.” Family notes They have rendered together multiple songs, notable among them are ‘Manidhan Enbavan’, ‘Kannama’ and ‘Yeh Raat Bheegi Bheegi’. Vasudev’s rendition of ‘Nilave Ennidam’ and ’Jeevan Se Bhari’ along with his father have earned much appreciation. “It has been a great learning curve. Working in our home studio and recording these numbers have taught me about the various musical elements that I need to improve upon. Shooting them as videos helped me understand how to present them visually. As I am not professional at mastering or sound engineering, I go with whatever sounds good to my ears.” Vasudev picks up musical tips not just from his popular singer-father but also from his sister Uthara, who bagged a National Award in 2015 for her rendition of GV Prakash’s ‘Azhage’ ( Saivam ). “She listens to a lot of Western music; whenever we go for a drive, I make her play stuff and get an idea of what’s happening.” Just beat it! Vasudev had a rather interesting debut in the film industry. His first song was a classical melody composed by actor Simbu, for the 2017 film Sakka Podu Podu Raja starring Santhanam. He has also sung numbers in EP Ko 306 and Vishamakaran , but is candid to admit that he needs more experience. “I have not done live shows, nor have I yet worked with multiple composers. I’m hoping to do more of that,” says Vasudev, who spent the last few months listening to Sid Sriram hits, ‘Enjoy Enjaami’ and Anirudh’s fast-paced songs, among others .  The 24year-old is currently pursuing his Master’s in Automobile Engineering, but says that music, which has been an integral part of growing up, will surely feature in his future plans. “At the moment, we are working on three evergreen MS Viswanathan songs for our channel,” reveals Vasudev, who is trained in Hindustani music under Bengaluru-based vocalist Nagaraj Rao Havaldar, “I hope to improve my abilities and keep my passion for music going.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/like-father-like-son/article34712284.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm to home||Nirupama Reddy, of the Chennai-based Hanu Reddy Mangoes, says that their harvest has been delayed this year and sales began only in June. “There was a delay in flowering at our mango grove. At our organic farms in Nellore, Andhra and at Guduvanchery near Chennai, we have harvested Banganapalli and imam pasand mangoes. We harvest the fruits a little early, in such a way that it reaches the customers at the right stage of ripening,” she says. “We sold 100 tonnes of mangoes last year. But this year, due to the restricted shop timings and intense lockdown, we are not sure how we will be able to reach out to our customers. We are working on those issues regarding logistics right now,” she adds. @www.hanureddymangoes.com.Call: 9884020848||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/farm-to-home/article34712289.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, one berth at a time||If you haven’t met a “binge-eater Pushpa” at a railway station, you have been one; the person who hastily grabs a few samosas wrapped in newspaper out of a platform vendor’s basket, through the train window grill. It is also through these window grills that we see bits of life unfolding in a train, as families unpack tiffin boxes, heave suitcases down from the upper berth, and socialise with strangers to kill time. The pulse of the Indian Railways is inevitably etched onto all of our travel experiences. For Chennai-based artist Bhavya Desai, a recent train journey from Chennai to Bengaluru opened the floodgates to many such memories and observations. He translates this experience into a series of illustrations that delves into the nostalgia-inducing, chaotic energy of the Indian Railways as we know it. ‘Binge-eater Pushpa’ is one of the many characters that make an appearance in this series titled Chaotically Organised. Bhavya recalls having five hours to kill in that train journey to Bengaluru. “I made the most of it. I spent a lot of time walking on the platforms. The journey instantly spoke to me,” he says. “There is so much more life in a train.” Here, adds Bhavya, you see people being themselves. From this treasure trove of interesting sights, Bhavya listed down all that he wants to showcase. “I have created sub categories. One is on life on the platform, which includes everything from water dispensers to coolies who drag heavy carriages. Another would be on the train itself — a look inside the coaches.” For instance, a work-in-progress sketch filled with line drawings shows a crowded station — food stalls, passengers lounging in wait, and porters shoving their way through. The chaos is also a warm reminder of life before the pandemic. Currently, he is working on a sub-series called By the Window that looks at characters and life in a train, through the cross section of a window. Similiar sub-series on the engines, solo travellers and the interior views of the train bogies, are also in the works. Bhavya plans to have 12 illustrations in each series, and hopes to wrap up the entire project in the next three to four months. “Throughout all the illustrations, there will be characters,” he adds. Observations aside, a lot of research also goes into the project, especially for the series on engines. “I am not too familiar with the models of engines. So, now, I am reading up on the different engines there are and about the retired engines as well. It’s so vast!” he says. The fact that the Indian Railways has such a huge, loyal fan following, pushes him to dig deeper. “This is also why I want people to give me ideas. I want to make this more inclusive. Drawing only what I have seen, is again limiting the scope of this project.”  Bhavya Desai’s works can be viewed on Instagram: @desaibhavya   The current sub-series, By the Window, looks at characters and life in a train through the cross section of a window||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-one-berth-at-a-time/article34712296.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How Houdini escaped lockdown||Many magicians work on perfecting the disappearing act. But in the case of Amaan Mahtani, it is his family that does the disappearing act, when he has a trick to practise on them... for the 10th time in a day. The 11-year-old magic enthusiast spends at least four hours every weekend and an hour-and-a- half on weekdays, perfecting his craft. A fan of magic ever since his grandfather showed him the disappearing thumb trick at the age of six, Amaan says he managed to seriously pursue magic when the lockdown last year made everything go virtual, and outdoor play time shrunk drastically. “I took a magic course on Udemy, and constantly keep learning from YouTube channels such as MLT Magic Tricks, EvanEraTV and SpideyHypnosis,” he says. Amaan’s repertoire now includes 30 tricks, including mentalism. “I came up with a few myself after a lot of trial and error,” he says. As we speak over a video call, he makes sponge balls disappear and reappear out of thin air. Gradually, his friends too became invested in the hobby. “I give them a few pointers but never part with secrets of the trade,” he laughs, adjusting his bow tie — Amaan’s always dressed for the part, with dreams of making it to America’s Got Talent some day. Thanks to free classes on YouTube channels, many have been drawn into the fascinating world of magic. International entertainers such as Penn and Teller are available on MasterClass teaching their skills for a small fee. “Knowing a few fun tricks can make one stand out at parties and other gatherings. It’s also a great ice-breaker,” says Chennai-based magician Arun Loganathan who has been teaching the craft for the last few years. Since 2020,he started taking virtual classes for students of all age groups — seven to 70 — from within the country as well as Switzerland, the US and Papua New Guinea. This means a lot of late nights and early mornings for Arun. “I have woken up at 3.30 am to teach a student in Philadelphia,” he says. “The demand has gone up by 65% in one year,” says Arun adding that people are comfortable with online classes as they are more accessible and customised. His students are a mix of novices and those that learn off YouTube, who then approach him to learn advanced magic or the finesse and flourishes that go with the act. It is interesting to note that people do not mind spending hefty sums on acquiring a skill that may just be for recreational purposes; some of Arun’s international clients pay upto a lakh for 30 days. Magicians are normally known to bamboozle their audience but Arun sometimes feels the tables turn when his young students already know the trick he is teaching and come up with different techniques to solve it. Thanks to Arun’s experience of over two decades in the field, he finds ways to keep challenging them. While kids form 60% of the student base, magician Nikhil Raj from Bengaluru notices that his sessions for adults are mostly booked by corporates. “I conduct a 50-minute session for them which includes mentalism, illusions, conjuring and hypnotism,” says 25-year-old Nikhil, whose dad was also a magician. Although Nikhil has been conducting workshops for many years, the last year has been especially busy with over 500 children taking online classes. Sometimes parents learn along with their kids, at times it is the grandparents who learn to entertain their grandchildren... the clientèle is diverse. After completing their course, many of them also put up virtual shows for their families and friends. Nikhil says that his workshops also weave in personality development and communication skills. “Magic workshops are a lot more than just learning tricks. It prepares you to face any situation that might arise during a show. There could be hecklers... You need to deal with them in a calm manner and make them your fan,” says magician Akshaya over a call from Pune. Trained by her father, the 25 year-old has been performing on stage since she was three. She did her last show this year in Goa, in the month of April, and was all set to perform at a wedding in New York later this year, when the second wave of COVID-19 disrupted all plans. “COVID-19 is the reason I started teaching online last year in September, otherwise I would have never done it,” says Akshaya, who has conducted over 40 classes in the last eight months. Though she believes that magic should be experienced live, she says, “Virtual has its own charm and advantages. A lot of things can be done virtually that may not have been possible in a live show. But I can’t disclose what they are,” she laughs mysteriously. Flair of the craft Learning magic requires a lot of patience, hard work and constant practice. Not all students have the discipline to persevere. Those that stay are the ones with undying curiosity and dogged determination. “There is a saying, ‘You don’t get into magic, magic gets into you!,” says Akshaya. “There is a joy when people look in wonder and ask ‘how did you do it’,” says Amaan, who often practises in front of the mirror — not because he is vain — to make sure he can see himself performing from all angles. “You have to make sure that you don’t give away anything from any angle,” he adds. Akshaya records her practice sessions to make sure every movement is going according to plan. Sleight of hand is important. ‘You can learn the basics but you have to train your hands too’, is the common refrain. While practitioners of this art form are often associated with vibrant costumes, over the top equipment and material, Arun, Nikhil and Akshaya are being practical and keeping it simple for now. “Because of the lockdown not everyone can access materials and kits, so it is best to use household items like pens, coins, cardboard...,” says Nikhil. “Ultimately, what matters is the finesse with which one performs a trick.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-houdini-escaped-lockdown/article34712317.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Malcolm in the middle||Not many people know Malcolm Gladwell has been credited by former US President Barack Obama as the person who inspired him to start podcasting. Bring this up with Gladwell – author-podcaster-journalist, whose new book The Bomber Mafia is out now – and he chuckles over a video call, “President Obama once liked my podcast [Revisionist History] and he called me to lunch in Washington DC, and I said it was an incredible way to reach people. It’s hardly a novel suggestion because he’s a man of great following, has an incredible voice and an interesting take on the world. And sure enough, he is very successful at it!”  The Bomber Mafia (Penguin India), he says, was created to be an audiobook first and foremost. The historically-based book dives into a squad of vibrant US Air Force pilots – including General Haywood S Hansel and Curtis LeMay – who wanted to ‘reinvent war’ in idealistic ways using pinpoint bombing, to avoid mass casualties on battlefields. The audiobook’s “conversational” format is quite immersive with archival clips, sounds and music of the 1930s era. “The digital revolution made a lot of media forms less formal, breaking down a lot of barriers,” he explains. Gladwell is the co-founder of podcast and audiobook house Pushkin Industries, known for its deep dives into psychology, literature and other ‘grey matter’ topics. Leave it to Gladwell to take on fairy tales — specifically The Little Mermaid, of which he has been sharply critical — for his next season of his renowned podcast Revisionist History. He will be taking up 90 minutes to explore a fan fiction of sorts. “We will take the characters created by Disney and Hans Christian Andersen and do our own version, which is, despite my criticism, done out of love. That’s an affirmation of the power of storytelling.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/malcolm-in-the-middle/article34712275.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden in a dish||“If you like Nature and art, you will love kusamono. It brings the greenery of a garden into your home,” promises Jeffery Vardon, dancer and choreographer from the city. He came to know of this ancient Japanese method last year during the lockdown. “The word kusamono translates to ‘grass-thing.’ It is a potted collection of plants in a shallow dish. It is usually kept indoors and is a showpiece. Having a good kusamono in one’s home is considered to be a thing of pride in Japan,” he says. Jeffery learnt about kusamono online. “I saw a photograph and tried to recreate it, and it came out well. Traditionally, kusamono is set in a ceramic bowl. But I have even upcycled old pans in my house for it. I make soil with high water retention capacity to grow the plants, using coco peat, vermicompost, etc. It is very easy to maintain. All you have to do is spray it with water when the top soil dries up,” he explains.  Along with kusamono, Jeffery has also been experimenting with kokedama and terrariums. Kokedama is another ancient Japanese practice — it involves planting an ornamental plant in a mud ball. The ball can be covered by moss or rope. “It is gaining popularity in our country now,” he says.   Jeffery has been taking online workshops to teach this craft. “Most of them were done in association with The Green Club, an online group of Nature lovers. I have also started a YouTube channel, DIY With Jeff, where I share the basics of gardening,” he says, adding “I hope it helps people engage themselves and express their creativity during this lockdown.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/garden-in-a-dish/article34712300.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t let sleeping dogs lie||While every dog has its day, for over a year now, six-year-old Roger has not. The German Shepherd who loves long walks, used to sniff out interesting corners and quizzically cock his ears as he watched birds build nests. He now spends most of the pandemic watching clouds flit past from the apartment window. He has gained weight and is mostly bored — his new-found past-time is endlessly licking his paws. “A number of dogs exhibit Obsessive Compulsive Behaviour such as incessant licking of paws, resulting in inflammation and wounds. They also develop an obsession with food due to the lack of anything else to keep them occupied,” says Chennai-based veterinarian Dr Priyadarshini Govind. An alumna of Madras Veterinary College, Dr Priyadarshini also holds a postgraduate diploma in Behavioural Medicine from the University of Sydney and specialises in treating companion animals and pet birds. Unlike the wild sheep in Wales that ran riot on the roads during the pandemic and the leopards roaming backyards in Bengal, pets have been housebound like their owners. Weight gain from lack of exercise has been a condition most veterinarians are seeing. “I haven’t heard of any Government restrictions to people walking their dogs, but pet parents have generally become lazy or probably are just too self-preserving due to the pandemic,” says Dr Priyadarshini, adding “Even in normal circumstances, some canine parents walks their dogs only under duress. The pandemic has become an excuse to not walk them at all. Dogs are intelligent animals and need a lot of activity to engage their mind and body to prevent unwanted behavioural patterns. While dogs enjoy the company of their humans, it is still important that they be kept occupied.” While the problems are not breed-specific and affect both indie and foreign dogs, the pandemic has had a very different effect on cats. “Cats are a fairly independent species who while they love their human companions value their time alone. They don’t constantly seek approval from their caregivers. With families staying in and people working from home it has resulted in stress-related disorders among cats such as feline lower urinary tract disease and excessive grooming.” But given the stringent lockdown how can this be prevented? “For dogs, even an outing outside your gate or a run in the terrace helps. Also, over-use of strong disinfectants that result in skin-related contact dermatitis and foot issues should be avoided. Dogs and cats are genetically sensitive to disinfectants that are safe for humans. There are a number of pet-friendly options. We do know that the Coronavirus is airborne but there is no need for us to assume our animals are going to be bringing in infection because they go out for walks.” On the number of people buying pets to stave off loneliness, Dr Priyadarshini comments, “It’s not a great idea. People bought puppies for thousands from breeders but they weren’t open to adopting a stray rescue or even a rescued pet of a person who had succumbed to the virus. You should be able to continue giving your pet the time and care even when things return to normal. Unless you are ready to do that it’s best not to get one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-let-sleeping-dogs-lie/article34712320.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Laughter challenger||The year began on a serious note for stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, when he was arrested for allegedly offending religious sensibilities, along with five others, just before he was about to begin his act at a café in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Munawar spent 37 days in jail until the Supreme Court granted him interim bail on February 5. While the comedian in him does see the absurdity in the situation — “they caught me even before I said anything,” — the 27-year-old YouTube sensation is astute enough to not discuss the matter further as it is sub judice. “I don’t want to revisit this experience ever again in my life, and I wouldn’t want to send my worst enemies to jail. But I don’t really want to talk about it, especially on social media,” he says over a video conference call from his home in Mumbai. Munawar got back to work barely a fortnight after his ordeal, releasing a music video titled Aazmaish featuring rapper Nazz, which earned over a million views online. “Quitting comedy was never an option, mainly because I didn’t want to prove my detractors right,” says Munawar. “I was hurt by this whole false narrative that they had started about my ‘guilt’ that would have got confirmed, if I gave in to the pressure.” In April, he started a new YouTube channel called Munawar Faruqui 2.0 that already has over 50,000 subscribers. (His first official channel has over 10,80,000 subscribers with 57,594,259 views for his monthly video releases). It is hard to believe that Munawar has been on the comedy scene only since January 2020. His first ticketed show opened in Mumbai in February last year, to rave reviews. His sidelong look at society and politics is sharp and funny, with unexpected depth. “Comedy is essentially saying what you feel, especially about things that you see daily,” he says. “Sometimes a joke can highlight a major truth.” When he is not penning his biting satirical comedy routines, Munawar indulges in his other passions: Urdu poetry and rap music. “Music is the world’s best art form. A song can convey in minutes, what a story can take four hours to narrate,” he says. A resident of Dongri in Mumbai, the comedian is originally from Junagadh in Gujarat. After a tumultuous time in their hometown, his father, a driver, shifted the family (Munawar and his three sisters) to Mumbai in 2007, to make a fresh start. “My father fell sick and was bed-ridden from 2008, so I had to take charge from the age of 17. I worked at a utensil store from 2007, while attending school. I taught myself English and Hindi from the newspapers that my boss used to buy, and by watching films,” he says. “Last year has been testing. I lost my father in February, but also got my first shows in Mumbai, the same month,” he says.”There have been days I’d be crying in the green room just before being called up to the stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/laughter-challenger/article34712313.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The crocodiles’ newest ally||Pramila Rajan’s relationship with the Madras Crocodile Bank dates back to the 1970s. Yet, her recent appointment as the director of the bank was sparked by something innocuous — a social media advertisement. “I first saw the ad calling for candidates last January, and jumped at the chance to interview,” says Pramila. Before she elaborates on her plans for the Croc Bank, the conservationist looks back at her decades-long tryst with it as an outsider. Her first experience with the organisation was facilitated by the late Jagannathan Vijaya. A pioneering herpetologist, Vijaya back in the late 1970s was just, “a dear friend,” recalls Pramila, “We graduated in Zoology together from Ethiraj College. I started spending weekends at Madras Snake Park with her and have measured baby pythons and weighed and fed vitamin drops to baby crocodiles. I also visited the Croc Bank with her, way back then.” “Around the same time, my father SJ Rajan, the officer-in-charge of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) research centre in Kovalam, initiated turtle conservation activities under the guidance of Mr Romulus Whitaker. I used to help them collect and hatch turtle eggs at the centre and release hatchlings into the ocean,” she recalls. Ironically, due to the pandemic, she has been unable to visit the bank since her appointment. Plan of action “The park has been closed since March 16, 2020. It reopened and welcomed visitors for a brief period between November 10, 2020 and April 20, 2021 when it was forced to shut down again due to the second wave,” says Pramila. She states that her main focus is “to organise fundraising campaigns, for projects and zoo maintenance and focus on improving our social media presence to generate revenues”. Also in the pipeline is a series of videos focussing on different species at the bank, made for students of rural schools. “We are aiming to keep them ready by June or July,” says Pramila. Children and their parents have long been the bank’s most ardent fan base. Besides this, Pramila is hoping to rope in field experts to talk about their work, and organise online workshops and seminars. Another key aspect of her new role is to “ensure providing for its reptilian population and keeping its various projects alive. I would like to take forward the conservation initiatives of the zoo and its field stations.” Besides the Centre for Herpetology in Chennai, the Croc Bank has two more research stations: the Agumbe Rainforest Research Station (ARRS) in the Western Ghats of southern India, and the Gharial Conservation Alliance (GCA) in the Chambal River in northern India. While the bank’s well-wishers in Chennai cannot do much about the other centres, they have constantly supported its operations in Chennai in myriad ways. The Croc Bank’s adoption programme has seen a spurt in takers since last year, not only by individuals and families, but also leading businesses. “Ford has adopted 113 of our mugger crocodiles,” says Pramila, “We recently received a generous donation from TVS Motor Co. and others. Croc Bank has a strong network of friends in India and abroad and we are very grateful to everyone who helped maintain the zoo and its animals in excellent condition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-crocodiles-newest-ally/article34712298.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet the||In 2018 Phalgun Polepalli and Shwetha Badarinath could not find a single person to make dice, much to their dismay. “Dice were practically invented in India; but all major boardgame manufacturing these days is in China. It took us a long time to find a woodworker who could make what we needed,” recalls Phalgun over a phone call from Bengaluru. In May that year, the duo formally launched Dice Toy Labs, to publish games by Indians, set in an Indian context. Today, Dice boasts over 10 boardgames dreamt up by various creative minds for different age groups, with two more in the pipeline. It is one of many brands that have cropped up across India, reclaiming the country’s boardgaming traditions with a little help from families resigned to staying at home during lockdown. Brands like Dice Toy Labs and Go India Games are creating fresh games set in familiar contexts, thus filling a gaping hole in the market. As Phalgun points out, “Wherever Shwetha and I travelled, any toy store we would visit for our son would have Monopoly or other old games, nothing an Indian could relate to.” The duo also realised that though game ideas were many, often they would not reach the retail stage, or stay long in the market. For, it is not enough to have a brilliant idea. A good board game today needs a designer to come up with the core concept and gameplay, an artist to give a definite visual style, a graphic designer for typography, manufacturers and artisans to give shape to boards and pieces, and a publisher to bring all this together with a focus on investment and sales. In India currently, game designers have a couple of choices — to pitch their games to a brand like Funskool, or work with independent publishers like Dice, often run by passionate boardgamers. Chennai-based designer Santhosh Kumar does both. Santhosh, who runs Bambaram Toys and Games with a focus on creating fun, educational tools for children, recently had one of his boardgames released by Funskool. Called Big Bull Junior, the game teaches children above the age of eight, the intricacies of the stock market without any jargon. Ask him to explain the game, and he gushes: “Players try to build a high value set of companies (portfolio). But unlike the real stock market, here players themselves can manipulate the price. The catch: one’s portfolio is not known to others. So when you are changing the price of a company, you may end up helping other players!” The brass tacks So, just how does one go about constructing a game? How do they decide if it should have four players or more; last for two hours or six; stick to a linear flow based on a single objective or pack in multiple layers and side-quests; involve dice or cards or tokens, or all three, or none? Some of these decisions are based on the creators’ basic objective: the story they are trying to tell, the adventure they want to create. Other decisions, are less organic. Take, for instance, Cristina Maiorescu, the creator of popular boardgame Bharata 600 and the woman behind publishing company GoIndia Games. Cristina sees herself as both publisher and designer. She states over a phone call from Bengaluru: “From the ideation stage, I do thorough consumer research with different research and database companies. For Bharata 600 BC, we had to find out what consumers were looking for in terms of game mechanics, duration and complexity. India is still a very nascent market; it’s quite young compared to the market in Western countries, where players have a more advanced appetite. Only after players get over simple gateway games, do they look for complex ones.” Larger appeal A complex boardgame in India would invariably become a niche one, but Cristina wanted her game to appeal to a larger market. She surveyed more than 10,000 potential consumers before locking in on an algorithm — what makes Bharata 600 BC stand out, is its inclusion of multiple play styles in a single game, like exploration, combat, collaboration. It lets players choose a complexity level. It is set in the post-Vedic period, described by the brand as “ the era of the 16 Mahajanapadas (Great Kingdoms)”, it lets players build armies, wage wars, rule civilisations. What sets indie games apart, is the art. Each game takes pride in its aesthetic, like Dice’s wargame Yudhbhoomi that features stark white Harappa-esque warrior figurines, 64 in total, comprising various armies set to face each other off on the board. In contrast, Bharata 600 BC’s coloured wooden counters are made by the famed Channapatna artists of Karnataka, who for decades have been crafting traditional toys. According to B Venkatesh, one of the Channapatna artists creating Cristina’s pieces, orders from “modern” boardgame makers have increased in the past few years. Over a phone call from Channapatna, he says, “It is not like we work on only boardgame parts throughout the month, but we fulfill orders as and when they come. These days, a lot of companies have come up, selling traditional-based games on the Internet; old games like chauka bara are also getting popular, as are games based on The Ramayana and The Mahabharata . Most of the brands we get our orders from, are based in Hyderabad and Bengaluru.” Small blessings The machine that the craftsmen use is small enough to be kept in their homes or courtyards; which means that these are among the few artisan communities that have managed to persist with their livelihoods despite COVID-19 lockdowns since last March. As their client, Cristina testifies to this: “Our production was sometimes held up because of the printing units being closed, but never because of the Channapatna artists.” Despite lockdown hiccups, the market for locally made board games has remained steady through the past couple of years. A part of this popularity can be chalked down to the continuous efforts of publishers to keep players engaged. Phalgun and Shwetha have kept game-lovers involved on their website, where they test out new game ideas for feedback, besides holding challenges and game design contests. “As long as you have access to the printer, you can print out a game, play it with friends or family, and give us feedback,” says Phalgun. Cristina has produced 500 units of Bharata 600 BC every month since November 2020, and even had to scale up in January and February. “Now, we have the good kind of problem — we can only make 500 but the demand is higher. In fact, the demand rises every time there is a lockdown announcement,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/meet-the/article34712309.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Kannada film '777 Charlie' traces the bond between a man and his dog||Tamil actor Bobby Simha makes his Kannada film debut in 777 Charlie , which will also feature Sangeetha Shringeri, Danish Sait and Raj B Shetty. The teaser of the film will be released on June 6, to coincide with actor Rakshit Shetty’s birthday. Rakshit has produced the film. Director Kiran Raj says, “This project has taken five years to complete. A dog named Charlie plays an extremely important role and we had to cover its journey from pup to adult. The pandemic and lockdown also contributed to the delay.” The film explores the bond between the protagonist and his dog. “We could not shoot for long hours as Charlie would get distracted easily. We did not want to use VFX as we wanted to capture Charlie’s natural expression.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kannada-film-777-charlie-traces-the-bond-between-a-man-and-his-dog/article34712277.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Chulbul Pandey gets an animated makeover||Actor Salman Khan’s iconic character Chulbul Pandey has got a new avatar with Dabangg - The Animated Series , on Disney+Hotstar VIP. A reimagination of the Bollywood franchise, the action-comedy series chronicles the day-to-day life of police officer Chulbul Pandey who strives to keep the city safe. He is joined by his younger brother Makkhi, who is new to the police force and attempts to emulate his older brother. Produced by Cosmos-Maya and Arbaaz Khan Productions, Dabangg - The Animated Series is aimed at kids and fans of the franchise. In a press release, Salman Khan said, “Chulbul Pandey is a very special character for me because of the love that audiences have showered on him, and the movie, for over 10 years. Animation has opened up yet another dimension for this character.” The first eight episodes of season 1 are now streaming in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu on Disney+ Hotstar VIP, with new episodes set to be released regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chulbul-pandey-gets-an-animated-makeover/article34712286.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The Beetle scuttles again||Thanks to a new method developed at IIT-Delhi, owners of vintage cars need not keep their beauties locked up. The 1948 VW Beetle and 1946 Austin can now zoom out on the streets, retrofitted to be electric and so, eco-friendly.  “I acquired a 1948 Volkswagen Beetle around 14 years ago. The car originally belonged to the German Ambassador to Nepal and I added it to my collection,” says Major Manjith Rajain (retired), speaking from Gurugram. “I don’t call myself a collector. I acquire cars that I can restore and use as I believe these beautiful cars should be kept in running condition and enjoyed, not just locked up for a few private eyes,” adds Maj Rajain, who also owns a Chevy 1926, a Morris Eight and a Morris Minor Atlantic, among other rarities. Maj Rajain recalls how his first grandchild loved riding with him in the Chevy. “On one hand, I was aware that we were polluting the atmosphere by driving these vintage models. At the same time, I wanted my granddaughter to enjoy this car.” As luck would have it, a conversation with his friend, Arun Duggal, founder of Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) at IIT-Delhi, led them to a solution. “Converting a classic car into an electric one would still preserve its beauty and charm, and at the same time address the issue of pollution,” says Duggal. Earlier in 2019, one of Duggal’s acquaintances had seen the protoype of a ‘converted’ electric car at the Inno-Fest global summit in Singapore presented by Jawaad Khan, a student of Electrical Engineering from Swami Vivekanand Institute of Engineering and Technology (SVIET) in Punjab. Following the summit, Khan was invited to IIT-Delhi where he met with Duggal and Rajain, and the project to make the Beetle eco-friendly took off.  2030 EV goal in sight Hailing from Chenab Valley in Jammu, Khan (23) says he used to tinker with machines even as a young boy. While a student at SVIET, he converted a Maruti 800 into an electric vehicle for his college project. Named SVIET Volta, the car quickly garnered a lot of attention and won him a sponsorship to the Inno-Fest. Working over a period of six months, Khan replaced the Beetle’s internal combustion engine with lithium-ion batteries, taking care to ensure they sourced the perfect motor, gearbox and batteries to suit both the car and the major’s requirements. Using the term ‘retrofitted’ to describe the internal makeover he gives cars, Khan believes this method can help India reach its 2030 EV goal. “I knew my design could make electric cars more popular without adding new cars on Indian roads.” He founded Tadpole Projects, a start-up currently working with IIT- Delhi. “It is not just rare models — a lot of people are sentimental about their first cars or family heirlooms. Sadly, most of these cars don’t pass emission control norms. Retrofitting them is an eco-friendly solution.” “We have converted four cars till now. Two vintage vehicles — the major’s 1948 VW Beetle and 1946 Austin as well as two modern cars — a Swift DZire and a Honda City. Retrofitting a car can cost between three lakh to nine lakh rupees, and based on the model it can achieve a mileage of 80-500 kilometres.”  “When it was finally ready and I drove it for the first time I was pleasantly surprised. It was smooth and soundless. While it has lost its ‘classic’ status, it drives far better than it did with a petrol engine,” says Maj Rajain. The Department of Posts introduced a rubber stamp earlier this year, commemorating the successful conversion of the Beetle from classic to eco-friendly . As for Maj Rajain’s 1948 VW electric Beetle, he donated it to CERCA and it is now permanently stationed at the IIT campus where visitors can view it.    What qualifies as vintage? Cars manufactured before 1939 are termed vintage; those manufactured before 1979 are called classics. If a car has had its parts removed or replaced, it no longer qualifies as a classic or a vintage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-beetle-scuttles-again/article34712907.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, one berth at a time||If you haven’t met a “binge-eater Pushpa” at a railway station, you have been one; the person who hastily grabs a few samosas wrapped in newspaper out of a platform vendor’s basket, through the train window grill. It is also through these window grills that we see bits of life unfolding in a train, as families unpack tiffin boxes, heave suitcases down from the upper berth, and socialise with strangers to kill time. The pulse of the Indian Railways is inevitably etched onto all of our travel experiences. For Chennai-based artist Bhavya Desai, a recent train journey from Chennai to Bengaluru opened the floodgates to many such memories and observations. He translates this experience into a series of illustrations that delves into the nostalgia-inducing, chaotic energy of the Indian Railways as we know it. ‘Binge-eater Pushpa’ is one of the many characters that make an appearance in this series titled Chaotically Organised. Bhavya recalls having five hours to kill in that train journey to Bengaluru. “I made the most of it. I spent a lot of time walking on the platforms. The journey instantly spoke to me,” he says. “There is so much more life in a train.” Here, adds Bhavya, you see people being themselves. From this treasure trove of interesting sights, Bhavya listed down all that he wants to showcase. “I have created sub categories. One is on life on the platform, which includes everything from water dispensers to coolies who drag heavy carriages. Another would be on the train itself — a look inside the coaches.” For instance, a work-in-progress sketch filled with line drawings shows a crowded station — food stalls, passengers lounging in wait, and porters shoving their way through. The chaos is also a warm reminder of life before the pandemic. Currently, he is working on a sub-series called By the Window that looks at characters and life in a train, through the cross section of a window. Similiar sub-series on the engines, solo travellers and the interior views of the train bogies, are also in the works. Bhavya plans to have 12 illustrations in each series, and hopes to wrap up the entire project in the next three to four months. “Throughout all the illustrations, there will be characters,” he adds. Observations aside, a lot of research also goes into the project, especially for the series on engines. “I am not too familiar with the models of engines. So, now, I am reading up on the different engines there are and about the retired engines as well. It’s so vast!” he says. The fact that the Indian Railways has such a huge, loyal fan following, pushes him to dig deeper. “This is also why I want people to give me ideas. I want to make this more inclusive. Drawing only what I have seen, is again limiting the scope of this project.”  Bhavya Desai’s works can be viewed on Instagram: @desaibhavya   The current sub-series, By the Window, looks at characters and life in a train through the cross section of a window||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-one-berth-at-a-time/article34712911.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||How Houdini escaped lockdown||Many magicians work on perfecting the disappearing act. But in the case of Amaan Mahtani, it is his family that does the disappearing act, when he has a trick to practise on them... for the 10th time in a day. The 11-year-old magic enthusiast spends at least four hours every weekend and an hour-and-a- half on weekdays, perfecting his craft. A fan of magic ever since his grandfather showed him the disappearing thumb trick at the age of six, Amaan says he managed to seriously pursue magic when the lockdown last year made everything go virtual, and outdoor play time shrunk drastically. “I took a magic course on Udemy, and constantly keep learning from YouTube channels such as MLT Magic Tricks, EvanEraTV and SpideyHypnosis,” he says. Amaan’s repertoire now includes 30 tricks, including mentalism. “I came up with a few myself after a lot of trial and error,” he says. As we speak over a video call, he makes sponge balls disappear and reappear out of thin air. Gradually, his friends too became invested in the hobby. “I give them a few pointers but never part with secrets of the trade,” he laughs, adjusting his bow tie — Amaan’s always dressed for the part, with dreams of making it to America’s Got Talent some day. Thanks to free classes on YouTube channels, many have been drawn into the fascinating world of magic. International entertainers such as Penn and Teller are available on MasterClass teaching their skills for a small fee. “Knowing a few fun tricks can make one stand out at parties and other gatherings. It’s also a great ice-breaker,” says Chennai-based magician Arun Loganathan who has been teaching the craft for the last few years. Since 2020,he started taking virtual classes for students of all age groups — seven to 70 — from within the country as well as Switzerland, the US and Papua New Guinea. This means a lot of late nights and early mornings for Arun. “I have woken up at 3.30 am to teach a student in Philadelphia,” he says. “The demand has gone up by 65% in one year,” says Arun adding that people are comfortable with online classes as they are more accessible and customised. His students are a mix of novices and those that learn off YouTube, who then approach him to learn advanced magic or the finesse and flourishes that go with the act. It is interesting to note that people do not mind spending hefty sums on acquiring a skill that may just be for recreational purposes; some of Arun’s international clients pay upto a lakh for 30 days. Magicians are normally known to bamboozle their audience but Arun sometimes feels the tables turn when his young students already know the trick he is teaching and come up with different techniques to solve it. Thanks to Arun’s experience of over two decades in the field, he finds ways to keep challenging them. While kids form 60% of the student base, magician Nikhil Raj from Bengaluru notices that his sessions for adults are mostly booked by corporates. “I conduct a 50-minute session for them which includes mentalism, illusions, conjuring and hypnotism,” says 25-year-old Nikhil, whose dad was also a magician. Although Nikhil has been conducting workshops for many years, the last year has been especially busy with over 500 children taking online classes. Sometimes parents learn along with their kids, at times it is the grandparents who learn to entertain their grandchildren... the clientèle is diverse. After completing their course, many of them also put up virtual shows for their families and friends. Nikhil says that his workshops also weave in personality development and communication skills. “Magic workshops are a lot more than just learning tricks. It prepares you to face any situation that might arise during a show. There could be hecklers... You need to deal with them in a calm manner and make them your fan,” says magician Akshaya over a call from Pune. Trained by her father, the 25 year-old has been performing on stage since she was three. She did her last show this year in Goa, in the month of April, and was all set to perform at a wedding in New York later this year, when the second wave of COVID-19 disrupted all plans. “COVID-19 is the reason I started teaching online last year in September, otherwise I would have never done it,” says Akshaya, who has conducted over 40 classes in the last eight months. Though she believes that magic should be experienced live, she says, “Virtual has its own charm and advantages. A lot of things can be done virtually that may not have been possible in a live show. But I can’t disclose what they are,” she laughs mysteriously. Flair of the craft Learning magic requires a lot of patience, hard work and constant practice. Not all students have the discipline to persevere. Those that stay are the ones with undying curiosity and dogged determination. “There is a saying, ‘You don’t get into magic, magic gets into you!,” says Akshaya. “There is a joy when people look in wonder and ask ‘how did you do it’,” says Amaan, who often practises in front of the mirror — not because he is vain — to make sure he can see himself performing from all angles. “You have to make sure that you don’t give away anything from any angle,” he adds. Akshaya records her practice sessions to make sure every movement is going according to plan. Sleight of hand is important. ‘You can learn the basics but you have to train your hands too’, is the common refrain. While practitioners of this art form are often associated with vibrant costumes, over the top equipment and material, Arun, Nikhil and Akshaya are being practical and keeping it simple for now. “Because of the lockdown not everyone can access materials and kits, so it is best to use household items like pens, coins, cardboard...,” says Nikhil. “Ultimately, what matters is the finesse with which one performs a trick.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-houdini-escaped-lockdown/article34712905.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The surprise visitor in Walong||Last November, Gurugram-based wildlife photographer Rajeev Dasgupta hit the jackpot when he got the first photographic evidence of the rare subspecies of male Koklass pheasant Pucrasia macrolopha meyeri near the Helmet top in the Walong forests, Arunachal Pradesh. Earlier, a few birders had caught a flitting glance in April-May 2015, and later in January 2021. But there has been no definitive evidence as the elusive, reclusive bird is not easy to photograph. The previous birders had recorded their observations about the rare subspecies only verbally on the eBird website. Avibase, the world bird online taxonomic database, and books such as Birds of the Indian Subcontinent By Richard Grimmet, Carol and Tim Inskipp and Birds of South Asia : The Ripley Guide mention Koklass pheasant as a resident bird of the Western Himalayas. Of the nine subspecies identified across the world, four are found in the states of Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh in India. The male subspecies — meyeri — had not been not recorded outside China and Tibet. The bird bears a distinctive golden ring and its emerald green head distinguishes it from the female. While the bird has been declared extinct in Tibet now, the golden collar is not seen in the other subspecies found in India.  The lucky shot  On November 22, 2020, Dasgupta got lucky enough to get a clear shot of the bird. “It is not one of my best photographs,” he says, “because the bird was perched on a pine tree 500 metres away. Not only was the distance long, there was no place to fix the tripod either.” He then climbed down a steep valley to reduce the distance between him and the rare catch by 200 metres. Hiding behind the trees, he finally found a narrow gap between him and the bird and clicked with his Cannon 1D X Mark2 held in hand. “Initially, the bird stay put, oblivious of my presence. When I tried to get closer, I stepped on a twig, accidentally. With that soft crackling sound, the bird flew away immediately,” he recalls. Binanda Hatiboruah, a well known birding guide from the Northeast who has been taking birders to Walong since 2011, is the happiest. “I go into the Walong forests at least six times a year but had never seen this bird. On this trek, when I heard the prolonged ‘ keek-kew-kok-kok’ throaty territorial call of the Koklass pheasant, I told Dasgupta to quickly take a photo,” he says over a phone call from Assam. “And he gave us a lifer in the year of pandemic and lockdown!” “While reviewing the images, we noticed the golden ring near the bird's neck, which was not there in my earlier images of Koklass pheasant taken in Uttarakhand. I checked with ornithologist Neerav Bhatt, and Pravin Jayadevan, the editor of Indian Birds , who confirmed this was indeed the rare male subspecies,” says Dasgupta.  Rare recording  Dasgupta is now writing a paper on his experience of sighting the rare subspecies and hopes to get it published in Indian Birds or the Bombay Natural History Society Journal. Delhi-based ornithologist Sarwandeep Singh says though people know about the existence of Koklass pheasant, since the subspecies has not been mentioned in popular literature and guides for lack of evidence, Dasgupta's photographic documentation is a rare record. He says Koklass pheasants are not known for migration and are essentially residential birds of mid-altitude dense forests in the Himalayas. The easternmost town in India, Walong is roughly 20 km south of the China border, so there is a possibility that the birds may have flown as part of general shift in their geographical location. It can be assumed that the subspecies may be residing in Walong's terrain but not spotted as hunting is rampant in that area. “You have to be lucky to photograph the shy bird in dense foliage and from that distance,” he says.   Dense forests  At Mayodia pass, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajeev Dasgupta spent six days and photographed the elusive Himalayan Wood Owl and even rarer Sclater’s Monal. En route Walong, he also photographed birds like the White-hooded Babbler, Pale-billed Parro Bill, Coral-billed and red-billed Scimitar Babbler. Anupam Nahardeka and Ashutosh Nahardeka were the other two birding guides from the Northeast in the team that went on a 15-day expedition across forests of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh from November 14, 2020    Rare sightings in the Northeast  Of the 1,293 species, over 900 are found in the Northeast parts of the country  The beautiful and rare Mandarin duck showed up after a century in Assam's Maguri Motapung wetland in February this year and was also spotted a week later at Siikhe lake, Ziro in Arunachal Pradesh  In January 2021, the rarely seen Indian golden oriole was spotted in Assam  A pair of black-necked cranes were also sighted on the outskirts of the Panbari range of Manas National Park, for the first time in Assam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-surprise-visitor-in-walong/article34712910.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t let sleeping dogs lie||While every dog has its day, for over a year now, six-year-old Roger has not. The German Shepherd who loves long walks, used to sniff out interesting corners and quizzically cock his ears as he watched birds build nests. He now spends most of the pandemic watching clouds flit past from the apartment window. He has gained weight and is mostly bored — his new-found past-time is endlessly licking his paws. “A number of dogs exhibit Obsessive Compulsive Behaviour such as incessant licking of paws, resulting in inflammation and wounds. They also develop an obsession with food due to the lack of anything else to keep them occupied,” says Chennai-based veterinarian Dr Priyadarshini Govind. An alumna of Madras Veterinary College, Dr Priyadarshini also holds a postgraduate diploma in Behavioural Medicine from the University of Sydney and specialises in treating companion animals and pet birds. Unlike the wild sheep in Wales that ran riot on the roads during the pandemic and the leopards roaming backyards in Bengal, pets have been housebound like their owners. Weight gain from lack of exercise has been a condition most veterinarians are seeing. “I haven’t heard of any Government restrictions to people walking their dogs, but pet parents have generally become lazy or probably are just too self-preserving due to the pandemic,” says Dr Priyadarshini, adding “Even in normal circumstances, some canine parents walks their dogs only under duress. The pandemic has become an excuse to not walk them at all. Dogs are intelligent animals and need a lot of activity to engage their mind and body to prevent unwanted behavioural patterns. While dogs enjoy the company of their humans, it is still important that they be kept occupied.” While the problems are not breed-specific and affect both indie and foreign dogs, the pandemic has had a very different effect on cats. “Cats are a fairly independent species who while they love their human companions value their time alone. They don’t constantly seek approval from their caregivers. With families staying in and people working from home it has resulted in stress-related disorders among cats such as feline lower urinary tract disease and excessive grooming.” But given the stringent lockdown how can this be prevented? “For dogs, even an outing outside your gate or a run in the terrace helps. Also, over-use of strong disinfectants that result in skin-related contact dermatitis and foot issues should be avoided. Dogs and cats are genetically sensitive to disinfectants that are safe for humans. There are a number of pet-friendly options. We do know that the Coronavirus is airborne but there is no need for us to assume our animals are going to be bringing in infection because they go out for walks.” On the number of people buying pets to stave off loneliness, Dr Priyadarshini comments, “It’s not a great idea. People bought puppies for thousands from breeders but they weren’t open to adopting a stray rescue or even a rescued pet of a person who had succumbed to the virus. You should be able to continue giving your pet the time and care even when things return to normal. Unless you are ready to do that it’s best not to get one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-let-sleeping-dogs-lie/article34712906.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Laughter challenger||The year began on a serious note for stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, when he was arrested for allegedly offending religious sensibilities, along with five others, just before he was about to begin his act at a café in Indore, Madhya Pradesh. Munawar spent 37 days in jail until the Supreme Court granted him interim bail on February 5. While the comedian in him does see the absurdity in the situation, the 27-year-old YouTube sensation is astute enough to not discuss the matter further as it is sub judice. “I don’t want to revisit this experience ever again in my life,” he says over a video call from Mumbai. Munawar got back to work barely a fortnight after his ordeal, releasing a music video titled Aazmaish featuring rapper Nazz, which earned over a million views online. “Quitting comedy was never an option, mainly because I didn’t want to prove my detractors right,” says Munawar, who has been on the comedy scene only since January 2020. In April, he started a new YouTube channel called Munawar Faruqui 2.0 that already has over 50,000 subscribers. (His first official channel has over 10,80,000 subscribers with 57,594,259 views for his monthly video releases). It is hard to believe that Munawar has been on the comedy scene only since January 2020. . His sidelong look at society and politics is sharp and funny, with unexpected depth. “Comedy is essentially saying what you feel, especially about things that you see daily,” he says. “Sometimes a joke can highlight a major truth.” When he is not penning his biting satirical comedy routines, Munawar indulges in his other passions: Urdu poetry and rap music. “Music is the world’s best art form. A song can convey in minutes, what a story can take four hours to narrate,” he says. A resident of Dongri in Mumbai, the comedian is originally from Junagadh in Gujarat. After a tumultuous time in their hometown, his father, a driver, shifted the family (Munawar and his three sisters) to Mumbai in 2007, to make a fresh start. “My father fell sick and was bed-ridden from 2008, so I had to take charge from the age of 17. I worked at a utensil store from 2007, while attending school. I taught myself English and Hindi from the newspapers that my boss used to buy, and by watching films,” he says. “Last year has been testing. I lost my father in February and around the same time got my first ticketed shows in Mumbai, that opened to rave reviews. “There were days I cried in the green room just before being called to the stage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/laughter-challenger/article34712913.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden in a dish||“If you like Nature and art, you will love kusamono. It brings the greenery of a garden into your home,” promises Jeffery Vardon, dancer and choreographer from Coimbatore. He came to know of this ancient Japanese method last year during the lockdown. “The word kusamono translates to ‘grass-thing.’ It is a potted collection of plants in a shallow dish, kept indoors likea showpiece. Having a good kusamono in one’s home is considered to be a thing of pride in Japan,” he says. Jeffery learnt about kusamono online. “I saw a photograph and tried to recreate it, and it came out well. Traditionally, kusamono is set in a ceramic bowl. But I have upcycled old pans in my house for it. I make soil with high water retention capacity to grow the plants, using coco peat, vermicompost, etc. It is very easy to maintain. All you have to do is spray it with water when the top soil dries up,” he explains. Along with kusamono, he has been experimenting with kokedama and terrariums. Kokedama is another ancient Japanese practice — it involves planting an ornamental plant in a mud ball. The ball can be covered by moss or rope. “It is gaining popularity in our country now,” says Jeffery, who has also started a YouTube channel, DIY With Jeff, where he talks about the basics of gardening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/garden-in-a-dish/article34712914.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||The crocodiles’ newest ally||Pramila Rajan’s relationship with the Madras Crocodile Bank dates back to the 1970s. Yet, her recent appointment as the director of the bank was sparked by something innocuous — a social media advertisement. “I first saw the ad calling for candidates last January, and jumped at the chance to interview,” says Pramila. Before she elaborates on her plans for the Croc Bank, the conservationist looks back at her decades-long tryst with it as an outsider. Her first experience with the organisation was facilitated by the late Jagannathan Vijaya. A pioneering herpetologist, Vijaya back in the late 1970s was just, “a dear friend,” recalls Pramila, “We graduated in Zoology together from Ethiraj College. I started spending weekends at Madras Snake Park with her and have measured baby pythons and weighed and fed vitamin drops to baby crocodiles. I also visited the Croc Bank with her, way back then.” “Around the same time, my father SJ Rajan, the officer-in-charge of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) research centre in Kovalam, initiated turtle conservation activities under the guidance of Mr Romulus Whitaker. I used to help them collect and hatch turtle eggs at the centre and release hatchlings into the ocean,” she recalls. Ironically, due to the pandemic, she has been unable to visit the bank since her appointment. Plan of action “The park has been closed since March 16, 2020. It reopened and welcomed visitors for a brief period between November 10, 2020 and April 20, 2021 when it was forced to shut down again due to the second wave,” says Pramila. She states that her main focus is “to organise fundraising campaigns, for projects and zoo maintenance and focus on improving our social media presence to generate revenues”. Also in the pipeline is a series of videos focussing on different species at the bank, made for students of rural schools. “We are aiming to keep them ready by June or July,” says Pramila. Children and their parents have long been the bank’s most ardent fan base. Besides this, Pramila is hoping to rope in field experts to talk about their work, and organise online workshops and seminars. Another key aspect of her new role is to “ensure providing for its reptilian population and keeping its various projects alive. I would like to take forward the conservation initiatives of the zoo and its field stations.” Besides the Centre for Herpetology in Chennai, the Croc Bank has two more research stations: the Agumbe Rainforest Research Station (ARRS) in the Western Ghats of southern India, and the Gharial Conservation Alliance (GCA) in the Chambal River in northern India. While the bank’s well-wishers in Chennai cannot do much about the other centres, they have constantly supported its operations in Chennai in myriad ways. The Croc Bank’s adoption programme has seen a spurt in takers since last year, not only by individuals and families, but also leading businesses. “Ford has adopted 113 of our mugger crocodiles,” says Pramila, “We recently received a generous donation from TVS Motor Co. and others. Croc Bank has a strong network of friends in India and abroad and we are very grateful to everyone who helped maintain the zoo and its animals in excellent condition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-crocodiles-newest-ally/article34712912.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||More than w o r d s||I once stumbled on two wide-eyed children poring over a picture book in their classroom. While they were discovering the details of the story together, one was narrating it to the other in her own words. I knew they couldn’t read yet, which made it all the more fascinating to watch them understand the story through the illustrations alone. They were straying from the original plot, which is exactly why I remember it 11 years later: the vivid memory of them making the story their own, unfettered. As someone who has worked with children’s books for over a decade, I’ve met many parents and teachers who seem mildly baffled with wordless books. “No words?” they ask. With a steady and growing emphasis on teaching reading, we tend to neglect the vast potential of illustrations in developing a child’s understanding of the world. Wordless books offer infinite possibilities for children to interpret stories and decode images. In recent years though, the popularity of Ammachi’s Glasses , a wordless book by Priya Kuriyan, has been encouraging. The book captures the hilarious events that occur when an old woman is unable to find her glasses one morning, and any text would have been a distraction to its many clever details. “The feeling that a picture evokes is immediate, that gut impact, the pleasure. Sometimes, words can’t create that impact,” says Kuriyan. Beyond language This makes me think of David Wiesner’s almost-wordless book, Tuesday , in which frogs fly through the sky and float through houses in the dead of the night. Strange and mysterious, it’s easy to imagine how a fantastical book like this can shape a child’s view of the night. Earlier this year, Canato Jimo won an award for his book, Snip, at the Publishing Next Industry Awards under the best children’s book category (ages 0-8). Set in Nagaland, it follows two mischievous siblings as they play with a pair of scissors. Snip is special not only because of how relatable it is, but also because of how accessible it is without the constraints of a language.  Stormy by Guojing and Time Flies by Eric Rohmann also work as a reminder of how vital it is to give illustrators more opportunities and freedom to tell their own stories. Kuriyan, who has won multiple awards for her art, has collaborated with numerous authors over the years. So what was it like to create a narrative entirely on her own, and be both the author and illustrator? “It feels more personal because you can choose the context and take inspiration from characters that you’re familiar with in real life,” she says, adding, “You can revisit things you like, things you find funny, and even genres. You can put inside jokes. It’s your voice, it’s who you are.” Freedom for illustrators  As one of theeditors who worked on Snip and a guest editor for Ikru’s First Day of School , I know that telling a compelling story using illustrations alone is no easy feat. It requires illustrators to have a very nuanced understanding of sequential visual narratives. “In a wordless book, building the relationship between each frame has to be cohesive. And it’s important to have a sense of movement to engage the reader,” says Jimo, an art director at Pratham Books. This dynamism that Jimo suggests runs through 1986 A Visit to the City Market by Manjula Padmanabhan. You are briefly transported to the bustling streets of the market, past the mangoes and watermelons, chickens, and buckets of flowers. Priya Krishnan, a senior editor at Tulika Books, says, “Wordless picture books can cross borders more easily, leaving behind the politics of language. They then become windows to different cultures.” But somehow, there seems to be this notion that wordless books are meant only for children who aren’t able to read fluently. You only have to look at Shaun Tan’s The Arrival (an immigrant’s experience) and Peter Van Den Ende’s The Wanderer (a paper boat’s adventure) to know this is untrue. Wordless books — or perhaps we need to start referring to them as word-free books — are for anyone who enjoys visual storytelling. In a world that is fixated on a child’s ability to decipher the written word, I hope that wordfree books find more of an audience.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/more-than-w-o-r-d-s/article34712641.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the jab the new black?||My mother-in-law is 80 and refuses to be vaccinated. Her argument? She is old and ready to “go”, so why waste a vaccine? When I mention this to people, responses range from ‘Oh you must try to persuade her’ to ‘Well, what can you do if she’s made up her mind.’ So far, nobody has suggested forcibly dragging her out for jabs. A friend, in his 50s, also refuses the vaccine, saying he would rather wait for the very best vaccine to come along, with no side-effects whatsoever. Listening to him, some of us argue, some shrug. Notice, however, how responses change when people discuss a cook, watchman or driver refusing the vaccine. ‘Cut her pay.’ ‘Threaten to sack him.’ ‘Refuse to let them in until they get jabbed.’ In fact, if it weren’t for the minor hitch of the country running massively short of vaccines, I am certain the impossibly self-righteous members of those residential welfare associations would have already issued directives banning entry to the unvaccinated. The zeal to spread good health notwithstanding, there is an obvious classist and exclusionary underpinning to these conversations that’s hard to miss. After the first wave, the comfortable middle-classes had convinced themselves that Covid-19 was mainly confined to the unhygienic, undisciplined lower classes, and had bypassed them entirely because of their a) clean habits b) superiordesiimmunity c) the herbal concoctions they were gargling with and glugging down incessantly. But then the second wave came, ravaging the country, showing no respect for wealth, social status or potion quotient. So now it appears that they are busy anointing the very act of being vaccinated as the new Calvin Klein. It’s not so far-fetched when you remember that billionaire Bill Gates has used his global ‘health czar’ clout to insist that intellectual property rights be retained on coronavirus vaccines, which essentially means that instead of using life-saving drugs to save all of humanity, pharma companies want to hold on to patents for profits. This has partially led to the situation today where almost half the number of total vaccine shots have been used in the world’s 15 or 16 richest countries, leaving many others including India scrambling. Even as this blatant vaccine apartheid is sought to be put to rights, the Indian government — which presides over a country where the number of people in poverty was estimated to be about 360 million in 2019 — chooses inexplicably to not roll out a universal and free vaccination drive, but opts for open market competition, leading to unseemly and public jostling between central and state governments, among state governments, and between private and public sector hospitals. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/is-the-jab-the-new-black/article34712642.ece
03 June 2021||June 03 2021 00:00 IST,||Venice Architecture Biennale 2021: Lost in tokenism||Bold questions about architecture find a natural home in Venice: the city has long both defied and embodied the dogmas of urban planning, with its ancient stones seemingly floating on the lagoon waters and its pedestrian-only narrow streets intersecting with a capillary network of canals. But there’s bold, and then there’s inconsequential. Much of the twice delayed 17th Architecture Biennale, which has just opened in the northern Italian port city, often crosses over into the latter. Participants from 46 countries tackled the arduous, vast question asked by Hashim Sarkis, the Lebanon-born dean of architecture and planning at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who curated this edition: “How will we live together?” “We are asking architects… because we’re not happy with the answers that are coming out of politics today,” Sarkis said. “We need a new spatial contract because we can’t have a social contract. Irrespective of the huge problems that we’re facing, we can’t bring society together.” But the terms of the question are so general that they transcend the boundaries of the discipline. Even the specification the curator added — living together among diverse beings, as new households, as emerging communities, across borders, as one planet — expand the remit of the Biennale to pretty much all aspects of reality. This flaw has an upside, however, because it acts as a sophisticated poll to gauge contemporary worries. The visitor is left with an impression of pending doom, with many of the pieces and installations tackling the unprecedented challenges facing Man on the planet. Climate change, the depletion of natural resources, and overpopulation form a red thread that innerves the exhibition that is taking place at the Giardini park, the Arsenale grounds, and Forte Marghera. In the Giardini’s Central Pavilion, a metal box the size of a truck produces thundering outbursts of noise at random intervals, giving frazzled visitors a reliable proxy for what it sounds like when the ice pack cracks in Antarctica. Nearby, drips fall from a mock-up of the Alps hanging upside down from the ceiling, a not-too-subtle reminder of the breakneck speed at which glaciers are melting. A tradeoff between width and depth is inevitable, and the world’s largest architecture exhibition prides itself on leaving the reins loose on the architects’ necks, freeing them — albeit momentarily — from the omnipresent constraints they face with budgets, space, taste.  Venice Architecture   Biennale is till   November 21, 2021   Watch the Biennale's   highlights on   weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/venice-architecture-biennale-2021-lost-in-tokenism/article34712643.ece
03 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||60 lakh people affected due to Cyclone Yaas, says Odisha govt.||A week after very severe cyclonic storm, Yaas, struck Odisha coast, the State government on Wednesday said 60 lakh people in 11,000 villages were affected while the natural disaster caused loss to the tune of Rs. 610 crore. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik reviewed the loss incurred due to Cyclone Yaas and post-cyclone restoration activities here. The cyclone had made a landfall in Balasore district affecting many northern and coastal districts on May 26 and 27. The government had then announced to complete damage assessment within a week.  CM lauds efforts “The district administrations had made commendable efforts to save lives of people. They had also completed restoration within in a very short time. We need to document right from prediction of cyclone, our preparedness, evacuation of people, cyclone’s landfall and our response so that it will help us in disaster management in the future,” said Mr. Patnaik. Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra and Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena briefed the Odisha Chief Minister about loss caused by the cyclone and post-cyclone restoration works. “A total of 150 villages were submerged in the storm. Saline water damaged standing crop in vast agricultural fields,” said Mr. Mohapatra. “About 60 lakh people in 11,000 villages were affected by Cyclone Yaas. The loss of government infrastructure in the cyclone was to the tune of Rs. 520 crore while private assets worth Rs. 90 crore were lost. The total loss was Rs. 610 crore while Rs. 66 crore is required for carrying out relief work,” said Mr. Jena. According to report, schools, anganwadi centres and panchayat roads suffered damage worth Rs. 277 crore. Power restored As far as power restoration is concerned, 99.8% of 30 lakh affected consumers have been supplied electricity. As many as 230 transformers had to be replaced. The total loss to energy infrastructure was Rs. 150 crore. Similarly, 246 roads were damaged in the cyclone. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced Rs. 500 crore as immediate relief assistance for the State after reviewing impact of the cyclone in Odisha and West Bengal. However, an inter-ministerial team is likely to visit the State to assess the extent of damage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/60-lakh-people-affected-due-to-cyclone-yaas-says-odisha-govt/article34712900.ece
03 June 2021||new delhi,||HC asks Delhi govt. whether it can give 2nd dose of Covaxin||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sent a notice to the AAP government seeking its stand on whether it could provide the second dose of Covaxin to those who got the first jab, before expiry of the six-week incubation period between the two doses. Justice Rekha Palli remarked that if the Delhi government could not ensure people received both Covaxin doses within the stipulated time, then it should not have started so many vaccination centres with “much pomp and splendour”. The HC also issued notice to the Centre on two pleas to make second doses of both Covaxin and Covishield available in the Capital. “Why did you [the Delhi government] start it [vaccination] if you were not sure you can also provide the second dose? You should have stopped. Maharashtra stopped when it found it could not provide the second dose,” the HC said. “You opened so many vaccination centres with so much pomp and splendour, and now you say you don’t know when the second dose stock would be available,” the court remarked. One of the petitions is filed by an advocate, Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second dose, which has to be taken within six weeks of the first. Mr. Virmani said he had to travel to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose of the vaccine. The Delhi government’s Additional Standing Counsel Anuj Aggarwal said that the matter of securing stocks was presently between the State and the manufacturer. The counsel said he, too, was yet to receive his second dose and added that there was scarcity of Covaxin. Incubation period The counsel said he would seek instructions on by when Covaxin stock would be available, and whether those who received the first dose could be provided the second dose within the stipulated time of six weeks. The second petition filed by one Rajeev Parashar said he was administered the first dose of Covaxin on March 4 and the second dose of the same vaccine had to be administered to him between June 1 to 15. Mr. Parashar, 35, said the decision of the Delhi government to put on hold the vaccination drive for the 18-44 years age group on hold till June 10 puts him at a significant risk of failure to receive the second dose in time. The Delhi HC will hear the case again on June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-asks-delhi-govt-whether-it-can-give-2nd-dose-of-covaxin/article34712583.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Positivity rate dips further to 0.78%, city sees 576 new cases||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued with 576 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,27,439, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. The test positivity rate (TPR) fell to 0.78%, which means that less than one person out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus. The TPR was 0.88% on Tuesday and this is the third consecutive day in which the figures are below 1%. The TPR was as high as 36% on April 22 and has been coming down since then. Also, 103 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,402. A total of 73,451 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 13,93,673 people have recovered and there are 9,364 active cases. Delhi has been facing a shortage of vaccines and free vaccination for the 18-44 age group has not been happening in government schools for over about 10 days now, as per an official bulletin. Shortage continues “Delhi does not have vaccines for the youngsters between the age of 18-44 years. This is a segment that wants to get vaccinated. Even now, the youngsters are being administered the vaccines only in the private hospitals. This is a matter of concern for the youth. Those who had got vaccinated in the first week of May, have to get their second dose soon,” AAP leader Atishi said. A total of 54,60,010 doses of vaccine have been administered in the city and there are more than 42 lakh people, who have been administered the first dose and 12,41,000 people have been administered both the doses, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-dips-further-to-078-city-sees-576-new-cases/article34712593.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Stuck at home, centenarian struggles to get vaccine||Padma Ranganathan, a 100-year-old woman, is finding it difficult to get vaccinated against COVID-19 and an organisation has sought government’s help to get her vaccinated at home. The organisation, which works for differently abled people, also highlighted other problems faced by differently abled and transgenders in accessing vaccination. “She has not stepped out of the house since the beginning of the pandemic and because of it, she has been safe so far. It is not easy for her to go to a hospital because of her advanced age. She lives on the first floor and it is difficult to bring her down too. Also, we don’t want her to be exposed to the virus by going outside,” Reena Ramachandran (80), her daughter, told The Hindu.  She said her mother had turned 100 last year. “If home vaccination is happening in other parts of the country, then why not here?” she asked. Free pick up, drop Preeti Johar, the CEO of Family of Disabled, an NGO which works for differently abled, said they were offering free pick up and drop facility for people to get vaccinated and that is how they came to know about the case . “Her daughter from London contacted me and said her mother walks even inside the house with a walker. She was very worried about how to get her mother vaccinated and we have been in touch with her for the last one week,” she said. “There are a lot of differently abled people who are facing issues to get vaccinated and the government should vaccinate them on priority basis,” Ms. Johar. Lagging behind The organisation, ‘Doctors with Disabilities: Agents of Change’, has written to the Chief Minister about the issue and also said that Delhi government is unfortunately “lagging behind” in socially affirmative drives towards disabled and transgenders. “Despite the claims from the same government in the previous as well as the current tenure, Delhi got neither a separate department for persons with disabilities as promised by the Social Welfare Minister nor the Transgender Welfare Board. The pandemic has disproportionately affected the marginalised community and we are not even seeing vaccine equity,” the letter read. When contacted, Satendra Singh, a government doctor, who is the founder of the collective, said that the 100-year-old is “disabled due to her age”. He has spoken to the officials to get her vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stuck-at-home-centenarian-struggles-to-get-vaccine/article34712591.ece
03 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Positivity rate in Gurugram drops to 1.63% after 32-day lockdown||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Gurugram has dwindled by more than 33 points to 1.63% during the 32-day lockdown till June 1. The number of daily cases has also gone down from 4,435 to 86 over this period. The Haryana government had imposed the lockdown in Gurugram on April 30 night to contain the spread of the virus. As per the district health department, Gurugram had a positivity rate of 34.9% on April 30 with 4,435 fresh cases and the recovery rate stood at 69.76%. The cases were doubled every 23.35 days. However, a sharp improvement has been recorded in the situation during the lockdown with just 86 fresh cases being recorded on June 1, as per the daily health bulletin, and the positivity rate falling to 1.63%. The recovery rate has also gone up to 98.79%. The number of daily cases further fell down to 83 on Wednesday. The district now has 1,073 active cases, as per the latest statistics. As many as 836 people have died so far with nine more deaths on Wednesday. Besides, 184 patients with mucormycosis, better known as “black fungus”, are under treatment at various hospitals in the district and 45 have recovered. Sero-survey In a related development, Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said the third round of sero-survey in the district would be kicked off in the second week of this month. A total of 400 samples will be collected. The survey will be conducted in four urban clusters falling under Urban Primary Healthcare Centres of Mullahera, Basai Enclave, Naharpur and Patel Nagar. A dozen rural areas will also be covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-in-gurugram-drops-to-163-after-32-day-lockdown/article34712585.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Court order shows BJP’s complete failure: AAP||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday said that the BJP has “completely failed” in managing the municipal corporation and the court has asked the civic body to sell assets to pay its own employees. “The Municipal Corporation of Delhi is in deep waters. They are facing a big challenge. Voters have, for the last 20 years, voted for the BJP on the promise that it will ensure streamlined operations in the municipal corporation that it would look after the improvement of schools, hospitals and other welfare facilities. Instead, the BJP has completely failed in its management of municipal corporation. Their failure and mismanagement are incomparable,” Mr. Sisodia said in a statement. ‘Own responsibility’ He said that the BJP should take full responsibility and accept its “absolute failure” in managing the corporation. “Municipal corporation is facing one of the biggest challenges in its basic functioning. No corporation has ever been asked by the court to sell its property, their assets to pay salaries of its employees. This situation would not have arisen if BJP had made dedicated efforts in managing it. Our workers who have been in the forefront of the crisis in municipal corporation would not have had to face this kind of embarrassment and insult of not being paid had the BJP managed its operations well,” he said. Mr. Sisodia said the situation that the civic body is facing is because of the BJP and their “corruption and petty politics”. He said that one of the main areas that the corporation is responsible for is cleanliness, but the BJP cannot point towards even a single ward in Delhi and claim that they have made it into a ‘model ward’. “Nobody knows where the money earmarked for the Municipal Corporation of Delhi and its employees is going. How will our teachers teach? How are doctors going to treat patients? How is the cleaning staff going to sanitise Delhi? We don’t know where the money is going,” the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-order-shows-bjps-complete-failure-aap/article34712589.ece
03 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police to deploy COVID-19 Quick Reaction Teams||Taking lessons from the past, the Delhi police are readying themselves in advance to fight against an expected third wave of cases. They are going to deploy COVID-19 Quick Reaction Teams (QRT) in the South West district. After facing many challenges and disastrous situations during the second wave of the pandemic, the South West District police is planning to deploy four well-equipped QRTs for providing immediate medical assistance and oxygen support for infected patients. DCP (South West) Ingit Pratap Singh said that under the YUVA initiative of Delhi Police, they have selected 30 YUVA trainees and is training them on first aid, CPR, disaster management operation of oxygen concentrators etc. through NGO partners and hospitals. “After completing the training, these YUVA volunteers will be equipped with oxygen concentrators. They will be deployed in QRT vans to respond to emergency calls for providing first aid support to COVID-19 patients,” said Mr. Singh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-to-deploy-covid-19-quick-reaction-teams/article34712595.ece
03 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab Cabinet nod for Special Purpose Vehicle||The Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday gave the approval for the creation of a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for the operation and maintenance of large multi-village surface water supply schemes across the State in a bid to ensure sustainably long-term supply of potable water in rural areas of districts where water quality has been adversely affected. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. This first such SPV in India will be a utility company, the ‘Punjab Rural Water (Utility) Company’, under the Water Supply and Sanitation Department, said an official statement. The Chief Minister also approved the opening of an account in the name of the SPV, with seed money of Rs. 25 crore allocated from The World Bank’s funds (64%) and the State budget (36%). This will support the SPV’s functioning in the initial five years of its operations. The allocation will help meet the shortfall in revenue collection, if any, to fulfil contractual obligations of the SPV, and its administrative expenses, added the statement. The Water Supply and Sanitation Department is currently in the process of executing five new multi-village surface water supply projects covering 612 villages of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-cabinet-nod-for-special-purpose-vehicle/article34712898.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP decries Delhi govt.’s stepmotherly treatment to municipal corporations||The BJP on Wednesday accused the Delhi government of stepmotherly treatment towards the three civic bodies. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that as many as 111 corporation employees including doctors, paramedical staff, nurses, teachers, safai karamcharis had lost their lives in the line of duty over the last year. These included 57 from the North body, 38 from the South body and 16 from the East body. “But sadly the Kejriwal government refuses to treat them as corona warriors and deny them compensation” he alleged. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that the Delhi government did not help corporation-run hospitals and their employees even during the pandemic. “Out of eight corporation hospitals, six were engaged in COVID treatment while COVID Care Centres were also started. But when the corporations wanted to open these centres again during the second wave, the State govt. wasted precious time in granting permission,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-decries-delhi-govts-stepmotherly-treatment-to-municipal-corporations/article34712587.ece
03 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Examine excessive powers given to GST panel: Badal||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal has asked the Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to examine with ‘all seriousness’, what he termed ‘excessive delegation’ of powers to GST implementation committee (GIC). In a letter written to Ms. Sitharaman in the backdrop of the recently held GST Council meeting, Mr. Badal said in the meeting he raised the issue of the need to obtain the Council’s approval for decisions taken by the GIC. The GIC involves bureaucrats, which takes decisions in the period between Council meetings. Pointing out that Punjab’s decision to proffer this concern emanates not from any desire for deliberate fault finding, but to enhance the Council’s ability to collectively make decisions that are backed by consensus and unsusceptible to potential future legal challenges, Mr. Badal said he deemed it necessary to clarify the State’s intent because despite some support from other States during the meeting, Punjab’s observations were not well received and the discussions that followed were tangential and inconclusive.  ‘Examine issue’ “It is my firm conviction that this issue is of the utmost importance and must be examined with all seriousness by the Finance Ministry, and perhaps even considered in consultation with the Law Ministry and the Advocate General,” said Mr. Badal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/examine-excessive-powers-given-to-gst-panel-badal/article34712903.ece
03 June 2021||Patna,||Manjhi-Sahani meet sparks speculation||The recent closed-door meeting between leaders of two alliance partners of the ruling NDA in Bihar has sparked speculations in the State’s political corridor of a new power equation. Though the two leaders, Jitan Ram Manjhi of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Mukesh Sahani of Vikashil Insaan Party, said it was a courtesy meeting, it has set tongues wagging since they have of late been critical of the ruling NDA while being soft on the Opposition RJD leader Lalu Prasad.  ‘Govt. won’t last long’ “The NDA government in Bihar will only last a few days or months. Leaders of the two allies are not comfortable in the government,” senior State Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Singh told media persons on Wednesday. Asked if an RJD-led government would be formed in Bihar, he said, “the RJD has the most number of MLAs, so who else will lead the formation?” Another senior Congress leader and party spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra said it appeared that Mr. Manjhi was disappointed with the NDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manjhi-sahani-meet-sparks-speculation/article34712899.ece
03 June 2021||Patna,||No cell phone use on duty: Bihar DGP||Bihar Director General of Police S.K. Singhal has asked policemen and officials on duty not to use mobile phones, other electronic devices and social media as it “affects image of the police”. “It has come to notice that mobile phones and other electronic devices are being used unnecessarily by policemen and officials on duty. The unnecessary use of mobile phones and connecting with social media for their personal entertainment distracts attention of policemen from their responsibilities which impacts their capabilities and efficiency and this also comes off as indiscipline,” Mr Singhal said. “Such conducts affect the image of the police among common people and media too brings this into light, which has a negative impact on the impression of the police force. So, policemen and other officials are directed not to use mobiles and other electronic devices on duty,” the DGP said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-cell-phone-use-on-duty-bihar-dgp/article34712901.ece
03 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya MLA faces rape charge||The Opposition Congress in Meghalaya has demanded the removal of an MLA accused of raping a woman from the committees of the 60-member Assembly. The police on Tuesday confirmed that a woman had lodged an FIR against National People’s Party (NPP) legislator Thomas Sangma for allegedly abusing her sexually. The NPP heads a coalition government, with the BJP as a constituent. The legislator, representing the Tura Assembly constituency, is also the chief advisor to Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma. In a letter to Speaker Metbah Lyngdoh, former Minister and senior Congress leader Ampareen Lyndoh said the Tura MLA must be removed from the House committees because of the seriousness of the charges against him. Mr. Sangma is the Chairman of the Assembly Committee on Estimates and a member of the Committee on Public Accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-mla-faces-rape-charge/article34712904.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||North body chalks out plans to resolve waterlogging||North Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Jai Prakash held a meeting with officials of various departments regarding waterlogging in Kirari during monsoons, on Wednesday. In addition to officials from the corporation, officials from the Public Works Department, DSIDC and Irrigation and Flood Control Department were also present. Mr. Jai Prakash said waterlogging issues arise every year during the monsoon in Agar Nagar, Mubarakpur Dabas, Kirari Suleman Nagar and Kirari area under the Kirari Assembly constituency, due to which citizens have to face a lot of problems. During the meeting, Mr. Jai Prakash directed all the officers to ensure that there is no issue of waterlogging anywhere in Kirari during this year’s monsoon and they should take all measures to deal with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-body-chalks-out-plans-to-resolve-waterlogging/article34712588.ece
03 June 2021||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||Environment Minister Gopal Rai said that the government will start the annual plantation drive on Saturday and they aim at planting 33 lakh saplings. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had given a guarantee before elections that we will plant 2 crore saplings in the next five years and our target is to plant 33 lakh saplings this year, which is nearly twice the Centre’s target,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-brief/article34712594.ece
