05 June 2021||NEW DELHi,||Amarinder briefs AICC panel, underlines need for unity||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, in his three-hour meeting with the three-member panel of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Friday, put up a strong defence of his government to counter dissidence led by former Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. “It’s an internal matter and there is no need for any public discussion.. Elections are due in six months and we have to work together and win the elections,” Captain Amarinder told reporters after the meeting. Multiple sources told The Hindu that ahead of next year’s Assembly election, there would be significant changes in the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) as well as the Punjab Cabinet. But the exact role for Mr. Sidhu and how the party wants to accommodate him will be left to party president Sonia Gandhi, said a source familiar with the deliberations. The panel, which has been meeting Punjab lawmakers, MPs and party leaders since Monday, is expected to submit its report to her in the next couple of days. The Chief Minister is learnt to have made it clear to the three-member panel, comprising Mallikarjun Kharge, Harish Rawat and J.P. Aggarwal, that the PCC should not be headed by another Jat Sikh as the State government is already being headed by one. This could effectively put a spanner in Mr. Sidhu’s aspirations to head the State unit, currently headed by Sunil Jakhar, a Jat from the Hindu community. Dalit representation And if the party decides to appoint a Deputy Chief Minister, the Chief Minister is learnt to have argued that there should be at least one from the Dalit community. He is also believed to have made a detailed presentation on what the party had promised before the election and what his government had delivered. The Chief Minister’s critics, including Mr. Sidhu and former PCC chiefs — Partap Singh Bajwa and Samsher Singh Dullo — have been very critical of the State government’s handling of the 2015 sacrilege issue. They alleged that the government could neither punish those involved in the desecration of the Holy Guru Granthsahib at Bargari nor indict the Parkash Singh Badal-led Akali government for the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident, following protests over the sacrilege. Capt. Amarinder Singh is learnt to have informed the party panel that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) is investigating the sacrilege issue afresh, and the law will take its course. “I understand the importance of the sacrilege issue for Congressmen and the people. The Chief Minister understands this much more than us. Administrative and legal steps are being taken and the results will be seen over the next few days,” Mr. Rawat, also the Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab, told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/amarinder-briefs-aicc-panel-underlines-need-for-unity/article34731906.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,||India records most cases worldwide||India recorded 1,13,261 new COVID-19 cases and 2,059 new deaths till 9.40 p.m. on Friday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,86,86,764 cases and 3,42,790 deaths. Though the new infections are declining, India continues to record the most number of daily cases in the world. It accounts for one in every three new infections worldwide. The country continues to record the most number of average daily deaths in the world. It accounts for one in every three new deaths worldwide. Tamil Nadu reported 22,651 new infections, followed by Kerala (16,229) and Karnataka (16,068). Tamil Nadu recorded 463 new casualties on the day, followed by Karnataka (364) and Maharashtra (289). The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Punjab, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 20.75 lakh samples were tested in the country on Thursday (the results for which were made available on Friday). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 5.5% on June 3 compared to 10.4% recorded a week earlier. About 28.75 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Friday, which is 4.5 lakh doses higher than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 45,000 fewer doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccination in India stood at 26.26 lakh on June 3, more than the 18.09 lakh recorded a month ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-most-cases-worldwide/article34731908.ece
05 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra caps rates for treatment of mucormycosis||Maharashtra government on Friday capped the rates of treatment for mucormycosis in private hospitals in the State. The notification, which will be effective till July 31, 2021, also divides the State into Class A, B and C and fixed different rates to ensure a balance between rural and urban areas. Class A cities include Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Bhiwandi and Vasai-Virar), Pune, and Nagpur (Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Digdoh and Wadi). Class B includes Nasik, Amaravati, Aurangabad, Bhiwandi, Solapur, Kolhapur, Vasai-Virar, Malegaon, Nanded and Sangli while Class C includes the remaining areas. The maximum hospital charges for ward and isolation are fixed at Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 3,000 for Class A and B, respectively and Rs. 2,400 for Class C. Charges for ICU without ventilator have been fixed at Rs. 7,500 and Rs. 5,500 for Class A and B while Rs. 4,500 is a maximum limit for Class C. Charges for ICU with ventilator are Rs. 9,000 and Rs. 6,700 for class A and B respectively and Rs. 5,400 for class C. The rates do not include PPE — hospitals can charge Rs. 600/- maximum —per patient per day for stay in ward and Rs. 1,200 /- maximum per patient per day for stay in ICU. Any charge more than this towards PPE needs to be justified. In case of surgeries, the government has capped the cost at Rs. 1 lakh in Class A areas and at Rs. 75,000 and Rs. 60,000 for Class B and C respectively. The hospitals require to give pre-audited bills to the patient and if extra charges have been levied then excess amount shall be reimbursed to the patient. Respective District Collectors and Municipal Commissioner will be required to appoint auditors in such hospitals/facilities to ensure issuance of pre-audited bills to each and every patient and their relatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-caps-rates-for-treatment-of-mucormycosis/article34732454.ece
05 June 2021||Mangaluru,||Walk in to get second dose of Covaxin in Dakshina Kannada from Monday: DC||With Dakshina Kannada receiving 13,000 doses of Covaxin, the district administration will give the second dose from Monday at Government Wenlock Hospital and taluk hospitals in Bantwal, Puttur, Sullia, and Belthangady. There is no need to book a slot. Talking to reporters in a virtual press conference, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said those who have taken Covaxin more than four and six weeks ago can walk in to these health facilities between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. and get the second dose. There is no need for such persons to book the slot in the Co-Win portal or the Arogya Setu app. Of the total of 35,000 who have taken the first dose, 20,000 people have already taken the second dose. In order to stop elderly and others in the 45+ category from standing outside the 12 urban primary health centres in Mangaluru, Bantwal, and Puttur and at the community health centre in Ullal for long for free dose of Covishield vaccine, the district administration has decided to book 75% of vaccine slots online. The remaining 25% of slots will be available offline for those aged 70 and above. The vaccine slots for the next day will be available the earlier day at 4 p.m. and people can do the registration and book the slots through Co-WIN portal or the Aarogya Sethu app. Those aged 70 and more can come to the centres where offline registration will be done and they will receive vaccine without on line registration. Those who are bedridden, facility will be done shortly to vaccinate at home. Free dose of Covishield vaccine for frontline workers aged between 18 and 44 will be given at Government Wenlock Hospital and government health facilities in Taluks. The frontline worker should bring certificate from their head of department. Those belonging to the unorganised sector will be vaccinated at Wenlock Hospital. If there are more number people to be vaccinated at bank, forest, or any other departments, district administration will make facility for on-site vaccination. Dr. Rajendra said 600 persons, who are going abroad, have registered on the portal of Indian Red Cross, Dakshina Kannada. A special camp will be held on Sunday at the Canara Girls High School, Mangaluru, to give them the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/walk-in-to-get-second-dose-of-covaxin-in-dakshina-kannada-from-monday-dc/article34732003.ece
05 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||‘Take rural patients to CCC compulsorily’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked the district administration to compulsorily send positive patients in rural areas to COVID Care Centres and ensure quality food and treatment to them, apart from ensuring proper hygiene. Speaking at the COVID-19 review meeting of Dharwad district in Hubballi on Friday, Mr. Yediyurappa said that there would be relaxations in lockdown regulations only if the positivity rate was brought down to 5%. The CM said that the issue of bringing down the positivity rate was in the hands of the people. The State would be getting adequate quantity of vaccines in next two days and the government would give free vaccines to all, he said. Referring to the death rate of 1.70% in Dharwad district, he said that it was more than the State average and asked the officials to focus on bringing it down further by taking requisite measures. Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar said that the district recorded higher death rate as patients in advanced stage were brought to KIMS Hospital and other private hospitals in the district. Hubballi Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya urged the Chief Minister to supply required surgical equipment to KIMS Hospital for treating black fungus patients. He also sought relaxation in lockdown guidelines to allow grocery merchants to operate. Kundagol MLA Kusumavati Shivalli urged the CM to address the issue of shortage of doctors in her constituency. Briefing about the COVID-19 situation in Dharwad district, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that following effective measures, the positivity rate in the district had been brought down from 39.2% to 11.9% and the district had 4,385 active cases now. He said that out of the total 20 lakh population in Dharwad district, 9 lakh people had been screened for COVID-19 so far and 3,31,717 people had received vaccine shots in the district. Directing the KIMS Hospital authorities to immediately procure surgery equipment required for treating black fungus, Health and Medical Education Minister K.S. Sudhakar said that they will be treated for free under the AB-Ark scheme. He also said that death of SARI patients will be treated as COVID-19 like disease and children orphaned by COVID-19 would get all government benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/take-rural-patients-to-ccc-compulsorily/article34732005.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delta variant led to most post-vaccine infections in Delhi||Variant Delta (B.1.617.2), the most pervasive variant of the coronavirus in India, constituted nearly three in four breakthrough infections in Delhi, according to a research study by scientists in Delhi. The variant was also characterised by high transmissibility, an accelerated surge in infections and, the scientists say, “...prior infections, high seropositivity and partial vaccination were insufficient impediments to its spread.” Breakthrough infections are instances of people testing positive for the virus after getting vaccinated. The study is yet to be peer-reviewed and appears as a pre-print and was authored by scientists at the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) and the National Centre of Disease Control — two key labs of the Indian Sars Cov-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) that tracks the emergence of key variants of the coronavirus. In 27 instances of breakthrough infections analysed, the scientists found that two lineages dominated. B.1.617.1 (Kappa) comprised 8%, Delta was 76% and the remaining linked to variants that belonged to broader “B.1 lineages”. However international variant Alpha, that in previous studies has been associated with a spike in cases in Delhi was absent in vaccination breakthrough-cases analysed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delta-variant-led-to-most-post-vaccine-infections-in-delhi/article34731903.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Daily positivity rate comes down to 12.21%||The State reported 83 deaths due to COVID-19 and 10,413 new infections in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The cumulative tally reached 17,38,990 and the death toll increased to 11,296. The number of recoveries increased to 15,93,921 with 15,469 recoveries in the past day. The recovery rate remains at 91.66%. There are 1,33,773 active cases in the State. The daily positivity rate came down to 12.21% as 85,311 samples were tested in the past day. The overall test positivity rate of 1.96 crore samples stand at 8.86%. Chittoor has again reported highest toll with 14 new deaths. Next to it was West Godavari with 11 new deaths. Anantapur reported eight deaths and East Godavari and Srikakulam reported seven new deaths each. Guntur, Krishna and Vizianagaram reported six new deaths each while Kurnool and Visakhapatnam reported five new deaths each. Nellore reported four deaths and Prakasam reported three deaths. Kadapa reported only one new death. East Godavari has again reported highest single-day tally among the districts in the past day with 2,075 infections. Chittoor reported 1,574 new infections, while the remaining districts reported less than a thousand new infections. They including West Godavari (974), Anantapur (865), Krishna (692), Guntur (686), Visakhapatnam (634), Prakasam (631), Kadapa (610), Nellore (527), Srikakulam (427), Kurnool (425) and Vizianagaram (293).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-positivity-rate-comes-down-to-1221/article34731914.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC seeks CBI probe into deaths at Jaipur Golden Hospital||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre and the AAP government to reply to a plea seeking a CBI probe into the death of 21 COVID-19 patients at Jaipur Golden Hospital in April allegedly due to oxygen shortage. Justice Rekha Palli has sought a response by August 20, the next date of hearing, on a plea filed by the families of some of the patients who died on the intervening night of April 23 and 24. ‘Erroneous report’ The plea, filed through advocate Utsav Bains, contended that the cause of death was respiratory failure due to insufficient supply of oxygen and not comorbidities as stated by a Delhi government committee report. The plea claimed the panel submitted an “erroneous” report that those who died did not suffer suffocation due to lack of oxygen supply. The plea sought a probe by the CBI or an independent agency into the deaths “so that the truth can be brought to light and justice be given to the deceased persons and their families”, and compensation for the families. The plea alleged that the incident took place “due to deliberate inaction and failure of the respondents (Centre, Delhi government and the hospital) to provide adequate oxygen to the patients despite knowing that any shortage would lead to their immediate death”. The plea further contended that the hospital did not inform family members about the shortage, who could have arranged for high-flow oxygen cylinders and saved their loved ones who died due to low pressure in the oxygen cylinders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/plea-in-hc-seeks-cbi-probe-into-deaths-at-jaipur-golden-hospital/article34732347.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,||II PU exam cancelled; SSLC students to appear for two papers||The State government has decided to cancel the second year pre-university (PU) examination for 2020–21 academic year, while the examination for Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) students will be conducted tentatively in the third week of July. All candidates will be deemed “pass” for both the SSLC and II PU, but grades will be awarded for the former based on performance in the examination. At a press conference on Friday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, said SSLC students would have to appear for two papers that would be in multiple-choice question format.It is likely to be held in the third week of July after analysing the COVID-19 situation in the State. Within an hour of Mr. Kumar’s announcement, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in Belagavi that the SSLC examination would be conducted “only if COVID-19 cases are under control” and that parents had no reason to panic. Mr. Kumar alsoassured students that questions would be “very easy”. One paper would be on core subjects and another for languages. Each paper would be for 120 marks and students would be given grades. The decision to conduct the SSLC examination during the pandemic drew flak from various quarters. Mr. Kumar justified it by pointing out that there were no periodic evaluations for SSLC students for the 2020–21 academic year. When the same batch of students were in class nine in 2019–20, examinations had been cancelled due to the first wave of COVID-19.  Mr. Kumar said all teachers who would be invigilating the examination would be vaccinated. The number of examination centres would also be doubled this year to 6,000, said the Minister. Only 10 to 12 students would be seated in each classroom, with one student per desk. “We will provide N-95 masks for all students appearing for the exam,” said Mr. Kumar. Grading While the Department of Pre-University Education has decided to grade II PU students on the basis of their first year PU marks, Mr. Kumar said they had received suggestions to also consider the SSLC marks while grading students. DPUE officials are deliberating how students would be assessed. “We are wondering if we should give students grade or allot marks. We are also brainstorming over whether students should get a final score/grade or be graded in individual subjects,” an official said. The Department of Public Instruction has announced the calendar of events for 2021-22 academic year. A circular issued on Friday stated that classes for the academic year will begin on July 1. Schools have been asked to conduct the admission process from June 15 to August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-exam-cancelled-sslc-students-to-appear-for-two-papers/article34731963.ece
05 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,||CM opens 500-bed temporary COVID-19 facility at Tadipatri||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday inaugurated an oxygen-supported 500-bed temporary COVID-19 facility at Tadipatri, adjacent to Arjas Steel factory, in virtual mode. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, R&B Minister M. Sankaranarayana and Hindupur MPs T. Rangaiah and G. Madhav, along with MLAs, were present at the venue. Given its proximity to neighbouring districts, the facility will benefit patients and ease the pressure on other major hospitals in Kurnool, Anantapur, Kadapa and Chittoor. The demand for oxygen has come down in the district. But the construction of the facility started in mid-May when Anantapur district was reporting a positivity rate of above 40% and had above 17,000 active cases. The district had reported 3,356 cases on May 16, the highest during the second wave. The Chief Minister thanked Arjas Steel MD Sridhar Krishnamoorthy for setting aside 40 tonnes of oxygen from its unit with 100 tonnes per day capacity and also commended the service of Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited that laid an 800-metre copper pipeline from the unit to the makeshift facility. He also appreciated Joint Collectors Nishant Kumar and A. Siri, and the administration for arranging the facility in a short time. The facility was set up at a cost of Rs. 5.5 crore with R&B, Revenue and other departments chipping in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-opens-500-bed-temporary-covid-19-facility-at-tadipatri/article34731916.ece
05 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,||Noted writer Ka Ra Mastaru dead||Noted writer and Katha Nilayam founder Kalipatnam Ramarao, popularly known as ‘Ka Ra Mastaru’, died here on Friday due to age related ailments. He was 97. He is survived by a daughter and five sons. Born on November 9, 1924, at Murapaka village in Srikakulam district, Ramarao had inspired almost three generations with his literary works in Telugu. His first short story, ‘Platform’, was published in 1943. His works such as ‘Yagnam’, ‘Kutra’, ‘Chavu’, ‘Arthi’, ‘Illu’, and ‘Santhi’ had won many a heart. His last literary work, ‘Annema Nayuralu’, was published in 2006. A treasure trove He had established Katha Nilayam, a treasure trove of Telugu short stories published since 1920, in February 1997. Ramarao had received many awards, including Sahitya Akademi Award, for his invaluable contribution to Telugu literature. He won the Akademi award in 1995 for his literary work ‘Yagnam To Tommidi’. Sri Potti Sriramulu Telugu University had conferred on him the honorary doctorate for his priceless contribution to Telugu literature. Many of his works had been translated into English, Russian, Lithuanian, Tamil, Kannada, Hindi and other languages. Katha Nilyam president B.V.A. Ramarao Naidu and secretary Dasari Ramachandra Rao, who were with Ka Ra Mastaru during his last days, recalled his struggle for the establishment of the unique library. “Instead of depending on donations, Ka Ra Mastaru had constructed Katha Nilayam with his own funds. His aim was to digitise all the short stories and make them available to every reader throughout the globe. The process is nearing completion. Literary lovers will remember him for his foresight to preserve the works of eminent writers across the country,” said Mr. Ramarao Naidu and Mr. Ramachandra Rao. Gurajada Educational Society chairman G.V. Swami Naidu, who had five decades of association with Ramarao, said his contribution to Telugu literature would continue to inspire writers, poets and readers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/noted-writer-ka-ra-mastaru-dead/article34731918.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Decision on extension of lockdown today||The Tamil Nadu government will announce on Saturday whether or not the intense lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 in the State will be extended beyond the morning of June 7. On Friday, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a meeting of officials to discuss the situation. An official said the decision would be announced formally on Saturday. Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy, Finance Secretary S. Krishnan, Commissioner of Revenue Administration K. Phanindra Reddy, Revenue Secretary Kumar Jayant, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation Gagandeep Singh Bedi and senior officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-extension-of-lockdown-today/article34732000.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||No decision on indemnity to vaccine makers yet||The Union government was still in negotiations and no final decision had been taken on indemnity to either foreign or local COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr. V.K. Paul said at a Health Ministry press conference on Friday. India had overtaken the U.S. in providing at least one dose of vaccine. “As of Thursday night, India has administered 17.2 crore doses, while the U.S. has administered 16.9 crore doses,” he said. While the priority of the government was to provide vaccine cover to the vulnerable elderly population and those with comorbidities, Bharat Biotech and Zydus have already started testing vaccines on children. “But we have to understand that we will need 25-26 crore doses to cover this population as we cannot have partial coverage. All this will be taken into account when we strategise. Information gathering and analysis on the matter is on,’’ he noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-decision-on-indemnity-to-vaccine-makers-yet/article34731901.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Disquiet over Jagan, Patnaik letters to CMs||Opposition leaders remain sceptical about the recent letters written by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to other Chief Ministers criticising the Centre’s vaccination policy. Unlike Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren’s letters, where they demanded universally free vaccines, both Mr. Reddy and Mr. Patnaik have limited themselves to supply side problems and demanded that the Centre should handle the procurement. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has questioned both the CMs asking them to question PM Narendra Modi instead of writing to fellow Chief Ministers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/disquiet-over-jagan-patnaik-letters-to-cms/article34732349.ece
05 June 2021||Mumbai,||BMC in talks with Dr. Reddy’s for Sputnik V||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday said all nine suppliers who had responded to its call for expression of interest (EOI) for supply of COVID-19 vaccines have been disqualified as they did not have the necessary documents. Additional Municipal Commissioner (Projects) P. Velarasu held talks with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, which had tied up with a Russian company for production and distribution of Sputnik V in India. They have agreed to supply Sputnik V on experimental basis to Mumbai by the end of June. On receiving this, tests on cold storage facility required for the vaccines will be started and once successful, bigger consignments of vaccines will be sent to Mumbai in July and August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-in-talks-with-dr-reddys-for-sputnik-v/article34732455.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Evaluation method report within 10 days: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has set up a 12-member committee to decide on assessing Class 12 students in the wake of cancellation of the board examinations. The panel would submit a report within 10 days, a notification issued by the board on Friday said. The notification, signed by CBSE’s controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj, said steps were being taken “to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/evaluation-method-report-within-10-days-cbse/article34732348.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Glimmer of hope||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/glimmer-of-hope/article34732387.ece
05 June 2021||Pune,||‘Uddhav will decide on lockdown’||A day after Congress leader and Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s announcement regarding relaxation in lockdown rules was revoked by the Chief Minister’s Office, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday clarified that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s decision was final on such matters. Speaking in Raigad, Mr. Pawar said Mr. Wadettiwar had clarified that there had been a ‘misunderstanding’. “It is the Chief Minister who makes the final decision on these matters,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-will-decide-on-lockdown/article34732452.ece
05 June 2021||Mangaluru,||12 deaths, 1,367 new cases in DK and Udupi||As many as 12 COVID-19 patients died and 1,367 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Friday. Nine COVID-19 patients died and 806 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada district. With the discharge of 858 patients, the active cases in the district stood at 7,906. In Udupi district, three COVID-19 patients died and 561 new cases were reported. With 585 patients discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 4,506.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-deaths-1367-new-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article34732001.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Second chance||Second PU students will be promoted on the basis of their first year PU examination marks. If second PU students are not satisfied with their marks or grades, they can appear for an examination once the pandemic situation eases. Minister S. Suresh Kumar said private candidates and repeaters who had registered for the second PU exam would also appear for an examination along with these students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/second-chance/article34731959.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI holds rates, cuts GDP forecast||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday left benchmark interest rates unchanged and reiterated that it would retain its accommodative stance for “as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis”, as it cut its GDP growth forecast for the fiscal year by 100 basis points to 9.5%. The RBI’s Monetary Policy Committee, after taking stock of the evolving macro-economic and financial conditions as well as the impact of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, voted unanimously to keep the policy repo rate unchanged at 4%, Governor Shaktikanta Das said. Acknowledging that the sudden rise in COVID-19 infections and fatalities had impaired the nascent recovery that was underway, Mr. Das said the second wave had, however, “not snuffed it out”. “The impulses of growth are still alive,” he asserted. Vaccination drive  Ramping up the vaccination drive and bridging the gaps in healthcare infrastructure could mitigate the pandemic’s devastation, he stressed. The bank also marginally raised its projection for CPI inflation during 2021-22 to 5.1%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rbi-holds-rates-cuts-gdp-forecast/article34731904.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||SII gets DCGI nod to roll out Sputnik V||The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture the Sputnik V vaccine in India for examination, test and analysis with certain conditions, official sources said on Friday.Page 13||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sii-gets-dcgi-nod-to-roll-out-sputnik-v/article34731919.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Monsoon sets in over Karnataka: IMD||A day after the southwest monsoon made an entry into Kerala, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced on Friday that it had set in over Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-sets-in-over-karnataka-imd/article34731960.ece
05 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Twitter storm seeks chapter on northeast||A Punjab-based YouTuber’s racial slur against an Arunachal Pradesh MLA fuelled a “know northeast” campaign via a two-hour Twitter storm on Friday with students, academics, professionals, politicians and activists across the eight northeastern States bombarding the site with #AchapterforNE and #NortheastMatters campaigns from 6 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/twitter-storm-seeks-chapter-on-northeast/article34732039.ece
05 June 2021||Patna,||BJP suspends Bihar MLC over remarks on Nitish||The BJP on Friday suspended MLC Tunna Pandey from the party with “immediate effect” for making “comments against the party line”. Mr. Pandey had recently called Bihar CM Nitish Kumar a “chief minister of circumstances”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bjp-suspends-bihar-mlc-over-remarks-on-nitish/article34732040.ece
05 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya mine owner sent to judicial custody||The owner of a coal mine in Meghalaya where five labourers are trapped since May 30 was sent in judicial custody on Thursday, a day after he surrendered, State Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/meghalaya-mine-owner-sent-to-judicial-custody/article34732041.ece
05 June 2021||Kolkata,||Now, Mamata’s picture on vaccine certificates||As the vaccination drive picks up in West Bengal, now certificates of COVID-19 vaccination issued by the W.B. Health Department have a photograph of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Vaccination certificates have carried photos of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which in the past was criticised by Trinamool Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-mamatas-picture-on-vaccine-certificates/article34732350.ece
05 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab will not supply jabs to private hospitals||Facing criticism from several quarters, the Punjab government on Friday decided to withdraw its decision of providing limited COVID-19 vaccine doses to 18-44 age group people through private hospitals. The SAD, AAP and the BJP had accused the government of selling government quota of vaccines at hefty profit to private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-will-not-supply-jabs-to-private-hospitals/article34732351.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Deaths of past months being recorded now||While there has been a significant decline in new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, the number of deaths remaining high has been intriguing. Data, however, shows that many deaths that occurred in March, April and May are being accounted for now, leading to the high number.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/deaths-of-past-months-being-recorded-now/article34731962.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||U.S. vaccine ‘gift’ may not be substantial||The government on Friday welcomed the U.S. decision to lift restrictions under its Defence Production Act on the export of vaccine ingredients to AstraZeneca vaccine manufacturers worldwide, which would help the Serum Institute of India produce more doses. However, Washington’s announcement of gifting India and dozens of other countries with a first tranche of 25 million doses of assorted American vaccines could run into regulatory delays, as issues of indemnity and authorisation have not been resolved at present. “Indian diplomacy is focussed on securing the vaccine supply chain,” said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who had raised the issue of easing U.S. exports of vaccine ingredients and components to India during his visit to Washington last week. On Thursday, the U.S. White House announced that it was relaxing export restrictions for U.S. companies to supply manufacturers of AstraZeneca, Novavax, and Sanofi vaccines. “This policy change will hopefully increase the supply of raw materials globally and to India; boosting our vaccine production capacity and strengthening our united fight against this pandemic,” tweeted SII CEO Adar Poonawalla, thanking Mr. Jaishankar and U.S. President Joseph Biden for the move. While the government said the U.S.’s decision on vaccine ingredients was a big relief, officials questioned whether the U.S. government’s other big announcement of plans to gift 25 million doses of Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson vaccines would have a major impact, as it is not expected to be a substantial number. According to the White House “Factsheet” on regional distribution, India is one of 16 Asian countries that will receive a total of seven million (70 lakh) vaccines, and also part of a grouping of another 13 high priority countries that would receive a total of six million vaccines. Supply of doses “As a result, India’s dose will not be more than about two to three million doses in total,” estimated one government official, pointing out that India is vaccinating about 2.8 million people a day at present. It is also unclear how quickly these vaccines could be distributed in India, given procedures and approvals required. In a notification on June 1, the government amended its previous order of April 15, further easing the Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) trial and testing requirements for all vaccines that have received clearances from the U.S. FDA, WHO, United Kingdom, Japan and Europe. However, the three American companies will still need to apply for and be granted the Authorisation. At present, India has granted EUA only for Covishield, Covaxin and Russian-developed Sputnik, and according to a press note by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) Chairman Dr Vinod Paul last week, “No application of any foreign manufacturer for approval is pending with the drugs controller.” Meanwhile, the issues over granting indemnities or a waiver of liabilities in case of adverse effects of the vaccines have not yet been resolved between the government and U.S. manufacturers. According to MEA sources, the government expects that Washington will help in ensuring that the vaccines being gifted will adhere to local regulations on indemnity. The government also hopes that the U.S. will redouble efforts to disburse the bigger tranche of 60 million AstraZeneca vaccines at the earliest, as these have the approvals needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-vaccine-gift-may-not-be-substantial/article34731845.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Expedite process of filling up judicial vacancies, CJI tells CJs||The Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, asked the Chief Justices of High Courts to ensure that recommendations for judicial appointments to the High Courts reflect the social diversity of the country. Chief Justice Ramana said this during his first-ever live and direct interaction with High Court Chief Justices. The discussion spanned two days and four sessions. The CJI also placed before the Chief Justices of High Courts the representations made by various Bar bodies to include lawyers primarily practising in the Supreme Court in the zone of consideration while recommending the names of judges for their High Courts. The CJI also reminded the Chief Justices to expedite the process of filling up vacancies, particularly in the High Courts. This was a follow up to the letter the CJI had written to the CJs of High Courts in the first week of May. During the interaction, the Chief Justice of Madras HC told the CJI about the vaccine hesitancy seen in some areas of the State. The Chief Justice of the Madras High Court, however, conveyed his satisfaction with the cooperation given by the Tamil Nadu government in the vaccination drive. The session also saw the CJI convey to the Chief Justices his vision to draw from the experience of the pandemic and build modern, self-contained courts with a permanent facility to hold virtual hearings in every courtroom. He reiterated his wish to create a National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation and take forward a “nation plan” for judicial infrastructure.  The High Court Chief Justices also flagged the apparent “digital divide” seen in rural and tribal areas. They said the lack of digital connectivity had impacted judicial functioning. A proposal for mobile video conferencing vans was discussed. Chief Justice Ramana assured the High Courts that the Supreme Court would take up with the Centre the highlighted issues regarding sufficient vaccine supply, connectivity and court infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expedite-process-of-filling-up-judicial-vacancies-cji-tells-cjs/article34731860.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DAC nod for building 6 conventional submarines||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC), headed by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, on Friday approved the issuance of a Request For Proposal (RFP) for the construction of six conventional submarines under Project-75I at an estimated cost of Rs. 43,000 crore. At a meeting, it also approved the procurement of air defence guns and ammunition for the Army at an approximate cost of Rs. 6,000 crore. “This is a landmark approval, being the first case processed under the Strategic Partnership (SP) model. This would be one of the largest ‘Make in India’ projects and it will create a tiered industrial ecosystem for submarine construction in India,” Mr. Singh said on Twitter on the submarine deal. With this approval, India would be enabled to achieve its 30-year submarine construction programme envisioned by the government to acquire national competence in their building and for Indian industry to independently design and construct them, he noted. The SP model of the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) aims to promote the role of Indian industry in manufacturing and build a domestic defence industrial ecosystem. MDL, L&T shortlisted The RFP is expected to be issued in the next couple of months, a defence official said. It would take at least two to three years for the deal to be concluded, and given the high technology and the long timelines, the cost would be spread over many years, a defence official added. Last January, the DAC shortlisted Mazagon Docks Limited (MDL) and Larsen & Toubro (L&T) as the Indian partners for the deal. The Navy will now issue the RFP to them, who would respond to it in partnership with a foreign Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM).  As per the Navy’s requirements, the submarines, all of which will be built in India, should be equipped with Air Independent propulsion (AIP) modules and be able to fire land attack cruise missiles. Five foreign OEMs- Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering (DSME) (South Korea), Naval Group (France), Navantia (Spain), Rosoboronexport (Russia) and TKMS (Germany), have been selected. The delay in the deal was the extra caution at each step of the process as this was being done for the first time, officials had said.  The modernisation of the Army’s air defence guns has been a long pending proposal and the DAC accorded approval for the procurement of the guns and ammunition under the Buy & Make (Indian) category of the procurement procedure. The Defence Ministry said that responses from about a dozen Indian companies had been received and “all of them have expressed their willingness and commitment to manufacture this complex gun system and associated equipment by ensuring technology assimilation in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dac-nod-for-building-6-conventional-submarines/article34731832.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Pension norms eased for families of deceased staff||The Union government has written to all Ministries relaxing the norms for disbursing pension to families of deceased employees considering their urgent need of funds for their livelihood. The authorities have been told to disburse the provisional family pension immediately after receiving the claim with a death certificate. According to sources in the Railways, the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions wrote to the Railway Board and Secretaries of all Ministries on Thursday on simplified payment of family pension, death gratuity and other dues to the family on death of a government servant during service saying that the COVID-19 pandemic had claimed the lives of several government employees during the recent surge. ‘Sole bread-winners’ “In many cases, the deceased employees were the sole bread-winners of their families and the casualties have left families devastated and in an urgent need for funds for livelihood. It is, therefore, incumbent on the government to ensure that the family pension and other entitlements in respect of the deceased employees are released to their families expeditiously,” the advisory said. Family pension Stating that the completion of the process for sanction of family pension and its disbursement through the bank could take some time, the department cited provisions under Rule 80-A of the Central Civil Service (Pension) Rules, 1972, that provided for payment of provisional family pension and also provisional death gratuity, pending issue of the Pension Payment Order (PPO). The advisory urged all Ministries to strictly comply with an earlier order calling for sanction of provisional family pension by the Head of Office immediately on receipt of a claim for family pension and death certificate from the eligible family member, without waiting for forwarding of the family pension case to Pay & Accounts Office (PAO). Rule 80-A provides for payment of provisional death gratuity by the Head of Office once the family pension/death gratuity case has been forwarded to the PAO. Regular pension “Simultaneously, action may be taken on priority basis for disbursement of regular family pension through the bank and for payment of other entitlements of the family on death of the government servant. It may be ensured that the PPO for family pension is issued and disbursement of regular family pension is commenced by the bank not later than one month after the receipt of the claim for family pension,” the communication said. Ready reckoners To facilitate expeditious disbursement of all the entitlements of the family on death of a government servant, two separate ready reckoners were sent to all Ministries to calculate the pension and other terminal benefits for employees under the Old Pension Scheme and the National Pension System, the sources added.  Action may be taken on priority basis for disbursement of regular family pension through the bank and for payment of other entitlements of the family on death of the government servant||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pension-norms-eased-for-families-of-deceased-staff/article34731823.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Serum Institute gets DCGI’s nod to produce Sputnik V||The DCGI has granted permission to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to manufacture the Sputnik COVID-19 vaccine in India for examination, test and analysis with certain conditions, official sources said on Friday. The Pune-based firm has collaborated with Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Moscow in Russia for developing Sputnik V at its licensed Hadapsar facility. “The DCGI has granted permission to the Serum Institute to manufacture the Sputnik COVID-19 vaccine in India for examination, test and analysis at its licensed Hadapsar facility with certain conditions,” an official source said. The company had submitted an application to the DCGI in this regard on Thursday. According to the four conditions set by the DCGI, the Serum Institute will have to submit a copy of the agreement between it and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology for transfer of cell bank and virus stock and a copy of agreement for technology transfer with Gamaleya. Further, the SII has to submit a copy of the RCGM permission to import cell bank and virus stock and a copy of the RCGM permission to initiate research and development of viral vector vaccine Sputnik V, the sources said. This licence, unless suspended or revoked, will be enforced for a period of three years from the date of its issuance on June 4. The SII on May 18 had also applied to the Review Committee on Genetic Manipulation (RCGM), Department of Biotechnology seeking clearance for import of strains/seed lots and cell banks, and for carrying out research and development, the official sources said. The RCGM has raised some queries over SII’s application and has sought a copy of material transfer agreement between the Pune-based firm and the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories is currently supplying Sputnik V in India. The SII plans to seek restricted emergency use permission of the vaccine in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/serum-institute-gets-dcgis-nod-to-produce-sputnik-v/article34731838.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||INS Sandhayak decommissioned||Hydrographic survey ship INS Sandhayak , the first of its class indigenously designed and built, was decommissioned after 40 years of service, at the Naval Dockyard Visakhapatnam on Friday in a low-key event attended only by in-station officers and sailors, in line with COVID-19 protocols. At sunset, the Naval Ensign and the Commissioning Pennant were brought down for the last time onboard INS Sandhayak in the presence of Vice Adm A.B. Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C), Eastern Naval Command (ENC), symbolising the decommissioning, a Navy statement said. The ship was conceptualised by the then Chief Hydrographer to the Government of India, Rear Adm FL Fraser, who had a strong desire for indigenously designed and built hydrographic survey vessels in India, the Navy said. The design was finalised by Naval Headquarters and the construction began at Garden Reach Ship Builders Limited (GRSE) Kolkata (then Calcutta) by laying the keel in 1978. The ship was commissioned into the Navy on February 26, 1981, by Vice Adm M.K. Roy, then FOC-in-C, ENC. “Since commissioning, the ship has been the alma mater, nurturing the hydrographers of the Navy and laying the foundation for a complete hydrographic coverage of the peninsular waters,” the Navy said. Also, the success of her design paved the way for all the survey ships in various modifications till recently, it stated. It said the ship had undertaken approximately 200 major hydrographic surveys and numerous minor surveys in both the east and west coasts of the country, the Andaman seas and neighbouring countries too. The ship has also been an active participant in many significant operations such as Op Pawan (assisting the Indian Peace Keeping Force in Sri Lanka in 1987), Op Sarong, and Op Rainbow (rendering humanitarian assistance post 2004 Tsunami) and participated in the maiden joint Indo-US HADR Exercise ‘Tiger-Triumph’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ins-sandhayak-decommissioned/article34731852.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Push for citizenship to minority migrants||Migrants belonging to six non-Muslim minority communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who came to India on valid documents before 2014 are eligible to apply online for citizenship from any part of the country, a senior government official said. In March, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) wrote to all States, including Assam, sensitising them of the relevant provisions under the Citizenship Act, 1955 that could help the six communities- Hindus, Christians, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists and Parsis, who entered India before 2014 and are here on long term visa (LTV), expedite their citizenship application. The official asserted that this particular awareness drive was not related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) that is intended to benefit undocumented (illegal migrants) from the six persecuted communities who entered India before December 31, 2014. The CAA is yet to come into force as the rules that govern the law have not been notified by the Ministry yet. “A survey was done and it was found that such migrants live in many parts of the country. The States have been made aware that provisions exist that could help the migrants in acquiring citizenship if they fulfil the criteria. This is to help the applicants who have applied online from any part of the country, as the verification is also done by the local police who have to send the report to the Home Ministry,” said the official. Assam NRC Assam is the only State where a National Register of Citizens (NRC) has been compiled. More than 19 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants in the State have been excluded from the final register. The State government has demanded reverification of the process as a large number of Hindus were left out. The excluded persons from the six communities, who are yet to be declared illegal migrants, will benefit from the CAA as and when it is implemented as legislation benefits such migrants from the three neighbouring countries who entered India illegally before 2014. A day ago, leader of the Opposition in the Assam Assembly Debabrata Saikia said in a statement that just before the Assembly elections, the State government, on March 19, citing a letter from the Centre, instructed deputy commissioners, superintendents of police, Foreigners Registration Officers “to disseminate information regarding grant of citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who hold Long Term Visas.” Mr. Saikia alleged that since the CAA was introduced for migrants from these three specific countries, there was reason to suspect that the State government’s latest instruction was nothing but a ploy to implement the Act in a roundabout way. On May 28, The MHA empowered 13 more District Collectors in Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab to grant citizenship certificates to applicants belonging to the six communities under Section 5 (registration) and Section 6 (naturalisation) of the Citizenship Act, 1955. Earlier in 2016, 16 Collectors were granted such powers that was extended again in 2018. Citizenship is a Home Ministry subject but it can delegate powers to States for specific objective. Though the precise number of such migrants who availed the LTV and are eligible for citizenship is not known, officials estimate the number to be around two lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/push-for-citizenship-to-minority-migrants/article34731829.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE panel to give report on evaluation method in 10 days||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has set up a 12-member committee to decide on assessing Class 12 students in the wake of cancellation of the board examinations. The panel would submit a report within 10 days, a notification issued by the board on Friday said. The notification, signed by CBSE’s controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj, said steps were being taken “to compile the results of Class 12 students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.” The panel includes Dr. Bhardwaj himself. Vipin Kumar, Joint Secretary from the Education Ministry’s Department of School Education, will be part of the panel, along with the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan and the Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti. As Delhi government schools are all affiliated to the CBSE, a representative from the State government’s Directorate of Education will be a part of the panel, along with a representative from the Chandigarh administration. Two members will represent the CBSE schools, while a representative from the University Grants Commission will provide the perspective of higher education institutions that use the Class 12 results for admission processes. The National Council for Educational Research and Training will also have a representative on the panel. The board exams were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CBSE is considering several proposals for alternative assessment, including using internal assessment and practical exam marks, as well as using students’ performance from Class 9 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-panel-to-give-report-on-evaluation-method-in-10-days/article34731840.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||AAI proposes salary deferral, revocation of perks||Steeped in losses due to the impact of COVID-19, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has proposed a slew of measures, including salary and allowances’ deferral, and revocation of certain perks, besides seeking financial support from the government. Due to the fall in traffic at various airports, the AAI has incurred losses for the first time since its inception. It registered a 65% decline in its revenue in financial year 2021, from Rs. 12,837 crore in FY 2020 to Rs. 4,482 crore, resulting in a loss of Rs. 2,814 crore as compared to a profit of Rs. 1,985 crore. At a meeting with the employees union and eight other staff associations on Thursday, the management proposed salary deferral, according to those who were part of the discussion. It suggested delaying payment of allowances comprising 35% of the salary till next year, discontinuation of payment for overtime and a review of the leave encashment policy. Staff salaries constitute the biggest chunk of expenditure incurred by the public sector undertaking at 50% of the total costs. In its response to the management, the employees’ union has submitted its recommendations, which include recovering dues from airlines and airport operators, and suspending capital expenditure on infrastructure, including on Regional Connectivity Scheme airports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aai-proposes-salary-deferral-revocation-of-perks/article34731847.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition leaders question Jagan, Patnaik’s letters to CMs||Opposition leaders remain sceptical about the recent letters written by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy and Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik to other Chief Ministers criticising the Centre’s vaccination policy. Unlike Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren’s letters, where they demanded universally free vaccines, both Mr. Reddy and Mr. Patnaik have limited themselves to supply side problems and demanded that the Centre should handle the procurement. Mr Patnaik said the global manufacturers were looking at the Union government for clearances and assurances. Mr. Reddy was more upfront in conceding that the global tender floated by the Andhra government did not receive any bidders because the situation had been reduced to “centre vs state”. “The decision of giving the States a larger say in the vaccination procurement was something that was unwarranted,” Mr. Reddy wrote. Mr. Patnaik talked about arriving at a “consensus”, while Mr. Reddy wrote about the necessity to speak in “one voice”. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh has questioned both the Chief Ministers asking them to question Prime Minister Narendra Modi instead of writing to fellow Chief Ministers. To Mr. Reddy, he said, “All I ask Jagan is: who made the vaccine issue Union vs States? Who unilaterally decided the Union govt will abdicate vaccinating 18-44 year olds? Why weren’t states consulted before this policy was rolled out? Why don’t you ask the PM these questions?” For Mr. Patnaik also, Mr. Ramesh had a similar response. “It’s all very well for Odisha CM to write to all CMs, but why can’t he write to PM & persuade him? After all, BJD has always supported BJP in Parliament for past 7 years. Several like-minded parties have already written to PM earlier asking for procurement of vaccines by Union Govt,” he tweeted. The Opposition scepticism also stems from the fact that both the BJD and the Congress have often found themselves on the BJP side on critical issues in Parliament. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said that both Mr. Patnaik and Mr. Reddy, along with other Chief Ministers, should ensure that the Centre is not allowed to abdicate its elementary responsibility. “So far the BJD and the YSR Congress have supported the BJP government in Parliament. Now it is up to them to put pressure on the Centre to conduct free and universal vaccination.” CPI general secretary D Raja said, “I believe both the Chief Ministers should take an unambiguous position and question the failure of the Union government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-leaders-question-jagan-patnaiks-letters-to-cms/article34731848.ece
05 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Brick kiln owners help Odisha workers return home||In his decade-long annual migration to outside States for working in brick-kilns, Haladhar Thapa, a worker from Odisha’s Balangir district, has perhaps for the first time returned home with a sense of dignity. Often packed like sardines in unreserved train compartments, Mr. Thapa’s travel back home used to be as exploitative as were his working conditions in brick-kilns. This year, however, may be an exception. With the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic disrupting lives everywhere, brick kiln operators have funded train fares for migrant workers to travel back home. Masks, sanitisers and food packets have also been provided to them. Learning from the workers’ traumatic experience during the first wave, some voluntary organisations, brick kiln owners and State government officials had planned for the return of workers. “A fortnight ago, I had booked tickets for 42 workers from Hyderabad to different districts of Odisha. They left for home on June 1. They should not contract the virus during their travel. We wanted these workers to come back and work with us again,” said Kondappa Naidu, who operates a brick kiln in Telangana. Mr. Naidu admitted that this was the first time he had booked tickets for workers employed by him.  This time, keeping in mind the vulnerability of workers, labour activists began consultations with brick-kiln operators in Tamil Nadu and Telangana in advance. “By the first week of May, workers had become desperate to return home. However, Odisha’s second wave of COVID-19 was peaking around that time,” said Umi Daniel of Aide et Action. “We motivated them to stay back in brick kilns, which are a little safer as they are situated in isolated locations, for some more time,” he said. After rounds of discussions with brick kiln owners, it was agreed that train fare would be funded. Districts administrations back in Odisha were informed in advance about the workers’ return. As of now, 300 workers have returned by travelling in reserved compartments. They were tested at temporary medical centres. Around 3,000 workers are expected to come back home via similar arrangements by June 15. Volunteers are constantly keeping in touch with the workers. “A system has also been put in place to monitor their health status at their villages. Some alert workers have been given guidance over the phone to identify COVID-19 symptoms. They are expected to inform the nearest government authorities if anyone develops such symptoms,” said Jyoti Prakash Brahma, another activist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brick-kiln-owners-help-odisha-workers-return-home/article34731850.ece
05 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Twitter storm seeks chapter on the northeast in NCERT books||A Punjab-based YouTuber’s racial slur against an Arunachal Pradesh MLA fuelled a “know northeast” campaign via a two-hour Twitter storm on Friday. Students, academics, professionals, politicians and activists across the eight northeastern States — Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura — bombarded the microblogging site with #AchapterforNE and #NortheastMatters campaigns from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. The campaign tagging was aimed at pushing the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) to include a comprehensive chapter on the northeast. More than 25 students’ organisations across the region lent their support to the campaign. Assam-based student Mayur Jyoti Kaushik, who is behind the campaign, said the region deserved a chapter in NCERT textbooks as a primer for students elsewhere in the country to know basic geography, history, ethnicity, culture and the lifestyle of the people of the northeastern States. “If all in the region unite for this, we can ask the Union Ministry of Education to include a chapter so that our counterparts beyond the region do not grow up ignorant about the Northeast and make comments like the YouTuber,” he said. YouTuber Paras Singh was arrested and brought to Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar on May 27 for calling Congress MLA and former MP Ninong Ering and the people of the State “Chinese”. The YouTuber had ridiculed the MLA for appealing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ban Battlegrounds Mobile India, a variant of PUBG. As punishment, the Arunachal Pradesh police have been teaching geography, history and other aspects of the State to the YouTuber.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-storm-seeks-chapter-on-the-northeast-in-ncert-books/article34731855.ece
05 June 2021||Pune,||‘Uddhav will decide on lockdown’||A day after Congress leader and Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s announcement regarding relaxation in lockdown rules was revoked by the Chief Minister’s Office, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday clarified that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s decision was final on such matters. Speaking in Raigad, Mr. Pawar said that Mr. Wadettiwar had already clarified that there had been a ‘misunderstanding’ regarding the incident. “Ever since the beginning of the pandemic, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has been communicating with the public regularly through social media regarding the situation. Health Minister Rajesh Tope, too, in his capacity, makes official announcements about the pandemic situation … Mr. Wadettiwar has already clarified that there was a misunderstanding. In the end, it is the State’s Chief Minister who makes the final decision on these matters,” he said. Mr. Wadettiwar on Thursday held a press conference in which he announced five levels for classifying districts according to their respective case positivity rates and bed occupancy, while stating that a complete relaxation of lockdown-like restrictions in 18 districts which fell in ‘Level 1’ would be in force from today onwards. However, in an embarrassing volte face , the CMO issued a notification almost immediately after Mr. Wadettiwar’s announcement, stating that no such decision had been taken yet. The CMO’s rebuttal of a ruling government Minister provoked jeers among the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who mocked the incident while saying that there was no co-ordination between the three parties (Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress) who constitute the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. While Mr. Wadettiwar attempted to wriggle out of his gaffe, BJP leader and former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis rebuked the MVA and its Ministers, remarking that it appeared there were many “super Chief Ministers” who made announcements about key policy decisions on their own. He further urged Mr. Thackeray to “discipline” his Ministers. The BJP leader said that such goof-ups led to frustration and disappointment among the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uddhav-will-decide-on-lockdown/article34732043.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Can’t work as slave: Eatala||“You don’t want unions now but remember how you sought the help of those same unions during the agitation for Telangana statehood,” he said, recalling how RTC employees were terrorised to leave unions. Mr. Rajender said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, who banked on people’s support and unions strength during the agitation, was now totally dependent on money, suppression and conspiracies to win the elections. Everyone knew how the recent Graduate MLC elections and bypolls were won in the State, he added. He said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao had promoted defections from Opposition parties, despite enjoying majority, with the sole intention of silencing the Opposition’s voice that was necessary for the hapless people. “Perhaps, KCR would be thinking ‘why should there be Constitution at all as I can rule the State all by myself’.” Rejecting the charges of the TRS that he won his elections with Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s picture in the campaign, he asked if that was true then how did Mr. Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha, who also contested on the party ticket and campaigned with Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s photo, lost the Lok Sabha election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cant-work-as-slave-eatala/article34732388.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Amarinder Singh briefs AICC committee||Beyond the sacrilege, issue it is learnt that several MLAs had raised issues about the style of functioning of the Chief Minister, his lack of accessibility was cited as a problem and the dominance of the bureaucracy. But not many could name a replacement who could match Captain’s stature. Similarly, most MLAs were keen to ensure that Mr. Sidhu doesn’t leave the party but were not yet ready “to hand over the steering wheel to him” ahead of the elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-singh-briefs-aicc-committee/article34731821.ece
05 June 2021||Chennai,||‘Right ecosystem needed to nurture entrepreneurs’||The Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science, along with The Hindu Group, is hosting a five-part webinar series on career guidance for students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 this month. The first session was held on ‘Engineering Innovation, Product Development and Start-ups’. Yajulu Medury, Vice-Chancellor, Mahindra University, Hyderabad, laid emphasis on the need to establish the right ecosystem to nudge students towards innovation and entrepreneurship, which traditional engineering education has failed to do. “We need an ecosystem where students can engage with corporates, start-ups, industry experts, partners, investors, accelerators, etc. Without this, the incubation and entrepreneurship innovation model will collapse,” he said, drawing on the examples of Stanford University and IIT-Madras where entrepreneurship and technical education go hand-in-hand. Product development S.N. Sridhara, Vice-Chancellor, Hindustan Institute of Technology, elaborated on the process of product development from idea generation, testing, user feedback, and IPR protection to production and marketing. He noted that it was equally important for aspiring entrepreneurs to be aware of the various platforms for incubation, the business components, and financial and legal aspects. “Students can start by undertaking professional courses, participating in hackathons, ideating, building teams and getting help from Technology Business Incubators.” Bringing in the practitioner’s perspective, Rajneesh Mittal, Head of Technology and Content, UNext Learning, spoke of the Industry 4.0. ecosystem and Indian start-ups thriving in it by enabling specific technological changes in the existing systems. He also explained the difference between education and learning: Education is extrinsic, passive and curriculum-led. Learning is intrinsic, active and curiosity-led. “While a well-defined curriculum paves the way for greater learning outcome; when the two facets of education and learning work together, it can lead to solving some of the world’s greatest problems.” The session, moderated by R. Sujatha, Deputy Editor (Reporting), The Hindu , concluded with speakers taking questions from the audience. View it at http://bit.ly/HITSTHYT1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-ecosystem-needed-to-nurture-entrepreneurs/article34731825.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||India records most cases worldwide||About 19% of adults in India, 39.6% of those aged above 45 and 44.1% of senior citizens, have been administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, as of 8 p.m. on Friday. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. Only 11% of adults in Uttar Pradesh, 12% in Bihar and 13% in Tamil Nadu have been administered with at least one dose. Whereas 28% each in Gujarat and Rajasthan, 29% in Uttarakhand, and 38% in Himachal Pradesh have been jabbed with at least one dose. Overall, 13.2% of the total Indian population have got at least one dose and 3.3% have got both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-most-cases-worldwide/article34731830.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ministry’s advisory highly bureaucratic, says Brinda||The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) is a universalised programme for any adult living in rural areas who is willing to do manual work, and law can’t be reinterpreted to introduce a policy of divisible allocations by social categories, CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat has said in a letter to Union Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The Rural Development Ministry has issued an advisory to the States asking them to ensure social categorisation in every aspect of the implementation of the law— from the projected expenditure for anticipated demand among SC/ST households in the Labour budget, to separate State level accounting for wage payments to SC and ST categories, to utilisation certificates and so on. The advisory is questionable in its intent and highly bureaucratic in its conception, Ms. Karat wrote. “The MNREGA is a universalized programme for any adult living in rural India who is willing to do manual work. The budgetary provisions are made for the implementation of the law as a whole. Thus, this cannot be determined by any new interpretations of the law to introduce a policy of divisible allocations by social categories, which is what the advisory appears to be,” she stated. The Ministry had indicated that the categorisation could be linked to budget allocation. And the changes have been made without holding any consultations, she pointed out. The main issue at present was the lack of work available under MGNREGA. “The average days of work in April-May this year of just 20 days per household is less than last year,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministrys-advisory-highly-bureaucratic-says-brinda/article34731834.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||RBI holds rates, cuts GDP forecast||Explaining the rationale behind the MPC’s decision, the RBI Governor said the forecast of a normal monsoon, the resilience of agriculture and the farm economy, the adoption of COVID compatible operational models by businesses and the gathering momentum of global recovery could all provide tailwinds to revival of domestic economic activity when the second wave abated. “On the other hand, the spread of COVID-19 infections in rural areas and the dent on urban demand pose downside risks,” he observed. Noting that the retail inflation reading for April at 4.3% had brought some relief and policy elbow room, Mr. Das said a normal south-west monsoon along with comfortable buffer stocks should help to keep cereal price pressures in check. On the other hand, the rising trajectory of international crude prices within a broad-based surge in international commodity prices and logistics costs was worsening cost conditions. These developments could keep core price pressures elevated, although weak demand conditions may temper the pass-through to consumer inflation, he said. Emphasising that upside risks to inflation emanate from persistence of the second wave and consequent restrictions on activity on a virtually pan-India basis, he said insulating prices of essential food items from supply side disruptions would necessitate active monitoring and preparedness for coordinated, calibrated and timely measures by both the Centre and Sates to prevent emergence of supply chain bottlenecks and increase in retail margins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-holds-rates-cuts-gdp-forecast/article34731835.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||CBSE introduces coding, data sciences as modules||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has introduced coding and data sciences as skill modules in its curriculum this year, in collaboration with software giant Microsoft. This is in accordance with last year’s National Education Policy, which recommended the introduction of coding-related activities from the middle school level, and also called for increased integration of a variety of skills into the school syllabus. Simple tools The CBSE currently offers nine such skill modules in middle school, and up to 38 skill subjects for older classes. Coding is now being introduced as a skill module with a duration of 12 hours for Classes 6-8. “The idea is to simplify the coding learning experience by nurturing design thinking, logical flow of ideas and apply this across the disciplines. The foundations laid in the early years will help the students to build the competencies in the area of AI, Data Sciences and other disciplines,” said the notification sent to all CBSE schools on June 3. Noting the importance of giving students a solid foundation on data science and technology, a skill module of 12 hours’ duration has been introduced for Class 8 students, along with a more in-depth skill subject in Classes 9 -12. The CBSE announced that it would waive the application fee for schools which wish to introduce these subjects from Class 11 onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-introduces-coding-data-sciences-as-modules/article34731841.ece
05 June 2021||Kolkata,||Now, Mamata’s picture on vaccine certificates||As the vaccination drive picks up in West Bengal, now certificates of COVID-19 vaccination issued by West Bengal Health Department have a photograph of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The certificates issued by State government’s vaccination on wheels initiative, where a bus has been converted into a mobile vaccination centre, have Ms. Banerjee's photograph. Along with the picture, the certificate has slogan “Be Alert, Be Safe” in both Bengali and English. Vaccination certificates have carried photographs of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which in the past was criticised by the Trinamool Congress. Minister and chairperson of Board of Administrators Kolkata Municipal Corporation Firhad Hakim defended the move saying that there is nothing wrong in having photograph of the head of State on certificate. Bhatariya Janata Party (BJP) State spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said that the Trinamool Congress wants to project that the place that our Prime Minister holds in our parliamentary democracy can be replaced by the Chief Minister. The Trinamool Congress and the BJP leadership also sparred over the GST (Goods and Service Tax) on vaccines. Meanwhile, the number of new COVID-19 infections in West Bengal in the past 24 hours dropped to 7,913. The number of deaths also reduced to 113. Kolkata recorded 23 deaths whereas North 24 Parganas recorded 25 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-mamatas-picture-on-vaccine-certificates/article34731843.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks response on Asaram Bapu’s plea||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Rajasthan government to respond to a plea by Asaram Bapu, who is serving a life sentence in sexual assault cases, for permission to undergo treatment at an ayurvedic centre near Haridwar in Uttarakhand. The top court, however, observed orally that it was not inclined to grant interim bail by suspending the self-styled godman’s sentence for two months to enable him to get “holistic” treatment at a medical centre of his choice. “Issue notice [to Rajasthan government],” a Bench led by Justice B.R. Gavai directed. The court listed the case for hearing on Tuesday. Several cases In April 2018, the Jodhpur court had sentenced Asaram to life imprisonment after finding him guilty of raping a girl at his ashram in 2013. He was also convicted in a 2002 rape case and sentenced to 20 years in prison. Asaram is also facing a rape case in Surat in Gujarat. He was arrested in Indore and brought to Jodhpur on September 1, 2013. He was under judicial custody since September 2, 2013.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-seeks-response-on-asaram-bapus-plea/article34731862.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC imposes fine on Juhi Chawla in 5G case||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected Bollywood actor Juhi Chawla’s suit against the rollout of 5G technology in India, terming it a “publicity stunt” done without any personal knowledge of the issue. Justice J.R. Midha also imposed a cost of Rs. 20 lakh on the petitioners — Ms. Chawla, Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani — for wasting the court’s time. “The plaint is stuffed with unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments which are liable to be struck down,” the court said. The petitioners admitted to having knowledge with regard to only certain paragraphs of the petition, and a major portion of it was “based on information and legal advice”.     It also issued a contempt notice to an unidentified person who disrupted the online hearing on Wednesday by singing hit songs from Ms. Chawla’s movies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-imposes-fine-on-juhi-chawla-in-5g-case/article34731866.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Delta variant led to most post-vaccine cases in Delhi||The study also reports a new mutation in Delta called T478K that the scientists believe has a role to play in allowing the coronavirus to better infiltrate human cells. “Our data indicates B.1.617.2 shows high transmissibility and surges without any increase in the Case Fatality Ratio (CFR). We estimate the transmissibility to be as much as 50% greater than B.1.1.7. Viral load of B.1.617.2 appears to be higher than B.1.1.7 and based on data from India and UK, so does vaccination break-through rate. B.1.617.2 is capable of creating very fast rising outbreaks with vaccination breakthroughs,” they note in their study. Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-IGIB and among the authors of the paper said that while the variant was extremely transmissible, there was no single super spreader event that contributed to the rise of the Delta variant in Delhi. Previous studies had shown that the farmer protests and religious gatherings had contributed to amplifying the Alpha variant in North India. The latter variant has now been outcompeted by the Delta. “We should be doing more studies on the vaccine effectiveness in India against various strains. We must also assess the risk to various populations, by age, to decide on the dosage of vaccine.” Dr Agrawal said. ThoughIndia is seeing a decline overall in the case trajectory, the Delta variant has been responsible for a surge of cases in the United Kingdom, as well as shown to reduce the efficacy of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delta-variant-led-to-most-post-vaccine-cases-in-delhi/article34731820.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||No decision on indemnity to vaccine makers yet||When asked about the delay in emergency use listing of COVAXIN, he said India was working with Bharat Biotech and the World Health Organisation on the issue. “Currently data sharing is on and we are keen that this milestone is achieved soon. We are pursuing it.’’ Dr. Paul cautioned that while India had been able to suppress the second wave, the virus could come back in case people don’t act responsibly. “When the peak is declining, we should not suddenly get back to the same behaviour as before the second wave. We have to buy time to ensure we achieve a high coverage of vaccination,’’ he pointed out. Lav Aggarwal, joint secretary, Health Ministry, providing details of the COVID-19 graph in the country, said there had been a continuous decrease in cases and recoveries were far exceeding the new cases. “Recoveries are exceeding the daily cases reported. There has been a steady decline in case positivity across the country. India has registered a continuous decrease in cases since its peak on May 7. If we analyse data in comparison to May 7, the highest reported peak, we are recording a 68% decline in daily cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-decision-on-indemnity-to-vaccine-makers-yet/article34731836.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP general secretaries’ meet to be held||In what will be the BJP’s first big in person interaction after the second wave of COVID-19 began, party president J.P. Nadda has called a meeting of national general secretaries on June 5 and 6. The meeting’s agenda includes preparations for 2022 Assembly elections, the situation arising out of COVID-19 and the party’s own work in the interregnum. Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur are to go to the polls in early 2022 and Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat later the same year. Thus, it will be a heavy calendar, and the BJP will be fighting the Congress in all these States, barring U.P. In all the States, except Punjab, the BJP will try to defend its governments. BJP national general secretary (organisation), B.L. Santhosh, recently toured Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh and tried to calm embattled State units, reeling both under factionalism and the erosion of popular support because of the handling of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-general-secretaries-meet-to-be-held/article34731827.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Stranded foreigners’ visa extended||The Home Ministry has extended the visa of foreigners stranded in India till August 31, a statement said. Foreigners would not be charged any amount as a renewal fee or overstay penalty. The Ministry stated that as commercial flight operations had been suspended on account of the COVID-19 pandemic since March 2020, a number of foreign nationals who had arrived in India before March 2020 on valid visas had been stranded here. It said that in the light of non-resumption of commercial flight operations, it had been decided that the visa or stay stipulation period of such foreign nationals stranded in India would be considered as deemed to be valid till August 31. They will not be required to submit any application to the FRRO/FRO concerned for extension of their visas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stranded-foreigners-visa-extended/article34731846.ece
05 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Villagers, cow transporters clash, one dies||A person was killed and five others were injured after a group of persons transporting cows from Bulandshahr to Mewat in Haryana allegedly clashed with villagers near Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Friday. Six persons were transporting cows in a light truck to Mewat in Haryana, when they were confronted by villagers in the Kosi Kalan area of Mathura, said police. One person, Shera, said to be among those transporting the cows, died on the spot, said Shrish Chandra, Superintendent of Police (Rural), Mathura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/villagers-cow-transporters-clash-one-dies/article34731856.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea against HC order on scribe||The Supreme Court on Friday rejected an appeal filed by a 22-year-old woman against a Delhi High Court (HC) order granting anticipatory bail to a Mumbai journalist whom she had accused of rape. The court said it found no reason to interfere with the HC’s order of May 13 protecting journalist Varun Hiremath from arrest. “The question is of normal human conduct ... If a man and woman are in a room, the man makes a request and the woman complies with it, do we need to say anything more?” the court said at one point.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-rejects-plea-against-hc-order-on-scribe/article34731861.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Identify people for Padma awards: Centre||The Centre on Friday asked the States to set up search committees to find talented people who could be nominated for Padma awards but have been left out of consideration despite their exceptional contributions. The Narendra Modi government has been honouring many “unsung heroes,” who are contributing to society in different ways, with Padma awards. The Centre opened the window for receiving applications on the portal ‘padmaawards.gov.in’ from June 1 to September 15 for the awards to be announced on the eve of Republic Day 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/identify-people-for-padma-awards-centre/article34732044.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Set up panels to find ‘unsung heroes’ for Padma awards, Centre tells States||The Centre asked States to set up search committees to find talented people who could be nominated for Padma awards. The Centre opened the window for receiving applications on the portal ‘padmaawards.gov.in’ from June 1 to September 15 for the awards.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/set-up-panels-to-find-unsung-heroes-for-padma-awards-centre-tells-states/article34731857.ece
05 June 2021||Patna,||BJP suspends Bihar MLA Tunna Pandey||The BJP on Friday suspended MLC Tunna Pandey from the party with “immediate effect” for making “comments against the party line”. Mr. Pandey had on Thursday met Osama Sahab, son of former RJD MP and strongman Mohd Shahabuddin, in Siwan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-suspends-bihar-mla-tunna-pandey/article34731858.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC rejects petition seeking de-recognition of YSRCP||The Delhi High Court on Friday rejected Anna YSR Congress’s petition seeking withdrawal of the status of the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) as a “recognised party” and to de-register it for using the ‘YSR Congress Party’ abbreviation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-rejects-petition-seeking-de-recognition-of-ysrcp/article34731868.ece
05 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Meghalaya coal mine owner sent in judicial custody as 5 remain trapped||The owner of a coal mine in Meghalaya, where five labourers are trapped since May 30, was sent to judicial custody on Thursday, a day after he surrendered, said State Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/meghalaya-coal-mine-owner-sent-in-judicial-custody-as-5-remain-trapped/article34731869.ece
05 June 2021||SRINAGAR,||CRPF vehicle attacked in Kashmir||Militants on Friday opened fire on a vehicle of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Budgam in central Kashmir. The militants were apparently hiding in a field. The vehicle was on patrol near Bilal Abad in Kralpora. The police and the CRPF have launched a joint operation in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crpf-vehicle-attacked-in-kashmir/article34731870.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai’s case count falls below 2,000||Chennai’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 2,000 after 54 days on Friday. As many as 1,971 people tested positive in the city, even as the State logged 22,651 fresh cases and 463 deaths. The city’s daily count had crossed the 2,000-mark on April 11. Till date, 5,13,229 people have tested positive for the infection in the city. Coimbatore clocked 2,810 cases, while the count remained above 1,000 in three other western districts — Erode (1,619), Salem (1,187) and Tiruppur (1,161). Thanjavur reported 1,004 cases, while Chengalpattu saw 909. The cases took the State’s tally to 21,95,402. The active cases fell to 2,68,968. Of these, Coimbatore accounted for 35,694 patients and Chennai 26,722. A total of 33,646 people were discharged after treatment in the State on Friday. These included 4,590 people in Coimbatore and 3,364 in Chennai. In Chennai, 71 people succumbed to COVID-19, taking its toll to 7,362. Chengalpattu’s toll crossed 2,000, as 38 more people died of the infection. There were 31 deaths in Coimbatore, 29 in Tiruvallur, 22 each in Kanniyakumari and Perambalur, 21 in Dindigul and 20 in Salem. Of the 463 deceased, 102 did not have co-morbidities. These included an 18-year-old from Salem, who was admitted to a private hospital on May 22 with complaints of fever and cough for seven days. He died on June 1 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 23-year-old woman from Coimbatore with obesity and hypothyroidism was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and ESI Hospital on May 31. She died on June 2 due to COVID-19 pneumonia.  So far, 26,128 people have died of COVID-19 in the State. In the last 24 hours, 1,75,033 samples were tested in the State. Two more private laboratories — Sri Samraj Labs in Tiruvarur and Kanakesa Thevar Memorial Hospital in Pattukkottai — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. There are now 271 testing facilities in the State — 69 in the government sector and 202 private facilities. Another 2,16,145 people were vaccinated on Friday. Of these, 1,22,282 were in the 18-44 age group. This took the State’s overall coverage to 95,91,450. As many as 65,729 people aged between 45 and 59 and 25,069 senior citizens were among those who were inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennais-case-count-falls-below-2000/article34732305.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID to probe charges against karate instructor||Director-General of Police (DGP) J.K. Tripathy has ordered a probe by the Crime Branch CID police into the complaints of sexual assault and harassment against E. Kebi Raj, a city-based martial arts instructor, by his trainees. The CB-CID probe was ordered by the DGP following a recommendation from Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal. Sources said the matter was taken up by the CB-CID since the accused had at least three complaints filed against him. An investigation was needed to establish his involvement and to find out whether others had been involved. An investigation would be conducted in other districts and other States, besides collecting electronic evidence. Kebi Raj, 41,was arrestedby the All Women Police, Anna Nagar, on Monday. He was an instructor at a reputed city school and had been running Hi-Impact Martial Arts School in Anna Nagar. A 26-year-old woman, who was his trainee, alleged that in 2014, when they were returning to the city after participating in a judo tournament in Namakkal, he touched her inappropriately and attempted to rape her in a moving car. She alleged that she was sexually assaulted during the trip and later he threatened to murder her if she spoke about the incident. Due to the trauma, she dropped out of the institute, she said. However, therecent arrest of a school teacherfor sexual harassment gave her the confidence to come forward and lodge a complaint against the perpetrator. Based on her complaint, the police registered a case under Section 376, read with Section 511 (attempt to rape), Section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman) of the IPC and provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-to-probe-charges-against-karate-instructor/article34732155.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu traders largely COVID-free||In recent days, the test positivity rate for COVID-19 has been zero at the Koyambedu market complex, officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation said. During the first wave, Koyambedu was one of the largest clusters that spread the infection across the State. An average of 500 traders were being tested in Koyambedu every day and no traders had tested positive in recent days, the officials said. Chennai district has reported the lowest test positivity rate among all the districts in the State. Valasaravakkam zone is the only zone with some areas registering a higher test positivity rate. Corporation officials have been expressing concern about the continuous reporting of positive cases in areas such as Virugambakkam and Saligramam. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi had directed officers to continue testing traders at the market. On Friday, Mr. Bedi and Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal inspected the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex and intensified the vaccination drive. The civic body and the police would install watch towers to monitor physical distancing and mask wearing by visitors at the market. Officials said the Corporation had vaccinated 4,800 traders at the Koyambedu market complex. The vaccination drive would cover lorry drivers and also those visiting the market from other areas. A mass cleaning of the market would be taken up on Sunday from noon to 8 p.m. In Koyambedu market, 1,731 people had been fined in May for failing to wear masks and 699 shops had been identified with violations pertaining to physical distancing. All traders had been directed to get vaccinated. The civic body was mulling banning traders who were not vaccinated. The civic body would identify the list of traders in each zone and vaccinate them to prevent spread of COVID-19 in the neighborhoods. The Corporation plans to launch the vaccination of traders at the Chintadripet market and Kasimedu market before the lockdown is relaxed. Meanwhile, the civic body has urged residents to call 044-25384520 to report violations of home quarantine in their neighborhoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-traders-largely-covid-free/article34732157.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lioness Neela dies of COVID-19 at Vandalur zoo||A 9-year-old lioness, Neela, succumbed to COVID-19 at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur on Thursday. Nine lions in the zoo have tested positive for the infection. According to a release from the Environment and Forests Department, a COVID-19 outbreak was reported among Asiatic lions at the zoo. A few of the animals were found symptomatic and one of them, Neela, succumbed to the disease. Initially, five lions reported anorexia (loss of appetite) and occasional coughing. The in-house veterinary team and later TANUVAS experts provided treatment. Nasal and rectal swabs and faecal samples of 11 lions were sent to the National Institute of High Security Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal. While the dead lioness was asymptomatic and showed some nasal discharge only a day ago, nine of the 11 lions, whose samples were sent, tested positive for SARS CoV-2. To ascertain whether the reported findings are false positives or the animal could have died of co-morbidities, samples were also sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, and the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, on June 4, the zoo administration said. As similar outbreaks were reported in the Hyderabad and Jaipur zoos, officials immediately quarantined all the Asiatic lions and started treating them with antibiotics and other prophylactic drugs, in consultation with the TANUVAS’ expert team and veterinarians at the Hyderabad and Bronx zoos. AAZP officials have been instructed to get RT-PCR tests done for all animal handlers and concerned staff. The government had closed all zoos to visitors on April 20 and so far, 61% handlers of the big cats have been vaccinated. PPE kits, too, have been made mandatory for animal keepers, veterinary doctors and field staff visiting the lion safari area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lioness-neela-dies-of-covid-19-at-vandalur-zoo/article34732301.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Witco winds up business||Witco (India) Pvt. Limited, one of the oldest retail brands from Chennai, has wound up its business because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We regret to inform you that we have closed down our business. The decision was not an easy one but unfortunately, due to COVID-19 and the restrictions on international travel, it was not sustainable for us,” the 70-year-old brand, which sold luggage and bags, said in a note on its official website on Thursday. “We would like to thank our customers and our esteemed clientele for their patronage over the last 70 years,” it added. The firm’s managing director V.P. Harris told The Hindu , “We shut down our operations in January itself. What really happened was last March [2020], when the first lockdown was announced, we (the family) sat together and evaluated the business, and we found that international travel will not happen for a long time.” “My father founded the business and ran it for almost 25 years and now, in its 70th year, my brother and I, who have been running the show since, have wound up operations. The current unprecedented circumstances left us with no other option.” He recalled that there was a similar dip in business when the dotcom bubble burst, and he realised that when airline bookings fell, his sales would dwindle. Closed since 2020 According to Mr. Harris, the firm had 11 outlets. “We never opened our outlets at two popular malls in Chennai after the 2020 shutdown,” he said. A few years ago, the firm forayed into the online space, but Mr. Harris said the business there was minuscule. “We did run a trial on e-commerce sites and we had our presence on Amazon and Flipkart. But when it came to luggage as a category, customers prefer to see the product and then purchase it. Customers were comfortable buying other bags online,” he said. Witco began its journey in 1951 as West India Plastic Trading Co in a 500 sq ft store at George Town in Chennai. During the 1970s, the firm slowly started expanding its presence in Kochi, Kozhikode and Coimbatore. After a few years, it entered the Karnataka market too. Witco’s growth happened post-liberalisation. About the final profit/loss for the company before business was wound up, Mr. Harris said, “We are still in the process of computing that. Fortunately, we were debt free.” “Our suppliers have been settled despite this sudden forced closure; all our team members are fortunately covered by the LIC Gratuity Policy; all our store tenancies are also settled,” he said. Witco sold luggage at various price bands. It sold suitcases, travel bags, backpacks, hand bags and laptop bags, among others.  The decision was not an easy one, but unfortunately, due to COVID-19 and the restrictions on international travel, it was not sustainable||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/witco-winds-up-business/article34732138.ece
05 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Mandaikadu temple roof will be repaired as per ahamas||The roof of the sanctum sanctorum of the Bhagavathi Amman Temple at Mandaikadu in Kanniyakumari district would be repaired as per the ahamas, said Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu on Friday. The Minister, who visited the temple to assess the damage caused by the fire that broke out on Wednesday, said it had caused major damage to the roof which was 25.5 feet long and 17 feet wide. “But the sanctum sanctorum was not affected. Already the priests in the temple have performed poojas to make ‘atonement’. There is a request for conducting devaprasanna to study the problems. It will be brought to the attention of the Chief Minister,” Mr Sekar Babu said. He said the repair would be taken on a war footing and the HR&CE department would fully meet the expenses. Mr Sekar Babu said a team of officials was conducting an inquiry into the circumstances that led to the fire and they had inquired with the priests and the watchman of the temple. “We will initiate action after the officials complete their inquiry and submit a report. We will not spare anyone who is responsible for the accident,” he explained. The Minister said Information Technology Minister Mano Thangaraj and local MLAs and MP visited the temple when they knew about the fire accident and their concern was a proof that they had acted in good faith irrespective of party affiliations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandaikadu-temple-roof-will-be-repaired-as-per-ahamas-minister/article34732092.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No differences with Panneerselvam, says Palaniswami||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday said there were no differences of opinion between him and coordinator O. Panneerselvam. He was answering a journalist’s question why Mr. Panneerselvam was not present at his meeting with the party secretaries of Chennai and surrounding districts here earlier in the day. Mr. Palaniswami explained that the coordinator was pre-occupied with the shifting of his residence here. Besides, “Today, being an auspicious day, I chose to visit the party headquarters. The meeting was not pre-planned. The office-bearers joined me as they came to know that I would be visiting the headquarters.” To another question whether there was any cold war between him and Mr. Panneerselvam in the light of their issuing statements separately, the former Chief Minister replied that on matters concerning the government, he had been expressing his views and on matters of general importance, Mr. Panneerselvam had been articulating his opinions. As for the audio clips (including the one available on social media since Friday morning) containing the phone conversations between former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala and her supporters, the co-coordinator reiterated his stance that she was not in the organisation. He also recalled Ms. Sasikala’s statement in March, ahead of the Assembly election, that she had decided to step aside from politics. She was “in touch” with members of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by her nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran. “The unanimous view among members and functionaries at all levels is that members of that family [Ms. Sasikala’s] should not be in the party. This position continues...,” Mr. Palaniswami said. He denied that AIADMK members were talking to Ms. Sasikala. In another audio clip doing rounds in the evening, Ms. Sasikala was heard telling her follower that she made arrangements (for the assumption of office by a fresh Council of Ministers headed by Mr. Palaniswami in February 2017) before she went to Bengaluru (to serve her jail term) as she wanted to fulfil the wish of Jayalalithaa that the AIADMK government “remain in office for 100 years”. Mr. Palaniswami urged the State government to increase the number of COVID-19 testing centres and ramp up testing. He appreciated the Centre for circulating among the States a draft detailed project report on the linking of the Godavari and the Cauvery. Mr. Panneerselvam thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in a letter, for the Centre’s decision to extend the validity of Teachers Eligibility Test certification to lifetime from seven years. He said the decision would create more jobs for those seeking a career in teaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-differences-with-panneerselvam-says-palaniswami/article34732294.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inquiry reveals involvement of judicial officer in false case||A police inquiry ordered by the Madras High Court has revealed the “active” involvement of a serving judicial officer and the passive involvement of a few advocates and others in filing a writ of quo warranto petition last year, accusing the then Registrar (Vigilance) R. Poornima of not having passed even Class XII and getting it published in newspapers, even before the case could be listed for admission. Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Pongiappan expressed shock over the inquiry report and directed Registrar General P. Dhanabal to place the inquiry report submitted by G. Nagajothi, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch, before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee for initiating appropriate action against the individuals concerned. The judges, however, refused to make the report public for now. The Division Bench also held that the police inquiry had led to the unearthing of sufficient material to frame charges against two advocates B. Sathish Kumar, 37, and U. Vasudevan, 53, of Chennai, under the Contempt of Courts Act of 1971. The judges, on Friday, asked both the lawyers, who appeared virtually, if they wanted to plead guilty of the charges framed against them. When both the advocates pleaded not guilty, the judges recorded their submissions and granted them time till June 18 to file additional affidavits in support of their defence. The court also said that filing of the false case against the then Registrar (Vigilance), who had been taking stringent action against complaints of corruption against the judicial officers and getting it widely publicised in the media, demands invocation of the charge of scandalising the High Court and thereby bringing the administration of justice into disrepute in the eyes of the public. It also amounted to interfering with the administration of justice, the other charge read. On October 12, 2020, the then Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy had dismissed the writ petition filed against Ms. Poornima, and initiated suo motu contempt of proceedings against the petitioner, Mr. Sathish Kumar, besides imposing a cost of Rs. 5 lakh on him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inquiry-reveals-involvement-of-judicial-officer-in-false-case/article34732299.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation plans task force to tackle COVID-19 surge in future||The Greater Chennai Corporation is readying a task force along with a vaccination strategy to handle a third wave of the pandemic, if any, in the city. Chennai district, which witnessed daily COVID-19 positive cases touching nearly 7,500 during the middle of May, is seeing fewer than 2,000 cases. However, senior officials of the civic body point out that the battle against the pandemic is far from over and it is essential to have a team in place to tackle future waves. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that even as the civic body was engaged in fighting the pandemic, a plan was being readied in the background for a possible third wave. Mr. Bedi said as part of the prevention plan, a task force would be announced shortly. The Commissioner said vaccination strategy and other preventive mechanisms were being worked out. Going by the data of the daily positive cases published by the civic body, five zones, including Ambattur, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar, have remained hotspots in both the first and second waves. Ambattur and Anna Nagar, in the second wave, touched an all-time high with more than 5,000 cases, with Anna Nagar having the highest at 5,270 cases on May 20. A senior official of the Health Department in the civic body pointed out that they were aware that the five hotspot zones in the city were densely populated zones having more than 43% (34 lakh) of the population of the city (78 lakh). These zones were also hubs of commercial activities. The senior official said as these zones had high commercial activities there is also bound to be a large floating population causing the pandemic to spread faster.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-plans-task-force-to-tackle-covid-19-surge-in-future/article34732160.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Task force set up to assist expert panel for COVID-19 management||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a 14-member task force to be headed by retired IAS officer R. Poornalingam that will assist the expert committee headed by the Chief Minister for COVID-19 management activities. “The committee will have an advisory role and it will conduct meetings periodically and monitor the action taken on suggestions,” a government order issued on Thursday stated. Non-official members in the task force are P. Kuganantham; Kolandaswamy; Manoj Murhekar, director of the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, and Jayaprakash Muliyil, epidemiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Health Secretary, Officer on Special Duty to the Health and Family Welfare Department, Director of Medical and Rural Health Services, Director of Medical Education, Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Mission Director of the National Health Mission, managing director of the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited and Chairman of the Medical Services Recruitment Board will be the other members. Joint Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare Department will be the member secretary of the panel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/task-force-set-up-to-assist-expert-panel-for-covid-19-management/article34732295.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need collectives in society to confront fear’||“We need collectives that can confront fear in society. There is an accentuation of fear which may be due to social and cultural constructs,” musician T.M. Krishna said. Speaking during a virtual discussion of his bookThe spirit of enquiry: notes of dissentat the Jaipur Literature Festival with former West Bengal Governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi, Mr. Krishna said the biggest thing about fear was that it made one look behind their back. “A lot of our schooling itself is self censorship. It has not been created yesterday. We knew what questions to ask and what not to ask in class. We asked only those questions that could be asked. Is that not self-censorship? It is the accentuation of this fear that makes this monster, that makes it come in front of you — that is what is happening now,” he said. To a point raised by Mr. Gandhi about Mr. Krishna “questioning a lot of things that need to be questioned” on injustices and inequalities, Mr. Krishna said, “The question arose whether I should ask questions only about injustices closest to me and leave out the ones that happened in a larger context.” Noting that most questions were not meant to point fingers at someone, the musician said, “Not asking a question will also raise the question as to whether I am also participating in that injustice.”  A lot of our schooling itself is self censorship. We knew what questions to ask and what not to ask in class T.M. Krishna Musician||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/need-collectives-in-society-to-confront-fear/article34732303.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kanimozhi launches project to restore waterbodies in Thoothukudi||DMK MP Kanimozhi on Friday launched a project to restore the watershed pockets along the course of the Thamirabarani in Thoothukudi district. “Over 50 waterbodies (lakes) getting water from the Thamirabarani will be restored. The goal is to increase the water retaining capacity of these lakes,” said Ms. Kanimozhi, who represents the Thoothukudi Lok Sabha constituency. The project was taken up with the help of the Public Works Department and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. “We are working together with the Environmentalist Foundation of India, a wildlife conservation and habitat restoration organisation,” she explained. The project was launched in Authoor. Ms. Kanimozhi said the work would include the removal of garbage and water hyacinth from the water holding areas of the lakes and invasive plants like Prosopis juliflora from the lake bed and bunds. “The depth of the waterbodies will be increased wherever necessary to hike storage capacity and strengthen the bunds into a dual embankment with the excavated silt,” she said. Ms. Kanimozhi said it was a holistic ecological conservation programme aimed at increasing the groundwater table and restoring the habitat for all life forms. “Every native tree in the lake area will be retained and an additional 950 saplings of palm, neem and pongamia will be planted. The inflow and outflow systems of the lake will be regulated,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kanimozhi-launches-project-to-restore-waterbodies-in-thoothukudi/article34732144.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Swap liver transplants done under bio-bubble||Doctors at MGM Healthcare here recently performed a swap liver transplant involving two pairs of donors and recipients by successfully creating a bio-bubble to avoid the risk of SARS CoV-2 infection. A statement by the hospital said this was the first time that such a swap transplant was done in Tamil Nadu under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. Swap transplants are done when two patients have incompatible donors from their own family but the respective donors are compatible to donate to the other patient in the pair. Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director of the Institute of Liver Diseases, Transplant and Hepatobiliary Surgery at the hospital, said that as per government norms, such surgeries must happen at the same time within the State but can be in two hospitals. Dr. Srinivasan said such transplants could save many lives, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic when cadaveric organs were not available. Highlighting the risks involved in performing such surgeries during the pandemic, he said that a bio-bubble was created with a medical team involving 100 people and the close relatives of the donors and recipients. Karthik Mathivanan, liver transplant surgeon at the hospital, said such a procedure required robust infrastructure and well-trained personnel to run four operation theatres simultaneously for several hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swap-liver-transplants-done-under-bio-bubble/article34732158.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IMH launches one more helpline||The pandemic has had its own effects on the mental health of the people. With a number of persons seeking assistance for mental healthcare needs during the pandemic, the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) has launched a dedicated 24-hour helpline. P. Poorna Chandrika, Director of IMH, said that people in need of help could call 9154154092 and this will be in addition to the existing tele counselling service on 044-26425585. “This new helpline will be handled round-the-clock by mental health professionals of the institute. Initially, we had launched this helpline for healthcare providers in need of support during the pandemic. A number of them called for stress-related issues. Now, we are opening it up for the general public,” Dr. Chandrika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/imh-launches-one-more-helpline/article34732161.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Iguana twins surprise pet consultant||A.R. Vijay, a pet consultant, was expecting to welcome a tiny iguana, but he was surprised with a bonus on Friday. In a very unusual occurrence, a Red Iguana’s egg that hatched had twins. “We have been breeding iguanas for the last five years and we have never come across such an incident. We are of course, quite delighted,” he said. Mr. Vijay, who owns a pet shop in Velachery and breeds iguanas, turtles, tortoises and bearded dragons, said the breeding season for the iguana is between December and March, and they lay about 45-65 eggs. “This time, 20 have hatched and another 45 will soon hatch one after another,” he said. The iguanas were vegetarians and usually feed on spinach, hibiscus, cactus and fruits, he added. Mr. Vijay’s iguanas are popular for they have appeared on TV programmes as well. Sometime ago, in a show on a leading Tamil channel, they played a role wherein participants had to identify the species. “We got permission from the Animal Welfare Board before shooting for the programme,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iguana-twins-surprise-pet-consultant/article34732163.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Direct Centre to ensure free vaccination for all, Alagiri urges President||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Friday wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to direct the Narendra Modi-led Central government to ensure universal free vaccination against COVID-19 for every citizen. The government should also ensure that one crore people are vaccinated every day, which is the only way to defeat the pandemic. “COVID-19 has caused unprecedented devastation and immeasurable pain to nearly every Indian family. Tragically, the Modi government has completely abdicated its duty of fighting coronavirus and abandoned the people. The truth is that the Union BJP government is guilty of criminal mismanagement of COVID-19,” Mr. Alagiri said. The Modi government’s vaccination strategy had been “a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers”, he said. The government deliberately created a digital divide, thereby slowing down vaccination, and was also wilfully complicit in creating multiple pricing slabs for the same vaccine. The Centre and the States had till date ordered only 39 crore vaccines for a population of 140 crore. The average pace of vaccination was 16 lakh per day, at which pace it will take three years to vaccinate the adult population, the Congress leader said. “The only way to save people’s lives is to vaccinate the entire adult population on or before December 31,” he added. A delegation of leaders of the Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee submitted a memorandum addressed to the President, seeking his intervention in the vaccination programme to ensure that at least one crore people are administered the jabs every day under a universal free immunisation programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direct-centre-to-ensure-free-vaccination-for-all-alagiri-urges-president/article34732145.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Foundation USA to donate medical kits||Tamil Nadu Foundation USA has proposed to donate medical equipment and kits worth Rs. 3.71 crore to government hospitals. Foundation chairman S. Rajarethinam met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday and presented the letter for handing over 100 oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 1.19 crore. It has already given oxygen concentrators to government hospitals at Kilpauk, Chengalpattu, Tiruppur and Erode. It has also supplied RT-PCR machines, PPE kits and face masks. The Federation of Tamil Sangams of North America has donated $4,00,000, equivalent to Rs. 3 crore, to the the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Earlier, it had donated relief materials worth Rs. 20 crore. Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association president Ganesan handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.25 crore to Mr. Stalin. Malai Murasu managing director Kannan Adityan donated Rs. 1 crore. An amount of Rs. 66 lakh was given by the Tamil Nadu Small Traders’ Association. Hinduja Leyland Finance managing director Sachin Pillai gave a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-foundation-usa-to-donate-medical-kits/article34732296.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palliative care foundation website launched||The website of Golden Butterflies Children’s Palliative Care Foundation, a not-for-profit, public charitable trust, was launched by Dr. Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu Group Publishing Pvt. Ltd, on Friday. She praised the idea of developing the websitewww.goldenbutterflies.into connect with child-patients and caregivers virtually. Dr Malini Partharasarathy appreciated the role played by Golden Butterflies in counselling and mailing edu-tainment kits to child-patients to boost their spirits during the pandemic when all other medical treatment including paediatric oncology has been subsumed by COVID-19. S. Santhanakrishnan, founder, PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP & Patron, Golden Butterflies commended the foundation for working with child-patients in painful circumstances and pledged his support. At the virtual event Dr. Mary Ann Muckaden, professor, Palliative Medicine, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai & medical advisor, of the organisation briefed the audience about the importance of paediatric palliative care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palliative-care-foundation-website-launched/article34732020.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens COVID-19 Care Centres||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday virtually inaugurated COVID-19 Care Centres in Theni and Virudhunagar districts. A 300-bed facility has been set up at Kombai near Uthamapalayam in Theni district. Another facility with 200 beds has been set up at the K.V.S. Centenary School in Virudhunagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-opens-covid-19-care-centres/article34732137.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Children’s palliative care trust website launched||The website of Golden Butterflies Children’s Palliative Care Foundation, a not-for-profit, public charitable trust, was launched by Dr. Malini Parthasarathy, Chairperson, The Hindu Group Publishing Pvt. Ltd, on Friday. She praised the idea of developing the websitewww.goldenbutterflies.into connect with child-patients and caregivers virtually. Dr. Malini Partharasarathy appreciated the role played by Golden Butterflies in counselling and mailing edutainment kits for child-patients to boost their spirits during the pandemic when all other medical treatment, including paediatric oncology, had been subsumed by COVID-19. S. Santhanakrishnan, founder, PKF Sridhar & Santhanam LLP and patron, Golden Butterflies, commended the foundation for working with child-patients in painful circumstances and pledged his support. At the virtual event, Dr. Mary Ann Muckaden, professor, Palliative Medicine, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, and medical adviser of the organisation, briefed the audience about the importance of paediatric palliative care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/childrens-palliative-care-trust-website-launched/article34732087.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meetings to decide on board exams||A meeting with representatives from all legislative parties will be held on Saturday via video-conferencing to listen to their views about conducting Class 12 exams for State board students in Tamil Nadu, said School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. “The meeting will be held via video-conferencing from 12 p.m. to 1 p.m., following which a meeting has been scheduled with health experts, including psychologists and psychiatrists. This is to understand what the mental state of students in Tamil Nadu are with regard to the exams,” the Minister said. “Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is very clear that students should not be at a disadvantage because of the decision, which is why we are seeking views from all sides before a final decision is made,” he said. Based on the meetings, a report will be given to the Chief Minister and a final decision will be made by him. “For many years now, Class 12 board exam marks have been the basis for students pursuing higher studies and we do not want any of them to face a roadblock because of this. We are also following the decisions being taken by other Sates with regard to the conduct of board exams,” Mr. Poyyamozhi said. On Friday, he chaired a meeting with Chief Educational Officers and District Educational Officers and spoke to them about feedback from schools, parents, teachers and students in their jurisdictions. “We have got varying reports from different districts,” he said, when asked what the consensus was on conducting board exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/meetings-to-decide-on-board-exams/article34732297.ece
05 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. constitutes mobile triage teams||Coimbatore Corporation has taken one more step in its fight to control the COVID-19 spread by constituting triage teams that go to positive persons’ doorsteps. Sources in the Corporation said that thus far all positive persons were asked to go one of the four triage centres nearest to their house – Government College of Technology, St. Francis School near the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital or the Corporation community hall in Ramanathapuram or the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The doctors there would screen the positive persons before recommending them to stay at home in quarantine or referring to a COVID-19 Care Centre or a government hospital. And, to take the positive persons to a triage centre the Corporation had deployed 50 vehicles at 10 each zone, which the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had flagged during his visit to Coimbatore on May 30. But now the Corporation had deployed vehicles in all the five zones where teams comprising doctors and nurses or paramedical staff would go to positive persons’ houses instead of asking them to go to a triage centre. The sources said the mobile triage centre was for persons below 45 years of age and without co-morbidities. The doctors and the support staff, in personal protective equipment, call on the positive persons, check their blood oxygen level, respiratory rate, etc., handover a medicine kit and tell the precautions they would have to take during their quarantine period at home. Awareness They would also create awareness among the family members. The number of positive persons each triage team would visit on a day depended on the list the Corporation gave and varied based on the daily positive case count. Mixed response The Corporation had deployed the mobile triage teams since Wednesday, the sources said and added that the reception among the city’s residents was rather mixed because many positive persons feared that the triage teams would take them to either a COVID-19 Care Centre or hospital. They also felt stigmatised, requested the teams to not call on them at home and in a few cases, the positive persons also switched off mobile phones after the teams reached out to them over phone, the sources said. As for positive persons over 45 years of age, they would have to go a triage centre near their house. This was because the 45-plus category was comparatively more vulnerable than the below 45 years of age category and at triage centres there would be a couple of more tests than was done at positive persons houses by the mobile teams, the sources explained. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases went below the 1,100 mark in the city. As on June 2, the number stood at 1,086, down from the 1,201 cases recorded on June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-constitutes-mobile-triage-teams/article34732320.ece
05 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IG West Zone, DIG Coimbatore Range assume office||Senior IPS officers R. Sudhakar and M.S. Muthusamy took charge as the new Inspector General (IG) of Police – West Zone and Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police – Coimbatore Range respectively here on Friday. Mr. Sudhakar, a 2003-batch IPS officer, was DIG – Madurai Range prior to his new posting. He told The Hindu that priority would be given for containing COVID-19 spread in the West Zone and ensuring that police personnel did not contract the virus . Mr. Sudhakar said he would conduct field visits from Saturday based on his interactions with the various Superintendents of Police of the districts to check the preventive measures taken by the police. A 2006-batch IPS officer, Mr. Muthusamy was DIG – Dindigul Range prior to his posting here. He also noted that controlling the spread of COVID-19 would be the top priority of the police in the four districts under the Coimbatore Range. In Coimbatore City Police, S. Murugavel took charge as Assistant Commissioner of Police (Intelligence Section) and A. Manikandan took charge as Assistant Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), West Sub-division, on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ig-west-zone-dig-coimbatore-range-assume-office/article34732026.ece
05 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries prepare to reopen on June 7||Industries in the State are gearing up to resume operations on Monday, expecting the government to relax the lockdown restrictions. Cost escalations Southern India Mills’ Association secretary general K. Selvaraju said textile units across the State are ready to re-open. “At least those units that have workers staying in-house should be permitted to operate. The government can insist on guidelines, but the units should start functioning. We cannot delay export orders for more than two weeks as it will result in cost escalations or even cancellation. We have represented to the government and are expecting a positive announcement,” he said. In the case of foundries, which come under the continuous process category, some units had operated during the lockdown. “But there are challenges such as availability of raw materials. Most of the units did not function during these two weeks. The foundries employ guest workers in large numbers and if the workers remain idle, they will want to return to their home States. It will be difficult and expensive to bring them back,” said S. Balraj, Coimbatore chapter president of Indian Institute of Foundrymen. ‘Partial lockdown’ According to S. Anburajan, president of Tamilnadu Small and Tiny Industries Association, the local bodies take action on MSMEs if they operate without permission. The units already have financial problems and this becomes an additional burden. So, the units can operate only if the government permits them to. “We have asked for partial lockdown, with permission for the units to operate. Officials can inspect the units to ensure the SOPs are followed.” The MSMEs cannot organise for common transport facilities. Hence, the government should allow two-wheeler use with e-pass. The MSMEs have orders as they are vendors to exporting units and large companies. The micro and small units are hit by lockdown because they have to meet the fixed costs. “The MSMEs are waiting to start operations as only then will there be flow of funds. We need to restart the entire business process. If the lockdown continues there will be severe fund crunch,” said M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-prepare-to-reopen-on-june-7/article34732029.ece
05 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private hospital barred from treating new COVID-19 patients||Following complaints of collection of exorbitant treatment charges from COVID-19 patients, the district administration directed a private hospital in Saravanampatti to not admit any new COVID-19 patients till the completion of an inquiry. The notice was issued to Dr. Muthu’s Hospital, Saravanampatti, late on Thursday by E. Raja, Joint Director of Health Services (in-charge) for Coimbatore district. According to the notice, a copy of which is available with The Hindu , the hospital allegedly did not cooperate with the inquiry and audit process initiated by the district administration. Hence, the hospital was “temporarily suspended” from treating any new COVID-19 in-patients as per the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act, 1997 and Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Rules, 2018. “The COVID-19 in-patients who are currently in your facility should be discharged after complete treatment following the protocols and medical ethics. No patients should be discharged prematurely from your hospital,” the notice said. On Thursday, the district administration initiated inquiries against four private hospitals in Coimbatore district including Dr. Muthu’s Hospital following multiple complaints regarding exorbitant rates for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Sources privy to the inquiry said on Friday that suitable action would also be initiated against the remaining three private hospitals once the inquiry was completed. A few more private hospitals in the district had also been brought under the scanner and discreet collection of bills and other relevant documents for inquiry was being carried out, the sources noted. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore Journalist Welfare Trust announced on Friday that they would initiate legal action against private hospitals that fleeced COVID-19 patients based on complaints. Those who paid exorbitant fees were requested to share a photocopy of the hospital bill along with their complaint petition. For details, contact 93609 76781 and 94420 02445. Tiruppur T.K. Baghyalakshmi, the Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services of Tiruppur district, ordered the cancellation of the approval for treating COVID-19 patients provided to a private hospital in Perumanallur on Friday following complaints of exorbitant treatment rates. Order In the order, she instructed the hospital administration to not admit any new COVID-19 patients and treat the remaining patients “as per protocol without any room for complaints.” On June 1, the Joint Director of Medical and Rural Health Services, who is also the District Appropriate Authority under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act, had sought an explanation from the hospital following a complaint that a 62-year-old COVID-19 patient was discharged on May 24 by the private hospital and died the next day due to lack of availability of non-invasive ventilation treatment in other hospitals. However, the hospital did not submit any explanation within the stipulated period of three days, Dr. Baghyalakshmi alleged in the order, following which the action was initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospital-barred-from-treating-new-covid-19-patients/article34732316.ece
05 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||AEPC welcomes RBI announcement||Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel has said that the Reserve Bank of India policy review on Friday would facilitate the industry bounce back from the impact of COVID-19. As the country is recovering from the dent caused by the second wave of the pandemic, which has hampered the economic activities, the special measures announced on Friday, as part of the monetary policy, will support the industry to come out of this crisis,” he said. “Another major decision that will go a long way in protecting the Indian economy is the widening of the eligible beneficiaries under Resolution Framework 2.0 by enhancing the maximum aggregate exposure threshold from Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 50 crore for MSMEs. This will support the MSMEs, which are under stress and enable a larger set of borrowers to avail the benefits,” he said. Tiruppur Exporters Association president Raja M. Shanmugham said the measure to include the flow of Rs. 15,000 crore to the SIDBI will support the MSMEs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aepc-welcomes-rbi-announcement/article34732023.ece
05 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant kills man||An elderly man working as a security guard was killed by a wild elephant near a private estate within Valparai Forest Range in the early hours of Friday. According to a release from the Forest Department, A. Manikkam (60) was on night duty when he was attacked by the elephant, leading to his death on the spot. The officials handed over Rs. 50,000 to the deceased’s kin as immediate relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-kills-man/article34732019.ece
05 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AUT condoles death of former V-C||The Association of University Teachers (AUT) has condoled the death of former Bharathiar University Vice-Chancellor S. Sivasubramanian. In a press release, the organisation said it was during his tenure that the University became vibrant academically and administratively. He was instrumental in strengthening the DRDO-Bharathiar University collaboration that led to the establishment of a joint research centre, the press release said and added that in his demise he had left a void in the academic community that was difficult to fill.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aut-condoles-death-of-former-v-c/article34732326.ece
05 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express reaches Madukkarai||The 42nd Oxygen Express service for the State and the sixth service for Coimbatore district arrived at Madukkarai with a load of 64.86 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Friday. A release said that the Oxygen Express from Rourkela, Odisha with five tankers reached the Madukkarai Railway Station at 9.25 a.m. With this, the amount of LMO that was delivered through six Oxygen Express services stood at 300.54 MT. For the State, the total LMO load delivered through 42 services of Oxygen Express was 2,710.25 MT, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-reaches-madukkarai/article34732022.ece
05 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No vaccination today||The Coimbatore Corporation said in a release that there would be no COVID-19 vaccinations in the city on Saturday. The civic body, however, did not give a reason for cancelling the vaccination.    A regional level Dak Adalat will be held in Coimbatore on June 29 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, RS Puram. Postal customers should send the complaints to Assistant Director (Mails and Establishment), Office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, Coimbatore - 641002 by June 20.   The Employees Provident Fund Organisation will conduct “PF Near You” and Pension Adalat on June 10 at its regional office here. It will be held for employees and subscribers at 11 a.m., for employers at noon, and for pensioners at 2.30 p.m. Those who want to take part should share in advance the details of the grievance and the account details, their mobile phone number and email ID toro.coimbatore @epfindia.gov.in   Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan has demanded that the Central government release immediately the quantity of vaccines asked by the Tamil Nadu government. The public want to get vaccinated and are even ready to stage protests demanding vaccines, he said.   Tamil Nadu Youth Congress members distributed rice and grocery items to 25 transgenders at Koundampalayam as part of the COVID-19 relief measures taken up by them.   Kovai.co, a B to B SaaS company, has tied up with KG Hospitals to vaccinate its 250-plus employees and their dependants. It has completed the drive for nearly 100 employees and their dependants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-vaccination-today/article34732313.ece
05 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Expedite action on petitions, Collector tells officials||Collector S. Dhivyadarshini, under the Ungal Thogudhiyil Mudhalamaichar programme, disbursed welfare schemes to beneficiaries at the Collectorate here on Friday. According to the administration, a total of 8,437 petitions have been received under the programme. The Collector urged the officials to expedite perusal of the petitions received and take action. Each petition called for field visit, and verification of the grievance and the officials should ensure that no eligible person was deprived of a benefit, the Collector said. The petitions received shall be acted upon within 100 days. Of the petitions received, the grievances of 169 beneficiaries were redressed, and demands of 274 beneficiaries were taken up for consideration and orders passed. The officials were urged to focus on demands for infrastructure, civic and basic amenities, grant of house pattas, farm power, roads, subsidies, Hogenakkal water scheme supply, bus facilities among other essential demands. Earlier, Welfare schemes to the tune of Rs. 21.47 lakh were disbursed to over 20 beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-action-on-petitions-collector-tells-officials/article34732018.ece
05 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Trekkers on Kodai hills detained||Following information that unauthorised people, in small groups, indulged in trekking on Kodaikanal hills and peripheries, special task force personnel have been posted at vulnerable points for round-the-clock surveillance. Except for essential services and movement of goods and commodities, the government had banned others from moving from one point to another. Hill stations have been closed for tourists. Only those with valid passes, residents and others on emergency duty were permitted. Under such circumstances, it came to notice that people gained entry under the pretext of emergency calls but indulged in trekking. This is not only illegal but also violation of laws during pandemic times, a senior officer in Kodaikanal said and added that last week, 10 people, who had come on five motorcycles, were detained. The police had imposed hefty fine against those who were spotted roaming without any valid reason. To discourage them from stepping out of their doors, the health department officials took swabs. The results, in many cases, turned out to be positive. However, when the officials checked, the mobile numbers were incorrect. So, it had been decided to penalise the violators and seize their vehicles. Meanwhile, the ghat sections in Kodaikanal and in the neighbouring Theni district too were brought under total surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trekkers-on-kodai-hills-detained/article34732444.ece
05 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||DIG assumes office in Dindigul||B. Vijayakumari assumed office as the new Deputy Inspector General of Police (Dindigul Range) here on Friday. Prior to the new posting, the IPS officer had served as DIG (Coastal Security Group).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dig-assumes-office-in-dindigul/article34732449.ece
05 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Villagers in containment zone seek essential commodities||With 80 persons at Odathurai village in Gobichettipalayam Taluk testing positive for COVID-19 and the village being demarcated as containment zone, the villagers, who are mostly daily earners, sought assistance in the form of essential commodities. As many as 252 families comprising 920 members are living in the village. They mostly work in agriculture fields as daily wagers while a few work in textile companies. Two youths, who worked at a company in Coimbatore, gave swab samples and returned to the village last week after which many complained of fever and cough. Both the youths tested positive and a screening camp was held in the village and swab samples lifted from over 250 people. A total of 80 persons tested positive and they were shifted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and to COVID-19 Care Centres. The village was earmarked as a containment zone for the past six days and barricades were installed to prevent entry of outsiders. On Friday, samples were lifted from 50 more persons and the results were awaited. R. Karuppasamy, Director, Rights Education and Development Centre (READ), an NGO based at Sathyamangalam that works for community development in the village, told The Hindu the income of all the families was completely curtailed and they were seeking essentials. “All the families depend on the ration shop for monthly provisions and with nil income they could not purchase vegetables or other essentials,” he said. Mr. Karuppasamy said those interested could contribute essentials to the villagers directly or the NGO could be contacted for coordination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-in-containment-zone-seek-essential-commodities/article34732312.ece
05 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corpn. forms teams to carry out door-to-door fever survey||With over 450 COVID-19 positive cases reported everyday in the Corporation limits, the civic body constituted door-to-door fever survey teams here on Friday. Of the total 59,768 cases reported in the district so far, one-third of the cases was reported in the Corporation limits. Hence, the civic body has deployed 400 teams comprising 1,600 surveyors -- corporation workers, school teachers, anganwadi workers and other volunteers -- to carry out fever survey in about 1.30 lakh houses in all the four zones. The teams would visit the houses and check the temperature of family members, obtain their age, address and whether they have fever or other symptoms. Persons with fever or other symptoms would be directed to take swab tests and asked to remain in home isolation until the results were declared . If more people in a particular area complained of fever, the street would be disinfected immediately and swab samples would be collected from the residents. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan monitored the survey at Sampath Nagar and instructed the residents to adhere to COVID-19 norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-corpn-forms-teams-to-carry-out-door-to-door-fever-survey/article34732323.ece
05 June 2021||Kannur,TAMIL NADU||Vigilance quizzes Abdullakutty||A Vigilance team on Friday questioned BJP national vice president A.P. Abdullakutty in a corruption case pertaining to a light-and-sound show organised at the Kannur fort. The team, led by Dy.SP Babu Peringoth, questioned Mr. Abdullakutty at his house at Pallikunnu in Kannur. Unnecessary expenses The Vigilance is inquiring into alleged financial irregularities in the purchase of equipment for the show. It is alleged that more than Rs. 1 crore was spent unnecessarily from the State exchequer for the show. The Rs. 3.58-crore project was implemented in 2016 when Mr. Abdullakutty was the Kannur MLA. The project was conceived in collaboration with the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) as part of the renovation of the fort. However, the show was held just for a week in 2018 at the fort. It did not continue. Leader’s stance In the past few days, the Vigilance had conducted checks at the Kannur DTPC and seized files in this connection, following which Mr. Abdullakutty was questioned. Mr. Abdullakutty told mediapersons that he was not connected with the case. He alleged that former Tourism Minister A.P. Anil Kumar was involved in it and an impartial probe was required into the case. He said there had been irregularities in the project. The contract was handed over by Mr. Anil Kumar and he had only put forward a plan for the show. “The MLA can only submit the proposal. All other matters are decided by the departments and the ministry,” he said. Mr. Abdullakutty also alleged that the project was handed over to a fraudulent company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vigilance-quizzes-abdullakutty/article34731886.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Vaigai dam||Water for irrigating the first crop in the double crop region of Madurai and Dindigul districts was released from the Vaigai dam in the first week of June after a gap of more than 10 years. Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy, Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy, and Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan on Friday released water from the dam to irrigate 45,041 acres of the ayacut of the Periyar irrigation system. Water from the dam will be released for a total of 120 days. For the first 45 days, 900 cusecs of water will be released continuously. In the remaining 75 days, water will be released based on turn system. The water released from the dam will irrigate 1,797 acres in Nilakottai in Dindigul district, 16,452 acres in Vadipatti and 26,792 acres in Madurai North. A senior Public Works Department official said that in the past few years, water was not released in the first week of June for irrigating the first crop in the double crop region mainly due to poor water storage level in Vaigai dam. “But, this year there is good storage in Vaigai dam. Hence, water was released in the first week of June,” he said. Farmers welcomed the release of water, emphasising that they can harvest double crop this year. “Since water has been released in June, the farmers need not worry about harvesting their paddy crop during the rainy season,” said R. Arul Prakasam, a farmer. On June 1, water was released from Mullaperiyar reservoir for irrigation of Periyar ayacut in Theni and Dindigul districts.  Water was released from Vaigai dam in the first week of June after a gap of more than 10 years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-vaigai-dam/article34732096.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records 481 positive cases and five deaths||Madurai district recorded 481 new COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 67,052. A total of 1,559 persons got discharged and the active cases stood at 13,141. Five COVID-19 deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 948. Virudhunagar The week-long trend of declining number of new positive cases continued on Friday and only 411 persons in the district tested positive. However, after 1,026 persons got discharged from various hospitals, the number of active cases came down to 6,304. After the death of five more persons – all men, including one aged 49 years – the death toll has increased to 441. The total number of positive cases in the district stood at 39,579 with a total discharge of 32,834 patients till date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-district-records-481-positive-cases-and-five-deaths/article34732098.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New DIG takes charge in Madurai||N. Kamini, a 2004-batch Indian Police Service officer, has assumed office as the new Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) on Friday. She succeeds R. Sudhakar, who has been promoted and transferred to Coimbatore as Inspector General of Police (West Zone). She was hitherto DIG (Vellore Range) and had earlier served as DIG (Ramanathapuram Range). An M.A. gold medallist in Political Science from Madras University, she joined the police service as Deputy Superintendent of Police in 1997. After being conferred IPS, she has served as Deputy Commissioner in Chennai and Coimbatore and Superintendent of Police of Civil Supplies- CID and Economic Offences Wing. “My focus will be on crime against women and children. I will personally review these cases. Special training will be given to officers to effectively handle these cases,” she said. Efforts will be taken to curb narcotics sale and to contain anti-social elements, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-dig-takes-charge-in-madurai/article34732094.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Let AIIMS function from a temporary campus’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought responses from the Centre and the State government on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to them to allow the functioning of AIIMS- Madurai from a temporary campus till the construction of the main building is completed. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi directed the governments to file their responses and sought to know whether a temporary outpatient department could be set up. The court adjourned the hearing of the PIL petition, filed by K. Pushpavanam of Madurai, till June 11. The petitioner said AIIMS- Madurai should start functioning from a temporary campus. MBBS classes and the outpatient department could be started on the temporary campus, he said. ‘Fill vacancies’ He also sought a direction to the governments to fill the vacancies in the Project Cell of AIIMS-Madurai. In 2018, the Centre announced the establishment of AIIMS at Thoppur in Madurai, and the foundation was laid in 2019. However, construction work had not begun, the petitioner said. He pointed out that AIIMS-Bibinagar, Telangana, got the Cabinet’s approval at the same time as AIIMS-Madurai did, and was conducting MBBS classes and offered outpatient services. Further, he said AIIMS projects that were announced after AIIMS-Madurai had also started functioning on temporary campuses. The construction of the main building at these sites was under way. The Central and State governments must take steps to commence the functioning of the AIIMS in Madurai, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/let-aiims-function-from-a-temporary-campus/article34732101.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Low dose radiation to treat COVID-19||Guru Hospital in Madurai has obtained the approval for low dose radiation for treating COVID-19 positive patients. A press release from S. G. Balamurugan, an oncologist from the hospital, said that one of the major reasons for fatalities was systemic inflammation. The available treatment was increasing the oxygen supply to patients. Another viable solution is low dose radiation for the whole lungs.  The AIIMS Delhi has already tried this treatment and has found positive results. According to the release, Guru Hospital has already obtained the ethical board’s approval to carry out the trial. Approval has also been obtained from Clinical Trials Registry – India (CTRI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/low-dose-radiation-to-treat-covid-19/article34732090.ece
05 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Loans distributed to SHG members||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy distributed loans to the tune of Rs. 75.74 lakh to 1,082 members of Self Help Groups (SHGs) who are involved in door-to-door screening in rural areas, here on Friday. The Minister said that mini COVID-19 Care Centres have been set up in rural areas and 3,894 members of SHGs were involved in door-to-door screening. Hence, to motivate them, the government was distributing loans. The loans were offered to SHG members of Melur and Tirupparankundram blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/loans-distributed-to-shg-members/article34732089.ece
05 June 2021||MYSURU,TAMIL NADU||Elephant Kusha finally released in Bandipur reserve||Kusha, an elephant from the Dubare camp in Karnataka, was finally released into the wild following intervention by animal rights activists. The elephant was released at Moolehole in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve, a distance of more than 150 km from Dubare, on Thursday evening. The elephant was radio-collared so as to keep a track on its movement and transported by a truck before being released. Kusha was originally captured from the wild more than five years ago along with a few other elephants which were frequently foraying into human habitation. However, Kusha broke free from the camp. It was was later recaptured from the wild. This was opposed by animal rights activists, including Maneka Gandhi, MP, who called for its release on the grounds that it had not harmed anyone. Consequent to Ms. Gandhi’s appeal, Minister for Forests Arvind Limbavali ordered that the elephant should be freed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-kusha-finally-released-in-bandipur-reserve/article34731884.ece
05 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat workers turn into actors||Officials at Vaitheeshwarankoil town panchayat have taken to conducting street plays to create awareness of COVID-19 protocol, including mask-wearing, and the importance of getting vaccinated as way to fight the viral infection. The street plays are conceptualised and enacted by the workers themselves. The move, initiated by K. Kuhan, Executive Officer, Vaitheeshwarankoil, in Mayiladuthurai district, is meant to inculcate the importance of vaccination. Prior to this, only a handful of people used to visit the vaccination site to get inoculated. “We had an average of 30 people per day. The health workers used to get disappointed and return. However, after the awareness programme was started, the number of beneficiaries far exceeds the daily stock,” Mr. Kuhan says. On Friday, 400 doses of the COVID-19 vaccine were brought to the vaccination site. However, over 1,000 people lined up to get the shot. “The crowd was a display of the success of our awareness campaign,” Mr. Kuhan said. The town panchayat workers themselves worked on the props used in the street play. A PVC pipe was fashioned into a syringe, a water can turned into a vial of COVID-19 vaccine, and cane baskets were turned into a 3-D model of coronavirus. The workers themselves decided on their costumes, script and dialogues and presented them to the people. Mr. Kuhan climbed up on a vehicle and spoke about the importance of the vaccine as they drove around town. “We have decided to do this thrice a week and have received appreciation from far and wide for not hiring actors and utilising our own resources,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-workers-turn-into-actors/article34732500.ece
05 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 10,000 in U.T.||Active cases fell below the 10,000-mark for the first time in weeks as the Union Territory recorded 712 new cases on Friday. Eighteen deaths took the cumulative toll past 1,600. Puducherry recorded 15 deaths, Karaikal two and Yanam one. The patients, including 9 women, were in the 30 to 85 age range, and six of them had no comorbidities. The region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry 1,292, Karaikal 184, Yanam 96 and Mahe 29. Puducherry accounted for 530 new cases, Karaikal 121, Yanam 36 and Mahe 25. As many as 9,458 tests were carried out in 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 7.53%, the case fatality rate 1.48% and the recovery rate 89.71%. The number of active cases stood at 9,494. Meanwhile, 90 healthcare workers, 91 frontline staff and 3,013 members of the public took the COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-10000-in-ut/article34732141.ece
05 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||1,700 prisoners in the State inoculated so far: Minister||About 1,700 prisoners lodged in various jails in the State have been administered COVID-19 vaccine so far. Awareness is being created in jails about the importance of inoculation and every prisoner will be vaccinated, Minister for Law, Courts, Prisons and Prevention of Corruption S. Reghupathy said here on Friday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the vaccination exercise for prisoners at the District Jail, he said that the State government had taken many steps to reduce the number of prisoners in jails during the COVID-19 pandemic. Medical posts had been created in various jails and they would be filled soon so as to provide treatment to the inmates and protect their health. The State government would ensure the safety of security personnel deployed in jails and frontline workers during the pandemic. A list of prisoners eligible for parole would be taken by excluding those involved in terrorism activities, the Minister said. District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, MLA V. Muthuraja, Jail Superintendent Rukmani Priyadharshini, Deputy Director of Health Kalaivani and revenue officials were present, release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1700-prisoners-in-the-state-inoculated-so-far-minister/article34732505.ece
05 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector helps aged woman find shelter||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver arranged an accommodation for an aged woman, reportedly abandoned by her family at a Home for Aged, here on Friday. He spotted her in front of a shop when he was inspecting the COVID-19 prevention work at Aranmanai and Kenikarai. She could not respond properly. She said that there was no one to give her food. Details of her home could not be ascertained. So, he ordered officials to provide her a shelter immediately. Escorted by a traffic policewoman and the VAO, she was transported to the Home at Puthendal. Social Welfare Department officials said that all those who have been taking shelter in public places such as markets, railway station and bus stand were taken to nearby Home on the orders of the Collector. Rameswaram has a huge number of abandoned people. The shelters provide them free food and takes care of inmates, they added. The police, revenue, rural development and health department officials put together imposed fine on lockdown violators. So far, they had collected Rs. 1.35 crore which included Rs. 70 lakh from the police. The Collector said that the district had 3,289 COVID-19 positive cases as on June 3 and 2,510 paerons in home quarantine. The Government Hospital in Ramanathapuram has 111 patients, Paramakudi GH has 28 patients and private hospitals have 81 patients. Later, he chaired a meeting with officials from various departments in view of the onset of southwest monsoon. The district would have 15 zones headed by officials in the rank of Deputy Collector. All the low-lying areas, which were inundated in the past, would be identified.He said that wherever there was the possibility of breach in tanks, the PWD and Rural Development departments would keep a vigil. The Fire and Rescue Service personnel were instructed to position themselves at vulnerable sections so that they could reach the spot well on time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-helps-aged-woman-find-shelter/article34732442.ece
05 June 2021||S. GanesanTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Canal modernisation work progresses in fits and starts||With just about 25% of the work on renovation and modernisation of Kattalai High-Level Canal (KHLC), a major irrigation canal in Karur and Tiruchi districts, having been completed so far, the project might overshoot its scheduled completion period by next year. The State government had sanctioned the extension, renovation and modernisation of the KHLC at an estimated cost of Rs. 335.50 crore, fulfilling a long-felt need of farmers. The KHLC, a contour canal built in 1934, carries water from the Cauvery river at Mayanur in Karur district to Thayanur in Tiruchi district, a distance of about 62 km, and irrigates 23,774 acres in the two districts. Of this, 20,186 acres are in Karur district and the rest in Tiruchi district. The work has been progressing in fits and starts after former Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami laid the foundation stone for the project in March 2020. Although it is scheduled to be completed within two years, the non-Mettur season (when the dam is closed for irrigation) offers the crucial window period during a year when the work can be taken up in full swing. Exodus of workers The work made slow progress after exodus of migrant labourers to their home States during the lockdown last year. Although the PWD managed to mobilise labourers locally subsequently, it did not get much time to execute the work as water had to be released in the canal for samba paddy cultivation and the standing cash crops. According to sources, retaining walls have been constructed for about 22 km on three stretches so far. Difficulties in sourcing materials and the intense lockdown over the last few weeks have also affected the works. The works are apace over the past few days. However, with the Mettur dam set to be opened for irrigation on June 12, the PWD is left with just about three weeks more this year when the work can be executed. “We hope to continue the work till the end of this month, but once the Mettur water reaches the delta, there will be calls from farmers here for release of water into the canal,” an official said. Only next year The work would resume only next year when the Mettur dam is closed for irrigation by January. But even then there will be farmers’ demands for release of some water in irrigation canals to meet the requirements of standing cash crops, officials point out. Farmers dependent on the canal, especially those in the tail-end areas, have been demanding modernisation of the KHLC as they had been facing problems getting water for irrigation every season over the past several years. Of the 174 such regulatory structures on the canal, 124 are to be modernised and 25 rehabilitated under the project. Apart from construction of retaining walls, concrete bed lining would be provided along the canal, except in leading canals. Once the project is completed, the system efficiency is expected to improve to 60% from the current 40.43%, the PWD has projected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/canal-modernisation-work-progresses-in-fits-and-starts/article34732509.ece
05 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Moderate showers in Salem||Many parts of the Salem district received moderate showers on Thursday night and Friday. According to officials, an average rainfall of 6.71 mm was recorded in Salem on Friday. Rainfall recorded in other areas are: Omalur (30.2 mm); Veeraganoor (24mm); Gangavalli (15mm); P.N. Palayam (9mm); Kariyakovil (6mm) and Anaimaduvu (4mm). Salem city limits also experienced moderate showers on Friday afternoon. The water level at Mettur dam was 97.02 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water at the dam was 61,045 mcft and the dam received an inflow of 671 cusecs. The discharge from the dam was maintained at 2,000 cusecs. The water level at Anaimaduvu dam was 50.68 ft against a total scale of 67.25ft and the stored capacity of water at the dam was 129.91 mcft. The water level at Kariyakovil dam was 19.19ft and dam had capacity of 28.93 mcft. Namakkal district recorded an average rainfall of 10.55 mm. According to officials, Erumapatti recorded 20 mm; Kumarapalayam (2 mm); Mangalapuram (4mm), Mohanur (24mm), Namakkal (44.10 mm), Senthamangalam (4mm), Collectorate premises (2.50 mm) and Kolli Hills (26mm).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/moderate-showers-in-salem/article34732030.ece
05 June 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Woman and two kids found dead in well||A woman and her two children were found dead in a farm well near here on Friday morning. The police identified the deceased as S. Selvi (25) of O. Mettupatti and her children Anu (4) and Madesh (2). The police said that the bodies of the family members were found in the farm well belonging to Pandi in the same village on Friday morning. The bodies were brought out by firemen. Police suspect that the woman, who had lost her husband last year, could have taken the extreme step after pushing her children into the well. Sattur Taluk police are investigating. Assistance Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-and-two-kids-found-dead-in-well/article34732447.ece
05 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles recovered, 5 arrested||A special team led by Sub-Inspector of Police Ranjith arrested five persons allegedly involved in robbery of a TASMAC outlet on May 29. The police recovered the liquor bottles stolen from the outlet. On May 29, when the watchman was on duty, the five member gang tied him to a post and broke open the shop. In view of the lockdown, the government had locked the shutters with the help of a welding machine. However, the robbers, who had come with crowbars, broke the lock and took away the liquor bottles. The watchman informed the police. Even as the police were on the lookout for the suspects, they spotted the gang consuming liquor at Karungulam tank here.  The arrested were Ganesan (37) of Karungulam, Tamilselvan (26) of Madurai, Vellaichami (32) of Sivaganga, Rajkumar (23) of Tirupuvanam and Premkumar (26) of Mangudi. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-bottles-recovered-5-arrested/article34732443.ece
05 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Direct paddy sowing area set to rise in Tiruvarur district||The area under ‘kuruvai’ cultivation taken up through direct sowing method in Tiruvarur district is expected to increase by around 40% over the previous season. Last year, the paddy farmers took up direct sowing on about 5,600 hectares out of 38,700 hectares that were brought under ‘kuruvai’ cultivation. This year, according to official sources, it is expected that the direct sowing will be adopted in around 8,000 hectares while the targeted area of ‘kuruvai’ coverage in the district is to remain the same as last year. Though the yield in terms of quantity of spikelets produced by opting direct sowing was just a little bit higher compared to the yield recorded at the fields where the cultivation of crop was taken up through the normal method last season, the water-saving potential and cost advantage realised by way of lower labour cost are all set to influence more number of farmers to go in for the method this season, official sources said. Normally, direct sowing is preferred in Thiruthuraipoondi and Kottur blocks. But, of late, the method seems to have found favour among farmers in Valangaiman area also where some of them opted for wet direct seeding technique last year in view of the hiccups in hiring farmhands for transplantation. With the assurance of timely release of water on the customary date of June 12 this year also, official are ready to assist the farmers to take up ‘kuruvai’ cultivation with confidence by keeping sufficient stock of seeds and fertilizers at the agriculture depots. Already 250 tonnes of paddy seeds have been distributed through agriculture depots and availability of seeds sourced from Dharapuram by private seed sellers had resulted in cultivation of ‘kuruvai’ crop in about 8,500 hectares and raising of nurseries in the areas where filter point facilities were available. In Thanjavur Meanwhile, farmers having the additional advantage of filter point facilities in Orathanadu and Ammapettai blocks in Thanjavur district are likely to opt for the wet direct sowing method this year in about 1,000 hectares using drum seeders. Transplantation had been completed in about 16,000 hectares in filter point areas in Thanjavur district and nurseries have been raised in a similar spread for transplantation in the weeks to come. Mechanised transplantation was opted by the farmers in around one-fourth of the total transplanted area so far. Adoption of wet direct sowing method using drum seeders would definitely help reduce the irrigation requirement to a considerable extent, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/direct-paddy-sowing-area-set-to-rise-in-tiruvarur-district/article34732490.ece
05 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend fishing ban period’||Tamil Nadu Meenavar Peravai has suggested that the fishing ban period be extended by another two weeks in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a memorandum submitted to the State government, its general secretary Thajudheen of Mallipattinam said that though the ban period ends by June 15, the fishermen were not in a position to repair and make the vessels ready for fishing in the sea. They were unable to carry out the repair or maintenance works of the vessels and fishing nets since the spare parts shops remained closed for the past two weeks. Stating that maintenance and repair works could be taken up only after the lifting of total lockdown, Mr. Thajudeen requested the government to consider extending the ban period by another two weeks. Further, at the time when the congregation of people in large numbers to be avoided in order to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, he feared that the early morning business activities on the shore for purchasing and sale of sea fish might nullify the efforts so far put in to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, the State government must consider the extension of the ban period for another two weeks, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-fishing-ban-period/article34732498.ece
05 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Some colleges violating AICTE norms by withholding exam results’||Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam has condemned the attitude of some engineering colleges in the State which have withheld the examination results of students who have not paid their college fees. In a statement, its president P. Maniarasan has said that such an action was in violation of instructions issued by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Chief Minister M. K. Stalin must intervene in this issue as parents of the affected students have brought it to his notice. Mr. Stalin must also initiate steps for disbursement of education loan to professional course students without collateral security and direct the engineering colleges to effect a cut in the regular fee structure in view of COVID-19 pandemic, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/some-colleges-violating-aicte-norms-by-withholding-exam-results/article34732495.ece
05 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting begins after a long time||Farmers of 16 villages, getting water from the irrigation tank in Aaththur, are so elated as the desilting of Aaththurkulam, a waterbody with an extent of 417 acres, commenced on Friday. When M. K. Kanimozhi, MP, participated in the gram sabha meeting at Mela Aaththur last year along with then MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan, now Minister for Fisheries, the prime appeal made to the MP was that the irrigation tank, belonging to Public Works Department and nourishing the crop on over 2,222 acres in this area, be desilted. Besides nourishing the crops, mostly paddy, banana and betel leaf, the sprawling waterbody, situated just 7 km from the seashore, is preventing seawater intrusion into the ranches. “If the waterbody, now submerged by thorny bushes and water weeds is not desilted, the seawater will enter the land. Besides spoiling our farming operations, it will also deny us good drinking water. Though officials had reportedly spent Rs. 50 lakh for desilting and strengthening the bunds of the waterbody, we cannot see any desirable change here. So, the waterbody and the supply channels should be desilted completely,” the farmers appealed to Ms. Kanimozhi. Though the pandemic-induced lockdown had derailed the normal functioning of the official machinery, the MP had roped in a non-governmental organization – Environmentalist Foundation of India – into the proposed desilting of Aaththurkulam and the NGO had subsequently applied to the Collector seeking permission for desilting the waterbody. After Collector K. Senthil Raj gave the formal permission, the exercise commenced on Friday, much to the jubilation of the farmers. Besides desilting the irrigation tank, the inlet and outlet structures are also being desilted. “The soil to be removed from the irrigation tank as part of the desilting will be used to strengthen the bunds. Moreover, sand mounds will be created within this waterbody with native species plants at vantage points so that the birds can nest in these spots,” said Ms. Kanimozhi, who has planned to plant around 950 saplings of neem, palm and pongamia in and around this waterbody. When asked about the deadline for completing this exercise, she said: “You will see a new-look Aaththurkulam before the onset of northeast monsoon this year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desilting-begins-after-a-long-time/article34732438.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Inspector and a good Samaritan help family stranded on highway||A young couple and their two minor children, who were stranded in the late hours on the Kulithalai Bypass Road in Karur district after the scooter in which the family of four was heading to Tiruchi developed a snag upon information that the woman’s father had expired, received timely help from a Traffic Police Inspector and another Good Samaritan who readily volunteered to take them in his car to Tiruchi. The incident occurred in the late hours of June 2 when Ganesh along with his wife Sumathi and their two children were coming from Coimbatore in a scooter to Tiruchi when the rear tyre of the scooter got punctured near Kurapalayam at around 11.15 p.m. Adding to their woes was the sudden downpour. Information about the death of Sumathi’s father who resided at Babu Road in Tiruchi prompted the couple to rush to Tiruchi despite lockdown restrictions. Kulithalai Traffic Police Inspector N. Navukarasan who was on night rounds noticed the stranded couple and their children and inquired them. “As there was a downpour, the four were taken to a nearby police check post for shelter,” said Inspector Navukarasan who arranged to move the scooter to a nearby petrol pump. As his efforts to call two-wheeler mechanics to rectify the puncture proved futile, he called his friend Sadhasivam, who agreed to take the family in his car to Tiruchi. Mr. Navukarasan alerted the check posts in Karur district and passed on the information through police control to Tiruchi City Police about the movement of a car in which the family was proceeding, besides its registration number and the number of people travelling in the vehicle. He also made a request to the personnel at the check posts not to detain the vehicle explaining the circumstances. Mr. Sadhasivam safely dropped the family in Tiruchi and returned to Kulithalai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspector-and-a-good-samaritan-help-family-stranded-on-highway/article34732494.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Dearth of drug to treat black fungus in Tiruchi hospitals||Liposomal Amphotericin B, the anti-fungal drug used to treat mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, is in acute shortage in the district. The medicine is being manufactured only by a handful of pharmaceutical companies, adding to the problem. More mucormycosis cases has been reported among COVID-19 patients during the second wave of the pandemic. So far, around 20 cases of suspected mucormycosis have been identified in Tiruchi, a senior health official said. “Per day, we get only around one or two. And none of them have been severely affected so far,” they said. Speaking to The Hindu , T.N. Janakiram, Skull Base Surgeon, Royal Pearl Hospital said that impure water being used in oxygen concentrators, repeatedly wearing the same face masks without washing them, causing sedimentation of droplets and formation of spores, and uncontrolled administration of steroids to COVID-19 patients are common causes for the spike in mucormycosis cases. A senior doctor at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said that there was no treatment for mucormycosis except removal of the fungal formation through endoscopic debridement and controlling it through anti-fungal drugs. “Post-COVID, a patient needs to regularly monitor his blood sugar and rush to an ENT specialist if he has regular headaches, nasal block and watering of eyes,” the doctor said. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation has taken over the sale of Liposomal Amphotericin B, and hospitals can purchase it directly from its warehouses. Dr. Janakiram is of the opinion that the government must take severe action on those selling the antifungal drug- Liposomal Amphotericin B in the black market. “The maximum retail price of the drug is around Rs. 5,000 per dose, and around six doses are to be given. However, I have patients who say sellers tried to sell it to them for up to Rs. 2 lakh for each dose,” he said. While cases of mucormycosis are not too high in Tiruchi, Dr. Janakiram said that the cases are bound to increase over the next few months. “We are just past the peak in some parts of Tamil Nadu and mucormycosis is a post-COVID condition. However, with adequate supply of drugs and patients who keep an eye for the symptoms, it can be controlled,” he said.  The maximum retail price of the drug is Rs. 5,000 per dose, but it is said to be sold for up to Rs. 2 lakh  T.N. Janakiram Skull Base Surgeon||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dearth-of-drug-to-treat-black-fungus-in-tiruchi-hospitals/article34732501.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New IG of Central Zone takes charge||V. Balakrishnan has assumed charge as the Inspector General of Police, Central Zone here on Friday. He had served as the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range before being transferred to Chennai City Police last year. A postgraduate in Agriculture and a PG in Human Rights from the University College of London, Mr. Balakrishnan was recently promoted as Inspector General of Police and posted as IG, Central Zone in a major reshuffle of IPS officers. A 2003 batch IPS officer, Mr. Balakrishnan had earlier served as Superintendent of Police in Madurai, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruppur and Theni districts. He told The Hindu that nodal officers in the rank of Inspector of Police had been nominated in the nine districts falling under the Central Zone to look into public grievances during enforcement of lockdown, especially at vehicle check points, and take necessary steps. The mobile number of the nodal officer had been circulated to the respective district field-level police personnel deployed at vehicle check points. He said stern action would be taken against those found involved in illicit distillation in the wake of closure of TASMAC outlets owing to the lockdown adding that steps would be taken to detain such persons under the Bootleggers Act. DIG takes charge A. Radhika assumed charge as the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range the same day. She succeeds Z. Annie Vijaya who has been transferred and posted as DIG Modernisation, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-ig-of-central-zone-takes-charge/article34732493.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cases dip but deaths up||The number of COVID-19 cases recorded a dip in the central region on Friday but the number of deaths recorded a significant increase. While 3,865 patients tested positive for the virus, while 77 patients succumbed to the illness. Perambalur disrict reported the highest number of deaths with 22 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Tiruchi reported 15 and Nagapattinam 13. Karur reported eight deaths and Pudukottai seven. Ariyalur and Tiruvarur districts reported five deaths each, while two patients succumbed to the illness in Thanjavur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 1,004 patients testing positive. Tiruchi district reported a significant dip in the number of fresh cases with 689 persons testing positive. Meanwhile, 798 patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Friday. Tiurvarur reported 576 fresh cases, while similar declining trends were also reported in Nagapattinam, with 516 fresh cases, according to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare Karur district reported a slight dip in cases with 337 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Karur had one of the least numbers of vacancies of ICU and oxygen-support beds with only six ICU beds being vacant on Friday. Pudukottai reported 288 fresh cases, Ariyalur, 246 and Perambalur, 209. Bed vacancy in these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had only six vacant ICU beds, Perambalur had seven and Ariyalur none.  Camps suspended Tiruchi district administration on Friday announced that vaccination for COVID-19 would be suspended across all session sites until stocks are replenished. The district received nearly 20,000 doses of the vaccine, including 15,000 of Covishield and 3,000 of Covaxin, on June 2. An increase in the response of the public in taking the vaccine led to it running out quickly, S. Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director of Health Services told The Hindu . On June 3, around 13,000 people took the jab and on June 4, 7,000. “We have only around 900 shots which will be put to use in special camps. However, inoculation for the public has been suspended,” he said. Tiruchi district was the regional vaccine store for other neighbouring districts, including Perambalur, Pudukkottai, Ariyalur and Karur. The vaccine stock there too would be hit, he added. The vaccination drive is expected to resume only on Monday, after new stocks arrive, Dr. Ganesh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-dip-but-deaths-up/article34732503.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA launches SAHO to give COVID-19 information||SASTRA Deemed University has launched Project SAHO (SASTRA’s Hope) under which its students will provide information regarding COVID 19 to patients and public. About 2,000 first year B.Tech students, 30 first year MBA students and few students from final year B.Tech, M.Sc and other branches are involved in the project as part of ‘summer social internship and activity point programme,’ a SASTRA press release said. V. Badrinath, the project director and Dean, Corporate Relations and Extension Activities, SASTRA, said that the students are grouped as teams of volunteers in various districts to provide critical information such as availability of hospital beds, oxygen supply, ambulance and food services, blood donors, testing and vaccination centres in the respective districts. The service in each district will be coordinated by two district student coordinators and first year MBA students are nominated as regional coordinators and each of them will supervise, guide and support five to six district coordinators. The regional coordinators are attached to faculty State coordination teams which consist of 15 faculty members. The service was opened for residents in all districts in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Those who wish to avail the service can send a SMS / WhatsApp message to the State coordinators (95666 32886/ 90959 91779) mentioning their name, district and help required. They, in turn, will pass on the message to the regional coordinators/ district coordination teams to provide necessary support. The service will be available from 9.00 a.m. to 9 p.m. till June 30. SASTRA plans to extend the service to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana too. Meanwhile, based on a request from the district administration, 267 SAHO student volunteers are currently engaged in offering tele-counselling to 1,335 patients who are under treatment in various COVID Care Centres in Thanjavur district. They enquire about the progress of their patients’ health, intake of medicines, mental well-being and eliciting feedback on amenities provided in the centres. The feedback is passed on to the district administration and health officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sastra-launches-saho-to-give-covid-19-information/article34732510.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor booked||The Woraiyur Police have registered a case against a 68-year-old city-based doctor after he allegedly made some adverse comments against Bharatiya Janata Party and for his alleged veiled remarks against Prime Minister and Home Minister that he made to a Hindu Munnani district-level office- bearer when the latter went to his clinic for treatment a few days ago. The remarks of the doctor, Kingsley Jebakumar, who runs his clinic on Vayalur Road, went viral in the social media. The complaint against the doctor was preferred by Hindu Munnani office-bearer Arumugam to the Woraiyur Police station who shared to the police the video clip of the doctor's comments. Mr. Arumugam, a resident of Keela Ambikapuram, went to the clinic accompanied by his Personal Security Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctor-booked/article34732497.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College’s gesture||As many as 2,000 surgical masks procured by the Youth Red Cross of National College in Tiruchi were handed over to Bharathidasan University for distribution to the public. Principal R. Sundararaman handed over the masks on Thursday to Registrar G. Gopinath in the presence of Vetrivel, coordinator, Youth Red Cross, Bharathidasan University at the University's Khajamalai campus. As part of its COVID-19 relief measures, the university initiated the collection of surgical masks, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/colleges-gesture/article34732496.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam on Friday stood at 96.98 feet against its permissible level of 120 feet. The inflow was 542 cusecs and the discharge 2,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34732507.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine shortage irks public||The short supply of vaccines to the districts continues to disappoint the public, who come to the vaccination centres in large number and return home without getting vaccinated after a long wait. Response for vaccination is overwhelming after the district administrations created awareness among the public through a range of programmes. The turnout in the vaccination centres is overwhelming after vaccination of the 18 to 44 age group started. However, the disappointing supply of vaccine doses from Chennai to the districts has seriously affected the vaccination. The officials here are helpless, they say. “We’ve made all arrangements for vaccinating the public. But we were getting less number of doses from Chennai that stopped completely at one point. We received a few thousand doses of Covaxin on Thursday while there was no supply of Covishield. We expect the situation to improve during next week,” said a senior official attached to the Department of Public Health. In Thoothukudi district, where 88 vaccination centres had been created, besides the special vaccination camps in the rural areas, 1,32,213 persons had been vaccinated till Thursday including the second jab administered to 28,822 persons. The district had only 360 doses of Covishield and 820 doses of Covaxin on Thursday morning and the entire Covishield doses got exhausted on Thursday evening itself. When the people came to the 6 Urban Primary Health Centres and the 3 special camps at Government Nursing College, St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Millerpuram and St. Thomas Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Innaciarpuram on Friday morning, they were informed that only 400 Covaxin doses were available in the Government Nursing College. “Since many of the foreign countries have approved only Covishield, most of the youth coming to vaccination centres ask for this vaccine. When we informed them that it was not available, it often led to the visitors confronting us. We’re pacifying them that the situation would improve within a week,” said a health worker posted in one of the vaccination centres in Thoothukudi Town. In Kanniyakumari district, 60 vaccination centres had been established and 6,113 vaccines were administered on Thursday through these centres. While no vaccination was done on Friday in SMRV Higher Secondary School and Vallankumaravilai Government Higher Secondary School on Friday, both centres for Covishield for 18 to 44 age group, only the second dose of Covaxin was administered to the visitors in Duthie Higher Secondary School, Nagercoil. After a long wait in front of other centres, the public had to return home disappointedly as Covishield was not available in these centres. Officials are not ready to openly admit that the short supply of vaccines had derailed the ongoing vaccination drive. “Since the minister says that there was no shortage of vaccines, the people coming to the vaccination centres abuse us verbally. The situation is intolerable as we can understand the people’s anger. Normalcy will return only if we can arrange the vaccines, especially Covishield, in significant number,” said an official attached to the Department of Public Health, Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-shortage-irks-public/article34732446.ece
05 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Install CCTV cameras’||Appealing to the public to install as many CCTV cameras in their houses and their business establishments as possible as the footages collected from these gadgets would help the police a lot in cracking the cases within no time, Commissioner of Police, Tirunelveli City, N.K. Senthamarai Kannan, has assured that the law-enforcers would also chip in by fitting more number of cameras along important places with its resources. Speaking to reporters here on Friday after assuming office, he said installation of CCTV cameras would be encouraged as it would be of helpful in cracking criminal cases and probing any traffic or law and order violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/install-cctv-cameras/article34732451.ece
05 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates 80-bed CCC near Avinashi||Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan inaugurated an 80-bed COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at Thekkalur near Avinashi here on Friday. The centre was set up in collaboration with A.K.V.N Charity Hospitals and it comprises an oxygen plant, separate beds for emergency treatment, specialists in lung treatment and Siddha medicine, according to a release. Vaccine production The Minister told mediapersons the medical oxygen situation in the State had improved and that the State government had been undertaking efforts to commence vaccine production at the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu. Regarding the rise in deaths in Tiruppur district, Mr. Saminathan said many deaths occurred as patients reported to hospitals at an advanced stage of the infection. The Minister urged the public to get themselves tested and commence treatment as soon as the symptoms emerged. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Tiruppur South MLA K. Selvaraj among others were present at the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-inaugurates-80-bed-ccc-near-avinashi/article34732315.ece
05 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur gets its first woman CoP||Inspector General of Police V. Vanitha took charge as the Tiruppur City Commissioner of Police on Friday, becoming the first woman Commissioner of Police of the city. Main focus A 2001-batch IPS officer, Ms.Vanitha was the Inspector General of Police - Railways, Chennai, before assuming charge as the Commissioner of Police. She told The Hindu on Friday that the focus of the Tiruppur City Police in the upcoming months would be to support the State government in its efforts to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Separate police teams would be deployed outside vaccination centres and ration shops to ensure physical distancing and other precautionary measures among the public. The police personnel were instructed to be “polite and cordial” during their interactions with the public, she said. With 98 police personnel from the Tiruppur City Police having tested positive for COVID-19 so far, ensuring the welfare of the police amid the pandemic would also be a focus area, Ms. Vanitha added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gets-its-first-woman-cop/article34732028.ece
05 June 2021||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure Cauvery panel takes steps for equitable distribution of water’||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations in Tamil Nadu has urged the State government to insist upon the Cauvery Water Management Authority to ensure the release of water in Cauvery from the Karnataka dams as per the monthly quota endorsed by the Supreme Court. Submitting a memorandum to Chief Minister M. K. Stalin through the Additional Chief Secretary, Public Works Department, Sandeep Saxena in Tiruvarur on Friday, the Committee president, P. R. Pandian, urged the Tamil Nadu government to initiate necessary steps for the early formation of the ‘Supervising Committee’ by the CWMA so that the Authority performs its duty of monitoring the inflows into the dams in the upper riparian State and distribute the available water between the beneficiary States as per the Supreme Court directions. This initiative becomes all the more important in view of the ongoing ‘kuruvai’ cultivation for which the Tamil Nadu government had announced that the Mettur dam would be opened for irrigation on the customary date of June 12. Hence, the State government should insist the Authority release the monthly quota of water to be released in Cauvery river as per the Supreme Court order, he added. He had also urged the government to change the methodology adopted by the previous AIADMK government which preferred to take up the issues relating to Cauvery river water sharing with the Prime Minister first, then with the Authority and finally with the Supreme Court. With CWMA first Since the CWMA has been formed as an independent authority having control over the Cauvery water and the dams, it would be apt to raise the issue and sort out the issues with the Authority itself. Failing which the matter might be taken to the notice of the Prime Minister and after that with the Supreme Court, Mr. Pandian added. Mekedatu issue As far as the Mekedatu dam construction issue it was learnt that the Karnataka government was planning to approach the Supreme Court to nullify the suo moto intervention of the National Green Tribunal, Southern Region, he said and wanted the Tamil Nadu government to convene an all party and all farmers associations’ meeting to evolve a unified effort to check the Karnataka government’s move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-cauvery-panel-takes-steps-for-equitable-distribution-of-water/article34732491.ece
05 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Ecological restoration undertaken on 290 acres around Kotagiri’||On World Environment Day, the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri has highlighted the efforts it has undertaken to restore native ecology to the Nilgiris landscape. With the focus of the 2021 World Environment Day being on ecosystem restoration, the non-Governmental organisation working on issues such as ecology and ensuring sustainable livelihoods for rural, Adivasi communities, stated that they had restored around 290 acres of land in rural and urban spaces around Kotagiri. The restoration projects have been completed in collaboration with the forest department, district administration, educational institutions and local communities. Shiny Mariam Rehel, programme co-ordinator for the the Biodiversity Restoration Programme for Keystone Foundation, said that ecological restoration has been taken up by the Foundation around two INDCOSERVE tea factories, while the ‘Happy Valley’ restoration project and the setting up of a native plant nursery in Kotagiri have also been a tremendous success. She said that the criteria for selecting a site for restoration was dependent on multiple factors, including dependence on local communities to the site for their water requirements, either as a source of drinking water or for irrigation. Other factors that play into choosing a site for restoration include creating habitats for wildlife. Ms. Rehel added that restoring a site required maintenance over a period of time, and ensuring that the flora introduced to the site survive and flourish remained a priority till they reach full maturity. Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Keystone Foundation has appealed to people to celebrate World Environment Day through “reimagining, recreating and restoring at home.” “Ideas to help your local biodiversity flourish include ensuring that you compost your food waste at home, planting and maintaining a pollinator-friendly garden, planting native trees in your garden and local community spaces and controlling the spread of invasive species. Some fun-activities to involve children would be to build bird-feeders and encouraging water recycling,” a statement from Keystone Foundation stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ecological-restoration-undertaken-on-290-acres-around-kotagiri/article34732327.ece
05 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Dogs in villages surrounding Mudumalai to be vaccinated and sterilised||To prevent the spread of canine distemper to wildlife in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), the Worldwide Veterinary Service (WVS-India) is working with the Forest Department to vaccinate and sterilise the local dog population in surrounding villages. In a statement, Nigel and Ilona Otter from WVS-India said that steps were required to protect wildlife from communicable diseases, and that one of the most common diseases that can spread to wildlife from the domesticated dog population was canine distemper. “As it is difficult to immunise the wild animals, the best epidemiological solution is to prevent a spillover from domestic dog population to the wildlife by immunising the dogs,” their statement said. WVS-India proposed this project to the Durga Wildlife Fund as a way to increase immunity against distemper among domesticated dogs around the Masinagudi area in the MTR buffer zone. “In addition to vaccination with DHPPi – vaccine, the so called ‘six-in-one’-vaccine that provides immunity against distemper (among other canine diseases), the dogs were also to be vaccinated against rabies and sterilised. WVS-India has been providing sterilisation and annual rabies vaccination services in the area but systematic vaccination against distemper has not been implemented in this way before,” the press release said. The “Durga project” is being undertaken by WVS-India along with the assistance of the Forest Department, including K.K.Kaushal, Field Director of MTR. The project commenced on April 8. The project is to be conducted in three phases beginning with the initial vaccination of the dogs, followed by sterilisation surgeries and by administering a booster vaccine in the final phase. So far, 558 dogs have been vaccinated with the DHPPi vaccine, out of which 202 dogs have also received their booster shots. “The target through the Durga Wildlife Fund grant was to vaccinate 300 dogs against distemper and to sterilise and vaccinate 150 dogs against rabies. This target has already been reached,” said Ilona Otter. Ms. Otter emphasised hat WVS-India continues its work in vaccinating and sterilising dogs across the Nilgiris. The Durga project was just one example of such a project, she said. The WVS has an ongoing continuous neutering and rabies vaccination programme. The success of their programmes has ensured that the Nilgiris has not recorded a single case of canine rabies in the last decade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dogs-in-villages-surrounding-mudumalai-to-be-vaccinated-and-sterilised/article34732032.ece
05 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||1,000 oxygen beds added in three districts||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Friday reviewed COVID-19 prevention measures and inspected vaccination centres, containment areas and availability of oxygen beds in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupathur districts. He said over 1,000 additional beds with oxygen facilities had been set up in the combined Vellore district [Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupathur]. The Medical Minister, along with Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi and Vellore MP D.M. Kathir Anand, conducted the inspection and inaugurated additional beds in Ranipet, Tirupathur and Vellore districts. Speaking to reporters later, he said Vellore topped the State in terms of RT-PCR tests. “Till date, 7.55 lakh people have been tested in the district, and this is half its population. Within a week, the number of cases in Vellore dropped drastically,” Mr. Subramanian said. He allayed fears over oxygen shortage and said the State had more than enough stock. “When Chief Minister M.K. Stalin took over, the availability was 230 metric tonnes. But now, we have 660 metric tonnes as we are getting supply from Rourkela, Durgapur and Jamshedpur. The requirement, however, is only around 500 metric tonnes,” he added. He said beds with oxygen support were available across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1000-oxygen-beds-added-in-three-districts/article34732140.ece
05 June 2021||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||65 kg of ganja seized, one held||The Villupuram district police seized ganja weighing 65 kg, which was being smuggled from Bihar in an omnibus bound for Madurai, at Valathi on Friday. One person was arrested. A team conducting vehicle checks at the Gnanodayam check-post sought to stop the vehicle. But the driver did not stop, and a chase ensued. Two occupants of the vehicle managed to escape. The driver, P. Nadarajan, 39, of Thiru Nagar in Madurai, was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-kg-of-ganja-seized-one-held/article34732142.ece
05 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||More COVID care centres inaugurated||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Friday inaugurated a 200-bed COVID care centre with oxygen support here through video-conference from Chennai. He also virtually inaugurated a centre in Theni district. The 300-bed facility has been set up at Kombai near Uthamapalayam. Minister for Revenue K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu, and Collector R. Kannan were present. The new facility has been set up on KVS Centenary School, close to the Government Medical College Hospital here. The beds will be provided with oxygen supply through 200 oxygen concentrators donated by private sponsors, said the Collector. Stating that 100 concentrators have been set up at the centre on Friday, the remaining will be arriving on Saturday. “Patients with mild symptoms who need oxygen will be admitted to this centre. If they need higher treatment, they can be shifted immediately to the nearby Medical College Hospital,” said Dean of Government Medical College J. Sangumani. The Ministers gave away appointment orders to 13 medical officers and 39 lab-technicians employed on contract basis. MLAs A.R.R. Seenivasan, S. Thangapandian and A.R.R. Raghuraman and Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-covid-care-centres-inaugurated/article34732440.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 2,810 new cases||The daily caseload of Coimbatore district remained below 3,000-mark for the second consecutive day as the district reported 2,810 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 1,82,708. The Health Department reported 31 new deaths, taking the district’s toll to 1,425. The total active cases stood at 35,694 and 4,590 patients were discharged from treatment centres on Friday. Demonstation Dozens of residents staged a brief demonstration outside a primary health centre at Arisipalayam, near Madukkarai, on Friday morning demanding tokens for vaccination. According to the Madukkarai police, the residents alleged that they were waiting for around four hours and that the vaccination process had not started. The police personnel held talks with the residents at around 8.30 a.m., following which the vaccination drive continued, the police said. On Friday, Coimbatore district ranked first in the State in terms of number of vaccine doses administered on a single day. According to the data from the Health Department, 16,090 doses were administered on Friday, including 15,062 first doses and 1,028 second doses. Tiruppur district continued to witness a slight decline in the daily caseload as 1,161 new cases were reported, taking the overall tally to 65,996. As many as 16 new deaths were reported, taking the toll to 537. The active cases were 18,501 and 1,587 patients were discharged on Friday. Meanwhile, Tiruppur district stood second in the State in number of vaccine doses administered district-wise on Friday. A total of 13,594 doses were administered, including 11,361 first doses and 2,233 second doses, according to the Health Department. Erode district reported 1,619 new cases, taking the tally to 63,027. While 1,616 persons were discharged, 16,078 continue to be under treatment. Twelve persons died, raising the death toll to 401. As many as 1,187 positive cases were reported in Salem on Friday. Health officials said, 330 cases were reported in corporation limits and 100 patients returned from other places like Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Erode, Coimbatore, Kalakuruchi, Vellore and Chennai. As per bulletin, 20 deaths were reported, including five women patients. In Namakkal, 719 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Eleven deaths were reported, including three women patients. In the Nilgiris, 515 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 21,340. The number of deaths in the district increased from 105 to 109 on Friday while 4,282 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-2810-new-cases/article34732318.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination at Corporation schools for 45-plus category||Following suggestions and feedback from the members of the public, the Coimbatore Corporation has shifted to its schools the vaccination centres for those in the 45-plus age category. A release from Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said the civic body would henceforth vaccinate people in North Zone at the Thudiyalur Middle School, Vellakinaru and Saravanampatty primary schools, Gandhi Managar High School, P.N. Palayam Middle School, Sivanandapuram Janatha Nagar Primary School and Chinnavedampatti Primary School. In East Zone it would hold the camps at Cheran Managar Higher Secondary School, Kalapatti Higher Secondary School, Nehru Nagar Middle School, Masakalipalayam Middle School, Udayampalayam Higher Secondary School, Boys’ Higher Secondary School in Ondipudur, Girls’ higher secondary schools in Ramakrishnapuram and Singanallur and Uppilipalayam, Neelikonampalayam and Krishnapuram middle schools. In West Zone, the Corporation’s vaccination campus would be at Edayarpalayam (Thadagam Road) Middle School, Kavundampalayam Union Office Road Primary School, Kovilmedu Higher Secondary School, P.N. Pudur Higher Secondary School, Marudhamalai Subramanya Swami Devasthana Government-aided Higher Secondary School, Ramalingam Colony Higher Secondary School and SRP Ammani Ammal Girls’ Higher Secondary School, R.S. Puram. In South Zone, the Corporation would vaccinate people at Selvapuram North Primary School, Kuniamuthur Higher Secondary School on Palakkad Road, Kulathupalayam Higher Secondary School, Kurichi, K.V.K. Nagar Primary School and Chithannapuram Primary School. And, in Central Zone, the Corporation’s vaccination drive would go on at Ranganathapuram Girls’ Higher Secondary School, Rathinapuri Higher Secondary School, Ramanathapuram Primary School, Siddhapudur Boys’ Higher Secondary School and Okkiliar Colony Higher Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-at-corporation-schools-for-45-plus-category/article34732308.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri MP writes to President seeking direction for free vaccination||A. Chellakumar, Krishnagiri MP, has made a representation to the President Ram Nath Kovind through the District Collector calling for a direction to the Narendra Modi-led Union government for guaranteed and universal free vaccination for every citizen of the country. Alleging that the Union Government’s vaccination strategy was “a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers,” Dr. Chellakumar has called the Union government’s handling of the pandemic one of “criminal mismanagement”. Handing over the petition to Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy, the MP belonging to the Congress said, given that the vaccination was the only protection in the midst of a raging COVID 19 pandemic, the Modi government however, was derelict in its duty to “plan vaccination”, oblivious to “procurement of vaccines” and also deliberately created digital divide slowing down the vaccination pace. Dr. Chellakumar stated that the government was wilfully complicit in creating “multiple pricing slabs” or differential pricing for the same vaccine. According to the MP, the average pace of vaccination was about 16 lakh vaccine doses a day and at this rate, “it would take three years to vaccinate our adult population.” Amid vaccine shortage in the country, the Union government had exported 6.63 crore vaccine doses to other countries. In addition, the multiple pricing slab for the vaccine was a case of profiteering from the people’s misery, allowing the vaccine manufacturers to charge different rates from the Union government and the State governments. This has encouraged private hospitals to charge up to Rs. 1,500 per dose, he added in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-mp-writes-to-president-seeking-direction-for-free-vaccination/article34732309.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TPDK stages protest||Members of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam staged a protest on Friday condemning the Central Government’s alleged discrimination against the State in vaccine distribution. The outfit’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan said members of the organisation across the State held placards and flag in front of their houses and shared the photographs of the protest on social media platforms to comply with the lockdown norms. He alleged that the government gave more vaccines to State that had a lesser population than Tamil Nadu. This was step-motherly treatment, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpdk-stages-protest/article34732016.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners want govt. sand quarries reopened||The Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Federation has urged the State government to reopen non-functioning government sand quarries and make sand available for construction works at a reasonable price. In their petition to the Chief Minister, the sand lorry owners lamented that over 50,000 trucks are off the roads due to the lockdown in the State and the livelihood of lorry drivers and 30 lakh construction workers have been indirectly or directly affected due to non-availability of sand. The petitioners lamented that they are unable to repay loans to financiers due to lack of business. The petitioners said that though the previous regime introduced online booking by opening few number quarries, sand was given on a priority basis to contractors in favour of previous regime reportedly for government contract works but it was sold illegally to others. They said that due to the high price of sand, poor quality M-sand was used for construction works and it was being brought at high prices. The petitioners demanded that the State government should open M-sand quarries across the State and seal quarries, which does not possess quality certificate from the Public Works Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lorry-owners-want-govt-sand-quarries-reopened/article34732021.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||Swag ERT, Sood Foundation and Poppys Infrastructure:  Launch of Rapid Oxygen Centre, Seerapalayam, 11.30 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Webinar on Trading Techniques, 11 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Online contest for World Environment Day, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34732310.ece
05 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Legislators raise various issues at review meeting||Legislators raised various issues related to COVID-19 management at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Belagavi on Friday. Satish Jarkiholi, MLA, demanded that the government increase the number of tests significantly and provide free treatment to patients in private hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat – Arogya Karnataka scheme. Prabhakar Kore, former Rajya Sabha member, said that vaccines were not available freely in the market, as the Centre was regulating them. He urged the CM to ensure that vaccines were freely available to private hospitals. “We are not getting vaccines even after paying money upfront,” he said. Laxmi Hebbalkar urged the CM to strengthen all primary health centres and community health centres with equipment and doctors and upgrade them, based on the population density. Anjali Nimbalkar urged the CM to include the physically challenged in the COVID-19 relief package. The CM said he would consider this. P. Rajiv demanded the setting up of expert committees at the taluk level. RT-PCR test results should be given to the committee that should decide the treatment method. This will also reduce indiscriminate use of steroids that have led to problems like black fungus, he said. Mahantesh Kavatagimath, MLC, asked the government to start a COVID-19 laboratory in Chikkodi.   K. Sudhakar, Health and Medical Education Minister, said Karnataka will get 58 lakh doses of vaccine before the end of June. He said the government had approved seven oxygen plants to Belagavi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/legislators-raise-various-issues-at-review-meeting/article34732009.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fatalities stay high as deaths of past months are recorded now||While there has been a significant decline in new COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, the number of deaths remaining high has been intriguing. Data, however, shows that many deaths that occurred in March, April and May are being accounted for now, leading to the high number. A closer look at the data in the Health Department’s daily media bulletins for the past one week, shows that close to 80% of the deaths recorded in the bulletin now occurred since March. For example, the list of deaths mentioned in the June 3 bulletin shows hardly 150 deaths that have happened since June 1, out of 514. The death of a 74-year-old female patient, who was admitted on March 23 and died on March 29 in a private hospital in Bengaluru, has been recorded now. Likewise, a 62-year-old female who died on April 8, a 81-year-old who died on April 6 and many others who died in the months of March, April and May figure in Thursday’s data. Friday’s bulletin too showed a similar trend. Admitting that most deaths being accounted now are from the backlog, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra told The Hindu that it is because of delayed reporting of deaths by several private hospitals, especially in Bengaluru. “We have ordered an enquiry into this and are looking at it case by case. Private hospitals told us that they were unable to report the deaths as and when they occurred due to the huge rush of patients since late March,” he said. He said strict instructions had been given to private hospitals to report all COVID-19 deaths when they happen. Contrary claim However, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) disputed the Commissioner’s claim of delayed reporting by private hospitals and termed it was under-reporting of deaths by the government. “The number of COVID-19 fatalities was considerably high during the 3rd and 4th week of April and the first two weeks of May. Maybe the government underreported the numbers then to avoid panic among people,” said PHANA president H.M. Prasanna. Asserting that private hospitals in Bengaluru have to mandatorily enter every COVID-19 death on the BBMP portal, he said: “COVID bodies are not handed over to the families directly. It happens through the BBMP and unless we record the death on the portal, BBMP personnel will not collect the bodies. Most hospitals do not have mortuaries and would not want to keep a COVID body for long.” BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, however, said there is no requirement of handing over the body to BBMP staff. “We do not have that many personnel to collect every COVID body. Our officers are involved only in case of deaths that happen at the residences of patients,” he said. “The delayed recording of deaths in the media bulletins is because the deaths have to be certified by a committee of experts. There is always a lag between reporting, certification and recording of deaths,” he said. He added that people should not panic seeing the high number of deaths now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fatalities-stay-high-as-deaths-of-past-months-are-recorded-now/article34731976.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||We want all students to be able to give entrance tests: DPUE||The State government’s decision to cancel the II pre-university (PU) examination has students worried about competitive professional courses. However, in a move that may help ease their anxiety, the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) is planning to write about this to the agencies that conduct competitive entrance tests. R. Snehal, Director of DPUE, told The Hindu that the authorities would ask the agencies not to consider II PU scores as a qualifying criterion while deciding whether a student was eligible to give the test. They also plan to ask the agencies not to award any weightage to marks while allotting ranks. “We want all our PU students to be able to write the competitive entrance tests this year as we are not conducting a final exam,” said Ms. Snehal. The department will write to the National Testing Agency (NTA), which conducts the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), as well as the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). The State government, too, has yet to decide whether it will award grades or scores while considering a student’s performance in the first-year final exams. College admissions While students hoping to take up engineering or medicine will have to wait for the NTA and the KEA to respond to the government’s request, the admission process for those who want to pursue degree courses is already under way. Many colleges are, in fact, relieved as final examinations across all three boards have been cancelled, which levels the playing field. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had cancelled their respective Class 12 exams earlier this week. D. Kiran Jeevan, PRO of St. Joseph’s College, said they were admitting students into undergraduate programmes based on their Class 10 and 11 marks. “It is easy for us to admit students based on their earlier scores as now all the boards have cancelled the examination,” he said. Fr. Abraham V.M., Vice-Chancellor of Christ (Deemed-to-be University), said that the students would have to give an entrance test and interview. “In the absence of Class 12 scores, we will consider this as our admission criteria. As all three boards have cancelled exams now, we can start the classes in the first week of August,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/we-want-all-students-to-be-able-to-give-entrance-tests-dpue/article34731996.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain lashes Bengaluru||Heavy rain, accompanied by thunder, lightning and strong winds, lashed Bengaluru for over an hour on Friday evening. It inundated Hebbal Sarovara Layout, while the water level in the storm water drain in the area was dangerously high. Kiran Kumar, a resident, told The Hindu that on some roads, the water level was knee-high. “We had to shift around six residents to higher ground,” he said.  In an email response to residents, the BBMP’s chief engineer (SWD) stated that the lake development authorities were not permitting the civic body to take up the work, citing orders by the NGT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-lashes-bengaluru/article34731973.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assessment reforms are on the cards||The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to conduct periodic assessments for Class 10 (SSLC) and Class 12 (II PU) students in the 2021-22 academic year. At the press conference, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said they would conduct a detailed assessment exercise this academic year and introduce “innovative reforms”. Class 10 and 12 students from national boards have regular tests and projects that can be used to assess their grades in the absence of a final exam. Schools following the State syllabus usually conduct four formative assessments and two summative assessments, but for the 2020-21 academic year the department had directed them to conduct only two formative assessments for Class 10 students. While some private schools were able to hold all six assessments online, many, especially government schools, could not conduct even a single assessment for the academic year. Pre-university students in the State board also do not have continuous assessments to fall back on. As a result, education officials are in a quandary over grading students for 2020-21. This is one of the reasons the department is hoping to conduct two papers in a Multiple Choice Question format for SSLC students, while II PU students will be assessed on their performance in the first year. Elaborating on the decision to devise a continuous and comprehensive evaluation method for PU students, Snehal R., Director of the Department of Pre-University Education, said, “This academic year, there will be mandatory assessments. We want to conduct an assessment at the end of every chapter and a larger assessment once every quarter. However, our academic team is still working out the modalities.” To bring uniformity to the assessment process, the department plans to send SMS directly to students about their performance in the tests. However, with health experts predicting that a third wave of COVID-19 in October will put children at risk, officials are exploring different options if they are unable to conduct offline assessments. Niranjanaradhya V.P., senior fellow at the Centre for Child and the Law, National Law School of India University, is critical of the government’s “obsession with assessments”, which he termed outdated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assessment-reforms-are-on-the-cards/article34731989.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Reports that Karnataka cannot use KSRTC factually incorrect’||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Friday stated that claims by Kerala that they had won the case over the usage of the trademark ‘KSRTC’ were “factually incorrect”, as they had not received any such notice or order from the Central Trade Mark Registry. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, Managing Director, KSRTC, in a statement issued on Friday, said there was no legal prohibition against the use of trade mark “KSRTC” by the corporation. “As on date, KSRTC’s registration of the trademarks continue to be legally in force and the claim of KeralaSRTC in news reports that Karnataka cannot use the trademarks is factually incorrect and legally untenable,” he said. “No final orders have also been passed in the said appeals. Meanwhile, Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB) was abolished by an Ordinance of the Central Government dated 4.04.2021 and all such pending applications will be transferred to the High Court for adjudication,” he further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reports-that-karnataka-cannot-use-ksrtc-factually-incorrect/article34731986.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Undergraduate students call for the scrapping of exam||The clamour among undergraduate students in colleges and universities to scrap examinations has grown louder with many demanding that they be graded on their test and assignment marks. Many universities have not conducted their end-semester exams, but have started online classes for the next semester. The Department of Higher Education had said that the odd-semester exam would be conducted after the COVID-19 situation eased. “Universities and colleges have started even-semester classes without completing the odd-semester exam. This is not the right decision and the Higher Education Department should immediately promote all students,” said Ajay Kamath, secretary of All-India Democratic Students’ Organisation, adding that they had submitted a representation to Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. According to B.E. Rangaswamy, Registrar (Evaluation), Visvesvaraya Technological University, only three papers for first-semester students are pending. The exams of all other semesters werecompleted by April, before the lockdown. “The remaining papers will be conducted after the COVID-19 situation eases,” he said. Many private universities, too, have completed their online exams or have scheduled online exams in the coming months. A student of a private university, which has scheduled online exams next month, said, “The university refuses to acknowledge we are in the midst of a pandemic. Many students have poor Internet connectivity in their home towns.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/undergraduate-students-call-for-the-scrapping-of-exam/article34731993.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 16,068 new cases, 364 deaths||Karnataka on Friday reported 16,068 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 26,69,514. Of these, 3,221 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 364 deaths, the toll rose to 30,895. This is apart from 20 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 22,316 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 23,58,412. The State now has 2,80,186 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 10.66%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.26%. As many as 1,50,610 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,11,002 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-16068-new-cases-364-deaths/article34731979.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Contractor booked, but no case against civic officials||The Ijoor police have booked a case against the contractor Harish under Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 and under Section 304 of Indian Penal Code for Culpable Homicide not amounting to Murder. No arrest has been made. No case has been registered against officials of Ramanagaram City Municipal Council. Nanda Kumar, Commissioner, Ramanagara City Municipal Council said, as civic officials were busy with COVID-19 work, the contractor had illegally carried out the work without informing them. “We will take suitable action against the contractor,” he said. M. Shivanna, Chairman, Karnataka Safai Karmachari Commission, said civic officials were also culpable. “Council officials should have ensured labourers were provided adequate safety gear, if getting into the manhole was unavoidable. I have directed the district administration to also book officials who are culpable for the tragedy, and issue Rs. 10 lakh compensation to families of the deceased immediately,” he told The Hindu . Section 3 of the Manual Scavenging Act permits labourers to enter a manhole in four exceptional circumstances, which includes connecting the newly built sewer line to an existing one, as was the case in Ramanagaram. However, the Act stipulates that the CEO of the local authority has to record the exceptional circumstances in writing and ensure adequate safety measures, which were reportedly not followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/contractor-booked-but-no-case-against-civic-officials/article34731967.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three die of asphyxiation while working in manhole||Three labourers working in a manhole without any safety gear died of asphyxiation in Ramanagaram, around 50 km from Bengaluru, on Friday morning. They were among five labourers working on a new Underground Drainage (UGD) line of the Ramanagaram City Municipal Council. The labourers, four of whom were Dalits, were residents of Kamala Nagar in Bengaluru. They were put to work by Harish, a Class I contractor who had bagged the tender for the new UGD line. They had recently built eight new manholes, and were connecting the existing sewer to the newly constructed one. Rajesh, 30, entered an existing manhole, around 20 feet deep, to connect them to the newly built manholes, but fell unconscious and died of asphyxiation. His colleagues got into the manhole to rescue him, but also died of asphyxiation, said the police. “The father of one of the labourers, Ramachandrappa, was waiting in the newly constructed manhole to check the inlet, even as his son died in the other manhole,” Mohan Kumar, DySP, Ramanagaram said. The incident is the second such incident this year of labourers losing their lives after entering manholes without any protective gear for projects of government agencies. In January this year, two labourers died while cleaning manholes for Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board (KUWSDB), drawing a sharp reaction from the Karnataka High Court. On February 23, Narayana, 34, allegedly ended his life in Maddur. He was allegedly harassed by two officials of Maddur Town Municipal Council after photographs and a video of him being forced to clean a manhole without any safety gear in November 2020 were submitted as part of a complaint to the Karnataka Safai Karmachari Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-die-of-asphyxiation-while-working-in-manhole/article34731968.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka MLA, Minister to be impleaded||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday ordered impleading Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Yelahanka MLA S.R. Vishwanath in the proceedings of a PIL petition questioning the validity of appointment of chairperson to the Bangalore International Airport Area Planning Authority based on their recommendations. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction after perusing official records containing details of the process in the appointment of A. Ravi, a BJP member, to the post. The bench found letters written by Mr. Vishwanath on December 19, 2019, and Mr. Ashok on December 30, 2019, to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa favouring appointment of Mr. Ravi, and the entire process of appointment was triggered by these recommendations, though certain deliberations were carried out by the authorities before appointing Mr. Ravi on January 27, 2020. Petitioner T. Narasimha Murthy had complained that Mr. Ravi did not possess the qualifications prescribed in the Karnataka Planning Authorities Rules, 2016. Meanwhile, the Karnataka government denied the allegation in the petition that Mr. Ravi was appointed solely based on the recommendations of the MLA and the Minister while clarifying that due deliberations were conducted with various authorities on his qualifications before his appointment. Also, the government clarified that if Mr. Ravi happens to be a close relative of the Minister, it cannot stop the government from considering him for the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-mla-minister-to-be-impleaded/article34731984.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC exam likely to delay PU admission process||The State government’s plan to tentatively go ahead with SSLC examinations in the third week of July and hold two papers in a multiple choice format has thrown a spanner in the works for the I pre-university (PU) admission process. With Central boards cancelling their Class 10 board exams, many private PU colleges had started the admission process taking into consideration Class 9 marks and Class 10 internal assessments and preparatory exam scores. Now, they will have to wait for the government to hold the SSLC exams and declare the results. PU college managements feel that SSLC students may be at a disadvantage when compared to their peers from CBSE and ICSE schools. They pointed out that it will not be an even playing field as Central board students will be scored only on the basis of their internal assessments and earlier exam marks, while SSLC students will have to appear for their examination. “The Central boards have decided to be lenient this year while grading their students. But only SSLC students will have to appear for an exam. It will be unfair on them,” said the principal of a private PU college. SSLC students will have to appear for a Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) paper, which has also been criticised. “Questions thatrequire long descriptive answers are the best way to assess students and conducting MCQs won’t serve any purpose,” said Pramila S., a parent. R. Snehal, Director of the Department of Pre-University Education, said that she has learnt that many PU colleges have started the admission process. She warned the colleges not to breach reservation for various categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sslc-exam-likely-to-delay-pu-admission-process/article34731991.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccination for teachers||While the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has decided to vaccinate all the teachers before they invigilate the SSLC examination, many high school teachers are worried they may not get both doses in time. A high school teacher in Bengaluru said, “Even if I get my first jab by next week, I will have to wait to get my second dose of Covishield.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-for-teachers/article34731994.ece
05 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB phone-in programme||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board will conduct a phone-in programme with its Chairman on Saturday (June 5) from 9 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. The Chairman will discuss issues with members of the public and redress grievances regarding water billing, manhole overflowing, meter reading issues, improper water supply and sanitary issues, according to a Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board release. Public can participate by calling 080-22945119.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bwssb-phone-in-programme/article34731965.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Approach authorities on norm violations in events attended by politicians’||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed litigants, who have complained about several instances of violation of COVID-19 norms of wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and public gathering involving prominent political leaders, to submit their complaints to the grievance redressal machinery created by the State government. The court also indicated that it would take serious view if the grievance redressal mechanism fail to act properly when the litigants before the court submit their complaints in writing. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition, filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation, through which the court is monitoring actions initiated by the State government and its authorities in dealing with violation of COVID-19 norms. “Let us test how effectively the grievance redressal mechanism is functioning,” the Bench orally observed. Instances of violation of norms during the inspection of Bengaluru metro project by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and a few other Ministers and top officials of the project were among instances brought to the notice of the court during the hearing of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/approach-authorities-on-norm-violations-in-events-attended-by-politicians/article34731975.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Civic chief’s Twitter account hacked||Citizens who follow BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Twitter were in for a surprise on Friday morning. The account had been hacked, and the name and display picture were changed. The account was renamed and the hacker had tweeted from the account. The account name was later changed to “-“. Acknowledging the hacking of the account, Mr. Gupta told The Hindu that the BBMP had filed a complaint with the cyber crime police. The Twitter account was later retrieved by the social media team. “We do not know how the account was hacked or the identity of the culprit. There will be stricter controls put in place now to ensure such incidents do not recur,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/civic-chiefs-twitter-account-hacked/article34731966.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. petitions President for free jab for all||The Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Friday made a representation to President Ram Nath Kovind through Governor Vajubhai R. Vala to demand free universal vaccination for all citizens against COVID-19. A Congress delegation led by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar called on the Governor at the Raj Bhavan and submitted the memorandum seeking one crore vaccination per day to ensure vaccination free of cost for all citizens. A memorandum signed by party leaders, including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, said, “Tragically, the Narendra Modi-led government has completely abdicated its duty of fighting the coronavirus and abandoned the people, leaving them to fend for themselves.” Earlier in the day, the KPCC began a free vaccination drive in Davangere and Mr. Shivakumar took the inaugural shot to kick off the campaign. Former Minister and MLA Shamanur Shivashankarappa, who runs a hospital, has placed an order for vaccines worth Rs. 4 crore to administer jabs to people in his constituency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-petitions-president-for-free-jab-for-all/article34731971.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Caseload in ICU still high||Despite a significant decline in cases, the ICU caseload has not changed much and it is still very difficult to get a bed in the ICU, said Sudarshan Ballal, chairman of Manipal Hospitals. “As long as the caseload in the ICU does not come down, mortality will continue to remain high. Also, as patients who go to ICU are critical and stay in the hospital for much longer, till the ICU bed occupancy comes down we will continue to see a high mortality,” he said. As on June 3, the State had 4,764 patients in the ICUs of various hospitals. Of the total 3,381 ICU beds without ventilators, 2,394 are occupied. Besides, 2,370 ICU beds with ventilator of the total 2,988 beds in this category are occupied, according to official data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caseload-in-icu-still-high/article34731977.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Temporary crematoria being shut’||BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the three temporary crematoria opened last month are being shut as the number of deaths have reduced along with new cases. “The rush at the regular crematorium has also reduced considerably now,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/temporary-crematoria-being-shut/article34731980.ece
05 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Forest Dept. takes exception to remarks of KBD chairman||Forest Department officers of Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts have taken exception to Karnataka Biodiversity Board (KBD) chairman Anant Hegde Ashisara’s recent statement that the illegal cutting of trees had gone up in forest areas during the lockdown. The officers have written to the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests refuting the remarks. Mr. Ashisara, in a press release recently, said that he had received complaints suggesting large-scale cutting in Vagarerahalli in the Kadur range. He had stated forest vegetation on 480 acres had been lost. In Balur forest of Mudigere taluk, 472 trees had been cut and in the Koppa division over 42 acres of forest had been lost. He also listed similar incidents in parts of Soraba, Hosanagar, and Tirthahalli taluks in Shivamogga district. He said he had submitted a report on the information gathered to Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali. The incidents of large-scale tree cutting, he mentioned in his statement, left the Forest Department officers in shock. Senior officers visited the places mentioned in the chairman’s report and submitted a detailed report to the department heads. An incident involving the cutting of 25 trees was reported in Sorab taluk recently and the accused were arrested. Except for that, nothing was found on the ground. A senior officer in Shivamogga district said, “No major tree felling had happened in the recent days. Such statements would demoralise the staff working on the field”. In Chikkamagaluru, respective Deputy Conservators of Forests did the inspection and submitted reports. Sunil Panwar, Conservator of Forests of Chikkamaglauru, visited two places and submitted a report. “I inspected the spots and the forest area is intact. We will verify if the board chairman gives us specific information about any illegal tree cut in the forests of our circle,” he said. When The Hindu contacted Mr. Ashisara, he said he did not have a copy of his report and he would discuss the issue after a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-dept-takes-exception-to-remarks-of-kbd-chairman/article34732013.ece
05 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Workers vaccinated||Around 80 construction workers got vaccinated for COVID-19 at Gadikoppa in Shivamogga on Friday. Tunga Nagar Primary Health Centre medical officer Bheemappa and the staff members administered the vaccine. KNNL officers and representatives of the company were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-vaccinated/article34732010.ece
05 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man found murdered||A 35-year-old person was found murdered at Santhepet in Hassan on Friday morning. The police have identified the deceased as Somashekhar, a resident of Deve Gowda Nagar in Hassan. The victim’s body was found with marks of injury on the neck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-murdered/article34732011.ece
05 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Bring positivity rate in Dharwad down to 5%: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday said that he had asked the officials to work towards bringing down the COVID-19 positivity rate to 5% in Dharwad district from the current positivity rate which was around 12%. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Yediyurappa said that district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar and others were working towards it. “In the wake of a possible third wave affecting children, I have asked them to make separate arrangements for them. I am pleased to hear that the district administration has already made arrangements for additional 600 beds for the children in advance,” he said. The Chief Minister said that he had just received information from Delhi that Karnataka had been allocated 9,000 vials of Amphotericin for black fungus and it will be distributed to the districts as per the requirement immediately. Admitting that there was an issue of coordination between top officials in Mysuru district, he said he would take it up on his return to Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bring-positivity-rate-in-dharwad-down-to-5-yediyurappa/article34732007.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,KARNATAKA||UoH V-C to step down||Appa Rao Podile will demit office as Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) on June 7. He will hand over charge to Pro Vice Chancellor 1 Arun Agarwal, who is also the senior-most professor in the university. Mr. Podile had requested the Ministry of Education (MoE) in March to relieve him from the position. Based on his request, the approval from the President, who was the Visitor for all Central universities and appointing authority of their vice-chancellors, was received recently. Mr. Podile was appointed Vice Chancellor of UoH on September 21, 2015, for a period of five years and granted one year’s extension in September 2020. Mr. Podile is a senior professor in the department of Plant Sciences in the School of Life Sciences at the University of Hyderabad.  Tumultous tenure His tenure was marked by nation-wide protests demanding his resignation following the suicide of research scholar Rohit Vemula in January 2016. The student had ended his life after suspension from a hostel and alleged caste discrimination. The university was recognised as an institution of eminence by Central government in 2019 and recently ranked among world’s top universities by QS World Universities Rankings 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uoh-v-c-to-step-down/article34731985.ece
05 June 2021||K.C. Deepika,KARNATAKA||Biomedical waste up amid second wave||Apartfrom the humanitarian crisis, an aftermath of the second wave of the pandemic has been the huge pile-up of biomedical waste generated. Experts and doctors say it is a ticking time bomb as far as waste management is concerned. The quantity of biomedical waste generated during the second wave at its peak was definitely more than what was seen in the firstwave, said Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association President H.M. Prasanna.  When compared to pre-COVID times, the amount is four to five times more, said Dr. Prasanna. The cost of disposal too has gone up, from the earlier Rs. 10-13 to Rs. 58 per kilo now, excluding GST. “A small hospital can generate up to 100 kg a day,” he said. The situation is alarming in districts too, with more cases reported now from rural areas. In Hassan, prior to COVID-19, biomedical wastes generated in the district was around 800 kg to 900 kg. Now, it has gone up to 1.5 tonnes a day. Some days it has gone as high as 2.5 tonnes, said an official. In Ballari and Koppal districts, the biomedical waste generated was around 200 kg a day on an average. Now, the waste quantity has increased to 900 kg a day, officials said. Hasiru Dala Innovations co-founder Marwan Abubaker admitted that in addition to an approximately 25% increase in general waste due to work from home, there have been cases of masks and the like making their way into dry waste. D.V. Reddy from Meera Envirotech Pvt Ltd, which manages biomedical waste from 200 small hospitals in Bengaluru, Kolar and Chikkaballapur, said a dedicated vehicle collects only COVID-19 waste and no segregation happens for the same. “This waste is taken directly to incineration units,” he said. However, company executives too admitted that with costs of collection of general waste and COVID-19 waste substantially different, some hospitals pass off this as general waste. “For general waste disposal, they are charged monthly. But for COVID-19 waste, they have to pay per kilo,” he said.   (With inputs from Sathish G.T. and Praveen Para)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/biomedical-waste-up-amid-second-wave/article34731983.ece
05 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vasant Kushtagi passes away||Renowned writer and poet Vasant R. Kushtagi died at a private hospital in Kalaburagi city on Friday. He was 85. Prof. Kushtagi had been ailing for some time and was admitted to a private hospital after developing low blood pressure, his family confirmed. He was a recipient of several prestigious honours including the Kannada Sahitya Academy Award and the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award. Prof. Kushtagi wrote eight novels, over 30 collections of poems and several prose pieces,16 works of editing, and 22 translations. He was selected as the president of Sedam taluk Gadi Nadu Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, the president for the first Kannada Sahitya Sammelana held at Badami taluk, and also was president of the ninth Kannada Sahitya Sammelana at Kalaburagi. He served as Professor at Kannada Department in Nutan Vidyalaya Education Society and retired as principal. In 1995, Prof. Kushtagi got State-wide recognition after his poem Haraike got a place in the Kannada textbook for class 10 (First Language). Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa expressed grief over the demise and said that it was an “irreparable loss” to the State and the Kannada literary world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vasant-kushtagi-passes-away/article34732015.ece
05 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||ESIC’s helping hand to COVID-19 victims||The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has come out with ‘ESIC COVID-19 relief scheme’ to provide relief to the families of employees, covered under ESIC, who died of COVID-19. As per the scheme, the family members of the employee will be eligible for family pension equivalent up to 90% of the average wage of the deceased employee, subject to a minimum of Rs. 1,800 per month. The family pension which is normally payable only in case of death due to employment injury has now been relaxed to include death due to COVID-19. The scheme shall be effective for a period of two years with effect from March 24, 2020. The employees who have been registered under the ESI scheme at least three months prior to the date of diagnosis of the COVID-19 and contribution in respect of whom have been paid or payable for at least 70 days during the period of maximum one year immediately preceding diagnosis of the COVID-19 disease are eligible. “For employees who are availing maternity benefit, extended sickness benefit or temporary disablement benefit and who will fall short of required 70 days contribution due to they being in receipt of maternity benefit, temporary disabled benefit or extended sickness benefit, the number of days they were on maternity benefit, temporary disabled benefit or extended sickness benefit during the period of one year prior to the diagnosis of COVID-19 will be counted to arrive at their eligibility for relief under the scheme,” S. Sivaramakrishnan, Director in-charge, ESIC, Mangaluru said in a release on Friday. Besides, the spouse of the deceased employee shall be eligible for medical treatment in ESI Hospital/dispensaries on payment of Rs. 120 per annum. The claim for the pension benefit could be submitted in branch office of ESIC along with the COVID-19 positive report, death certificate of the deceased employee and the identify, and age proof of the dependent family members, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/esics-helping-hand-to-covid-19-victims/article34732006.ece
05 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Take effective action against those assaulting doctors’||Seeking effective action against those responsible for the alleged assault on doctors at a private hospital in the city on May 21, the Indian Medical Association, Mangaluru, said fear of abuse and violence will make doctors hesitate from taking up difficult cases. Talking to reporters here on Friday, Satish Bhat from the legal cell of the IMA Mangaluru, said the city police have so far not arrested Asif Chokkabettu, who is the prime accused in the assault on intensivist Jayaprakash and abuse of B. Muralidhar Yediyal and a few other health personnel outside a private hospital in the city on May 21. Dr. Bhat said if violence and abuse against doctors continue, then they will hesitate from taking up difficult cases. The city police arrested two persons in connection with the assault on Dr. Jayaprakash and the abuse of Dr. Yediyal. Khateeja Jasmine, who tested positive at the time of her delivery, has filed a complaint against Dr. Jayaprakash, Dr. Yediyal, and Priya Ballal accusing them of negligence. This complaint has been referred for an inquiry by a district level committee. Dr. Jayaprakash, Dr. Yediyal, and Dr. Ballal said they have been treating COVID-19 patients since last year and there was no question of any of them turning away. “We have made all efforts to ensure safe delivery of the child and both the mother and child are in good condition. The allegation made against us has really hurt us,” said Dr. Ballal, head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology department of Kasturba Medical College and Hospital, Mangalurur̥. “The allegations have forced me to consider leaving the profession,” said Dr. Jayaprakash.  Meanwhile, Mr. Kumar told reporters on Friday that all efforts were being made to arrest the prime accused, who was reportedly at large. “All police units have been directed to take serious view of incidents of attack on health and other frontline workers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/take-effective-action-against-those-assaulting-doctors/article34732012.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tension over spat between IAS officers continues in Mysuru||The storm raised by the public spat between two senior IAS officers in Mysuru amid the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic is yet to subside, even as Mysuru City Corporation councillors took to the streets over the issue on Friday. Though Chief Secretary Ravi Kumar paid a visit to the city and held prolonged discussion with the officials, the focus was on tackling COVID-19. Shilpa Nag, Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), who created a flutter by announcing her “resignation” from the civil services citing harassment and humiliation by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, was late for the meeting. Prior to the meeting, Mr. Ravi Kumar denied having received any resignation letter. After the meeting, the officials did not speak to the media. Afterwards, Mr. Kumar, Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash, and Ms. Nag were closeted for nearly 20 minutes before leaving the venue. Meanwhile, councillors of MCC, led by in-charge Mayor Anwar Baig, held a demonstration in the city urging the government to retain Ms. Nag as Commissioner. There were as many supporters for Ms. Sindhuri too, while most sought an end to their public spat and a return to focussing on handling the pandemic. Earlier in the day, Ms. Nag was conspicuous by her absence at a function held to celebrate the birth anniversary of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar even though Ms. Sindhuri was present. The latter reiterated her stance and told mediapersons that she had only sought rectification of figures as there was a mismatch in data. Ms. Sindhuri also stood by her decision to seek details on how Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) contributions were utilised in Mysuru. District in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar said the focus was on reducing the COVID-19 cases in Mysuru, and the tussle between the two IAS officers would be resolved by the Chief Secretary. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was also apprised of it. Meanwhile, the State government has ordered an inquiry into the construction of an indoor swimming pool and a gym inside the official residence of Ms. Sindhuri. The order refers to a complaint citing a threat to the heritage building as well as the absence of any provision for taking up construction, at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh, in a heritage structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tension-over-spat-between-ias-officers-continues-in-mysuru/article34731987.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vaccines to be distributed in proportion to population: CM||The State government will distribute vaccines to districts in proportion to their population, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said in Belagavi on Friday. “The State now has a steady supply of vaccines. We will distribute them based on the population of the districts,” he said. Bengaluru’s vaccination coverage is one among the highest among major cities in India. As on Thursday, about 29% of the city’s population had been vaccinated. Health Minister K. Sudhakar had announced on Thursday that Karnataka will get more than 58.71 lakh doses of vaccines this month. It includes the supply of 45 lakh doses from the Government of India and 13.7 lakh doses from State government’s direct procurement. A statement from his office said the supply in June will be higher than 37.41 doses the State had received in May 2021. The Chief Minister announced the appointment of Amlan Aditya Biswas, Regional Commissioner, as administrator of Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccines-to-be-distributed-in-proportion-to-population-cm/article34731970.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rein them in, says HDK||Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Friday asked the BJP government to “show courage” and act immediately over the face-off between two IAS officers in Mysuru. The confrontation between Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag has created doubts in people about the “existence” of the State government, he said. “Let the government show the nerve to stop the officers’ spat. Otherwise, the State will lose its respect at the national level and the government will be solely held responsible for this,” the JD(S) leader said in a series of tweets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rein-them-in-says-hdk/article34731990.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU exam cancelled||Mr. Kumar said all teachers who would be invigilating the examination would be vaccinated. The number of examination centres would also be doubled this year to 6,000, said the Minister. Only 10 to 12 students would be seated in each classroom, with one student per desk. “We will provide N-95 masks for all students appearing for the exam,” said Mr. Kumar.  While the DPUE has decided to grade II PU students on the basis of their first year PU marks, Mr. Kumar said they had received suggestions to also consider the SSLC marks while grading students. DPUE officials are deliberating how students would be assessed. “We are wondering if we should give students grade or allot marks. We are also brainstorming over whether students should get a final score/grade or be graded in individual subjects,” an official said. Calendar of events The Department of Public Instruction has announced the calendar of events for 2021-22 academic year. A circular issued on Friday stated that classes for the academic year will begin on July 1. Schools have been asked to conduct the admission process from June 15 to August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-exam-cancelled/article34731992.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Dengue, leptospirosis add to disease burden in Ernakulam||Stretched to the limit fighting COVID-19, the health system in the district is now gearing up to tackle monsoon-related diseases. From January to May, Ernakulam recorded 325 suspected cases of dengue. A total of 86 people were suspected to have contracted leptospirosis, and four deaths were recorded among them. The number of dengue cases the district has witnessed this year is lower than the number seen for the same period last year, data shows. In 2020, a total of 608 suspected cases of dengue were recorded from January to May, and 972 cases were recorded in June alone. But with the rains beginning, cases could rise this year too, say health officials. Last year, Ernakulam had seen two cases of coinfection of COVID-19 and leptospirosis and one of COVID-19 and dengue. This year, so far, there have been five cases of coinfection of leptospirosis and COVID-19 and two of dengue and COVID-19, according to Dr. Vinod Paulose, district surveillance officer for non-COVID diseases. The district surveillance unit for COVID-19, in an analysis report last week, had warned of chances of coinfections and superinfections with the onset of the monsoon and associated vector-borne diseases. While treatment is available at the General Hospital and taluk hospitals for non-COVID patients, ICU beds are other facilities are limited and taking preventive action is important, says Dr. Paulose. Observing dry-day every week is crucial, besides avoiding self-medication in case of fever, he adds. Recently, the Kochi Corporation area, including parts of Ponnurunni, Chalikkavattom and Kaloor, has reported cases of dengue, says an official on the vector control unit. Parts of Angamaly, Nedumbassery and Thirumarady have also reported cases. “Since some establishments have remained closed for weeks now, rainwater has been collecting in items that are left lying around. When officers at a police station contracted dengue recently, we found that confiscated vehicles had turned into mosquito breeding spots. Indoor plants are also suitable breeding spaces, and since people are required to stay inside, more residents have taken to keeping such plants now,” he adds. While lockdown and containment zone restrictions have hit vector control activities to some extent, health workers on the field, like ASHA workers, and public health nurses, are straddling COVID-19 and vaccination duties, making it difficult for them to carry out regular source-reduction activities to minimise mosquito breeding, says the official on the vector control unit. “We are now relying on awareness messages in the hope that residents will themselves identify and remove breeding sources,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dengue-leptospirosis-add-to-disease-burden-in-ernakulam/article34732106.ece
05 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||A project for safe disposal of sanitary napkins||While menstruation is no longer a taboo subject thanks to various measures that have created awareness, there is still one aspect that has not been addressed, say Atyantika Mookherjee, Manasvi Dholakia and Ishita Desai. The three 16-year-old students of Navy Children School, Kochi, are the co-founders of The Red Lotus, a project that aims to open people’s eyes to the problem of disposal of sanitary napkins.  The impetus to found The Red Lotus in January 2021 came from a visit to a sanitation plant where they saw workers segregating used sanitary pads from house waste. The girls conducted a survey of 200 women in the 15-54 age group and found that unhygienic disposal of sanitary pads was indeed a rampant issue. “Our main points of focus are how people dispose menstrual waste and whether they know what happens to it after that,” says Manasvi adding that the plight of sanitation workers has been completely overlooked. The friends began by making newspaper envelopes that carried a sticker with their logo. These disposal bags were distributed to 15 women. They also held webinars on the topic for the local ‘mahila mandal’ and for Ramnarain Ruia College in Mumbai. Currently, the trio is making envelopes by hand with the help of two volunteers from New Delhi and Surat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-project-for-safe-disposal-of-sanitary-napkins/article34732107.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC stays order quashing KU notification||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday stayed for three months a single judge’s verdict quashing a notification of the University of Kerala related to the appointment of 58 teachers citing that the university had applied community reservation after treating professors of various departments as one unit. The Bench comprising Justices A. Muhamed Mustaque and Justice Kauser Edappagath passed the stay order on an appeal filed by the University of Kerala and the State government against the single judge’s judgment which had also quashed an amendment brought to the university statutes in this regard. Erroneous assumption According to the appeals, the single judge had proceeded on an erroneous assumption that all posts in the university were taken as a unit for the purpose of reservation and omitted to take note that the amendment contemplated application of reservation category wise, taking all departments of the university as one unit in respect of a particular category — the Professors in all departments as a category, associate professors as another, and assistant professors as yet another. The appeals said the single judge had also erred in assuming that the post of Professor in a department of the university was a ‘single post’ for the reason of there being no interchangeability in different disciplines. As regards the posts of Professors, apart from carrying the same pay scales, the qualifications were broadly similar and the nature of duties imparted was also similar. Therefore, the consideration of all posts of Professors as one unit for working out the roster of reservations was legal. The reservation on the basis of a category-wise roster system, whereby the entire varsity was taken as a unit, would not result in a monopoly of reservation or reservation of a particular post in perpetuity.  According to the appeals, the single judge proceeded on an erroneous assumption that all posts were taken as a unit||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-stays-order-quashing-ku-notification/article34732481.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Industry leaders hail proposals||Owing to an increase in infectious diseases, establishing primary health centres, isolation wards, and bringing in modern facilities at the taluk and panchayat level will be beneficial, K. Paul Thomas, managing director and CEO of ESAF Small Finance Bank, has said. The emphasis on employment and entrepreneurship is commendable. The deployment of a Rs. 100-crore venture capital fund was quite encouraging, he said. The healthcare sector had been provided with large funding for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, said Azad Moopen, chairman and managing director of Aster DM Healthcare. Increased allocation of funds and thrust on development of digital economy, knowledge society, innovation society, and start-ups were appreciated, said Deepak L. Aswani, co-chair, FICCI Kerala State Council. Allocation of Rs. 55,000 crore for three industrial corridors will accelerate infrastructure development in the State. Reduction of State VAT to 5% would be a great boost for LNG-related projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/industry-leaders-hail-proposals/article34732113.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,551 cases in Ernakulam||A total of 1,551 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. Thrikkakara recorded 89 new cases, Thripunithura 67, Elamkunnapuzha and Kalamassery 58 each, Vengola 57, Kumbalangi 53, Kottuvally 52, Fort Kochi 50, Palluruthy 43, and Kizhakkambalam 40. Choornikkara and Pallipuram saw 32 cases each. Five health workers tested positive. The source of infection was unclear in 34 cases. The test positivity rate stood at 15.4% when 10,064 tests were done. Two patients are recovering from mucormycosis (black fungus) in the district, according to figures from the district surveillance unit.  In Kozhikode Kozhikode district recorded 1,133 new COVID cases on Friday, while 1,230 were cured and discharged. Among the new patients were two who had come from other States, while four were health workers. The source of infection was unknown in 16 cases while 1,115 were infected through local transmission. At present, there are 16,371 COVID patients in the district. Meanwhile, 10,173 were tested on Friday with a test positivity rate of 11.38%, the District Medical Officer said. In Thrissur There were 1,510 fresh cases in the district on Friday while 1,726 patients recovered from the pandemic. The test positivity rate was 16.76%. Active cases in the district were 10,088 and 77 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts. According to the official statistics, 1,489 people, including six health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Friday. Of them, 224 were above the age of 60 and 118 children were below the age of 10. As many as 9,008 samples were taken for the test on Friday.(With inputs from Kozhikode and Thrissur bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1551-cases-in-ernakulam/article34732108.ece
05 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Plea seeks protocol violation case against V.D. Satheesan||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought the view of the police on a plea for a directive to register a case against Congress leader and Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan for allegedly violating the COVID-19 protocol. The petition was filed by N. Arun of Muvattupuzha, who said that Mr. Satheesan had organised huge gatherings for receptions following his selection as Leader of the Opposition. Mr. Satheesan also visited Chellanam along with hundreds of supporters, flouting COVID-19 norms, the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-seeks-protocol-violation-case-against-vd-satheesan/article34732479.ece
05 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kerala HC seeks ED’s response on Kodakara heist||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought the response of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on a plea for a probe by the agency into the Kodakara black money heist case allegedly involving State Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. Justice Mary Joseph passed the order on a petition filed by Salim Madavur, president, Lok Tantrik Yuva Janata Dal, seeking a directive to the ED to take a call on a representation given by him seeking an investigation into the economic offences as revealed during the Kodakara police investigation into the heist. According to the petitioner, looting of illegal funds to the tune of Rs. 3.5 crore meant for spending for the Assembly elections had taken place near Kodakara, Thrissur, on April 3. Based on complaint Initially, a crime was registered on a complaint by the owner of the vehicle saying that Rs. 25 lakh was looted. The investigation had revealed commission of an economic offence punishable under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. But the officers concerned of the ED had refused to take any decision on his repeated representation, the petitioner alleged. When the petition came up for hearing, T.A. Unnikrishnan, Special Public Prosecutor, ED, sought more time to apprise the court of the agency’s stand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-hc-seeks-eds-response-on-kodakara-heist/article34732116.ece
05 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||North Kerala has reasons to cheer||The budget presented by Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has been generally welcomed by various quarters for some of its announcements, including a Rs. 20,000-crore package to tide over the crisis induced by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the State. The proposal to establish a separate block at the Kozhikode Government Medical College Hospital will help effectively manage airborne and highly dangerous contagious diseases such as COVID-19 and Nipah. Kozhikode will get a share of the Rs. 50 crore earmarked for Thiruvananthapuram medical college as well. The proposal for Norka Self-Employment Scheme for rehabilitating Gulf returnees who lost their jobs will help them rebuild their lives. A total of Rs. 1,000 crore will be provided as loan at low interest in association with various financial institutions. The allocation towards welfare schemes for expatriate Keralites has also been enhanced to Rs. 170 crore. Another proposal that received appreciation is the Coastal Highway Project for which a sum of Rs. 6,500 crore has been sanctioned from KIIFB. The proposal for a Malabar Literary Circuit – a tourism circuit joining places such as Thunchan Memorial, Beypore, Thasrak, Ponnani, Trithala and banks of Bharathapuzha — is expected to boost tourism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/north-kerala-has-reasons-to-cheer/article34732115.ece
05 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Implement Gadgil report’||The Society for the Protection of Environment, Kerala (SPEK) has urged the State government to focus on protecting the environment and sustainable development while concentrating on mega projects in the State. In a memorandum submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, SPEK president K.K.Vijayan and secretary K.K. Devadasan said that rampant urbanisation and development projects should not be at the cost of destruction of the environment. In such a context, the government should implement the recommendations of the Gadgil Committee on protection of the Western Ghats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/implement-gadgil-report/article34732103.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Data mining for online classes||The General Education Department has issued an order for collection of data at the school level on students lacking facilities for accessing digital/online classes. The order directs arrangements at the school, sub-district/education district, and district levels to address the shortage of digital facilities among students this year. At the school level, data on students who do not have laptops, tablets, Internet connectivity, TV, cable/DTH connections; those without study material such as textbooks, notebooks, and stationery; and those without electricity connections at their homes should be collected and combined with data collected by Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, to prepare a school-level list. Execution by June 13 An action plan should be prepared to make available digital facilities to students who lack them, and the plans should be implemented by June 13. A teacher should be appointed as nodal officer to coordinate the school-level efforts. School-level meetings should be held to address the lack of facilities. The situation of every child should be reviewed for taking up necessary interventions. Wider participation Activities at the block and education district levels should be coordinated by assistant and district education officers. Participation of local bodies and people’s representatives should also be ensured, says the order. District Collectors and district panchayat presidents should convene meetings by Sunday in which people’s representatives from all levels should participate to ensure better support for the efforts. On the basis of the school-level data, the meetings should ascertain how many students have not been able to view the classes telecast so far and issue directions for action at the department level. Coordination committees that are led by Deputy Directors of Education should be formed in each district in order to ensure that the data collected is accurate, collect data on facilities required, determine places where facilities for students could be arranged, record the possibilities of making available facilities through sponsorship and so on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/data-mining-for-online-classes/article34732483.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Budget casts a benevolent eye on agriculture||Loans amounting to Rs. 2,000 crore will be provided during 2021-22 for boosting agriculture infrastructure in the State, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. Under the Cooperative Initiative for Agriculture Infrastructure in Kerala (CAIK), NABARD loan schemes for primary cooperatives at 4% interest will be made available through Kerala Bank for infrastructure rejuvenation. The idea is to boost capital formation in the sector for creating local markets, warehouses, cold chain facilities, and processing centres for fruits such as pineapple, banana, and mango, Mr. Balagopal says, presenting the revised Budget for the 2021-22 fiscal. Smart Krishi Bhavans The Budget has allocated Rs. 10 crore for the preliminary expenses of modernising the Agriculture Department for attracting youth to the farm sector and guaranteeing a fair price to farmers. Krishi Bhavans will be made ‘smart’. Digital technologies such as cloud computing, blockchain, and artificial intelligence will be employed to modernise the distribution of good quality planting material, farming techniques, agricultural extension, harvest, warehouse usage, cold storage chains, and marketing. A sum of Rs. 10 crore has been set apart for establishing an IT-based service network for marketing agricultural products. The project will be piloted in two districts. Five agro parks will be established as joint ventures with the participation of farmers and the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The Budget has earmarked Rs. 10 crore for strengthening the dairy sector by improving value addition. Plantation sector The Budget has set apart Rs. 2 crore for diversification in the plantation sector by encouraging the cultivation of fruits such as rambutan, avocado, dragon fruit, and mangosteen. The departments concerned will formulate a policy and roll out a scheme within six months. A sum of Rs. 50 crore is set apart for paying the entire arrears of rubber subsidy to farmers in the plantation sector. Fish processing The Budget has allocated Rs. 5 crore for building infrastructure for fish processing, eyeing the possibilities in value-added products. The Finance Minister also announced the government’s intention to strengthen the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) and Consumerfed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-casts-a-benevolent-eye-on-agriculture/article34732082.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Loan scheme for State’s financial rejuvenation||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has announced a financial rejuvenation loan scheme to be formulated using primary cooperative societies and commercial banks to overcome the crisis due to COVID-19. The interest part will be borne by the State and the potential of NABARD’s refinancing schemes and the loan packages announced by the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India will be utilised. The scheme will have three components — Cooperative Initiative for Agriculture Infrastructure in Kerala (CAIK), loan scheme for labour enterprises, and loans to Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups. Under CAIK, loans amounting to Rs. 2,000 crore will be provided this fiscal. The infrastructure rejuvenation loan scheme from NABARD for primary cooperative societies at 4% interest will be made available through Kerala Bank. The Minister says a major obstacle in the development of the agriculture sector is the lack of capital formation. Improving investment credit can boost private capital formation and create local markets, warehouses, cold chain, and fruit processing centres. Through this, it will be able to engage in areas such as fruit and vegetable markets, fish marketing facilities, hygienic meat marketing facilities, and processing centres for agriculture products. Under the loan scheme for labour enterprises, loans at reduced rates will be made available to start new enterprises in agricultural, industrial, and service sectors and to rejuvenate non-operational enterprises. The aim is to provide loans worth Rs. 1,000 crore in 2021-22. Bank loans of at least Rs. 1,000 crore will be made available to neighbourhood groups through Kudumbashree this fiscal. All loans up to Rs. 5 lakh will be made available at 4% interest. An amount of Rs. 100 crore is provided for interest subvention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/loan-scheme-for-states-financial-rejuvenation/article34732132.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccines for all above 40 years in Kerala||The State government has decided to administer COVID-19 vaccines to all persons between 40 and 44 years of age without keeping priority considerations, an official release issued by the office of the Health Minister said. Persons who complete 40 years or above as on January 1, 2022 can get themselves vaccinated. These persons can register on the CoWin portal (www.cowin.gov.in) and schedule online appointment from Saturday. Vaccination slots will be made available for this category as per the availability of vaccines. At the same time, the vaccination of those in the 18-44 year age group on the basis of priority and of those above 45 years will continue. 16,229 cases in Kerala Kerala reported 16,229 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 1,09,520 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) dropped to 14.82% on Friday. The State’s active case pool dipped further to 1,74,526,with 25,860 more recovering. The State added 135 recent deaths to the official list on Friday. Hospitalisations and ICU occupancy have started to dip. On Friday, 2,934 persons were hospitalised. The number of patients being treated in hospitals dipped to 35,605. Total ICU admissions have been declining steadily. On Friday, the number of patients in ICUs was 3,531, while those requiring ventilator support dropped to 1,438. The active case pool is dwindling rapidly in all districts and in all except six districts, the number of patients has come down below 10,000. The cumulative case burden of the State stands at 26,01,082. District-wise Among districts, Malappuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,300, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 2007, Palakkad 1,925, Kollam 1,717, Ernakulam 1,551, Thrissur 1,510, Alappuzha 1,198, Kozhikode 1,133, Kottayam 636, Kannur 621, Pathanamthitta 493, Idukki 474, Kasaragod 392 and Wayanad 272. In Tamil Nadu Chennai’s daily case count dropped below 2,000 after 54 days on Friday. As many as 1,971 people tested positive in the city, even as the State logged 22,651 fresh cases and 463 deaths. Karnataka on Friday reported 16,068 fresh cases and 364 deaths. Andhra Pradesh reported 83 deaths and 10,413 new infections on Friday. Telangana on Friday reported 2,175 cases and 15 deaths.  (With inputs from Chennai, Vijayawada bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccines-for-all-above-40-years-in-kerala/article34732119.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LSGIs to get health grant for 5 years||Acknowledging the key role played by the Local Self-Government Institutions (LSGIs) in the fight against COVID-19, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said local governments will get an annual health grant for the next five years, as provided by the 15th Finance Commission. The commission has set aside Rs. 70,051 crore across India as a health grant for five years. The allocation for Kerala is Rs. 2,968 crore. Of this, Rs. 559 crore will be allocated this financial year. This amount will be utilised for strengthening family health sub-centres, family health centres, community health centres, urban primary health centres, etc. Role in tackling COVID “Against the backdrop of COVID-19, it has been recognised that the decentralisation administration in Kerala has played a significant role towards strengthening the health sector. The 15th Finance Commission has appreciated this intervention of the State and has commented that other States shall strengthen their health systems like Kerala under the leadership of local government institutions. This is a matter of pride for Kerala,” said Mr. Balagopal in his Budget speech. Another allocation for local bodies is for a scheme to reduce extreme poverty as announced by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan soon after taking charge. An amount of Rs. 10 crore has been initially earmarked for the scheme, the Minister said. Revenue potential  Mr. Balagopal said local governments had enormous potential in increasing their tax and non-tax revenue, but efforts to mobilise additional revenue by harnessing this potential through rate revision and rule amendments had not taken off for the past few years. Revenue reforms Local governments had generally taken a favourable stance in adopting revenue enhancement measures. Once the COVID-19 crisis was over and the economy returned to growth, reforms would be implemented in tax and non-tax revenue matters after considering the recommendations of the State Finance Commission. The Minister said the government was starting the requisite groundwork now itself.  Rs. 10 crore initially set aside for poverty reduction scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lsgis-to-get-health-grant-for-5-years/article34732127.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Revival package for tourism sector||A rejuvenation package, infusion of more working capital, aggressive campaign to increase footfall during the post-pandemic period and two tourism circuits have been announced in the 2021-2022 revised budget to revive the tourism sector battered by the COVID-19 pandemic. Minister of Finance K.N. Balagopal said the two waves of COVID-19 had badly hit the tourism sector that provides employment to five lakh people directly and 20 lakh indirectly. To gear up for the post-pandemic period and attract tourists, necessary preparations had to be made in advance. The government is formulating long-term plans to ensure rapid growth in the sector, he added.  Given the long-term impact of COVID-19, Mr. Balagopal said the government would encourage a responsible tourism approach based on environmental reconstruction, taking the crisis as an opportunity for further progress and to revive the sector. In addition to the existing provision of Rs. 100 crore, an amount of Rs. 50 crore had been additionally earmarked for Kerala Tourism for marketing. Loans amounting to Rs. 400 crore would be made available through the Kerala Financial Corporation for mobilising more working capital in the tourism sector, the Minister said. Amphibious vehicles would be launched. The would be introduced initially in Kollam, Kochi and Thalassery regions, and Rs. 5 crore had been provided for this in the Budget. Rejuvenation package Pointing out that most of the enterprises in the tourism sector are on the verge of closure due to financial crisis, the Minister said a rejuvenation package would be implemented by Kerala Tourism. An amount of Rs. 30 crore had been earmarked as government share. Preparations and strategies are to be formulated to attract international and domestic tourists to the State. The intent will be to carry out the kind of campaign activities that were successfully implemented during the floods. The Minister also announced two tourism circuits and Rs. 50 crore had been earmarked for this in the Budget. Malabar Literary Circuit will link Thunjan Memorial, Beypore, Thasrak, Ponnani, Trithala and banks of the Bharathapuzha that became famous through literary figures Thunjath Ezhuthachan, Vaikom Mohammed Basheer, O.V. Vijayan and M.T. Vasudevan Nair respectively. The biodiversity circuit will connect Ashtamudi lake, Munroethuruth, Kottarakara, Meenpidipara, Muttara-Maruthimala, Jadayu Rock, Thenmala and Achencoil in Kollam district.  Government will encourage a responsible tourism approach based on environmental reconstruction||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revival-package-for-tourism-sector/article34732134.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hi-tech platform for school-like feel||As the State government plans to launch online classes led by teachers of respective schools in a phased manner, an amount of Rs. 10 crore has been earmarked in the revised Budget for creating a common online teaching platform incorporating technologies such as virtual reality and augmented reality to make learning similar to that in a school environment. The Vidyasree scheme of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises and Kudumbashree Mission to provide two lakh laptops to schoolchildren for online education will be implemented in a time-bound manner. Students’ mental health Widespread concerns over the impact of COVID-19 on the mental health of children, most of whom are home-bound for the past 15 months, have been reflected in the Budget. The government will implement action plans to alleviate the mental stress of children who are unable to enjoy the benefits of school environment. A committee, comprising education, health, and social experts, will be entrusted with conducting a detailed study on reducing mental stress. Online counselling A permanent system for providing counselling through tele or online platforms for students and parents will be launched. Underscoring the link between physical health and well-being, the State government plans to telecast on VICTERS channel physical education sessions incorporating yoga and other exercises to enhance physical health, immunity, and well-being of children. Steps will be taken to promote creativity of children, exhibit their art and craft works, and telecast a select few through VICTERS channel. Training in creative activities will also be given to children through the channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hi-tech-platform-for-school-like-feel/article34732071.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Knowledge mission targets more jobs for the educated||The State government has launched the Knowledge Economy Mission to bring ongoing efforts to provide jobs to the educated and support ‘knowledge workers’ under a single programme. Announcing the initiative in the Budget on Friday, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the project was being spearheaded by the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC) that would submit a project report before July 15. A plan would be drawn up to provide basic facilities and a social security system for knowledge workers.  A hike of Rs. 100 crore Providing impetus to such efforts, the allocation for the ‘knowledge economy fund’ meant for skill promotion, technological transformation and strengthening of higher education system had been hiked from Rs. 200 crore to Rs. 300 crore. Mr. Balagopal said that the APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University had set up the Kerala Digital Work Force Management System that had registered over 27,000 job aspirants thus far. Considered a sub-mission of the Kudumbashree Mission, the project entailed training its workers as well as executives of the K-DISC and Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP). Career counselling The ICT Academy also set up a system to evaluate the profiles of educated unemployed youth, provide them with career counselling and enrol them in micro-training programmes. Expression of interest had been invited for setting up a mechanism to link professional HR agencies and placement officers within it. Higher education The government would constitute a high-power commission to examine the education system and suggest steps to develop capacity for knowledge creation. A restructuring had been targeted from school level to higher education level, including research to spur knowledge production and ensure its wide application. The commission would submit its report within three months. The government also intended to expedite the development of the Sree Narayana Guru Open University by setting up basic facilities. The Budget had earmarked an amount of Rs. 10 crore in addition to the allocation that was made in the previous one.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/knowledge-mission-targets-more-jobs-for-the-educated/article34732075.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green fund comes to Rs. 500 cr.||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has announced a Rs. 500-crore environment package for promoting sustainable development and conserving ecology. While making the announcement in the revised Budget a day ahead of the World Environment Day, Mr. Balagopal said the recent spate of heavy rainfall and floods in the State had resulted in the deposit of silt, clay, sand and waste materials in rivers and dams. This had reduced storage capacity, obstructed natural flow and changed the course of rivers, thereby resulting in floods. He said the practice of dumping waste containing hazardous elements in waterbodies led to pollution, water-borne diseases, and depletion of fish wealth. Sand and waste materials would be urgently removed from waterbodies, he said. Mr. Balagopal said the proposed package would seek to improve water-carrying capacity of waterbodies and river basin systems that were recommended in the Post Disaster Need Assessment (PDNA) report published by the United Nations after the 2018 floods. Its components would include protection and cleaning of the banks of canals; desilting dams, reservoirs and rivers; construction of mangrove barriers along coastal areas; strengthening bunds; shifting of bunds and dykes to outlying areas; removing of low-level bunds to facilitate free flow of water in flood plains; lowering flood plains; dredging of river and canal beds; and making temporary storage mechanisms by creating water retention areas by interlinking lakes, irrigation canals and backwaters. The package, for which an amount of Rs. 50 crore was earmarked in the first phase, would be jointly implemented by the Water Resources, Environment and Local Self-Government Departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/green-fund-comes-to-rs-500-cr/article34732078.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 1,000-cr. scheme for NoRKs||The State has again come to the rescue of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who have returned to the State after losing their jobs due to the economic crisis triggered by COVID-19. Minister for Finance K.N. Balagopal said 14,32,736 NoRKs had returned to the State so far and most of them had lost their jobs. A total of Rs. 1,000 crore would be provided at low interest through financial institutions for the NoRKA Self Employment Scheme for the returnees to begin self-employment enterprises. An amount of Rs. 25 crore has been earmarked as interest subvention in the Budget. More allocation The Minister said Budget allocation for the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) and NoRKA Roots, the field agency of NoRKA, towards various welfare schemes for expatriate Keralites had also been enhanced to Rs. 170 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-1000-cr-scheme-for-norks/article34732084.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low interest loans for MSMEs||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has announced loans at low interest rates for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the revised Budget for the financial year 2021-22. An amount of Rs. 50 crore has been earmarked for the interest subvention scheme for MSMEs. Mr. Balagopal said additional working capital and term loans would be made available to existing MSMEs at low interest rates. It is aimed to provide loans amounting to Rs. 2,000 crore. An additional Rs. 25 crore will be provided for entrepreneur support scheme currently being implemented by the Department of Industries and Rs. 15 crore for margin money and interest assistance scheme for nano industrial housing units project. For labour enterprises, loans at reduced rate will be made available to start new enterprises in agricultural, industrial, and service sectors to rejuvenate the existing non-operational enterprises. It is aimed to provide loans worth Rs. 1,000 crore in 2021-22. Additional loan of 20% was sanctioned for traders, who took loans from the Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) last financial year and repaid it in time, to recover from the COVID-19 crisis. Taking into consideration the crisis in the small-scale industries and other sectors due to COVID-19, the KFC will present a project to give additional loans of 20% again to these entrepreneurs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/low-interest-loans-for-msmes/article34732126.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Package for reviving coastal areas||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal on Friday announced a five-year package featuring a two-pronged approach for the revival of the coastal areas. The approach involves coastal conservation measures as well as infrastructure improvement. The government aims to carry out coastal conservation measures estimated at roughly Rs. 5,300 crore over the next five years, Mr. Balagopal said, presenting the revised Budget for 2021-22. On the infrastructure development front, the government expects to complete projects worth Rs. 11,000 crore, including works that are already under way, over the next four years. This includes the coastal highway project and the wayside amenities project. Coastal conservation initiatives will integrate suitable technologies such as double-layered tetrapods and diaphragm walls with anti-scour layers, mangroves, rolling barrier systems, geo containers and geo-tubes. A sum of Rs. 1,500 crore will be provided through the KIIFB towards the first phase for conserving the most fragile areas. This work will be tendered in July this year and completed within four years. “Extensive stakeholder consultations will be conducted with local participation before finalising designs. For this, the views of community organisations working in the coastal areas will be sought with the assistance of local self-government bodies and the Fisheries Department,” Mr. Balagopal said. Bathymetric and hydrographic studies will be carried out for identifying technologies that are ideal for the structure of the coastal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/package-for-reviving-coastal-areas/article34732130.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A leg-up for green modes of transport||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will get 10 hydrogen-powered buses on a pilot basis in collaboration with Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) and Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL). The initiative is part of the shift to eco-friendly modes of transport and Rs. 10 crore is allocated in the Budget as government share, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said. As an initial step to reduce the operational loss of the KSRTC, the corporation’s 3,000 diesel buses will be converted to operate on compressed natural gas (CNG). The estimated expenditure for the conversion will be Rs. 300 crore, the Minister said, adding the allocation for the current fiscal had been enhanced to Rs. 100 crore. The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board will be roped in for setting up a mobility hub of the KSRTC at Puthukkad on hub and spoke model and for the construction of a modern bus stand in Kollam. A sum of Rs. 10 crore has been earmarked as government share. In collaboration with financial institutions, a loan scheme will be worked out to make available fuel-efficient and eco-friendly 10,000 electric two-wheelers and 5,000 autos to those engaged in ordinary jobs. The government will bear a portion of interest. A sum of Rs. 15 crore is provided for interest subvention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-leg-up-for-green-modes-of-transport/article34732136.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Subsidies, training for Kudumbashree units||The State Budget has raised the allocation for the livelihood package to Rs. 100 crore to provide subsidy to Kudumbashree enterprises and to train those who have lost their livelihoods to find new ones. Bank loans of at least Rs. 1,000 crore will be made available to neighbourhood groups through the Kudumbashree this financial year. All loans up to Rs. 5 lakh will be made available at 4% interest rate. Care of the elderly Targeting job opportunities in the care economy, the government plans to give training in the care of the elderly and the differently abled in each grama panchayat. To uplift the 70,000 Kudumbashree women collective farming groups, an amount of Rs. 10 crore has been earmarked for starting value-added production units. As many as 10,000 auxiliary neighbourhood units will be started this year to ensure representation of young women from families in the Kudumbashree network. Local fruits, veggies Promoting the idea that ‘safe food is people’s right’, pesticide-free local vegetables and fruits will be procured from indigenous farmers and sold through self-help group stores of the Kudumbashree. This will encourage farmers to follow good agricultural practices and ensure fair price. Consumers will also get good local vegetables at a lower price. Vehicle loans Kerala Bank will provide loans for buying vehicles for the new stores and store renovation. Subsidy of 2% to 3% will be given to those who repay the loan in time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/subsidies-training-for-kudumbashree-units/article34732073.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 100-cr. venture capital fund||A venture capital fund will be set up in the State with a corpus of Rs. 100 crore to facilitate the rapid growth of small-scale enterprises and start-ups. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal announced in the revised Budget that the fund would be mobilised by involving the KFC, KSFE, KSIDC, Kerala State Co-operative Bank and commercial banks, and through the deposits of Non-Resident Keralites. The fund would aid fast-growing technical and non-technical enterprises. An experienced professional team would be formed to manage the fund. An amount of Rs. 1 crore has been earmarked for meeting the initial expenses of setting up the fund. The Minister said the loan capacity of Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) would be enhanced to Rs. 10,000 crore in five years. The KFC would sanction loans of Rs. 4,500 crore this financial year. To those who had repaid loans on time till March 31, 2020, the KFC had sanctioned 20% of the loan amount additionally. In view of the second wave of COVID, Rs. 500 crore would be made available to extend the same facility again, the Minister said. COVID-care products The KFC will provide loans up to Rs. 50 lakh on liberal conditions to firms that manufacture COVID-care products under the Chief Minister’s Entrepreneur Development Project. The loan is for establishing units for manufacturing oxygen cylinders, oxygen generators, oxygen concentrators, liquid oxygen, ventilator, pulse oximeters, and portable X-ray machine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-100-cr-venture-capital-fund/article34732124.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Dry Day challenge’ for mass clean-up drive||The Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation has announced a 'Dry Day challenge' to bring an element of healthy competition between wards as part of a mass cleaning campaign planned on June 6. The wards in which dry day-related mosquito source destruction and other activities are carried out in the most number of houses will receive a sanitation award. Cash prizes The ward that wins the challenge will receive a cash prize of Rs. 25,000, while those coming second and third will get Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively. Photographs and other information on the dry day observance need to be uploaded to the Smart Trivandrum application through the linkhttp://smarttvm.tmc.lsg-kerala.gov.in/wardprogram.Minister for Local Self Governments M.V. Govindan will carry out the State-level inauguration of the 'Karuthal' cleaning programme at Kanaka Nagar in Nanthancode ward in the capital on Saturday. Education Minister V. Sivankutty, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil, Transport Minister Antony Raju, MLAs Kadakampally Surendran and V.K. Prasanth will inaugurate cleaning campaigns organised at various parts of the city on the same day. Green initiative As part of the Environment Day celebrations on Saturday, Mr. Sivankutty will inaugurate the 'pacha thuruth' (green islet) initiative prepared by the Corporation at the Government Model Boys' Higher Secondary School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dry-day-challenge-for-mass-clean-up-drive/article34732484.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Budget just a sly jugglery of figures’||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan on Friday said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s revised Budget for 2021-22 was merely sly jugglery of figures to hoodwink the people. For one, the government had set aside Rs. 20,000 crore to pay the money it owed to social welfare pension beneficiaries and public work contractors. However, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal presented the State’s financial obligation as a “stimulus package” in his Budget speech, he said. The Minister had tried to pull the wool over the eyes of the people, Mr. Satheesan said. The government had made no original allocation in the Budget to revitalise the COVID-19-ravaged economy. Mr. Balagopal had misrepresented facts, he said. Mr. Balagopal also claimed the government would transfer Rs. 8,900 crore directly to the people in the Budget speech. The Opposition said it had suggested such a measure in pre-budget discussions with the government. Direct cash transfer to citizens would re-animate the market, prompt spending, rejuvenate the economy, enhance production, create jobs, and ultimately improve the State’s tax earnings, the United Democratic Front claimed to have said. Mr. Satheesan alleged the Minister walked back from the promise minutes after delivering the Budget speech in the Assembly. Mr. Balagopal told reporters there was no direct cash transfer. Instead, he said the money was for paying welfare pensions, the Leader of the Opposition alleged The Budget was replete with such misrepresentations. The government had pegged the State’s revenue deficit at Rs. 16,910.12 crore. The Leader of the Opposition said Mr. Balagopal had deliberately obfuscated the State’s actual revenue shortfall, which hovered around Rs. 37,000 crore. The Budget had no coherent plan for resource mobilisation. It had also eschewed new taxes. The government’s annual financial statement lacked transparency, Mr. Satheesan said. He said the Minister had not factored in the additional revenue expenditure of Rs. 1,715 crore and the Rs. 20,000-crore so-called “stimulus” package in the State’s revenue deficit calculation. Such financial shenanigans dotted the second Pinarayi Vijayan government’s revised Budget. It had no sanctity or credibility, and was patently questionable. Mr. Satheesan said previous Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had claimed the next government would have Rs. 23,000 crore to spend. He said he had kept Rs. 5,000 crore in the treasury, and the Centre would pay Rs. 18,000 crore. However, Mr. Balagopal’s Budget belied Dr. Isaac’s tall claims. Mr. Satheesan said the initial part of the Budget speech was merely a political speech suited for the ‘maidan.’ Mr. Balagopal had disregarded the constitutional piety of a Budget presentation, he said. “Matters that should have been in the Governor’s address were mirrored in the Budget speech. The government seems to have lost its mind. It is groping in darkness and is trapped in its falsities,” Mr. Satheesan said.  Previous Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said the next govt. would have Rs. 23,000 crore to spend. This Budget has belied his claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-just-a-sly-jugglery-of-figures/article34732069.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Despite crisis, FM refrains from tax hike||Despite the severe financial crisis faced by the government, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal did not announce any new tax proposals in his maiden Budget, saying that this is not the right time to reduce expenditure and levy higher taxes. “Demonetisation, implementation of GST without much preparation, Cyclone Ockhi, floods, first and second waves of the pandemic and the resultant economic slowdown have all adversely affected State revenues. Revenue growth rates have fallen to the lowest levels in the recent past,” the Minister said. When economic slowdown and natural disasters ravaged the State, the government could have stepped aside by reducing expenditure. “But, that is not the approach of the Left Democratic Front. During a crisis, the Left’s way is to help people, even by borrowing. The first Pinarayi government has done that and this government will also follow the same policy,” he said. The Finance Minister added that austerity measures would become inevitable. “The government will formulate a comprehensive plan for revenue enhancement and expenditure reduction. Preliminary activities have already begun.” Amendments in the Kerala State GST Act would be made corresponding to the amendments incorporated in the Central Goods and Services as per the recommendation of the GST Council. Once the COVID-induced crisis was over, reforms would be implemented in issues pertaining to tax and non-tax revenue after considering the recommendations of the State Finance Commission, he said. GSDP loss of Rs. 1,56,041 crore The pandemic has inflicted a shock to the economy and severe stress on State finances, with Kerala’s economy suffering a Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) loss of Rs. 1,56,041 crore in 2020-21 in relation to Budget Estimate 2020-21. The contraction in GSDP could have been more severe but for the economic stimulus of Rs. 20,000 crore announced at an earlier stage of the pandemic in March 2020. This has been stated in the 2021-22 Medium Term Fiscal Policy and Strategy Statement and Medium Term Fiscal Plan for 2021 to 2024 tabled in the Assembly on Friday. The lockdown impacted the State finances adversely especially during the first quarter of 2020-21. With the gradual lifting of restrictions, the economy regained growth momentum close to pre-COVID-19 level by the end of the year 2020-21. Assuming a higher GSDP growth following an economic crisis after a pandemic, GSDP is projected at 6.6% in 2021-22 Budget Estimate.  This is not the time to cut expenditure, levy higher taxes, says Balagopal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/despite-crisis-fm-refrains-from-tax-hike/article34732123.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,007 new cases, 31 deaths in capital||The district reported 31 deaths due to COVID-19 on Friday, taking the cumulative toll to 1,953. The deaths had occurred between May 24 and June 3. The deceased include 20 men and 11 women, as per government data. The COVID-19 caseload in the district rose by 2007 cases on Friday when 12,020 tests were conducted. The test positivity rate stood at 16.6%. In all, 13,597 people are currently under treatment in the district. On the bright side, the district has reported 2,507 recoveries. According to the district administration, local transmission accounted for 1,845 of the cases. Friday’s list included eight health workers. In all, 69,586 people are in quarantine, including 3438 who went into quarantine on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2007-new-cases-31-deaths-in-capital/article34732486.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Malayali fishers held by Qatar return to Iran||Twenty-four fishermen, including four Malayalis, who were detained by authorities in Qatar on charges of entering its territorial waters, have returned to Iran from where they had put to sea. The men, in jail following their arrest by the Qatar authorities on March 25, had been released after their fine was paid, but their return to Iran was clouded in uncertainty. Pleas by organisations Minister for Fisheries Saji Cherian, on the directions of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, held discussions with the External Affairs Ministry and the NoRKA (non-residential Keralites) office in New Delhi to get the 20 fishermen from Tamil Nadu and four from the State back to Iran where they were based. The Chief Minister had earlier received pleas from various organisations of fishermen. The Malayalis in the group were identified as Sebastian (20) of Poovar, Silva Dasan (33) of Adimalathura, Stephen (42) of Pallithottam in Kollam, and Lefus (42) of Moothakara, Kollam. They had set out from Iran in two boats belonging to one Hassan for fishing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malayali-fishers-held-by-qatar-return-to-iran/article34732477.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SSLC valuation begins on Monday||Centralised valuation of answer scripts for the SSLC/THSLC will begin across 70 camps in the State on Monday. Teachers appointed as examiners are required reach the respective camps at 9 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sslc-valuation-begins-on-monday/article34732482.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PDS to be modernised||The Food and Civil Supplies Department has set its sights on modernising the public distribution system (PDS) in the State. Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal, while presenting the revised Budget on Friday, said the network of ration shops would be renovated through end-to-end computerisation, wide use of E-PoS (Electronic Point of Sale) machines, and doorstep distribution of ration. The facilities would enable ration card holder to purchase from any ration shop in the State. He said the wide network of cooperative societies would be utilised for market intervention to prevent rise in prices of essential commodities during festival seasons. The department had launched 70 outlets for stabilising price in public markets, while 97 outlets were upgraded. Besides strengthening the Civil Supplies Corporation and Consumerfed, the number of mobile Maveli stores would be increased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pds-to-be-modernised/article34732080.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Minority scholarship: govt. to seek legal opinion||An all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Friday decided to carry out a legal scrutiny of the High Court order striking down the 80:20 ratio for minority scholarship allotment. The meeting also resolved to appoint an expert committee to study the issue and collect feedback and suggestions before arriving at a decision on implementing the order.  Mr. Vijayan told the meeting that the government would work out a consensus on the issue. Participants in the meeting agreed on finding common ground. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan and others leaders attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minority-scholarship-govt-to-seek-legal-opinion/article34732117.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Budget thrust on coastal protection provides hope for Thrissur||The first budget of the second Pinarayi government has provided hope for the coastal belt. The budget has earmarked Rs. 5,300 crore for a project to protect the coastal belt of the State. Under the project, tetrapods and diaphragm walls will be set up in areas where there are no sea walls or at places where they have collapsed. Assembly constituencies such as Guruvayur, Nattika, Kaipamangalam, and Kodungallur have lengthy coastal areas in Thrissur district. “The budget, which gives thrust for coastal protection and vaccination, gives hope for the people in coastal areas. We will try our best to fulfil these projects,” said E.T. Tyson, Kaipamangalam MLA. The Coastal Highway has been included in the new projects under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. The Azhikode-Chamakkala road, passing through seven grama panchayats, will give a much needed boost for Kaipamangalam constituency, he said. An amount of Rs. 1.5 crore has been earmarked for the protection of Valiyathode-Perumthode and Rs. 10 lakh will be allotted for people, who reside within 50 metres of the sea to relocate. The budget has allotted Rs. 1 crore for constructing a stadium at Kara for strengthening the sports sector in the coastal belt. A fish processing centre will be set up at Vanchippura, Kaipamangalam, at a cost ofRs. 3 crore. Another Rs. 7 crore has been alloted for a fish market and shopping complex at Moonnupeedika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-thrust-on-coastal-protection-provides-hope-for-thrissur/article34732111.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Until the heavens open||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/until-the-heavens-open/article34732105.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Home delivery||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/home-delivery/article34732488.ece
05 June 2021||ADDAMPALLI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||APCO buying unsold handloom products||The Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society Limited (APCO) has started purchasing unsold handloom products from the 50 weavers’ cooperative societies in East Godavari district. By May-end, handloom products worth above Rs. 12 crore remained unsold in the district. On Friday, the APCO issued an order to purchase 6,000 blankets from the two cooperative societies at Addampalli and Hasanbada in the Ramachandrapuram Assembly segment. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed APCO chairman Chillapalli Mohan Rao to come to the rescue of the cooperative societies by purchasing the handloom products that have been stored for months in the societies. The Chief Minister has directed APCO to purchase the unsold products after he was briefed by Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on the pathetic condition of weavers and the repercussions on their lives as weaving came to a standstill in the district. Last week, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna inspected the cooperative societies in Ramachandrapuram Assembly constituency, where stocks worth Rs. 1.3 crore remained unsold, forcing the weavers to earn a livelihood from doing other works. On Friday, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna and Mr. Mohana Rao visited the cooperative societies at Addampalli and Hasanabad in Ramachandrapuram and promised to purchase nearly 13,000 blankets from the societies. “By mid-June, the entire stock worth Rs. 12 crore will be purchased by APCO in East Godavari district,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apco-buying-unsold-handloom-products/article34732521.ece
05 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur experiences monsoon showers||The much-awaited southwest monsoon hit Anantapur district, the southwest portion of Andhra Pradesh on Friday with the district experiencing heavy rain from the early hours of Friday. The district recorded an average of 30 mm rainfall in the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Friday, but a few places experienced very heavy rain with thunderstorms. Anantapur city recorded 91 mm of rain in six hours from midnight, while Nambulapulakunta mandal registered 102.4 mm and Puttaparthi 100 mm. With subsidised groundnut seeds distribution process nearing completion in another 10 days, farmers are preparing to sow the kharif crop as it has been raining for the past two days in the majority of the central and southern mandals of the district. Puttaparthi, Amarapurm, N.P. Kunta, Bukkarayasamudram, and Rapthadu mandals had been experiencing rainfall for the past two days, and agricultural lands would be ready for sowing if there was 50 mm rainfall in three days, scientists at the Rekulakunta agriculture research said. Joint Director Agriculture Y. Ramakrishna said that so far 2.06 lakh farmers had registered for obtaining 1.76 lakh quintals of groundnut seed and 1.39 lakh quintals had been distributed, while the deadline for registration is June 17. The India Meteorological Department in a release said the monsoon had advanced into most parts of coastal and south/north interior Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh and some parts of Tamil Nadu. The northern limit of monsoon now passes through Karwar, Anantapur, Arogyavaram, Vellore, Nagapattinam and it was very likely to advance further into some parts of Andhra Pradesh and some parts of Telangana in the next two to three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-experiences-monsoon-showers/article34732513.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka to conduct SSLC exams in July||The Karnataka government on Friday announced that the SSLC or Class 10 examinations will be held in July third week while cancelling the second year pre-university course (PUC) exams this year in view of the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. The PUC second year students will be promoted to the next level and the grading will be based on their performance in the first PUC exam. “The SSLC exam will have one multi-choice question paper for mathematics, science and social science and one more question paper for languages,” Karnataka Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar told reporters. The multi-choice question paper bearing 40 marks would be easy and there would not be any indirect questions, he said. Results in August Mr. Kumar said there would be a supplementary examination for those students who are affected by the COVID-19. The exam results will be out by August. The exams would be conducted in 6,000 centres, the Minister said, adding, each room would have 10 to 12 students. Grading for PUC The decision to hold the SSLC exam was taken as it was crucial for students to opt for the streams of their choice such as science, commerce and arts. Regarding the second PUC examination, the Minister said, “We are not holding it. The grading will be based on their performance at the district level assessment in the first pre-university examination”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-to-conduct-sslc-exams-in-july/article34731885.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Monsoon sets in over Karnataka: IMD||A day after the southwest monsoon made an entry into Kerala, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced on Friday that it had set in over Karnataka. The IMD issued rain, thunderstorm and lightning warnings for various districts, including Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Dharwad, and Shivamogga. IMD’s C.S. Patil said north interior Karnataka and coastal Karnataka experienced widespread rainfall, while south interior Karnataka received fairly widespread rainfall. The chief amounts of rainfall recorded are Subrahmanya and Mangaluru airport 11 cm, Sankeshwar 9 cm, and Karwar, Badami, Kota in Udupi, and Bargur in Tumakuru 7 cm. “Coastal Karnataka is very likely to experience widespread rainfall till June 6. Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada are very likely to experience heavy rainfall, for which yellow alert has been issued for June 5. North interior and south interior Karnataka are very likely to experience widespread rain on June 5. Parts of north interior Karnataka, and south interior Karnataka have been issued yellow alert and expected to receive isolated heavy rainfall,” he said. The Malnad districts have also been issued yellow alert. Rainfall intensity and distribution are likely to temporarily decrease after June 5, Mr. Patil added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/monsoon-sets-in-over-karnataka-imd/article34731874.ece
05 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three die of asphyxiation while working in a manhole||Three labourers working in a manhole without any safety gear died of asphyxiation in Ramanagaram, around 50 km from Bengaluru, on Friday morning. They were among five labourers working on a new underground drainage line of the Ramanagaram City Municipal Council. The labourers were residents of Kamala Nagar in Bengaluru. In January, two labourers died while cleaning manholes for Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-die-of-asphyxiation-while-working-in-a-manhole/article34731887.ece
05 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurned youth ‘kills’ woman, slits his throat; ‘beaten to death’ by her kin||A man allegedly murdered a woman in Andhra Pradesh by slitting her throat and stabbing her while she was asleep, after she reportedly spurned his advances. The youth later reportedly attempted suicide, but was killed allegedly by the woman’s siblings, at Sambaiah Kandriga locality on the outskirts of Chittoor on Friday. According to information available, Sushmitha, 24, a nurse, reportedly rejected the proposal of Chinna, 28, her neighbour, who was allegedly pestering her to accept. On Thursday evening, he accosted her at the hospital and repeated his proposal, which she reportedly rejected again. On Friday morning, when Sushmitha was asleep at home, Chinna sneaked in by scaling the terrace and allegedly slit her throat and stabbed her with a knife. After the attack, he attempted suicide by slitting his throat, and collapsed in front of Sushmita’s house. Alerted by the commotion, the woman’s relatives in the neighbourhood bludgeoned Chinna to death.  Personal disputes “Both families were having long-standing personal disputes. Those who fatally attacked the accused would be booked,” said Deputy Superintendent of Police (Chittoor) N. Sudhakar Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-kills-nurse-her-kin-bludgeons-him-to-death/article34731875.ece
05 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Techies come together for a cause||Several software engineers have joined hands to do their bit in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Swecha AP and Telugu Association of North America (TANA) have together set up a COVID isolation centre for patients who are unable to isolate themselves at home on their own. Dedicated team The isolation centre is located on the first floor of Sundarayya Skill Development Centre at Vaddeswaram on the Vijayawada-Guntur Highway, and was inaugurated on May 22. A team of dedicated student volunteers, academicians and IT professionals operate the centre. The centre provided facilities for isolation of COVID-19 patients under the age of 65 in Guntur and Krishna districts and for those with mild symptoms who were unable to isolate themselves at home. Parents and relatives of those staying out of State and abroad can stay in self-isolation at the centre. “We are providing facilities to the patients to help them get back on the path to recovery, such as carrom board and yoga exercises,” said K. Sripath Roy, general secretary, Swecha AP, and Associate Dean at KL University. Hygiene, sanitation, and healthy food is provided and the vitals of patients are monitored thrice a day by doctors and nurses. Those who need admission at this centre can contact Ravikanth, Executive Committee, Swecha AP by calling 7428896575.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/techies-come-together-for-a-cause/article34731922.ece
05 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collectors of three districts transferred||The State government has effected a major reshuffle of IAS officers. Chief Secretary Adityanath Das issued the transfer orders on Friday. The reshuffle was on the cards as the YSRCP government completed two years in office. A.Md. Imtiaz, Krishna District Collector, was transferred and posted as Special Secretary to Government, Minorities Welfare. J. Nivas, Srikakulam District Collector, was transferred and posted as Krishna District Collector. Lathkar Srikesh Balaji Rao, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of AP Agros, was posted as Srikakulam District Collector. Anantapur District Collector Gandham Chandradu was transferred and posted as Director, Village and Ward Secretariat. S. Nagalakshmi, Chairman and Managing Director, APEPDCL, Visakhapatnam, was transferred and posted as Anantapur District Collector. Several IAS officers belonging to the 2017 and 2018 batches were posted as Joint Collectors for Housing. Venkateswar Salijamala, Paderu Sub Collector, was posted as Joint Collector (Housing), Chittoor. Anantapur Sub Collector T. Nishanhi was posted as Joint Collector (Housing), Anantapur. Gopala Krishna Ronaki was posted as Project Officer, ITDA, Paderu, Visakhapatnam district. K.S. Viswanathan was posted as Joint Collector (Housing), Prakasam district. Dhyanchandra was posted as Joint Collector (Housing), Kadapa district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collectors-of-three-districts-transferred/article34732519.ece
05 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination centre for the diffabled in Guntur||A vaccination centre for the physically-challenged and those above 45 years of age has been set up at Patibandla Seetharamaiah High School, District Medical and Health Officer J. Yasmin said here on Friday. Those coming to get vaccinated should bring along their Aadhaar card. The Health Department also arranged a vaccination centre for those going abroad for studies at the same school. They should bring along their Aadhaar card, passport and visa and proof of admission letter and get vaccinated between 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. For details, contact, 9989365886 or 6301256803.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-centre-for-the-diffabled-in-guntur/article34731923.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Telangana Minister resigns from TRS, to join BJP||Ending his 19-year-long association with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), former minister and Huzurabad MLA Eatala Rajender announced his resignation from the party and also the State Legislature. He is planning to submit his resignation personally to Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy in a day or two. He will pay his respects at the Martyrs’ Memorial before meeting the Speaker. He will join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in a few days. Announcing his resignation at a press conference on Friday morning, the former minister lashed out at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his ‘dictatorial’ style of functioning and said no minister could work independently under him. “I could not work as a slave as it was against the self-respect I have fought for Telangana during the agitation,” he said. Terming Pragathi Bhavan (the CM’s official residence) as ‘Slave Bhavan’, he said even ministers were insulted and denied entry at the gate itself. “I, along with some ministers, went to meet the CM but were turned away thrice from the gate itself,” he said, adding: “I advised them to change the name of Pragathi Bhavan to Slave Bhavan, unable to bear the insult.” Mr. Rajender claimed that even Finance Minister T. Harish Rao, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao’s nephew, had to face humiliation and said the CM’s attitude reflected a dictator’s mindset. Questioning the suppression of voices in Telangana, he asked whether Telangana would have been a reality if the governments in the combined Andhra Pradesh behaved similarly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-telangana-minister-resigns-from-trs-to-join-bjp/article34731877.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procure stockpiled vaccines from abroad, KTR tells Centre||The Centre should “wake up” at least now and the Prime Minister or the government should talk to the countries where Covishield (AstraZeneca) vaccines are “lying unused” and import them for quickening the pace of the vaccination drive in the country since it is the only solution to control the pandemic, said Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Friday. Mincing no words, the Minister blasted the Centre for “ill-planned and ill-conceived” vaccination drive of not importing vaccines when required but resorting to exporting them. Later, the Centre announced opening up of vaccination for 18-44 age group “without any thought” about the supply constraints at a time when 263 crore doses were required for the programme. Mr. Rama Rao was speaking after inaugurating the 150-bed Intensive Care Unit project at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli. It was sponsored by HYSEA (Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association) member companies — Microsoft, Qualcomm, Franklin Templeton, Cognizant and WellsFargo. ‘Thoughtless policies’ “Hyderabad is the vaccine capital for the world but it is because of thoughtless policies of the Centre that the vaccination phase is slow when it should have been completed by now. My information is that there are at least 50 crore vaccine doses stockpiled in US and Europe, and those can be procured for vaccinating our people,” he said. Telangana government, on the other hand, has recognised vulnerable sections and has begun vaccinating high-risk category people like taxi drivers, auto drivers and delivery agents/ executives who could be potential super-spreaders. “Our ongoing third household fever survey and distribution of medical kits too is yielding results and hence our caseload is low when compared to the neighbouring States,” he claimed.  While the pandemic has exposed the gaping inadequacies in the healthcare systems and the government would be working towards strengthening the medical infrastructure, the IT industry has been helping with Rs. 80 crore worth of assistance last year and now almost Rs. 15 crore, he noted and expressed his gratitude. HYSEA in association with its NGO partner ‘NIRMAAN’ has been providing home isolation kits, livelihood re-starter kits, ration and hygiene kits to the needy. About 75 existing ICU beds in TIMS and 20 in Fever Hospital have been upgraded and another 75 new ICU beds will be ready in TIMS by mid-July. Ventilators, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, beds, masks, flow meters and other vital equipment were also provided to these and also to Area Hospital at Kondapur, Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital, Niloufer Hospital, Gandhi Hospital and King Koti Hospital. Corporate contributions More than 35 corporate partners contributed about Rs. 14.5 crore to the mission while an oxygen plant sponsored by Qualcomm is being set up in Nizamabad at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore, said president Bharani K. Aroll. Another 10-bed ICUs in 28 hospitals in districts of Kamareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Medchal-Ghatkesar, Mulugu, Rangareddy- Vanasthalipuram, Mahbubnagar and Jadcherla. IT & Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V. C. Sajjanar, Rangareddy collector Amoy Kumar, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and TIMS director Vimala Thomas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/procure-stockpiled-vaccines-from-abroad-ktr-tells-centre/article34732398.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS, A.P. govts. told to constitute SSC, PCA||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the governments of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to constitute State Security Commission and Police Complaints Authority in their States within four weeks. If the direction was not complied with, the principal Home secretaries of the respective States should attend the virtual hearing on July 9 and explain reasons for not constituting the said bodies. The direction was issued by a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing a case of contempt of court matter. The bench expressed dissatisfaction over the governments of the two States not complying with its direction issued on this on January 21. In year 2017, a citizen wrote a letter to the HC stating that the HC had earlier instructed governments of the two States to constitute State Security Commission and Police Complaints Authority. The direction was given citing the Supreme Court verdict in Prakash Singh vs Union of India case. The HC suo motu took up the letter as Contempt of Court and instructed the two States to create the two bodies at State and district level within four weeks. When the hearing began, Advocate General B.S. Prasad sought some more time to constitute the bodies, stating that the process was almost complete. Special counsel to AP HC P. Govinda Reddy informed the bench that the State government was finalising a new legislation on the matter and would form the bodies soon. It was the last opportunity for the two governments, the bench said in its direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-ap-govts-told-to-constitute-ssc-pca/article34732380.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||ARCI director passes away in the US||Renowned material scientist and Director of International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy & New Materials (ARCI) G. Padmanabham (56) passed away after battling with COVID in United States on Thursday. After his stints at Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) and Department of Science and Technology, Government of India, he joined ARCI in 2005 and was heading the Centre for Laser Processing of Materials. He was a recipient of Abdul Kalam Technology Innovation National Fellowship, Materials Research Society Medal, Distinguished Alumni Award of National Institute of Technology, Warangal, and Andhra Pradesh Scientist Award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arci-director-passes-away-in-the-us/article34732429.ece
05 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital fined Rs. 22 lakh for violating Aarogyasri rules||A fine of Rs. 22.5 lakh was imposed on Kakinada-based Inodaya Hospital for collecting exorbitant fees from patients admitted under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme. The district-level committee on Aarogyasri, headed by Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Kirthi, concluded that the management of Inodaya Hospital charged Rs. 4.5 lakh from a patient admitted there recently under the Aarogyasri scheme. The committee launched an investigation into the implementation of the Aarogyasri scheme in the city in response to a complaint lodged by Kakinada City MLA Dwarampudi Chandrasekhar Reddy. On Friday, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Ms. Kirthi said that the hospital management has repaid Rs. 4.5 lakh to the victim, from whom it had collected the fees even though he was admitted there under the Aarogyasri scheme. Ms. Kirthi appealed to the public to bring violations of the Aarogyasri scheme to the notice of the district authorities. District Aarogyasri Scheme Coordinator P. Radhakrishna and other officials are part of the district-level committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-fined-rs-22-lakh-for-violating-aarogyasri-rules/article34731928.ece
05 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aqua farmers donate Rs. 31.76 lakh for COVID fight||The East Godavari Aqua Farmers Association (EGAFA) on Friday donated Rs. 31.76 lakh to the State government to assist in the fight against COVID-19 in the district. EGAFA representatives Ch. Surya Rao and Kurra Raghu, accompanied by Kakinada City MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy, handed over a cheque of Rs. 31.76 lakh to Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy at the Collectorate. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy thanked the farmers’ association for their gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aqua-farmers-donate-rs-3176-lakh-for-covid-fight/article34731926.ece
05 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||A man who grew a forest all by himself||Manoj Kumar I.B. always walks barefoot in the forest. He has literally grown one, spread over one-and-a-half acres on which his modest house stands at Edavanakkad, not far from the city. He says it connects him with Mother Earth, which he firmly believes has a therapeutic effect in building immunity and keeping one healthy. That philosophy is quite consistent with a man who has dedicated himself to the cause of environment. Over the past one decade, Mr. Manoj has let everything grow on his land along the lines of a rainforest, rooting out only some invasive species of plants, insects, and vines that threatened the ever-thickening green canopy that almost blocks out sunlight even during a sunny day. The trimmed vines and branches are being used for mulching while seeds dropped by birds that flocking in lured by the greenery, have grown into trees. “Even softwood trees, widely perceived as waste, serve a purpose offering shade to grow plants. Minimum intervention is the key to best conservation. Day-long ploughing associated with farming is a misguided notion that only destroys the top soil, damaging its fertility,” he said. Initially, the focus was on food security as fruits and vegetables were grown before it was allowed to grow into a rich biodiversity preserve, free of even biofertilizers, as global warming and climate change took centre stage. In a place known for drinking water shortage, the campus has two ponds and a canal connected to the pokkali farm in the neighbourhood that never dries up thanks to the trees. Walk in through the gate and it feels like being in a world far away from the oppressive heat outside. As the love for nature fully consumed him, Mr. Manoj, an active votary of free software, shut down his computer service centre in the city and now mostly does data recovery works from his home. For someone leading a frugal life and with only a cycle to show for a possession, his land gives him more than enough to survive and he is content. His parents, who were initially not impressed by his outlook, have now accepted his ways. “Despite being literate, Malayalis still have no clue about the need for biodiversity and preserving wild habitats as they run around for vaccines and immunity boosters. We may have to return to the community living of early human species. Children should be brought out to the soil away from their computer screens,” says Mr. Manoj who freely gives out saplings and helps to set groves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-man-who-grew-a-forest-all-by-himself/article34731879.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||New order triggers row in Lakshadweep||At a security review meeting chaired by the adviser to the Administrator of Lakshadweep, a decision was taken to deploy “responsible government servants on board local fishing boats” for intelligence gathering. The move has invited criticism from the islanders who felt that it was meant to trigger tensions. “Fishing is on hold now with the onset of monsoon. But the order is primarily to provoke the fishing community to react,” said an islander on condition of anonymity. The review meeting also decided to strengthen security measures to monitor local fishing boats and crew. Instructions would be issued to intensify checking of motorised vessels reaching the islands. CCTV cameras would be installed at vessel berthing points and at helipads. Passenger and luggage checking should be done at Beypore and New Mangaluru too. Waste management In another notification issued on June 4, the Lakshadweep administration issued a slew of instructions for managing waste. The instructions include asking persons and families to dispose of “tender coconut shell, tree leaves, coconut husk, coconut shell, trunks etc in and around dwelling places/public places.”  There’s a fine against violators and criminal proceedings will be initiated against them, the order issued by District Collector Asker Ali says. Nizamuddin K.I., member of the Dweep panchayat in Kavaratti, said the waste management system on the islands is far from well-organised and it has been entrusted with a private agency lately. Cargo from Mangaluru Meanwhile, the Lakshadweep administration in a press release said on Friday that a cargo barge from New Mangaluru had berthed at Kadmat, Kiltan and Chetlat islands with ‘essential commodities and other important items’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-order-triggers-row-in-lakshadweep/article34731880.ece
05 June 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into ‘sexual harassment’ of medico||SPSR Nellore Joint Collector (revenue) and in-charge Collector M.N. Harendhira Prasad has ordered an inquiry into the alleged sexual harassment of a medico at the Government General Hospital here. The probe by a committee headed by Joint Collector(Aasara and Welfare) T. Bapi Reddy was initiated after the alleged sexual harassment of a medico went viral on social media. Stern action would be taken against the person found guilty after inquiry, Mr. Prasad said. On a direction from Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, another probe was ordered by the Directorate of Medical Education into the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-ordered-into-sexual-harassment-of-medico/article34732516.ece
05 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||631 new cases in Prakasam||Cumulative tally rose to over 2.30 lakh in South Coastal Andhra as 527 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 631 in Prakasam tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Friday. The positive trend of recoveries outnumbering new infections continued in the region with 1,776 patients in Prakasam district and 821 patients in SPSR Nellore getting discharged, bringing down the active caseload to 27,253. The toll climbed to 1,659 as Nellore reported four deaths and Prakasam three in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate improved further to 87.44%. Over 1.08 lakh persons in SPSR Nellore district and about 93,000 in Prakasam district have won the battle against the disease so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/631-new-cases-in-prakasam/article34732515.ece
05 June 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag startups striving to build bridges between economy and ecology||From bio-enzyme cleaners, recycling electronic waste to biodegradable food packages and sanitary napkins from agro-waste pulps, a group of startups in Visakhapatnam are tirelessly working towards making peace with nature through their sustainable products. On World Environment Day (June 5) being observed on the theme: ‘Reimagine, Recreate, Restore’, they spoke to The Hindu on their objectives and journey so far. Being environment-friendly is at the core of the business values of Greenwaves Environmental Solutions. From tackling the issue of electronic waste, single-use plastic to recycling coconut wastes and segregation of marine litter, the organisation has been working in several areas across Visakhapatnam and Goa to create green solutions. One of its latest projects is the ‘Green Paw’ which addresses the major challenges of marine litter caused due to ghost nets (nets that break down in sea while fishing), nylon nets and balls, glass bottles and other plastic waste. The project was initiated in December last year. “So far, we collected 3.5 tonnes of nylon nets from the shores of Visakhapatnam and Goa. The segregated nets are soaked for a day and dried before upcycling them into decorative products like bracelets, earrings and baskets,”says Potluri Anil Chowdary, Managing Director of the firm. The firm has collaborated with Chaitanya Bharathi Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, for marketing its products from the marine litter project. With an aim to provide a sustainable solution to the problem of plastic food packaging, Vijay Lakshmi Sena started the House of Folium, two years ago, that uses the concept of agro-waste pulp in making biodegradable food packaging solutions. The firm makes food containers like bowls, plates, bento boxes, cups using the pulp from sugarcane and corn fibre. “These are 100% biodegradable. In fact, if you plant a seed in these containers you can see it turn into compost in three months time,” says Ms. Vijay Lakshmi, a former software professional. She adds that the city is warming up to the idea of sustainable food packaging solutions with many home bakers and small restaurants coming forward to use them for COVID meal packaging as well. Last year, House of Folium launched an affordable range of biodegradable sanitary napkins made from banana, bamboo and corn fibre. According to industry studies, India generates 9.46 million tonnes of plastic waste annually, of which 40% remains uncollected and 43% is used for packaging, most of which is single-use. To address this, K Jayalakshmi started her enterprise of Vijayasri Jute Designs for making jute and cotton bags with a team of 16 women from economically backward families. Having trained in product development, marketing and business strategies, Ms. Jayalakshmi today customises and offers a range of jute bags from pouches to travel bags through her startup. Making her home free of toxic chemical cleaners was one of the top priorities of D. Sirisha after noticing that her pet was allergic to chemicals. She started Eco-Clean, her own brand of bio-enzyme cleaners a year and half ago and says that the response in the past six to eight months has been encouraging.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-startups-striving-to-build-bridges-between-economy-and-ecology/article34731933.ece
05 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. should pay for PHC doctor’s treatment: CPI||The State government should bear the treatment costs for N. Bhaskara Rao, a doctor and Medical Officer of the Public Health Centre at Karamchedu in Prakasam district, who is battling for life following post COVID-19 complications, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said. The CPI leader said that the government should consider the case of Dr. Bhaskara Rao as a special one and extend him financial assistance. “The villager have chipped in with their contribution for initial medical treatment in Hyderabad. But this is not enough,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. The doctor had contracted the virus while serving the villagers, he said. “Now, he has to undergo Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) procedure to get a new lease of life,” the CPI leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-should-pay-for-phc-doctors-treatment-cpi/article34732522.ece
05 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allow online payment at reaches, appeals CREDAI||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI-Rajamahendravaram Chapter) on Friday sought the intervention of Mines Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy in preventing sale of sand at excess price at Kotilingala and Gayatri sand reaches being operated by Jayaprakash Power Ventures Limited. In an official release issued on Friday, CREDAI-Rajamahendravaram Chapter chairman Suravarapu Srinivas Kumar and president Karri Sekhar Reddy alleged that the price of one metric tonne of sand is Rs. 675 as against the government price of Rs. 475 including GST and loading charges. The boats operated by the Rajamahendravaram Boatmen Society are collecting sand from the Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allow-online-payment-at-reaches-appeals-credai/article34731927.ece
05 June 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited for research programmes||National Institute of Technology, Andhra Pradesh, has invited applications for its research programmes for the 2021-22 academic year. They include applications for Ph.D (both full-time and part-time) and M.S. (Research). Candidates can log on to www.nitandhra.ac.in to fill and submit the online application form. The last date for submitting the applications is June 10. Information on the eligibility criteria and other details can be obtained fromhttps://www.nitandhra.ac. in/main/aphd. For any queries, applicants can write to phdadmissions@ nitandhra.ac.in. NIT-AP offers B. Tech. programme in eight engineering branches: Bio-Technology, Chemical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Metallurgical and Materials Engineering. It also offers M.Tech in eight specialisations. Ph.D (part-time) positions are also open for faculty members currently working at NIT-AP on an ad-hoc basis. For more details about the admission process, contact Dr. Tapas Paramanik, Admissions Officer, NIT-AP, by sending an email to admissions@nitandhra.ac.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/applications-invited-for-research-programmes/article34731931.ece
05 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala Budget steps up health spending||Projecting ‘health above all’ as the vision for development and assuring equitable health care, nutrition and sustainable improvement in employment, income and economic welfare, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal presented a tax-free revised Budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly on Friday. Mr. Balgopal, in his maiden budget, unveiled a Rs. 20,000 crore package to tide over the crisis induced by the second wave of COVID-19, Rs. 1,000 crore for free vaccination for all above 18 years, Rs. 500 crore for purchase of allied equipment, Rs. 5,300 crore for the five-year project for finding a permanent solution to the coastal distress and upgrading coastal infrastructure and Rs. 2,600 crore loan scheme for financial rejuvenation. “Overcoming the pandemic has become the prerequisite for development. In essence, the strategy for effective health care has become our strategy for development in this Budget,” the Minister said. All the proposals in the Budget presented by his predecessor T.M. Thomas Isaac on January 15 and the promises made in the LDF manifesto would be implemented, he said. Environment has got priority with the announcement of a comprehensive package to contain the effects of floods through ‘room for river’ schemes as in the Netherlands, ‘living with water’, and eco-friendly constructions. Procurement of 10 hydrogen powered buses for KSRTC and decision to convert 3,000 diesel buses to CNG as part of reducing the corporation’s operational losses and carbon footprint figured in the Budget. Malabar literary circuit and bio-diversity circuit, rejuvenation package for tourism sector, aggressive marketing for increasing footfalls and memorials for K.R. Gouri and R. Balakrishna Pillai have been included. Though Mr. Balagopal said increasing taxes was inevitable considering the financial crisis, the Finance Minister did not announce any new tax proposals in view of the prevailing situation due to the pandemic. The Finance Minister made it clear that the government did not believe in tax collection by intimidating and coercing traders and industrialists. But, he said steps would be taken to strengthen the system to identify and penalise evaders. Fresh revenue sources would be explored once the situation improved. A cumulative deficit of Rs. 1,866.79 crore at the end of the financial year has been projected in the Budget, as additional expenditure of Rs. 1,715.10 crore is anticipated. Revenue deficit is expected to touch Rs. 16,910.12 crore, while capital expenditure is likely to fall to Rs. 12,546.17 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-budget-steps-up-health-spending/article34731872.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||To slash case rate, Kerala tightens lockdown||Kerala entered a highly restrictive four-day COVID-19 lockdown phase from 7.30 p.m on Friday, with new regulations curbing mobility, retail, commerce and production. The government tightened the restrictions to cut the test positivity rate (TPR) that hovered around 15%. The government will review the impact of the “intensified” clampdown on June 10 or earlier. As per the new regulations, only ration shops and food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy outlets could open. There was no ban on retailing meat, fish, cattle feed, animal husbandry and poultry farming-related activities. Domestic help could report for work. Government establishments and public sector units should remain closed till June 9. They could open with less than 50% of the workforce on June 10. The administration asked residents’ associations in high-rises to ensure that COVID-19 positive persons were quarantined. The association should display the flat number where a COVID-19 case was reported and inform the health authorities. There should be no social ostracisation of patients and their families, it warned. A COVID-19 negative test was not required for travel, including for couriers, in the State but RT-PCR test was mandatory to enter Kerala. People could only venture out to buy medicines and essential supplies from neighbourhood shops. Autorickshaws and taxis could ferry passengers to and from airports, railway stations, vaccination centres and hospitals.  Food delivery allowed Hotels could open for home delivery. The police mobilised about 25,000 officers to enforce the clampdown. Kerala reported 16,229 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, when 1,09,520 samples were tested. The TPR dropped to 14.82%. The State added 135 recent deaths to its official list. Karnataka on Friday reported 16,068 fresh cases and 364 deaths, taking the number of infections and fatalities to 26,69,514 and 30,895 respectively, the Health Department said. The State had 2,80,186 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district topped at 3,221 infections, and 206 fatalities.   Telangana on Friday reported 2,175 cases, taking the tally to over 5.87 lakh, while 15 deaths took the toll to 3,346. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation had most of the cases at 253. Telangana had not received any bids for its COVID-19 vaccine tender. Chennai’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 2,000 after 54 days on Friday. As many as 1,971 people tested positive in the city, even as Tamil Nadu logged 22,651 fresh cases and 463 deaths. The city’s daily count had crossed the 2,000-mark on April 11. Till date, 5,13,229 people have tested positive for the infection in the city. ( With inputs from Chennai bureau and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/to-slash-case-rate-kerala-tightens-lockdown/article34731882.ece
05 June 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman turns ‘water champion’ in remote Thamballapalle||Reaching out to every farmer in the 16 villages of Thamballapalle mandal in Chittoor district was not a tough job for T. Pareshamma, but convincing them to shun water-intensive crops was. Thanks to her perseverant efforts since 2015, the farmers have switched over, which resulted in a tangible increase in the acreage of millets. Thamballapalle, located on the northwestern corner of Chittoor district abutting Anantapur, is known as the most drought-prone constituency. The parched throats have been looking to support for decades, but to no avail. The sharp dip in the ground water level over the last two decades has been a matter of concern, but the situation continued to remain grim. As the community resource person of Foundation for Ecological Security (FES), a Gujarat-based voluntary organisation, she touched almost every individual in the mandal and motivated them towards water conservation measures. The Madanapalle belt is known for rampant cultivation of tomatoes, notwithstanding the high usage of water and price fluctuation that often let down the farmers. Ms. Pareshamma prevailed upon the farmers to conserve groundwater by switching over to simpler alternatives such as millets. Over the last two years, the farmers have grown millets in vast tracts. “Foxtail millet, kodo millet, little millet, green millet, ragi, sorghum, pearl millet are grown in large extents in the mandal today, which has considerably brought down water usage”, Ms. Pareshamma told The Hindu . As a logical extension, the morning cup of tea has been replaced with a porridge made of millet powder. “Several women have admitted to have been relieved of knee pain. I feel happy to be behind this”, she adds. The woman is now focussing on improving greenery atop the hillocks and desilting streams and tank beds to ensure water percolation. She also encourages farmers to build check dams, dig trenches and plant trees in common areas. Her efforts received a pat from none other than the representatives of United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and National Water Mission, New Delhi, who heard her voice at a virtual conference conducted recently. Pareshamma is among those water champions chosen for an award in recognition of their services towards maintaining the ecology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-turns-water-champion-in-remote-thamballapalle/article34732524.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Amul project kicks off in West Godavari||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the ‘Jagananna Palavelluva - A.P. Amul’ project in West Godavari district virtually from his camp office at Tadepalli on Friday. On the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the project was intended to give a fillip to the empowerment of women self-help groups by encouraging milk cooperatives in the government sector. The project was kick-started on December 2, 2020. Under the project, milk is being collected from 722 villages in Guntur, Chittoor, Kadapa and Prakasam districts. “Now, milk will be collected from 153 villages in West Godavari district,” he said. Remunerative prices The Chief Minister said the government was able to give remunerative prices to the farmers by tying up with Amul, which was the largest dairy cooperative in the country and all its shareholders were dairy farmers. Farmers were earning Rs. 5 to Rs. 15 more per litre under the Amul project, he said. The Chief Minister further said that 52.93 lakh litres of milk had so far been collected from 13,739 women dairy farmers in 722 villages, where a sum of Rs. 24.54 crore was paid. Amul had paid Rs. 4.06 crore more than the existing total price, he said. Bulk milk cooling units and automatic milk collection units would be set up in 9,899 villages at a cost of Rs. 4,000 crore as a part of the Amul project in the next two years, he added. Amul MD R.S. Sodhi said his company was being operated by the farmers, to whom the profits were being passed. Minister for Animal Husbandry S. Appalaraju, Special Chief Secretary (Agriculture) Poonam Malakondaiah, and A.P. Dairy Development Cooperative Federation MD Babu A were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-amul-project-kicks-off-in-west-godavari/article34732528.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GoS formed to facilitate merger of Gangavaram and Adani ports||The government on Friday constituted an empowered Group of Secretaries (GoS) for implementing the merger of the Gangavaram Port Ltd. (GPL) with the Adani Port SEZ Ltd. (APSEZ) with Chief Commissioner of Land Administration Neerabh Kumar Prasad as Chairman and Special Chief Secretary (infrastructure and investments) R. Karikal Valaven as convener. The GoS has Special Chief Secretary (revenue and tourism) Rajat Bhargava, Principal Secretary (finance) S.S. Rawat, and Secretaries K.V. Ramana (public enterprises) and V. Sunitha (law) as its members. According to G.O. MS No.5 issued by Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das, the GoS is mandated to examine various issues pertaining to the proposed merger, including creation of a Special Purpose Company (SPC) for entering into a revised concession agreement on the same terms and conditions as the original concession agreement. The project gets transferred to the government at the end of the concession period, and the government reserves the right to substitute a new concessionaire in the SPC beyond the stipulated time frame in which the process of disinvestment is supposed to be completed. The recommendations of the SBICAP will also be examined by the GoS. Transfer of shares It was stated in the G.O. that the State government had accepted the transfer of 31.50% shares from Windy Lakeside Investment Ltd. (an affiliate of Warburg Pincus) in GPL to APSEZ, and also acknowledged the deed of adherence entered into by APSEZ and the promoters of GPL (DVS Raju Consortium). The government approved the definitive agreement entered into by APSEZ and D.V.S. Raju and family to acquire their 58.10% shares in GPL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gos-formed-to-facilitate-merger-of-gangavaram-and-adani-ports/article34732529.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM mourn Ka Ra Mastaru||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed grief over the passing away of the eminent Telugu short story writer, Kalipatnam Ramarao, on Friday. In his condolences, the Governor said that Ramarao was well known for his short stories in Telugu, and had been conferred honorary degrees by several universities. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana expressed profound grief over the death of ‘Ka Ra Mastaru’, as he is popularly known. His writings reflected the lives of the downtrodden and the middle class sections. “I pay my tributes to Ramarao master as one of his innumerable admirers,” Mr. Justice Ramana said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Ramarao was one of the literary luminaries of North Andhra, who added his own diction to short stories. The Chief Minister conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu expressed shock and grief over the death of Ramarao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-cm-mourn-ka-ra-mastaru/article34732533.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police laud voluntary organisations for COVID services||The State police on Friday felicitated representatives of various voluntary organisations rendering selfless service to the public during the COVID second wave, on Friday. Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang in a virtual meeting with the representatives of voluntary organisations from all districts hailed the services of organisations and individuals that went the extra mile to help those in need. “The fight against COVID saw many unsung heroes. Many such heroes rose from amongst the common public and helped the COVID- affected even to an extent of ensuring a dignified last journey to the deceased. We salute the contribution of all of such selfless citizens of our country. In a small gesture on our part to recognise a few of them who showed kindness and all the values which make us humans,” Mr. Sawang said. The police recognised 46 non-government organisations, individuals and teams which have been rendering services to COVID affected people. While a majority of them took part in the virtual conference, a few of them attended the meeting in person at the Police Headquarters. The organisations recognised from Krishna and Guntur districts are SD Khaza and Friends Circle, Vijayawada Helping Hands Group, Guntur COVID Fighters Team, Amma Charitable Trust, Rudra Charitable Trust, Kismath Seva Samstha, Sree Sivalingeswara Swamy Bhatka Brunda Seva Samiti, Satyam Sival Sundaram Samajika Sevakendram and Vavila Prajwalana Samsta. So far, these organisations have voluntarily cremated over 4,400 COVID and non-COVID bodies in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-laud-voluntary-organisations-for-covid-services/article34731920.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Finish Nadu-Nedu 1st phase works by June 20: Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Friday reminded the officials of the June 20 deadline for completion of works under the first phase of Mana Badi-Nadu Nedu programme. Addressing officials in a video conference, the Minister said he had been urging for the need to complete the works in time to facilitate the commencement of the second phase of the programme. He said since schools were closed in view of the pandemic, the officials should make use of this time to expedite works pertaining to construction of compound walls, painting of the walls and procurement of desks and drinking water equipment. The officials told the Minister that 82% of the painting works, that were taken up in 14,971 school buildings, had been completed. Later, the Minister discussed the tender process for the second phase of works that are proposed to be taken up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/finish-nadu-nedu-1st-phase-works-by-june-20-minister/article34732526.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress seeks free vaccination||A Congress team headed by APCC president S. Sailajanath on Friday met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and urged him to impress upon the Centre the need for a universal vaccination programme free of cost. Claiming this was the only way to defeat the virus, Mr. Sailajanath said even as COVID caused unprecedented devastation, the “Modi government abandoned hapless people to fend for themselves during this crisis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/congress-seeks-free-vaccination/article34732525.ece
05 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy Dept. wins praise from Minister||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has appreciated Energy Secretary N. Srikant, NREDCAP vice-chairman S. Ramana Reddy, and the CMDs of Discoms for securing No.1 position for the State in the U.N’s Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) - 7 (affordable and clean energy). NITI Aayog’s recognition of A.P. as the leader among all States reflected the efficacy of the renewable energy projects being implemented by the government, an official release said. It was stated that Andhra Pradesh was focussing on making itself the destination for cost-effective power. A.P. was far ahead of other States in providing quality and affordable power even as other States were struggling to provide uninterrupted power. “A.P. power utilities have been purchasing power at an average rate of Rs. 3.12, which has helped in saving about Rs. 2,350 crore in the last two years,” Mr. Srikant said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/energy-dept-wins-praise-from-minister/article34732530.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct 10,000 tests a day, staff told||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has instructed the officials to increase COVID-19 testing and conduct 10,000 tests a day. He also asked the officials to sort out the issues and ensure that test results are released at the earliest, especially in the Agency areas. The Collector conducted a review meet on COVID-19 preparedness in the district with the officials here on Friday. Mr. Vinay Chand stressed on the need to adhere to COVID-19 safety precautions in the district. He said that patients, who were being treated under home isolation should be given kits. He said that awareness should be created among people to call ‘104’ service in case they find any COVID-19 symptoms. He also asked the officials to simultaneously speed up the vaccination process in the district.  Committee formed A committee has been formed by the District Collector to effectively deal with mucormycosis cases in the district. The multidisciplinary committee will monitor and effectively manage all the cases of mucormycosis. The committee will be headed by P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, as its chairman, 12 other doctors as members and one doctor as liaison officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/conduct-10000-tests-a-day-staff-told/article34732541.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag lad on cloud nine after scaling Everest||Anmish Varma Bhupati Raju (28), of Visakhapatnam, is literally on top of the world after attaining his childhood dream of scaling Mt. Everest — a feat he achieved on June 1 (Tuesday). His 50-day expedition to Mt. Everest began after reaching Kathmandu in the first week of April. Over the next few weeks, Mr. Anmish and his team went up and down the mountain slopes several times to acclimatise themselves with the extremely hypoxic environment at high altitudes. “We reached the base camp on April 19. The adverse weather conditions of snow, wind and avalanches forced us to remain in camp-2 (at a height of 6,400 m) for six days. Some of the climbers returned as they did not want to take risks due to the bad weather. My Sherpa guide and I started from the last camp (8,000 m) at around 7 p.m. on May 31 and reached the summit of Mt. Everest (8,848.86m) at 5 a.m. on June 1,” Mr. Anmish, who is on his way back to the base camp in Nepal, told The Hindu when contacted on his mobile phone, on the afternoon of June 4. Mr. Anmish has a keen interest in martial arts and trained in karate when he was 10 years old. He did his schooling, degree and PG (MBA) in the city. “I used to love climbing hillocks and hills surrounding the city from my childhood days. My training in martial arts ensured that I had a high level of fitness and I used to look for new challenges. Mountaineering was an obvious choice, and I completed Basic and Advanced Mountaineering Courses from some of the best institutes in India, in addition to the winter training programme in Ladakh, where the temperatures fall to as low as -40° Celsius,” he said. He went on to climb Mt. Kilimanjaro (5,895 m), the tallest peak in Africa, and Mt. Aconcagua (6,961 m), the tallest in South America; both in 2020 just before the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Anmish credited the Adventure Sports Academy at Gandikota in Kadapa district for helping him accomplish the feat. Mr. Anmish established an NGO called Kalpavruksh in 2010, through which he has trained over one lakh girls and women in self-defence. “I used to go to schools, colleges and even some software companies in Visakhapatnam city and provide free training in karate to women and girls,” he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vizag-lad-on-cloud-nine-after-scaling-everest/article34732532.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries outnumber new COVID-19 infections in district||The Visakhapatnam district has been witnessing a gradual decline in the COVID-19 cases. In the last 24 hours, 634 new infections were reported, while 1,742 persons, who were undergoing treatment for the virus, have recovered. The new cases take the COVID-19 cumulative tally to 1,40,961. Since May 31, the daily infections have been below 1,000. The death toll has increased to 934 after five more persons succumbed to the infection. The number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,29,571 and the active cases have reduced to 10,456. Most of the hospitals, including King George Hospital (KGH), have been witnessing a good number of discharges on a daily basis. Many ventilator beds are also vacant in several hospitals, it is learnt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recoveries-outnumber-new-covid-19-infections-in-district/article34732538.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officials felicitate youth for serving people during pandemic||Following a call by Director general of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang to felicitate NGOs and other voluntary organisations, which have been relentlessly helping people during the pandemic, the city police felicitated two youth Ameer and Md. Saddaam at a programme held here on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi and ADCP(Admin) M. Rajani felicitated the two youth and honoured them with title, ‘Manavatha Dheera’. Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao felicitated members of the Anakapalle-based Samyuktha Development Association, J. Tarun and S. Rajasekhar, at his office in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-officials-felicitate-youth-for-serving-people-during-pandemic/article34732543.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ka Ra Mastaru’ mourned||The death of popular writer Kalipatnam Rama Rao was mourned by various literary organisations and individuals in the city. The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has expressed shock at the death of Rama Rao. MLC P.V.N. Madhav,has expressed grief at the death of ‘Ka Ra Mastaru’, as he was popularly known. The district committee of Sahiti Sravanthi has described his death as a loss to the literary world in north Andhra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ka-ra-mastaru-mourned/article34732537.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free oxygen concentrators to the needy||Oxygen concentrators are being given to the needy patients, on returnable basis, by Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations (SSSSO) of Visakhapatnam district. Patients who require oxygen concentrators can contact R.A. Naidu, district medical services wing coordinator, SSSSO, on 9246627299 for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/free-oxygen-concentrators-to-the-needy/article34732536.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ban on sale of meat and seafood to continue this Sunday||Officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC) have decided to extend the weekend ban on sale of meat and fish here. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana in a release on Friday informed that the ban would continue this Sunday (June 6) also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ban-on-sale-of-meat-and-seafood-to-continue-this-sunday/article34732539.ece
05 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online yoga camp from June 7||The Department of Yoga and Consciousness, Andhra University, is conducting online yoga camp on prevention and rehabilitation for COVID-19 through ‘pranayama’ from June 7 to July 2. The timings for the online class is from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. (Monday to Friday). For details, contact: Ch. Sri Krishna-98498464663 and 9398019922.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/online-yoga-camp-from-june-7/article34732542.ece
05 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to SPB on birth anniversary||Gurajada Samskritika Samakahya secretary Kapuganti Prakash offered tributes to legendary singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam on the occasion of his birth anniversary. Special attachment He said that the singer had a special attachment with Vizianagaram and attended many concerts and literary activities in the city. “Balu did not forget his old friend and Chennai roommate Puvvada Subbaraju, the chairman of Puvvada Trust. He was close to him and met him regularly along with other well-wishers whenever he would come to Vizianagaram to attend cultural events. He will be alive forever in our hearts,” said Mr. Prakash. In Srikakulam, Arasavilli Sri Suryanarayana Swamy Trust member Mandavilli Ravi, Dhanwantari Sahiti Samskritika Samstha founder Sampath Kumar recalled Balasubrahmanyam’s contributions to film music and their association with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-spb-on-birth-anniversary/article34731930.ece
05 June 2021||VIZIANAGRAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three youngsters presented ‘Manavata Dhira’ award||Vizianagaram Superintendent of B. Rajakumari on Friday presented ‘Manavata Dhira’ award to three youngsters, Shaik Iltamash, Nadukuri Eswara Rao and Ayyappa Amara, who ensured last rites to 20 COVID victims. The youth organised ambulance services to transport COVID-19 patients to different parts of North Andhra region. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Rajakumari conveyed the wishes of Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, who appreciated their dedicated work in the name of Vizianagaram Youth Facebook Page. Mr. Iltamash who is a constable of Denkada, thanked the higher officials for allowing him to take up service activities to instil confidence among COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-youngsters-presented-manavata-dhira-award/article34731925.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salvage efforts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/salvage-efforts/article34731937.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Returned with thanks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/returned-with-thanks/article34732535.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-Registrar in ACB net for ‘accepting bribe’||Sleuths of hte Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) from Tirupati on Friday nabbed Sub-Registrar Damodaram red-handed at his office at Pakala while he was allegedly accepting Rs. 1.5 lakh from a farmer for processing a property mortgage application. According to the ACB officials, Y. Damodar Prasad had taken a loan of Rs. 46 lakh from one Nani Prasad. In this process, Mr. Damodar Prasad approached the sub-registrar with an application for mortgaging his 6.5 acre mango orchard with Mr. Nani. For this, the sub-registrar allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 1.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sub-registrar-in-acb-net-for-accepting-bribe/article34732514.ece
05 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist leader’s guard surrenders||Madakam Nandal alias Nandu, 20, of Chhattisgarh, who worked as a guard to the CPI (Maoist) special guerilla squad (SGS) leader Lachanna, surrendered before Mulugu Superintendent of Police Dr Sangramsingh G Patil in the district headquarters town of Mulugu on Friday. According to a press release, Nandal, a native of Kourugutta in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, gave himself up before the police due to ill-health. He moved to Pasra in Mulugu district with the help of one of his relatives to work in Gundalavagu project a few years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/maoist-leaders-guard-surrenders/article34732424.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Eatala, the road to BJP wasn’t so smooth||What prompted a reluctant Eatala Rajender to choose the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over being an independent to create an umbrella for Backward Classes forces to join him? Three factors apparently influenced his decision — family pressure, smart moves by BJP president Bandi Sanjay and Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy, and, of course, the backing of a strong party structure if he was to evade himself from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s onslaught, a taste of which he had already had through a series of investigations. His wife Jamuna and son were all for joining the BJP as, being in power for more than a decade, they know the power of the State and the support of State’s power in times of distress, more so, when personal image and the political career were at stake. He couldn’t say no to their pressure as BJP was ready to give him that strength. The role of Bandi Sanjay and Kishan Reddy cannot be undermined in the entire episode as the decision was taken after a series of secret meetings and the assurances given by them in consultation with the national leadership, according to sources. They had their selfishness in drawing Mr. Rajender towards the BJP with the party’s popularity spiralling after Dubbaka and GHMC elections but somehow getting stagnant after poor performance in the MLC elections, Nagarjunasagar bypoll and Warangal and Khammam corporation polls. The party needed a fresh impetus and both leaders found Rajender a perfect source to renew its vigour given his strength as a Backward Class leader with acceptance in several sections given his demeanour and role in the Telangana agitation. Moreover, he is one of the few top leaders in recent times whom KCR had been finding a tough nut to crack for several reasons and thus gaining some respect among several sections. “When Mr. Rajender was in a dilemma over joining the BJP, given his left background as a student leader and later as a politician, it was these BJP leaders who convinced him how the party can provide him the perfect platform to fulfil the ideals of a separate Telangana,” a top BJP leader said. And finally the former minister had to deal with the government’s onslaught on his financial resources, without which he would be of no major consequence in the State politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-eatala-the-road-to-bjp-wasnt-so-smooth/article34732431.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC braces for monsoon||With the arrival of monsoons, the GHMC has geared up with its plan to identify dilapidated buildings and take necessary action, besides keeping a watchful eye on the cellar excavation. Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has issued instructions to Town Planning wing officials to conduct quick and detailed survey for identification of dilapidated structures for further action. The newly-identified structures should be forwarded to the Engineering wing for report on structural stability. They should be added to the already-existing dilapidated buildings from previous year, for addressing safety issues. An action plan needs to be prepared for a special drive to pull down the structures that have become dangerous for human lives, besides ensuring action on all balance structures. Structural stability of each building for which notices are issued will have to be assessed by qualified experts so that the action may be decided. In case of most dangerous structures, precautionary measures shall be taken, such as vacating and sealing the buildings, barricading around the structures, and display of notice cautioning public not to move around them. Apart from these, a slew of instructions have been issued with regard to excavation of cellars. Accordingly, new excavation of cellars will not be permitted throughout the monsoon season. In case of cellars or basements that have already been dug, all standard safety precautionary measures should be taken such as soil strengthening, construction of retaining wall, and barricading around the site. In case of cellars where work is not in progress, measures should be taken to check the safety of the surrounding structures, and to fill up the cellar with Construction & Demolition waste. Non-compliance should be punished with criminal cases, the instructions said. In hilly terrains such as Banjara Hills and Jubilee Hills, measures should be taken for evacuation of people living in temporary structures along the retaining wall to prevent loss of human lives, the instructions said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-braces-for-monsoon/article34732413.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Make blueprint to save lakes: HC||The Telangana High Court on Friday instructed Nirmal Collector and Municipal Commissioner to prepare a blueprint for prevention of encroachment on lakes in the district. After hearing a PIL petition on encroachment on lakes in Nirmal district and town, a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the authorities to explain how they were going to check encroachments in the future. The bench also instructed the Collector and the Commissioner to file a fresh affidavit on how they would link different streams and nalas and ensure that they were not encroached upon. When the hearing began, the bench took exception to the officials failing to remove illegal constructions on the buffer zone and Full Tank Level (FTL) areas of the lakes in the district. With government counsel for municipalities seeking time to “immediately remove encroachments”, the CJ sought to know what he meant by “immediate”. The CJ reminded counsel that HC had passed an order nearly six months ago to remove illegal structures on the lakes. “Are six months not adequate to clear encroachments? What is your criteria for immediate?” the CJ asked counsel. The bench wondered how, with monsoon rains to begin in a week or so, the authorities would undertake encroachment removal work. When counsel said the authorities were facing problem of inadequate staff, the CJ asked him why they could not engage contract workers. The CJ made it clear to counsel that officials could not take the excuse of pandemic to explain the delay in clearing illegal structures on the lakes. The bench found fault with the Collector for not constituting a lake protection committee to monitor work relating to razing down illegal structures in the vicinity of lakes. The petitioner’s lawyer Chinnolla Naresh Reddy told the court that construction of a temple was undertaken in the vicinity of a lake when the matter came up for hearing. The inaction of the authorities over past six months resulted in installation of an idol in the temple. When the CJ wanted an explanation on the point, the Collector responded stating that he would personally visit the place, inviting the wrath of the court. The Collector explained that authorities could not completely focus on the work due to frequent communal tension in Bhainsa town of the district where curfew was clamped for over 45 days. He sought two months to fence all the six lakes where illegal structures were coming up and clear all unauthorised structures there. The matter was posted for July 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/make-blueprint-to-save-lakes-hc/article34732428.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Change in procedure for procuring Amphotericin||There is a change in the policy to procure medicines for Mucormycosis patients admitted in private hospitals. Until a week ago, people had to apply online for Liposomal Amphotericin-B. After receiving approval from a government-appointed committee, one could proceed to buy the medicine vials from a designated stockist. However, currently, the onus of applying and procuring the medicine vials has been shifted to hospitals treating Mucormycosis patients. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy said that hospitals have to prepare a list of patients with them, submit the requirement for them with a nodal officer at Director of Public Health office, receive approval and procure medicines from stockists. “Patients or attendants don’t have to run around to locate stockists. This new system is being implemented from the past week. If there is any problem, one can ask the hospital managements. It is their responsibility to send the list. We are approving all requests,” Dr Ramesh Reddy said. The earlier practice of applying online was riddled with some issues such as delays in receiving approvals and lack of clarity over number of times to apply as only 5-6 vials were granted per applications as against requirement of 60-100 vials per patient. Shortage of the medicine was cited as a reason for rationing it to 5-6 vials per head. The senior official also said that apart from Liposomal Amphotericin-B, stocks of ‘non-conventional Amphotericin’ is slowly increasing in the market which has to be used too. “Molecules in both the medicines are the same. Effect of both on the body is the same,” he said. Till date, around 1,100 Mucormycosis cases, in various stages of infection, have been recorded at government and private hospitals. While 250 patients were operated at Government ENT Hospital, 100 underwent surgery at Gandhi Hospital. Some patients took admission at government hospitals after undergoing initial treatment at private facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/change-in-procedure-for-procuring-amphotericin/article34732390.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. seeks free, universal vaccination||Telangana Congress leaders met Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan at the Raj Bhavan on Friday, and demanded universal, free vaccination against COVID-19, and requested her to convey their anguish over the non-serious approach of the Centre on vaccination to the President of India. A delegation of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar met the Governor and submitted a memorandum Later, addressing the media, Mr. Uttam Reddy criticised both the Centre and the State government, saying that they have miserably failed to control the pandemic. He said that the target of vaccinating all adults by December 31 would not be possible until one crore persons are vaccinated every day. At the present pace of vaccination, it would take three years to achieve the target. Mr. Venkat Reddy demanded that journalists be identified as frontline warriors and financial help provided to them. He also wanted the government to come to the rescue of children who lost their parents to COVID. In the memorandum submitted to the Governor, the Congress leaders charged that the BJP government at the Centre was guilty of criminal mismanagement of COVID-19. “Modi government’s vaccination strategy has been a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers. The government was derelict in its duty of ‘planning vaccination’ and has been reprehensibly oblivious to ‘procurement of vaccines’,” it stated. As per the available information, the Centre and State governments have till date ordered only 39 crore vaccine doses for a total population of 140 crore. As per Government of India, it has administered 21.31 crore vaccine doses till May 31. But, only 4.45 crore Indians have received both the doses of vaccine, which is only 3.17% of the country’s population. Till date, the Centre has exported 6.63 crore vaccine doses to other countries. This is the biggest disservice and the multiple pricing slabs for the vaccine fixed by the Modi government is another instance of profiteering from people’s misery, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-seeks-free-universal-vaccination/article34732403.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||7-in-1 jab, best bet for strays||The first phase of the lockdown last year threw up challenges that called for deeds of kindness, especially towards animals. When the shutdown of restaurants and roadside eateries left many strays scrounging for food, animal lovers, welfare associations and several volunteers — after acquiring special permits — took up a special drive to feed stray animals. This year, in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic and the resultant lockdown, animal lovers geared up once again to feed the strays, but this time extending their care to vaccination as well. The seven-member team of All for Animals Foundation (AFA Foundation) based in Hyderabad has taken up the 7-in-1 vaccination drive with the help of volunteers, who do it during the lockdown hours when the dogs approach them for their feed. Srilu Bhopal, founder-member of AFA Foundation, mentions that since anti-rabies injections are given free by the GHMC to strays, her focus is on the 7-in-1 vaccine, which protects dogs against 7 diseases — canine distemper, adenovirus, hepatitis, parainfluenza, parvovirus, leptospirosis and coronavirus. “These are viral diseases that are not just painful but can kill the animals,” she says, adding that a large number of volunteers are able to feed animals from their own resources but when it comes to vaccines, it gets difficult to administer vaccines to all as each 7-in-1 costs Rs. 300. Srilu has been sponsoring most of these vaccination programmes with some help from friends and family. Srilu appealed to DGP Mahender Reddy and GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar to obtain passes for feeders and volunteers and to chief veterinary officer Dr. Vakil for medical help. With support from an animal lover and well-known animal rescuer T V Siva Prakash and AFA Foundation co-founder Archana, as part of the core team, Srilu got her campaign rolling last week. “Volunteers are the pulse beat of AFA Foundation. It is because of their work on the field in interacting and caring that those street animals are safe,” says Srilu. “All these efforts are to promote a healthy animal-human co-existence, devoid of any fear and also to give a quality life to urban strays,” says Pratima Sagar, secretary AFA Foundation. The Foundation is also raising funds for ‘The Water Bowl Project’ and the second phase of its ‘Feed the Stray’ initiative. “We have installed 3,000 water bowls and have been feeding more than 3,000 stray animals daily across Hyderabad,” informs Srilu. However, the Foundation needs money to sustain its initiative and is accepting donations through the crowd-funding site Ketto. Those interested can contribute through https://www.ketto.org/fundraiser/all-for-animal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/7-in-1-jab-best-bet-for-strays/article34732411.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lavish weddings a thing of the past||Pre-wedding celebrations till late at night, weddings with hundreds of guests, lavish spreads on the dastarkhwan (dinner table), and even the separate dulhe ka dastar (groom’s dining table) are now off the cards for the foreseeable future. Kind courtesy: the lockdown, and COVID protocols. Instead of the nikah happening late in the evening, the solemnising of the marriage, officiated by the qazi, is being performed at the break of dawn. The guest list is usually the immediate family of the bride and groom. While Hyderabadi weddings were known to not compromise on delicacies placed at the dinner table, this too, has been upended. “My sister was married on March 31. There were 25 people from the groom’s side and around 15 people from our side. The wedding was at home from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. None of our first cousins got their children to the wedding,” Mohammed Salahuddin, a cloth merchant from Falaknuma, said. Pre-wedding ceremonies like manjhe, and sanchak - mehendi were given a miss. The family, Mr. Salahuddin said, did not want to take chances. “I heard my aunt say that in other times, on the wedding day, we would be busy from Fajr (early morning prayers) till 3 a.m. the next day. The revelries wound up within 3 hours,” he says. Hasan Ali, a 28-year-old, was married recently. The nikah was at the office of a qazi. In attendance were the bride and groom, and witnesses who have to sign on the siyahnaama. “ We went there around 6.30 a.m., and left before 7 a.m. That was all. We had food at home. There was no separate dulhe ka dastar ,” he said. With celebrations beginning at the crack of dawn, a menu designed to suit the early morning pangs of hunger has been the order of the day. The much loved mutton biryani was not on the menu. Mirza Khursheed, a 34-year-old entrepreneur and resident of Banjara Hills, was engaged mid-May in a ceremony that lasted for only an hour and a half. It had a typical Hyderabadi breakfast menu: khichdi-keema, khatta , nahari, a stew with trotters, tala hua gosht (fried mutton) and sheermal . Taha Quadri, a food catering professional, restaurateur, and baker, said that weddings of all communities are a fraction of what they were before the lockdown. “Weddings have moved to smaller venues, and at homes. A lot of people who had planned weddings around this time told me that if the relaxation timings are extended to 6 p.m., they are willing to have functions in the afternoon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lavish-weddings-a-thing-of-the-past/article34732421.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eatala not for self-respect but self-protection: TRS leaders||TRS Ministers and leaders hit back at Eatala Rajender, saying the self-respect he was arguing was more about self-protection after the government launched investigations into his alleged illegal land dealings. At a press conference here, TRS MLC Rajeshwar Reddy condemned the allegations against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that Ministers were being ill-treated. He said if Mr. Rajender was humiliated why did he wait for so long to make these observations and not leave the party there and then. The talk of self-respect was for self-protection and property protection, he charged. He said Eatala was given a lot of priority over others by the Chief Minister and that was why he enjoyed all the political positions from being a TRSLP leader and as a Minister. It was unfair on his part to level such allegations against the Chief Minister despite knowing that none would believe them. Mr. Reddy said Eatala was one of the many leaders who were nurtured by KCR during the agitation and he was the true leader of Telangana. Entire Telangana society was with him and it would reflect in Huzurabad. If KCR had responded to a complaint by an unknown person to order investigation it was not dictatorship but a good democratic practice, Mr. Reddy said reacting to Eatala’s allegations. Women and Child Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod accused Eatala Rajender of mortgaging his self-respect with the BJP for his personal gains. “Why is he joining the BJP that took away seven mandals of Telangana without its permission and merged them in Andhra Pradesh?”. She alleged that Mr Rajender had grabbed the lands of poor people and was talking about their self-respect now. “Why did he illegally obtain those lands if he was so concerned about poor people?” She reminded that it was with the support of the Chief Minister that Mr. Rajender had blossomed into a leader. The Minister said the entire country was looking towards KCR’s leadership and his development policies and Mr. Rajender had no moral right to criticise the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatala-not-for-self-respect-but-self-protection-trs-leaders/article34732432.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Delta the most common virus variant in the country||The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) here and Benaras Hindu University (BHU) have collaboratively sequenced genomes of coronavirus variants in Varanasi and adjoining areas and have come across at least seven major strains of coronavirus circulating in these regions, including B.1.617 and B.1.617.2 or the ‘Delta variant’. The multidisciplinary research unit at BHU collected samples from Varanasi and areas around the city, mostly in April earlier this year and the CCMB team sequenced 130 samples . “The most predominant variant we found in our study was B.1.617 among the Variants of Concern (VoC). This variant was also reported to be one of the major drivers of the second COVID-19 wave in India,” said Royana Singh, who heads the research unit. “Just as in most of India, the B.1.617.2 variant (aka Delta variant) was the most common one in the samples we studied. They were found among 36% of the total samples. Other VoCs such as the B.1.351, detected in South Africa for the first time, were also found in this area,” said Rakesh Mishra, adviser to CCMB. “This study confirms yet again that the Delta variant is the most widespread one in the country right now. But at the same time, it is imperative for us to keep an eye on the other emerging variants to prevent another unprecedented surge of cases,” he added, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/delta-the-most-common-virus-variant-in-the-country/article34732395.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Awareness booklet released||A patient awareness booklet which details with the impact of the anticipated COVID-19 third wave brought out by the Medicover Group of Hospitals was released by Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar. This booklet is expected to serve as a ready reference which gives details of what the third wave could be and how the children need to be protected in case if it happens. Hospital CMD Anil Krishna, chief pediatrician P. Ravinder Reddy, director Sharath Reddy, executive director P. Harikrishna and Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) general secretary Y. Krishna participated in the release. “It is paramount that we take effective steps to prevent a third wave. While all efforts are on to stop the third wave, it is also necessary to educate the general public about the impact that the third wave could have. This booklet is a small guide to a few preventive steps particularly in safeguarding the children,” said Dr. Reddy, in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/awareness-booklet-released/article34732400.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR registers record parcel earnings in May||South Central Railway (SCR) has recorded its highest parcel earnings in a month during May earning Rs. 19.14 crore by loading 44,374 tonnes. The achievement comes in the backdrop of the pandemic situation across the nation, thanks to the policy initiatives of both tariff and non-tariff concessions, said top officials on Thursday. Parcel earnings recorded are almost Rs. 3 crore (approximately 19%) higher than the previous highest parcel revenue earned in January and it also witnessed the highest single day parcel earnings of Rs. 1.099 crore on May 6. A major contributor for this growth has been the 40 timetabled parcel trains which helped move several essential commodities like fruits, medicines, paddy seeds, eggs, fish, lemon and ghee, among others, to various destinations across the country. It also includes 62 lakh litres of milk transported through Doodh Duronto specials to Delhi, 69 ‘kisan’ specials transporting 24,748 tonnes of agricultural produce from Nagarsol, Nuzivd and Lingampet Jagityal, to assist farmers in marketing its agricultural produce for better price realisation. Customer-friendly initiatives introduced like advance booking facility of parcel space in all mediums i.e., in luggage rooms on passenger carrying trains, parcel vans attached to regular trains and in timetabled parcel trains since September last year have helped traders, cargo aggregators and farmers, especially those who are handling small quantities for transporting their consignments in a safe, secure, economical and fastest mode as per the planned schedule, said SCR General Manager (GM) Gajanan Mallya. He advised the teams to maintain the same momentum in the current financial year and instructed them to render all-out efforts in attracting new traffic while duly strengthening the existing traffic, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-registers-record-parcel-earnings-in-may/article34732406.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intake of vital fatty acids low in Hyderabad’s children, finds ICMR-NIN||Scientists at ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) have found a low intake of the essential ‘omega-3 PUFA’ or poly-unsaturated fatty acids in the dietary sources among healthy children in Hyderabad though about 80% of them have been consuming fish. Nuts, oil seeds, sea food apart from fish are rich in omega-3 PUFA, and the key for normal metabolism and functions of the body. 625 children studied In a study done on 625 healthy children aged between 7 and 13 years, selected from five different schools, the scientists realised fish consumption frequency was quite low (only 100g once in a month) and most of them were consuming fresh water fish while only <4% were consuming marine fish. Seeds and nuts “Our study found that although majority of children (96%) were non-vegetarians, their fish consumption was low. Consumption of walnuts, flax seeds, and chia seeds was also very low,” said lead author Dr. P. Devraj. While all the Fatty Acids (FA) essential for normal metabolism and functions of the body are synthesized within, two varieties of PUFAs - Alfa-Linolenic Acid (ALA or n-3 or Omega-3) and Linoleic Acid (LA or n-6 or Omega-6), are not synthesized. Therefore, they must be met from the diet and hence, these are called Essential Fatty Acids (EFA), said a press release. Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) and Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) are the biologically active long chain Omega-3 PUFA of ALA variety. DHA is the most abundant omega-3 PUFA in the brain required throughout the life to maintain cardiovascular, cognitive and immune health. DHA accumulates in the foetal brain during the last trimester of pregnancy and continues to increase up to two years. Early childhood is a period of rapid brain growth and maturation. ICMR-NIN recommends 100 to 200g of fish per week as both DHA and EPA are found exclusively in marine fish, particularly in salmon, mackerel, and sardines, and in small amounts in meat, poultry, and eggs.  Vegetarian sources DHA and EPA are not found in vegetarian foods, but its precursor ALA are found in flax seeds, chia seeds, nuts like walnuts, and selected plant seed oils such as soyabean and mustard. “Efforts need to be taken to increase consumption of food such as nuts, oil seeds, fish and sea food rich in omega-3 PUFA to improve cognition, concentration, and behaviour among children, based on these findings,” said ICMR-NIN director Dr. R. Hemalatha, who supervised the study. It was published in the official journal of International Society for the Study of Fatty Acids and Lipids - https://www.journals.elsevier.com/prostaglandins-leukotrienes-and-essential-fatty-acids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/intake-of-vital-fatty-acids-low-in-hyderabads-children-finds-icmr-nin/article34732391.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily COVID positivity rate falls below 2%||The daily COVID-19 positivity rate has come down below 2% to about 1.6% in Telangana. A total of 2,175 new positive cases were reported during the day along with 15 deaths during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Friday taking their cumulative total to 5,87,664 and 3,346, respectively. A total of 1,36,096 tests were done during the day, the highest-ever till date. Reports of 1,248 samples were still awaited. With 3,821 infected persons declared recovered on Friday the total recoveries crossed the 5.5 lakh-mark and reached 5,53,400. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID-19 cases in the State, the active cases as of Friday evening stood at 30,918. Of them, 13,645 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining 17,273 are in home and institutional isolation. Containment zones Based on the active cases in a particular locality, there were 175 active micro containment zones in the State as of Friday evening with a highest of 51 in Mahabubabad district followed by 32 in Nalgonda, 13 in Hyderabad and 12 in Warangal Rural. Such zones are in single digit in another 14 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-covid-positivity-rate-falls-below-2/article34732393.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Professionals’ Congress regrets Ramdev’s remark||The All India Professionals’ Congress (AIPC) of Congress party has written to Union Ministers Harsh Vardhan and Ravi Shankar Prasad regretting the recent attacks on medical fraternity by Baba Ramdev and said that they were not only dangerous but contributed to vaccine hesitancy in an already fearful climate. Former Minister and regional coordinator (South) J. Geeta Reddy and other members of AIPC pointed out in the letter a video clipping of Ramdev’s advise to a crowd on how yoga can help strengthen lungs against the virus. In another video that also went viral, he was heard vilifying COVID patients for spreading negativity and complaining about oxygen shortage. Earlier in February, Ramdev released what he claimed to be first evidence based traditional medicine for COVID from his own basket of Patanjali products in the presence of Dr. Harsh Vardhan and Union Minister Nitin Gadkari. The product ‘Coronil’ was endorsed both by the Centre and the World Health Organisation (WHO). This was a blatant lie which was refuted publicly on twitter by WHO. The repeated claims of Ramdev and his close aide Balkrishan, chairman of Patanjali Ayurveda, were in clear violation of provisions of Constitution, IPC, the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. Hence, they should be met with full force of law. They ought to be prosecuted for not just spreading rumours about allopathy and practising doctors but also inciting communal discord.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/professionals-congress-regrets-ramdevs-remark/article34732409.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 of family found dead||Four members of a family were found dead at their residence at West Gandhi Nagar of Nagaram under Keesara police station limits on Friday morning. According to police, Pallapu Bikshapathi (30), an auto driver, allegedly poisoned his wife, Pusha (28) and their children Arshita (11) and Yashwanth (7). Later, he strangulated them to death and placed their bodies on the bed, before ending his life by hanging. The incident took place around 8 a.m. and came to light around 9.30 a.m. when other members of the family noticed their bodies and alerted the police. “They were not on good terms with their neighbour O Ramesh, who accused Bikshapathi of misbehaving with his daughter, and held several meetings with the elders,” inspector J. Narender Goud said. On Thursday night and Friday morning, Ramesh picked up an argument with the victims, following which Bikshapathi resorted to the extreme step, the inspector said. A note purportedly left behind by the victim cited ‘Ramesh was expecting money from him and he humiliated him on several occasions and is responsible for the deaths.’  (Roshni suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/4-of-family-found-dead/article34732415.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pension Adalat to be held on July 16||Second Postal Pension Adalat of Telangana Circle for the year 2021 will be held on July 16 at 11 a.m through video conference - https://meet.google/wtp-oxkt-tki. Grievances related to pension, gratuity and allied matters of postal pensioners/family pensioners may be submitted either by post addressed to the Director of Accounts (Postal), Dak Sadan, Abids, Hyderabad- 500001, so as to reach on or before July 7. Letters and envelopes should be superscribed with the words “Postal Pension Adalat of Telangana Adalat of Telangana Circle, or by email to “dap_hyd@yahoo.com, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pension-adalat-to-be-held-on-july-16/article34732425.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyundai extends help to the needy||Hyundai Engineering Corporation India, the philanthropic arm of Hyundai Motor India, has donated a total of 100 oxygen concentrators and 50 BiPAP machines worth Rs. 1 crore to the State government for treatment of needy patients in its hospitals. Managing Director of HECI Kuen Han Yi handed over the oxygen concentrators and BiPAP machines to Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar here on Friday. Principal Secretary (Industries) Jayesh Ranjan, Managing Director of TSIIC E.V. Narasimha Reddy, HECI Business and HR head Ick Chul Jo and regional sales head Saleem Ameen were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hyundai-extends-help-to-the-needy/article34732392.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID care centre for slum communities launched||The Montfort Social Institute (MSI) in Church Colony of Uppal launched a COVID Care Centre for slum communities on Friday, where isolation and treatment will be provided free of cost. Free food, medicines The 25-bed facility will provide free accommodation, food, medicines, and doctors’ consultation for COVID-positive patients with mild symptoms. Counselling for patients and their families will also be provided, a press note informed. Protecting families Several COVID-positive patients in slums do not have the facility for isolation at home, thanks to the small space of their dwellings. This means that the entire family becomes vulnerable to the coronavirus infection. The centre on MSI’s premises extending free services, both medical and non-medical, is expected to combat the problem, the note added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-care-centre-for-slum-communities-launched/article34732401.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 briefly Hanuman Jayanti at Golden Temple||Hare Krishna Movement’s Golden Temple at Banjara Hills celebrated Hanuman Jayanti on Friday with priests conducting Vedic rituals without any public participation in view of the COVID pandemic, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/page-3-briefly-hanuman-jayanti-at-golden-temple/article34732408.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable mowed down by four-wheeler||A constable with RGIA police station was mowed down by a four-wheeler on the Hyderabad-Bengaluru NH at Shamshabad on Friday afternoon. Gundu Rao (30) was crossing the road when the speeding car hit him, Shamshabad police said. He was returning to the police station after attending a marriage function at a nearby function hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-mowed-down-by-four-wheeler/article34732414.ece
05 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||(with photo)||B.P. Rawat has taken over as the Chief General Manager of BSNL, Telangana Telecom Circle on Friday. He belongs to1985 batch of the Indian Telecom Service. He previously worked as Principal General Manager of BSNL, Kalyan Business Area of Maharashtra Circle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/with-photo/article34732422.ece
05 June 2021||HYDERABSD,TELANGANA||CS holds meet on snags in Dharani portal||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials to resolve grievances raised by applicants on Dharani portal as early as possible in co-ordination with District Collectors and monitor the status of pending applications on a daily basis. At a review meeting held here on Friday on Dharani portal with officials, the Chief Secretary instructed them to sort out the response system so that a standard response was given on grievances through WhatsApp and email. The effort should be to sort out the grievances as early as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cs-holds-meet-on-snags-in-dharani-portal/article34732426.ece
05 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Isolation centre gets oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 2 lakh||Hyderabad-based Sundarayya Vignana Kendram has provided oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 2 lakh to Bodepudi Vignana Kendram (BVK)-run isolation centre for the benefit of COVID-19 patients. The oxygen concentrators were handed over to BVK manager Y. Srinivasa Rao here on Friday. CPI (M) district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao and others were present. An ambulance service for COVID-19 patients was launched at the BVK centre with the support of Subandha Foundation. The ambulance was flagged off by CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram here on Wednesday. The BVK has been providing free food and healthcare services to the needy COVID patients at the isolation centre with the help of various NGOs and philanthropists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/isolation-centre-gets-oxygen-concentrators-worth-rs-2-lakh/article34732417.ece
05 June 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||BRF||Finance Minister Harish Rao inaugurated a Rythu Bazaar adjacent to Toopran toll plaza along with LS member K. Prabhakar Reddy on Friday. Mr. Harish Rao said that the market was constructed to provide facilities to 50 farmers. Officials were directed to provide a few more sheds if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34732416.ece
05 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Will buy paddy till the last lot’||Allaying fears of paddy farmers on procurement and damage to the produce because of rain, the district administration has assured that all the remaining stocks will be procured at the earliest. Additional Collector V. Chandra Shekar toured Chandur, Gurrampode and Nampally mandals in the district on Friday to speak with farmers and inspect the rain-drenched heaps of produce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/will-buy-paddy-till-the-last-lot/article34732433.ece
05 June 2021||SA NGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Police seize paddy seed||The police of Siddipet seized unauthorised paddy seed stocked in a godown on Friday. The seized paddy seed was worth more than Rs. 5 crore. According to Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis, Gajwel ACP Narayana, Circle Inspector Koteswara Rao and Mulugu Sub-Inspector Ranga Krishna and agriculture officers raided MKR godown located on Srirampur outskirts under Mulugu police station limits. “The 2,384 quintals of paddy seed stocked there has no licence, bill or permission. Cases were registered against Suresh Sharma and investigation is on. We are conducting raids on fertilizer shops in view of commencement of rainy season and farmers should not be taken for granted by the traders,” said Mr. Joyal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-seize-paddy-seed/article34732436.ece
05 June 2021||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘Alair will become a revenue division’||Alair legislator and Government Whip G. Sunitha on Friday announced that Alair would soon be a revenue division. The new administrative division will be formed by including Bommalaramaram, Yadagirigutta, Rajapet, Alair and Gundala mandals, she said addressing press persons at the Alair R&B guest house. The notification would be issued in a short time, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/alair-will-become-a-revenue-division/article34732434.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Quick bite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/quick-bite/article34732420.ece
05 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram gets four oxygen generator plants||Four oxygen Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) generator plants, including two at Sector 10 Civil Hospital, have been set up in three different hospitals in Gurugram with a combined capacity of more than three tonnes per day. The hospital authorities claimed the plants would be enough to meet their daily pre-COVID days' requirement and do away with their daily dependence on tankers. The four plants were inaugurated by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal a week ago. Deputy Civil Surgeon (Civil Hospital) Maneesh Rathee said the two plants with the capacity of one tonne and half tonne each were set up inside the hospital premises and both were fully functional. ‘Self-sufficient’ “The two plants are enough to meet the daily requirement of oxygen for 70 beds in the hospitals in normal circumstances. Earlier, the oxygen was supplied daily by tankers, but now we are self-sufficient,” said Mr. Rathee. He, however, conceded that the capacity was not enough to meet the increased demand of oxygen such as during the peak of the COVID wave. Mr. Rathee added that the hospital had 30 big oxygen cylinders to meet increased demand as seen during the second wave and the supply can also be augmented through tankers. Mr. Rathee, involved with the process of setting up the plants, said hospital authorities were always on tenterhooks during COVID wave since the tankers usually got delayed, but now with the setting up of the plant inside the hospital they could “relax”. Similarly, two plants with a capacity of one tonne each have been set up at ESIC Hospitals in Sector 9A Gurugram and Sector 3 in Manesar. Medical Superintendent at ESIC Hospitals, Subhra Gupta, said both the plants were functional and they expected to meet their daily pre-COVID days need of oxygen. All four plants have been donated and installed by Maruti Suzuki under its Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative. The company plans to install 24 more such plants in different parts of the country by mid-June. A separate team has been deployed by the company with round-the-clock monitoring to ensure that these generator plants are installed successfully in hospitals and are operational. The monitoring will continue for a few months to ensure that these generators keep operating satisfactorily well after installation. Gurugram Chief Medical Officer Virender Yadav said three more such plants would be set up at Sohna, Pataudi and Sector 31 Polyclinic in the city. “The capacity of the Sohna and Pataudi plants will be 500 Litres Per Minute [LPM] each. We have procured equipment for both hospitals. The capacity for Sector 31 Polyclinic will be 100 LPM,” said Mr. Yadav.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/gurugram-gets-four-oxygen-generator-plants/article34732047.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||RWAs join hands with hospitals to organise vaccination camps||With a limited supply of vaccines at government facilities over the past week, several resident welfare associations, academic institutions and hospitals have come together to organise vaccination camps in a localised manner. A vaccination drive has been organised by Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh at Mount Abu School from June 1 for the 18+ category. While prior registration is required on the government portal, each dose of Covishield was administered for Rs. 1,050. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu School, said: “We were probably the first private school to have collaborated for such a drive. We provided the required infrastructure, which included space for registration kiosk, waiting areas and observation areas. The campus is being sanitised daily. The vaccination drive continued in a full-fledged manner for three days and 250 people were vaccinated.” A vaccination camp was set up by a city-based NGO in collaboration with Fortis Escorts Hospital for residents of Malviya Nagar, Safdarjung Development Area and Green Park. Around 1,000 people were vaccinated between May 29 and June 2, officials involved in the organisation of the camp said. “The camp was organised based on requests of the RWAs as there were several people who could not get the jabs due to the paucity of vaccines,” an official said. Drive-through facilities Several drive-through vaccination camps were also organised across the city. Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals on Friday launched a two-day drive-through facility at the Ambience Mall in Vasant Kunj. “Apollo Hospitals is administering Covishield at the drive-through facility between 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and is open to everyone above 18 years. People need to be registered on the Cowin app. A total of 150 people were vaccinated on the first day,” read an official statement from the hospital. The drive-through vaccination drive at the Chhatrasal Stadium, organised by the North district administration, saw a steady stream of visitors in cars, two-wheelers and even e-rickshaws, visit the centre for vaccination. Over 550 doses have already been administered at the centre, said Kusum Arora, who is in charge of the facility. While vaccines are being currently administered to only the 45-plus category, Dr. Arora said the facility will be open for those above 18 over the coming days. Parallel sessions “Two parallel sessions are being run between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. at the stadium. This has been done to avoid overcrowding and reduce waiting time. While people with online registrations are welcome, there is a facility for spot registration as well. The staffers are fully trained and Covishield is being administered at the centre,” said Dr. Arora. Ajay Chauhan (51), who arrived at the centre to get vaccinated, said: “I am not too savvy with technology and hence had been struggling to register myself on the portal. However, the facility at the stadium came as a big relief. I could get myself registered at the first counter. Getting the jab was also a swift process, after which I had to wait in the observation area for half an hour. Overall, it was a relief to experience a smooth process.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rwas-join-hands-with-hospitals-to-organise-vaccination-camps/article34732374.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital witnesses 523 new COVID-19 cases, 50 deaths||The Capital recorded 523 fresh COVID-19 cases and 50 deaths on Friday, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin also said 77,174 tests had been conducted in the city in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.68%. The positivity has been below 1% for the fifth day in a row. The Capital now has 8,060 actives cases with 3,813 people under home isolation. The bulletin also stated that 53,035 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in 24 hours, of which 37,747 got their first dose and 15,288 got their second dose. The total number of beneficiaries so far stands at 55,51,966, of which 12,64,460 have been given both doses. The cumulative figures in the Capital now stand at 14,28,449 with 24,497 deaths and 13,95,892 recoveries. On Thursday, Delhi had recorded 487 COVID-19 cases, the lowest daily count in over two-and-a-half months and 45 fatalities. This was the first time the daily death count had gone below the 50-mark since April 11 when the tally was 48. The government said it is working on revamping several existing hospitals to increase the number of beds as well as building new hospitals. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday visited the Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital, which is being remodelled by the government with advanced facilities. He also visited LNJP hospital where a new building is being built for mother and childcare. The Delhi government also said it is building two new hospitals at Madipur and Jwalapuri and the bed capacity of Acharya Shree Bhikshu Hospital, Shri Dada Dev Matri Avum Shishu Chikitsalaya and Guru Gobind Singh Hospital is being augmented to around 500, 300 and 572 beds respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-witnesses-523-new-covid-19-cases-50-deaths/article34732051.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital has run out of Covaxin, claims Atishi||Senior AAP leader Atishi on Friday said there were no more doses of Covaxin available for 45+ and 18-45 years age group. Appeal to Centre She requested the Central government to provide as much Covaxin as previous month to ensure everyone gets second dose on time. “For Covaxin, there is a great concern amongst people as the shortage of vaccines continues to persist. This concern has been the minds of both — youth between 18-44 years and those above 45 years of age. For 18-44 years, there is no vaccine available for neither the first dose nor the second. For those above 45 years, Covishield is available for both the first and the second doses but the supply for Covaxin for them is almost over from today onwards,” the AAP MLA said. Ms. Atishi added: “So now the stock of Covaxin in Delhi needs to be supplied for both age categories and we would like to request the Central government to strengthen the supply chain of Covaxin because if we do not receive a sufficient supply, and continue to receive the meagre supply we did the last month, then a crisis situation will emerge when it comes to administering the second doses.” 6 lakh doses available She added that the Capital has around 6 lakh doses of the vaccine available for those above 45 years, out of which the majority of doses 5,90,000 are that of Covishield. “Thus, from tomorrow [Saturday] onwards, the centers which were administering Covaxin will shut down for those above 45+ age group. Covaxin will not be available as second dose in these centers,” she added. Ms. Atishi said if the vaccination of the youth does not start, those above the age of 45 years will also not come forward to get vaccinated so easily. “When the youth come out of the house to get vaccinated, they will also encourage their parents, grandparents and other family members to get vaccinated. Therefore, vaccination for the youth is necessary not only to protect themselves but also to protect the entire Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-has-run-out-of-covaxin-claims-atishi/article34732049.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rain with thunderstorm brings down temperature in city||A thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain with wind speeds upto 60 kmph brought down the temperature in city that has been on the rise over the past few days on Friday. Several parts of the city experienced a dust storm with gusty winds followed by light rain. There were reports of trees having fallen in several areas of the city due to the storm. During the day, the maximum temperature toughed 39.5°C, which is one degree cooler than the normal for the season. The minimum settled at 26.1°C, which was one degree below normal. The weather station at Safdarjung recorded 3.2 mm of rain. Palam received the heaviest rainfall at 9.4 mm of rain. The forecast for June 5 reads: “Partly cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain/thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to stay between 39°C and 24°C respectively. The maximum temperature is likely to rise to the 40°C mark in the next few days.” The strong winds added to the woes of farmers protesting at the borders against the farm laws. “Around 100 tents have been affected and damaged due to the strong winds and rains. The protesters will spend the night inside the trolley and the tents will be erected in the morning,” farmer leader Gurmeet Mehma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rain-with-thunderstorm-brings-down-temperature-in-city/article34732055.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Started jabbing after manufacturer’s word’||The AAP government has informed the Delhi High Court on Friday that it made preparations for vaccinating people with Covaxin in the Capital based on its manufacturer Bharat Biotech’s assurance that it will receive 5 lakh doses in May and four times that in June. Delhi government said it received only 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin in May and due to the Centre’s instructions not to set aside any stock for the second jab, all of it was used to provide the first dose to as many people in the 18-44 age group. Justice Rekha Palli said that it should have stopped providing people with the first dose of Covaxin when it realised by May 11-12 that it will not be getting any more supplies from Bharat Biotech to provide the second doses. Overconfidence The court said the Delhi government was “overconfident” that it will get the requisite supplies of the vaccine. It said that if there was no confirmation from Bharat Biotech with regard to additional supplies, then the present situation, where thousands of people may not get the second dose within the incubation period of six weeks from the first dose, was “ your own doing”. “After May 11-12, you [Delhi government] should have stopped. But you went on vaccinating till May 24,” the court said. Delhi government told the High Court that by June 9, Bharat Biotech would send around 15,000 doses of Covaxin and an additional 90,000 by July 2. The court said the first lot of supplies would help only 10% of the 1.5 lakh persons who were given the first dose and by the time the second lot arrives, it would not be of any help to them. “People took the first shot of vaccine under the belief that you would provide them with the second one also,” the court remarked while posting the case for further hearing on June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/started-jabbing-after-manufacturers-word/article34732359.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Why are you unaware of drug manufacturing plants in India, asks HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday questioned how the Centre and various government departments were unaware of the “untapped potential” of drug manufacturing plants in India, with capabilities to produce COVID-19 vaccines, when foreign firms have been able to locate them. “That is what is troubling us,” a Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Najmi Waziri remarked. “You [Centre] were asking for waiver of patents all over the world. We have good products in India. These products could have been manufactured in each and every State,” the High Court said, referring to Panacea Biotec’s plant in Himachal Pradesh. “In Himachal, if you have produced this, the entire State could have been vaccinated in three weeks. Even people from Russia are able to locate it, and we are unable to locate them. That is what is troubling us,” the court remarked. The court also queried why the Centre did not engage with local drug manufacturers to produce the vaccine developed by an Indian manufacturer. “There is an Indian company which has developed its own vaccine. If other manufacturers were told way back last year, there would be crores of vaccines all over the country by now,” the court remarked, adding, “Why are you not thinking on those lines?” Seeks arbitral award The court’s observations came while hearing a plea of Panacea Biotec, which has sought the release of an arbitral award, passed in its favour and against the Centre, saying it needs funds at the earliest in the larger interest of humanity as it has already manufactured trial batches of COVID vaccine Sputnik V in collaboration with Russian Direct Investment Fund and wanted to scale it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/why-are-you-unaware-of-drug-manufacturing-plants-in-india-asks-hc/article34732361.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||National-level handball player to be quizzed in wrestler murder case||The Delhi police will question a national-level handball player whose scooter Sushil Kumar was using when he was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium here, officers said. A senior police officer said they will ask the woman to join the investigation. Sushil and his associate Ajay were arrested on May 23 from Mundka when they were riding on a scooty. On Wednesday, a court here rejected Delhi Police’s plea for three more days of custodial interrogation of Sushil and sent him to nine-day judicial custody. The international wrestler faces charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping. Sushil and his associates allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. The 23-year-old Sagar succumbed to injuries later. Police had said there is electronic evidence wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Sagar with sticks. A video surfaced on the social media purportedly showing Sushil and his associates allegedly hitting another man with sticks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/national-level-handball-player-to-be-quizzed-in-wrestler-murder-case/article34732370.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DU plans fee waiver for students who lost parents to COVID-19||Delhi University is considering giving a fee waiver to students, who have lost their parents to COVID-19, according to senior DU officials. A letter has been sent to the colleges to conduct a survey and gather information pertaining to it, officials said. Balram Pani, DU’s Dean of Colleges, said: “We are thinking of giving a fee waiver to students who have lost their parents to COVID-19. Students who have lost both their parents or one parent who was the breadwinner of the family will be considered for a waiver.” Further, Mr. Pani added: “We have written to colleges and sought relevant data by Monday. It will be a completely transparent process and colleges can carry out the necessary checks. Once requisite permission from the governing bodies are sought, this can be implemented.” Speaking at a prayer meeting held in the memory of university employees, who lost their lives during the pandemic, DU Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi said that providing free education to students of the university who lost their parents to COVID-19 was a key area for the administration and that the university was “actively considering” the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/du-plans-fee-waiver-for-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19/article34732372.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 5L compensation to kin of those who died due to oxygen shortage||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday announced that the Delhi government has set up a four-member committee with the responsibility of inspecting all deaths caused due to the shortage of oxygen. The Delhi government announced Rs. 5 lakh medical assistance to all those families who lost a member due to oxygen crisis. “The second COVID wave resulted in a massive oxygen crisis across Delhi and the nation. Keeping this in mind, the government formed a four-member medical expert panel with the responsibility to inspect this issue. It will disburse Rs. 5 lakh as medical assistance to all those families who lost a member due to oxygen crisis,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that L-G Office in Delhi will inspect each claim following which the process of disbursal will begin. Mr. Sisoda said the panel will inspect claims of all those families twice a week and thereafter will commence to disburse the financial assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rs-5l-compensation-to-kin-of-those-who-died-due-to-oxygen-shortage/article34732053.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Drug addict held for making PCR call threatening PM||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly calling Police Control Room and threatening the Prime Minister. He allegedly told the police that he made the call because he wanted to go to jail. A senior police officer said that the accused was identified as Salman alias Aman, a resident of Ghaziabad’s Loni, who was arrested under Section 107/51 (preventive action) of Criminal Procedure Code. According to the police, the control room received a call late Thursday night in which the caller threatened the Prime Minister. The call was traced to Khajoori Khas following which the accused was detained. During questioning, it emerged that he was a drug addict. “On Thursday evening, he consumed drug and went home after which his father scolded him. He got angry and left the house and decided to call police,” the officer said. When the accused was asked why he made the call, he allegedly told the police that he wants to go to jail because “that’s where he likes to stay”. The accused was earlier involved in a murder case and was sent to juvenile home in 2018. Salman was released in 2019 and was not involved in any criminal activities, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/drug-addict-held-for-making-pcr-call-threatening-pm/article34732366.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Central Vista project: MLA seeks PM assurance on no mosque demolition||Waqf Board Chairman and AAP Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan on Friday wrote to PM Narendra Modi seeking an assurance that around half a dozen mosques located in the vicinity of the ongoing Central Vista project will not be demolished as a result of it. Mr. Khan, citing apprehensions shared by the community on social media in this regard, expressed concern related to the mosques located in the Lutyens’ Zone in the vicinity of the axis of the project. A Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs spokesperson refused to comment on the matter. Mr. Khan specifically mentioned the Zabta Ganj Mosque situated at the end of the waterbody near the India Gate, another mosque situated within the precincts of Krishi Bhawan as well as the President House. “Owing to this apprehension of the members of Muslim community, which apprehension is also underpinned by the demolition of two mosques in U.P., i.e. Ghareeb Nawaz Mosque demolished on 17.05.2021 in Barabanki and another mosque demolished on 28.05.2021 in Khatauli Town of Western U.P., the undersigned is receiving frantic enquiries,” he said. The Krishi Bhawan Mosque, the Sunehri Bagh Road Mosque, the Jama Masjid Masjid at Red Cross road, knows as the Parliament Street Mosque, were all Gazetted Notified Waqf properties, he also stated. Till date, however, Mr. Khan wrote, no communication had been sent to the Delhi Waqf Board by in authority in charge of the Central Vista project in respect to any mosque or other Waqf property. Through his representation to the PM, Mr. Khan said, he sought an assurance from the government that “no Waqf property shall be demolished, nor its nature changed due to the ongoing” Central Vista project. “The undersigned earnestly expects that the government would graciously extend the aforesaid assurance to the Delhi Waqf Board within 10 days of the receipt of the present representation so that any litigation could be avoided,” Mr. Khan stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/central-vista-project-mla-seeks-pm-assurance-on-no-mosque-demolition/article34732059.ece
05 June 2021||nEW DELHI,||Cong. calls for effective free vaccination drive||The Delhi Congress on Friday submitted a memorandum to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal saying that if the current rate of administering vaccines is followed, it would take over three years to vaccinate the entire country. The party called for a more effective and free universal vaccination programme. Multiple pricing slabs The party also alleged that due to the multiple pricing slab for the vaccine fixed by the Modi government, people were profiteering from the programme. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said COVID has caused “unprecedented devastation and immeasurable pain” to nearly every Indian family, and vaccination is the only protection in the midst of the raging infections and deaths. “Neither the Modi government nor the government in Delhi, seemed to have learned any lessons from the bitter experiences of the first COVID wave. They are busy playing politics. While the pandemic was raging, the Modi government was busy exporting vaccines,” Mr. Kumar said.  They are busy playing politics. While the pandemic was raging, the Modi government was busy exporting vaccines Ch. Anil Kumar Delhi Congress chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-calls-for-effective-free-vaccination-drive/article34732058.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Pleas in HC against order on annual school fees||Several appeals, including one by the AAP government, have been moved in the Delhi High Court against its single-judge order allowing private unaided recognised schools to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended in the national capital last year. The petitions were initially listed before a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh on Friday. However, since the Bench did not sit, the matter was transferred to another Bench comprising Justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla to be heard in the second half of the day. Senior advocate Vikas Singh and Delhi government standing counsel Santosh K Tripathi, appearing for the AAP government, and the lawyers representing the students told the Bench that an interim order be passed to maintain the status quo as the private schools have started harassing the parents. The HC Bench declined to pass any such order, saying it has not gone through the petitions and listed the matter for further hearing on June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pleas-in-hc-against-order-on-annual-school-fees/article34732363.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||MLA seeks PM assurance on no mosque demolition||Waqf Board Chairman and AAP Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan on Friday wrote to PM Narendra Modi seeking an assurance that around half a dozen mosques located in the vicinity of the ongoing Central Vista project will not be demolished as a result of it. Mr. Khan, citing apprehensions shared by the community on social media in this regard, expressed concern related to the mosques located in the Lutyens’ Zone in the vicinity of the axis of the project. Mr. Khan specifically mentioned the Zabta Ganj Mosque situated at the end of the waterbody near the India Gate, another mosque situated within the precincts of Krishi Bhawan as well as the President House. “Owing to this apprehension of the members of Muslim community, which apprehension is also underpinned by the demolition of two mosques in U.P., i.e. Ghareeb Nawaz Mosque demolished on 17.05.2021 in Barabanki and another mosque demolished on 28.05.2021 in Khatauli Town of Western U.P., the undersigned is receiving frantic enquiries,” he said. The Krishi Bhawan Mosque, the Sunehri Bagh Road Mosque, the Jama Masjid Masjid at Red Cross road, knows as the Parliament Street Mosque, were all Gazetted Notified Waqf properties, he also stated. Through his representation to the PM, Mr. Khan said, he sought an assurance from the government that “no Waqf property shall be demolished, nor its nature changed due to the ongoing” Central Vista project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/mla-seeks-pm-assurance-on-no-mosque-demolition/article34732379.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Over 1 lakh injections given to Delhi sold in black’||The Delhi BJP on Friday alleged that of 1,69,007 Remdesivir injections provided to the Delhi government by the Centre, 1,11,878 were sold in black. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged Remdesivir injections, which are supposed to be available for Rs. 2,500-Rs. 3,000, were being sold at Rs. 45,000-Rs. 70,000. They also said tocilizumab injections worth Rs. 40,000 were sold at Rs. 2.5 lakh. “As per an RTI, the Centre gave Delhi 1,69,007 Remdesivir injections but the Kejriwal government, in an affidavit to the court, said 57,129 such injections were given,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The difference between the two is 1,11,878, which means there was black marketing of Rs. 392 crore. Why despite the government getting these in such large numbers did such injections reach black marketers instead of the needy,” Mr. Gupta asked. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged the nodal officers appointed by the Delhi government had a nexus with hospitals, which were fleecing patients. “In June last, the Centre had intervened to stop this loot by private hospitals following which the beds’ rates were fixed by the Delhi government. But this time they are being aided by officials and AAP leaders in charging Rs. 10-Rs. 50 lakh for treatment,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. In a related development, Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said the Delhi High Court had issued a notice to the Delhi government on issues including the immediate payment of compensation to Corona Warriors and the time-bound construction of hospitals in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-1-lakh-injections-given-to-delhi-sold-in-black/article34732057.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC surprised with Centre counsel’s reply||The Delhi High Court on Friday was surprised with the submission of Centre’s counsel that Amphotericin B, one of the medicines used for treating black fungus was readily available in the market. When the court said if the medicine was available in abundance there should not have been so many deaths, Central government standing counsel Kirtiman Singh said people were not dying because of lack of medicines but the disease black fungus itself is dangerous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-surprised-with-centre-counsels-reply/article34732362.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SI ends life at police station||A 31-year-old Sub Inspector posted in east Delhi’s Pandav Nagar Police Station allegedly ended his life inside the station on Friday morning while on duty. Police said that the incident took place around 10.30 a.m. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead. No note has been recovered, a senior officer said. The SI was from Agra and resided in Delhi with his wife, parents and siblings.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/si-ends-life-at-police-station/article34732367.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||3 arrested for abducting, killing man||A 30-year-old man and his two accomplices were arrested for allegedly abducting a man and killing him to take revenge in outer Delhi’s Mundka, police said on Friday. The incident took place on the intervening night of May 31 and June 1 when Naveen, who knew the victim Akshay Drall took him along with his associates Charanjeet and Nitin in his car on the pretext of a drive. The trio then killed him. The body was later recovered, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-arrested-for-abducting-killing-man/article34732368.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||First pier of Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor completed||The first pier of the elevated section of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) RRTS corridor’s Delhi portion has been constructed near the upcoming New Ashok Nagar RRTS station. Part of the RRTS’ Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor being constructed by the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), the height of the constructed pier is 6.5 meters, and average height of the piers in the stretch varies from 5.6 meter to 17 meters. According to the NCRTC, the Delhi portion of the elevated RRTS section starts from Sarai Kale Khan RRTS Station and passes above the existing Barapulah Flyover over the Yamuna to reach New Ashok Nagar. “The foundation work including piling and pile caps is in full swing between New Ashok Nagar to Kondli under package 6 contract and around 2 km of foundation work has already been completed out of the 9.2 km elevated corridor in Delhi,” the NCRTC stated. 24 stations in total The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, which also proposes two-foot overbridges for multimodal connectivity at Sarai Kale Khan, will have a total of 24 stations and will be elevated for around 70.5 km, with 11.5 km of its stretch underground. The rolling stock or coaches will be manufactured in Savli, Gujarat under the Make-in-India initiative. An elevated portion of 9.22 km and 4.28 km underground will be part of the RRTS corridor in Delhi with both the Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar stations to be above and the Anand Vihar station to be underground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-pier-of-delhi-meerut-rrts-corridor-completed/article34732056.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Don’t implement odd-even, CAIT writes to CM, L-G||The CAIT on Friday wrote to CM Kejriwal and L-G Baijal, saying they do not want the odd-even system should not be implemented in the functioning of shops and markets. “It runs contrary to the business character of Delhi which is highly dependent upon one trader to another for procurement of goods and therefore, the odd-even formula has no use in Delhi,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-implement-odd-even-cait-writes-to-cm-l-g/article34732060.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Judicial inquiry against man for fake test report||The Delhi High Court has taken strong note of an accused filing a fabricated COVID-19 positive report to seek extension of interim bail in a criminal case and has ordered a judicial inquiry against the man, his relatives, lawyer, hospital staff and police officials. Justice Prathiba M. Singh said cashing upon this empathy and placing forged reports is “not condonable, at all”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/judicial-inquiry-against-man-for-fake-test-report/article34732061.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Don’t implement odd-even, CAIT writes to CM, L-G||The CAIT on Friday wrote to CM Kejriwal and L-G Baijal, saying they do not want the odd-even system should not be implemented in the functioning of shops and markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dont-implement-odd-even-cait-writes-to-cm-l-g/article34732375.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. calls for effective, free vaccination drive||The Delhi Congress on Friday submitted a memorandum to L-G saying that if the current rate of administering vaccines is followed, it would take over three years to vaccinate the country. The party called for an effective and free universal vaccination programme. The party said due to multiple pricing slabs, people were profiteering from the programme.  ...while the pandemic was raging, the Modi government was busy exporting vaccines Ch. Anil Kumar Delhi Congress chief||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cong-calls-for-effective-free-vaccination-drive/article34732377.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Over 1 lakh injections given to Delhi sold in black’||The Delhi BJP on Friday alleged that of 1,69,007 Remdesivir injections provided to the Delhi government by the Centre, 1,11,878 were sold in black. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged Remdesivir injections, which are supposed to be available for Rs. 2,500-Rs. 3,000, were being sold at Rs. 45,000-Rs. 70,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/over-1-lakh-injections-given-to-delhi-sold-in-black/article34732378.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Troubled waters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/troubled-waters/article34732365.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain lines||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rain-lines/article34732376.ece
05 June 2021||Mumbai,||Petition in HC challenges MUHS exam on June 10||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday said it will pass an order on Saturday in a plea challenging the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences’ (MUHS) decision to conduct physical exams for medical students on June 10. A single judge Bench of Justice Avinash Gharote was hearing a plea filed by the NGO Herd Foundation and Nitesh Tantarpale, a student, challenging the decision and the direction to sign an undertaking that the State would not be held responsible if students contract COVID-19 while appearing for the exam. Defending MUHS’s stand, advocate Abhijit Deshpande said, “Two phases of Winter 2020 have been conducted and the third one will begin on June 10. All question papers have been dispatched.” Advocate Rahul Bhangde, appearing for the petitioners, said that those who had appeared for exams in the first two phases were fully vaccinated, but the 45,000 students who will appear for the exam on June 10 must be vaccinated. The court said, “So should everything in the country stop till everyone is vaccinated? Let the student get tested before he gets out of the house. Today, even those who are 45 years and above are not getting vaccines, how can students be bypassed? Getting infected is a risk all of us carry.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/petition-in-hc-challenges-muhs-exam-on-june-10/article34732065.ece
05 June 2021||Mumbai,||Blaze in Oshiwara building||A major fire broke out in a ground-plus-six-storey residential building in Oshiwara on Friday morning, a civic official said. Nobody was injured in the blaze that erupted at 8 a.m. in Aashiyana Tower’s duct and spread to its first floor. It was doused around 12.15 p.m., the official said. A local corporator said a major tragedy was averted as a CNG filling station is located next to the building. “At least eight fire engines and as many water jetties were engaged in the firefighting operation. The blaze was completely doused after over four hours. The cooling operation is under way at the spot,” the civic official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/blaze-in-oshiwara-building/article34732062.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||AEML offers green tariff to consumers||All consumers of Adani Electricity Mumbai Ltd (AEML) in Mumbai can now switch to green energy. The company has announced a green tariff initiative for its consumers, including corporates, industrial, commercial, hotels, restaurants and residential ones. The company said in a statement that the switch can be made in the immediate billing cycle. Such consumers will need to pay an additional 0.66 paise per unit. “Customers will receive a Green Power Certificate on a monthly basis with a separate green colour bill, indicating the separate line item — Green Power Tariff,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aeml-offers-green-tariff-to-consumers/article34732063.ece
05 June 2021||Pune,||20,852 recoveries in Maharashtra; active case tally dips below 2 lakh||Maharashtra on Friday reported 20,852 recoveries as opposed to 14,152 new COVID-19 cases, reducing its active case tally to 1,96,894. A total of 1,088 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll, of which 193 occurred during the last 48 hours and a further 96 during the past week. As many as 702 deaths have been added in the ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department. The total toll has risen to 98,771, with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 1.7%. The total tally has reached 58,05,565, while cumulative recoveries have risen to 55,07,058, with the recovery rate rising to 94.86%. “Of 3,60,31,395 laboratory samples tested thus far, 58,05,565 (with the average case positivity rate falling incrementally to 16.11%) have returned positive, with over 2.56 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who was in Raigad and Pune districts on Friday to review the situation, said he would be touring the worst-hit districts in the State every week along with Health Minister Rajesh Tope, with the aim of bringing down the cases and deaths. Pune reported more than 1,400 new cases, taking its total cases to 10,23,761. As per State Health Department figures, 20 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 13,146. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined below 23,000 while the toll has crossed 17,000. Despite a rise in cases in the last 48 hours, district authorities said Pune city’s recovery rate, which was nearing 96%, was among the fastest in the country. 968 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 968 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,08,994, while the active tally has declined further to 18,261. As many as 24 fatalities took the city’s death count to 14,922. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported more than 1,500 new cases, taking its total case tally to 1,20,040, of whom 18,177 are active, while 31 deaths saw the death toll rise to 3,620.  Over 2.56 lakh samples were tested in the last 24 hours Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/20852-recoveries-in-maharashtra-active-case-tally-dips-below-2-lakh/article34732064.ece
05 June 2021||Beijing,||Amid U.S. withdrawal, Beijing seeks closer Afghan ties||China is urging closer security and economic cooperation with Afghanistan in an apparent effort to bolster its influence in the region as the U.S. and its allies prepare to withdraw their forces from the country. The official Xinhua News Agency reported that Foreign Ministers from China, Afghanistan and Pakistan met via video conference on Thursday and agreed that the withdrawal of foreign troops from Afghanistan should be carried out in a responsible and orderly manner to prevent the deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan and the return of “terrorist forces.” It quoted Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi as saying the three countries “needed to to strengthen communication and cooperation” for the sake of Afghanistan’s interests and those of neighbouring countries. “The security and stability of Afghanistan and the region are facing new challenges, with foreign troops’ withdrawal from Afghanistan accelerated, the peace and reconciliation process in Afghanistan impacted, and armed conflicts and terrorist activities becoming more frequent,” Mr. Wang was quoted as saying. Xinjiang security China has long resented the presence of U.S. and allied forces in Afghanistan, but is equally wary of the country becoming a haven for insurgents that could threaten security in its Xinjiang region that shares a narrow border with Afghanistan. Xinhua said Mr. Wang, Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar and Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi “stressed the need to ... forbid any terrorist organisations or individuals from using their territories to engage in criminal activities against other countries.” The U.S. is withdrawing the last of its 2,500-3,500 troops by September 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/amid-us-withdrawal-beijing-seeks-closer-afghan-ties/article34731814.ece
05 June 2021||Washington,||Biden expands list of Chinese firms off-limits for U.S. investors||U.S. President Joe Biden on Thursday expanded a blacklist of Chinese firms that are off-limits to American investors over their links to Beijing’s “military-industrial complex,” in a sign of Washington’s continued pressure campaign against the Asian power. Former President Donald Trump in November issued a list of 31 Chinese companies that were deemed to be supplying or supporting China’s military and security apparatus, later adding even more firms. But after legal challenges put the sanctions in doubt, Mr. Biden’s team reviewed the blacklist, removing some names and ultimately expanding it to 59 firms that Americans are prohibited from having a stake in. Many are subsidiaries of companies already included. The sanctions target companies involved in Chinese surveillance technology used to “facilitate repression or serious human rights abuses,” which “undermine the security or democratic values of the United States and our allies,” according to a White House statement. The initial list published under Mr. Trump included major telecoms, construction and technology firms, such as China Mobile, China Telecom, video surveillance firm Hikvision, and China Railway Construction Corp. China National Offshore Oil Corporation was added to the list in January. The investment ban takes effect on August 2 and current shareholders have a year to divest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-expands-list-of-chinese-firms-off-limits-for-us-investors/article34731813.ece
05 June 2021||COLOMBO,||Plea in Sri Lanka SC on cargo ship fire impact||Environmentalists and fisher groups in Sri Lanka on Friday petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a probe into how a container ship bearing dangerous chemicals and plastic material — that burned off the coast releasing massive debris — was allowed into the island nation’s territorial waters. Their Fundamental Rights petition follows a nearly two week-long battle by the Sri Lankan Navy, with Dutch salvage experts and the Indian Coast Guard, to douse the flames onboard the Singapore-registered vessel, MV X-Press Pearl , that was anchored about 9.5 nautical miles off the Colombo port. After the fire was extinguished on Tuesday, the vessel has been slowly sinking into the Indian Ocean, off the Sri Lankan coast, heightening fears of a possible oil spill that authorities said they were preparing to handle. Meanwhile, the prolonged fire on the vessel led to large deposits of plastic pellets along the island nation’s coastline, where several marine organisms were also found dead. Experts have termed the development the country’s “worst ecological disaster”. Over the next two weeks, authorities will study the impact of the incident on Sri Lanka’s coastline, biodiversity and marine organisms, an official said. “We will be assessing the damage alone 125 km of our coastline that appears to be impacted by this incident,” A.H. Gamini, a director with the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Department told The Hindu . According to the petitioners, including the Colombo-based non-profit Centre for Environmental Justice, and activists and trade union leaders from the fisheries sector, apart from the 325 tonnes of bunker oil, the vessel was loaded with 1,486 containers carrying chemicals, including 25 tonnes of hazardous nitric acid, caustic soda, sodium methylate, bright yellow sulphur, urea, and cosmetics. ‘Acid leak’ Citing media statements made by the shipping company, the petitioners said “poor packaging” likely led to an “acid leak”, and on detecting the leak, the ship’s captain had contacted two ports — Hazira [Gujarat] on the west coast of India and Hamad in Qatar — requesting to offload the leaking containers. The requests were denied, and the ship made its way to Sri Lanka, they said, asking who cleared the vessel’s entry into Sri Lankan waters, and if permission was given despite knowledge of the “gravity of the risk”. The Singapore-registered MV X-Press Pearl is almost brand new, made in China, and commissioned in February, AFP reported . It was en route to Singapore from Hazira Port in Gujarat, officials said. Shipping company X-Press Feeders’s CEO Shmuel Yoskovitz has apologised to Sri Lanka. “I would like to express my deep regrets and apologies to the Sri Lankan people for the harm this incident has caused to the livelihood and to the environment of Sri Lanka,” he said in a media interview.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/plea-in-sri-lanka-sc-on-cargo-ship-fire-impact/article34731815.ece
05 June 2021||London,||U.K. regulator approves Pfizer vaccine for 12- to 15-year-olds||The U.K.’s medicines regulator on Friday approved the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine for 12 to 15-year-olds, saying it is “safe and effective” in this age group and the benefits outweigh any risks. Until now, COVID-19 vaccines being administered in the U.K. have been approved for adults aged 16 and over. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said the decision followed a “rigorous review” of safety and effectiveness in the lower age groups and its conclusion is that the benefits of the vaccine far outweigh any risks. “We have carefully reviewed clinical trial data in children aged 12 to 15 years and have concluded that the Pfizer/BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is safe and effective in this age group and that the benefits of this vaccine outweigh any risk,” said Dr June Raine, MHRA Chief Executive. Safety strategy “We have in place a comprehensive safety surveillance strategy for monitoring the safety of all U.K.-approved COVID-19 vaccines and this surveillance will include the 12- to 15-year age group. No extension to an authorisation would be approved unless the expected standards of safety, quality and effectiveness have been met,” she said. It will now be for the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) to advise on whether this age group will be vaccinated as part of the deployment programme, the MHRA said. The regulator said no new side effects were identified and the safety data in children was comparable with that seen in young adults. As in young adults, the majority of “adverse events” were mild to moderate and relating to “reactogenicity”, such as a sore arm or tiredness. A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said the next step was for the JCVI to advise whether routine vaccination should be offered to those aged 12 to 17. The vaccine was approved for use for 16-and 17-year-olds in December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uk-regulator-approves-pfizer-vaccine-for-12-to-15-year-olds/article34731817.ece
05 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. says it stands with ‘brave’ Chinese activists||The U.S. said on Thursday it stands “with the people of China” in their fight for human rights on the eve of the anniversary of Beijing’s deadly Tiananmen crackdown. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said his country will “honor the sacrifices of those killed 32 years ago, and the brave activists who carry on their efforts today in the face of ongoing government repression.” “The United States will continue to stand with the people of China,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-says-it-stands-with-brave-chinese-activists/article34731816.ece
05 June 2021||London,||‘Pfizer jab produces less anti-bodies against Delta’||People fully vaccinated with the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine are likely to have more than five times lower levels of neutralising anti-bodies against the Delta variant, first identified in India, compared to the original strain, according to research published in The Lancet journal. The study also shows that levels of these anti-bodies that are able to recognise and fight the virus are lower with increasing age, and that levels decline over time, providing additional evidence in support of plans to deliver a booster dose to vulnerable people. The study analysed antibodies in the blood of 250 healthy people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pfizer-jab-produces-less-anti-bodies-against-delta/article34731818.ece
05 June 2021||New York,||17 cases of use of chemical weapons by Syria: OPCW||The head of the international chemical weapons watchdog told the UN Security Council that its experts have investigated 77 allegations against Syria, and concluded that in 17 cases chemical weapons were likely or definitely used. Fernando Arias called it “a disturbing reality” that eight years after Syria joined the Chemical Weapons Convention, which bans the production or use of such weapons, many questions remain about its initial declaration of its weapons, stockpiles and precursors and its ongoing programme. He said on Thursday that the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) will be taking up a new issue at its next consultations with Syria — “the presence of a new chemical weapons agent found in samples collected in large storage containers in Sept. 2020.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/17-cases-of-use-of-chemical-weapons-by-syria-opcw/article34731819.ece
05 June 2021||Port Louis,||Anerood Jugnauth, former Mauritius leader, dead at 91||Sir Anerood Jugnauth, the former President and Prime Minister of Mauritius, has passed away. He was 91. Mr. Jugnauth, who served as Mauritius’ President twice and PM six times, was accorded with Padma Vibhushan in 2020. He resigned in 2017 and handed the reins to his son Pravind, the country’s serving PM.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/anerood-jugnauth-former-mauritius-leader-dead-at-91/article34731811.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||In Gujarat, a crisis of epidemic proportions||In April, Bhavesh Desai (name changed), 56, was happily dreaming of a peaceful retired life in two years when he was suddenly assailed by two infections, one after the other. First, all food became insipid and Desai lost his sense of smell — both symptoms of COVID-19. By the time the RT-PCR test result came bearing bad news, the Class 2 government employee in Ahmedabad with two children had developed a fever and cough. With his condition worsening, Desai began searching for a hospital bed. Two days later, he found one in a private hospital where he was treated for two weeks. By the time he recovered, Desai was fatigued but relieved. However, within a few days, Desai’s cheeks began to swell like small melons and his muscles became numb. He was referred to the Civil Hospital, where he was diagnosed with mucormycosis, commonly called the ‘black fungus’. Desai had never heard of it. He was shocked to learn that this aggressive infection could affect his eyes, nose and even brain. Desai found himself back in hospital. This time, the doctors had to remove his left eye to save his life. “I don’t know if I should feel happy that I have survived two deadly infections or sad about losing an eye. The other eye has just 70% vision,” he says. Desai is among the 5,000 cases of mucormycosis that have been reported as of June 3 in Gujarat. Official records state that more than 250 people have died from the invasive fungal infection. With the State already grappling with a deadly COVID-19 wave, the rise in cases of ‘black fungus’ is a new cause of concern.  A surge in mucormycosis cases Over the past few weeks, mucormycosis cases have increased across Gujarat, with Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot reporting very high numbers, particularly among those patients who, during prolonged hospitalisation, were administered high doses of steroids and antibiotics. Patients suffering from the fungal infection usually have a stuffy and bleeding nose, swelling of the eyes, blurred vision, and droopy eyelids. “In Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, we have had 850 patients with mucormycosis. The ENT division has conducted 498 surgeries on patients who had the fungal infection,” says J.V. Modi, Medical Superintendent of Civil Hospital. At the time of going to print, more than 100 patients with mucormycosis were waiting in hospitals for their operations. “In Surat alone, around 100 people must have lost their eye or even their jaw bone due to the infection. It is more dangerous than COVID-19,” says a doctor from Surat’s Civil Hospital. According to doctors, mucormycosis normally progresses slowly from the nose to the eyes and brain, but the real enemy this time is COVID-19. A host of factors can trigger mucormycosis. First is a weak immune system. The heavy use of steroids during COVID-19 treatment among diabetic patients can increase their sugar levels and create a conducive environment for the fungus to grow and thrive in the body, they say. So, a rational use of steroids and constant monitoring of sugar levels are important. Though the State Health Department declared the fungal infection as an epidemic and created separate wards in Civil Hospitals in Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot, it has not made public the details of the number of cases, deaths, surgeries conducted, or people who have lost their vital organs as a consequence of the infection. “As soon as the second wave of COVID-19 started declining in Surat, the city witnessed a sudden surge in mucormycosis cases,” says Manoj Mistry, a newspaper editor from the Diamond City, which saw thousands of COVID-19 deaths from early March to mid-May. The government has also not fixed the treatment costs for patients of mucormycosis who are being attended to in private hospitals even though Gujarat had emerged as the State with the highest number of mucormycosis cases in India by the second week of May. Luckily for Desai, treatment for the infection in Civil Hospital, a government hospital, did not cost him much. However, his stay at a private hospital for two weeks for COVID-19 treatment depleted his savings by half. “Despite the charges capped by the government for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, it’s still very high and beyond the means of any middle-class family,” he says. Those who been treated in private hospitals for both the infections have paid huge sums for treatment. “More than COVID-19, treatment for mucormycosis is expensive because it also involves delicate surgery by specialist doctors,” a medical practitioner says. “Normal surgery will cost not less than Rs. 1 lakh in addition to expenses on medicines, hospitalisation and so on.” To tackle the epidemic, the Gujarat government notified a State-controlled distribution policy of the anti-fungal drug Amphotericin-B, used to treat mucormycosis, for private hospitals after the issue of shortage of the drug was taken up by the Gujarat High Court that sought a response from the State government. And on May 27, an 11-member State-level task force comprising experts and doctors was formed and will play a key role in framing Gujarat’s policy on mucormycosis treatment. Throwing caution to the winds Meanwhile, the government is also busy trying to get the pandemic under control. Gujarat has seen an avalanche of COVID-19 cases during the second wave. On March 1, 427 daily cases and one death were reported. This shot up to 2,410 daily cases and three deaths on April 1 and then 13,847 daily cases and 172 deaths on May 1. On June 1, there were 1,561 daily cases and 22 deaths.  The virus has officially killed about 6,000 people since mid-March. However, data from hospitals, crematoria and burial grounds suggest that the number of deaths is as high as 15 times the official number. According to doctors, the official data on deaths capture only those who did not have co-morbidities and died of COVID-19. “For those who had COVID-19 but also suffered from diabetes or hypertension, the cause of death is attributed to the co-morbidity,” a medical practitioner says. Leading regional language newspapers such as Gujarat Samachar and Sandesh have raised questions on the government’s data by devoting increasing numbers of pages to obituaries. The State government has also not been forthcoming about casualties in homes. However, the Chief Minister has maintained that the State follows the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research. During the second wave, the virus also spread to remote villages, where public health infrastructure is especially rickety in such demanding times, making the government’s work even more challenging. The Gujarat government seemed ill-prepared for the brutality of the second wave. From December 2020, the State began to shut some of its COVID-19 care centres unlike neighbouring Maharashtra which kept them open and even began to build more such centres. Gujarat also dereserved COVID-19 beds in private and government hospitals since the pandemic appeared to be on the decline. In February, Gujarat turned its focus to elections for municipal corporations like Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar, 31 district panchayats, 231 taluk panchayats, and 81 municipalities. Voting was held in two phases on February 21 and 27. In the first phase, all six municipal corporations went to vote and the results were declared on February 23. The results for the second phase of polling for panchayats and municipalities were declared on March 2. In the run-up to the election, there was aggressive campaigning across the State. Much like in other parts of the country, caution was thrown to the winds at these gatherings. Neither the leaders nor the public observed physical distancing or wore masks despite the fact that the Chief Minister himself contracted the virus during campaigning. “In Gujarat, the second wave was invited by the authorities and political parties which were more interested in local elections than in following COVID-19 norms. As soon as the elections ended in the State, COVID-19 cases began to surge,” says a prominent doctor and member of the State government’s COVID-19 task force. He adds that the cases had in fact started rising from the second week of February, but the authorities suppressed the data as holding elections was given more importance than public health. “As a member of the medical fraternity, I am also partially responsible for not going public and warning government authorities as well as the public at large. As part of the IMA [Indian Medical Association], we should have expressed and communicated our apprehension about the second wave to the government,” says another leading doctor. By the first week of March, the pandemic curve began going north in the State and by mid-March, there was an alarming rise in cases and deaths in all the major cities. By the end of the third week, COVID-19 cases began to be reported from semi-urban places and by March end, from the villages. It was when cases began rising rapidly that the government began to prepare at a feverish pace, adding beds and ramping up facilities. “Undoubtedly, the local elections brought the virus to the villages, which had escaped its clutches during the first wave. Every village had an election meeting or a rally without any COVID-19 norms,” says the District Collector of one of the worst-affected districts. From mid-March onwards, the State administration shut down public transport services in the cities, banned mass gatherings, restricted movements in markets and religious places, and limited participation in social events and family events. However, those measures came too late. Many say these were attempts to close the stable door after the horse had bolted. A summer of horror April 2021 was arguably the most cruel month in the history of contemporary Gujarat. The healthcare sector was bursting at its seams and thousands of deaths were being reported every day. The administration appeared to be struggling in dealing with the crisis. “It’s not that the administration was not working but our all efforts were falling short because of the sheer number of cases and deaths that were taking place. We were overwhelmed. There was a shortage of hospital beds, essential medical supplies, ambulances, and even mortuary vans to take the dead to their final destination,” a senior official says. The State and its people never anticipated a second wave, he says. According to another bureaucrat, more people may have died for want of oxygen, hospital beds or essential medicines rather than COVID-19 in April. “We could have saved thousands of lives if there was an adequate number of beds, supply of oxygen and perhaps proper pandemic management,” he says. A senior staff member at Civil Hospital describes the situation as being “completely chaotic”. “There were long queues of patients waiting to be admitted, there were 80-90 ambulances carrying patients for admission outside hospitals... At least 100 people must have died just waiting to be admitted,” he says. The administration was forced by the Gujarat High Court, which took suo moto cognisance of the situation, to swing into action. It was only after the High Court’s intervention that the Health Department started conducting RT-PCR tests at all the district headquarters. Before that, there were no laboratory facilities to even conduct tests in half of the 33 districts of the State. There also appeared to be no mechanism in place for oxygen procurement and supply in the initial stages of the second wave. After the situation became dire in April, the government appointed two bureaucrats as nodal officers for oxygen supply. Though the State government has denied that deaths were caused due to the lack of oxygen, Mistry says patients have died without oxygen in several hospitals. Local media reported dozens of deaths in the north Gujarat and Saurashtra regions due to shortage of oxygen in hospitals in remote districts. “The Centre had allotted 1,000 tonnes of oxygen to the State based on the number of cases and patients, while our requirement was around 1,350 tonnes. Why was Gujarat given less oxygen than required, you may ask. That is because it fudged cases and projected low figures,” says a top bureaucrat and core group member who was involved in pandemic management. The IMA in Ahmedabad and Surat even warned that there would be a law and order situation in the cities if oxygen supply was not ramped up in hospitals. The neglect of public health Gujarat’s health infrastructure struggled to cope during the health emergency despite the fact that the State saw a lower number of daily cases compared to neighbouring Maharashtra or even southern States like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The official number of daily cases never crossed 20,000 in Gujarat compared to Maharashtra where daily cases touched 70,000 and Karnataka where they touched 50,000. “Yet the situation seemed worse in Gujarat. All the figures from daily case numbers to daily tests to cases of hospitalisation and deaths were lower than the actual count. That made our job more difficult because the numbers were kept artificially low, but in reality, there were no beds available anywhere in the city,” says the CEO of a top hospital in Ahmedabad. There are huge numbers of vacancies in healthcare centres. There are almost 8,000 vacancies of medical and paramedical staff in the panchayat-run primary and community health centres in districts and municipal-run health centres in the cities, for instance. “When the High Court asked the State government whether all the districts have HRCT (High Resolution Computed Tomography) machines to conduct CT scans since in certain cases the virus is not detected in RT-PCR tests, 15 out of 33 districts had no CT scan machines in government-run hospitals and health centres,”  wrote Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi to the Chief Minister. In the last two decades, while the private health sector has grown visibly in cities like Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara, public healthcare has not seen concomitant growth. “The State will have to now promote public health infrastructure and manpower. The pandemic has shown that it cannot rely on the private sector to compensate for public health,” a senior bureaucrat says. He says the State should follow the examples of Kerala or Tamil Nadu while investing in public health. In 2017, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India pointed out in its audit report the poor healthcare conditions in districts and rural areas. It said that in some hospitals, patients were being forced to sleep on the floor in rural health centres as there were no beds available. The condition of rural and district hospitals and health centres does not seem to have improved since. Total spending on health remains below 4% of the Budget.  “In my district, in the main Civil Hospital, there were almost 700 patients with only a dozen medical staff including two doctors, a few nurses and paramedics to attend to them. This was the situation in April when the pandemic was at its peak,” says a District Collector from the Saurashtra region. “If we don’t draw proper lessons now and improve our healthcare, the next wave could be even more fatal,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/in-gujarat-a-crisis-of-epidemic-proportions/article34731808.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Saving biodiversity, securing earth’s future||On this World Environment Day (June 5), with the novel coronavirus pandemic raging across our vast country, we must reflect on the ways to rebuild our relationship with nature. India’s vast and rich biodiversity gives the nation a unique identity, of which we can be proud. The varied ecosystems across land, rivers, and oceans, feed our people, enhance public health security, and shield us from environmental disasters. Our biodiversity also serves as a perpetual source of spiritual enrichment, intimately linked to our physical and mental well-being. Staggering value of forests And while the precise economic value of all ecosystem services provided by biodiversity may not be known, estimates suggest our forests alone may yield services worth more than a trillion rupees per year. Imagine how much greater this value will be with grasslands, wetlands, freshwater, and marine added. Sadly, today, we face not only one of the worst public health crises but also worldwide declines in biodiversity. Globally, we have lost 7% intact forests since 2000, and recent assessments indicate that over a million species might be lost forever during the next several decades. Our country is not an exception to these trends. Climate change and the ongoing pandemic will put additional stresses on our natural ecosystems even though it is becoming clear that repairing our dysfunctional relationship with nature is one of the ways to mitigate climate change and curtail future outbreaks of infectious diseases that can bring unimaginable misery. Thus, preserving biodiversity is directly relevant to the social, economic, and environmental well-being of our people. We must rethink and reimagine the concept of One Health for all living organisms, including the invisible biota in soils that sustain our agricultural systems. Investments in the field Fortunately, our government is considering major investments in biodiversity science to meet societal needs. In 2018, the Prime Minister’s Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council (PM-STIAC) in consultation with the Ministry of Environment, Forest, and Climate Change and other Ministries approved an ambitious National Mission on Biodiversity and Human Well-Being (NMBHWB). A Bengaluru-based Biodiversity Collaborative is working with the National Biodiversity Authority to hold consultations and prepare road maps of the Mission that will be steered by a core of the country’s leading biodiversity science and conservation organisations, from public, academic, and civil society sectors. The Mission will strengthen the science of restoring, conserving, and sustainably utilising India’s natural heritage; embed biodiversity as a key consideration in all developmental programmes, particularly in agriculture, ecosystem services, health, bio-economy, and climate change mitigation; establish a citizen and policy-oriented biodiversity information system; and enhance capacity across all sectors for the realisation of India’s national biodiversity targets and United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Furthermore, the Mission will allow India (home to nearly 8% of global biodiversity on just 2.3% of global land area, and containing sections of four of the 36 global biodiversity hotspots) to emerge as a leader in demonstrating linkage between conservation of natural assets and societal well-being. An important framework The ongoing spread of COVID-19 places this Mission among the most significant national initiatives. The pandemic has exposed the dysfunctional relationship between humanity and nature, and we must urgently address the issues it has laid bare: the emergence of infectious diseases; lack of food and nutritional security; rural unemployment; and climate change, with all its stresses on nature, rural landscapes, and public health. In response to these critical and interrelated issues, the Mission offers a holistic framework, integrated approaches, and widespread societal participation. The Mission’s comprehensive efforts will empower India to restore, and even increase, our natural assets by millions of crores of rupees. Mitigation programmes will lessen the impacts of climate change and other natural disasters, such as pandemics and floods. We can rejuvenate agricultural production systems and increase rural incomes from biodiversity-based agriculture while also creating millions of green jobs in restoration and nature tourism. Restoration activities across India’s degraded lands, which amount to almost a third of our land area, alone could generate several million jobs. The Mission will help India meet its commitments under the new framework for the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), and UN SDGs related to pressing social issues including poverty alleviation, justice and equity, and protection of life. It will generate a strong national community committed to sustaining biodiversity, promoting social cohesion and uniting the public behind an important goal. Mission programmes will offer nature-based solutions to numerous environmental challenges, including degradation of rivers, forests, and soils, and ongoing threats from climate change, with the goal of creating climate-resilient communities. Scientific inputs, especially related to geospatial informatics and policy, can guide the development of strategies for conservation and ecosystem management. Equally important, the Mission’s “One Health” programme, integrating human health with animal, plant, soil and environmental health, has both the preventive potential to curtail future pandemics along with the interventional capability for unexpected public health challenges. Additional programmes, directed at food and nutritional security, will in turn also influence public health outcomes. Need for a cadre The planned Mission recognises that we need a strong and extensive cadre of human resources required to meet the enormous and complex environmental challenges of the 21st century. This will require training professionals of the highest calibre in sustainability and biodiversity science, along with an investment in civil society outreach. The gains of environmental change will be upheld and carried forward by the cultural change from environmental education for millions of students, from kindergarten to postgraduate levels. Finally, biodiversity is everywhere, and we interact with biodiversity all the time in our daily lives. Public engagement, whether it is in the policymaking arena, or in exploration, restoration and conservation of biodiversity, is a critical component of the planned Mission. Today, on the heels of the  International Day for Biological Diversity celebrated last month, nothing could be more important than to renew our pledge to nurture all life on earth. Kamal Bawa is President of the Bengaluru-based Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), and currently leads the Biodiversity Collaborative. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/saving-biodiversity-securing-earths-future/article34731802.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The time to limit global warming is melting away||This is an incredibly difficult time for the world. The world is facing two momentous challenges: COVID-19 and climate change. Both need us to come together globally to find a way forward. World Environment Day (June 5) is an important moment to take stock on climate change. When I was in India earlier this year — my first visit to Asia in my new role — I saw first-hand India’s ambitious work on renewable energy, and held vital discussions with government leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, businesses and civil society. I was inspired by the resolve I saw. India’s response India has a strong record on tackling climate change, including impressive domestic targets to have 450GW of renewable energy by 2030, and establishing the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). India played a critical role in delivering the landmark Paris Agreement and we are working just as closely with India in the run-up to COP26, the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties, to be hosted by the United Kingdom in Glasgow from November 1-12, 2021. Last month, Mr. Modi and the U.K.’s Prime Minister Boris Johnson committed through the 2030 UK-India Roadmap to work closely together on the best ways to drive the green growth agenda. They reaffirmed their personal commitment to work together for an ambitious outcome in November and sustained action beyond. When the U.K. welcomes the countries of the world to Glasgow in five months’ time, it will be a moment to get the world on track to address the enormous threat of climate change and build a cleaner, brighter future for everyone. In 2015, the world signed the Paris Agreement, to limit global temperature rises to well below 2°C, aiming for 1.5°C, because the science tells us that would avoid the worst effects of climate change. Emissions have to be cut In terms of limiting warming, every fraction of a degree makes a difference. An average global temperature rise of 2°C, compared to 1.5°C, would see hundreds of millions more people affected. The Climate Action Tracker estimates that countries’ current emissions reduction targets have us on course for average temperature rises of 2.4°C. To limit warming to 1.5°C, we must halve global emissions by 2030. So this is the decisive decade. This is what makes this year’s COP so critical, and as hosts of COP26, the U.K. is pressing for urgent action around four key goals. First, to keep 1.5°C within reach, globally, we need to reach net zero by the middle of this century. To achieve this we will need to take strong action over the next decade. In the U.K. we have found that setting ambitious short-term targets backed up by a net zero target has given a clear signal that the future is low carbon. India will reach its own decisions, but I firmly believe India has an opportunity to show that a different development path is possible. An opportunity to be at the forefront of a new global green transition with all the benefits of jobs and cleaner air that brings. India has already proved it has the innovation and political will to do this. India has quadrupled wind and solar capacity in the last decade. Our second goal is to protect people and nature from the worst effects of climate change. Even as the world has been dealing with the novel coronavirus pandemic, the dangers of global warming have continued to become more evident. Having been born in India and having spent time as the U.K.’s Secretary of State for International Development, I am committed that this COP will deliver for the communities most vulnerable to climate change. The two cyclones, Tauktae and Yaas, that hit India last month, show that we must act on the very real need for flood defences, warning systems and other vital efforts to minimise, avert and address the loss and damage caused by climate change. India’s CDRI, which the U.K. is proud to partner on, is already a great initiative towards this. Funding promise Our third goal is for developed countries to deliver the $100 billion they promised annually to support developing countries. The U.K. is pushing for all developed countries to increase their climate finance commitments ahead of COP26, to deliver the right flow of finance and technology to meet the needs of countries such as India in their transition. This is a personal priority for me, one that I am committing to work tirelessly to deliver — we need all developed countries to step up, as it is a matter of trust. Working as a team Fourth, we must work together to deliver on these goals. That includes building consensus among governments for an ambitious, balanced and inclusive outcome — so that the negotiations in Glasgow are a success. As well as bringing businesses and civil society on board behind our COP26 goals, and building up international collaboration in critical sectors. We must act now, to launch a concerted effort to reduce emissions throughout the next decade. And use the COVID-19 recovery to reimagine our economies, building a better future. I call on all countries to step up efforts on these goals, because COP26 is our last chance for keeping hopes of limiting global warming to 1.5°C alive, and our best chance of building a brighter future; a future of green jobs and cleaner air. This is our moment. There are no second chances. Let us seize it together. Alok Sharma is COP26 President||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-time-to-limit-global-warming-is-melting-away/article34731804.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Two cheers||India’s push in the right direction in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) related to clean energy, urban development and health has helped it improve its overall SDG score from 60 in 2019 to 66 in 2021, according to NITI Aayog’s SDG India Index 2020-21. Besides SDGs on eradication of poverty and hunger, measures related to the availability of affordable, clean energy in particular, showed improvements across several States and Union Territories. The campaign to improve the access of households to electricity and clean cooking fuel has been shown to be an important factor. While this is cause for cheer, the Index reveals that there has been a major decline in the areas of industry, innovation and infrastructure besides decent work and economic growth, again made worse by the lockdowns imposed by the governments seeking to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. But the stark differences between the southern and western States on the one hand and the north-central and eastern States on the other in their performance on the SDGs, point to persisting socio-economic and governance disparities. These, if left unaddressed, will exacerbate federal challenges and outcomes, as seen in the public health challenges during the second wave across some of the worse-off States. Notwithstanding the improvement in key indicators, the Index has curiously made some methodological changes that render comparisons on some SDGs over previous years moot. The SDG on inequality shows an improvement over 2019, but the indicators used to measure the score have changed. The 2020-21 Index drops several economic indicators and gives greater weightage to social equality indicators such as representation of women and people from marginalised communities in legislatures and local governance institutions, and crimes against SC/ST communities. By dropping the well-recognised Gini coefficient measure and the growth rate for household expenditure per capita among 40% of rural and urban populations (instead, only the percentage of population in the lowest two wealth quintiles is used), the SDG score on inequality seems to have missed out on capturing the impact of the pandemic on wealth inequality. This could be a significant miss as a UN assessment of the impact of COVID-19 had said that the South Asian region may see rising inequality. Methodological issues on measuring other SDGs have been flagged before, but the lack of adequate measurement of economic inequality seems to be a glaring miss. Like in the first wave, the second wave, with more fatalities, has had similar outcomes on livelihoods and jobs. While the better score for India in its endeavour to achieve SDGs will bring some cheer, governments must work on addressing pressing issues such as increased inequality and economic despair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/two-cheers/article34731797.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Winds of change||In Israel’s fractious political landscape, Benjamin Netanyahu has been known as the master of survival. In power since 2009, he has seen allies come and go, protégés turning out to be rivals, and elections happening in the shortest intervals. But he hardly missed an opportunity to turn crisis into political gain, which allowed him to become the longest serving Prime Minister, overtaking David Ben-Gurion. However, this may be ending. A coalition of eight parties, under the leadership of Opposition politician Yair Lapid, could oust Mr. Netanyahu from power and form a ‘change’ government. In this, Mr. Lapid, who leads the centrist Yesh Atid party, has joined hands with the right-wing Yamina of Naftali Bennett, and other parties ranging from pro-settlers to left-wing and Arab parties. According to the coalition agreements, Mr. Bennett, who was part of the far-right Jewish Home before founding Yamina, would be the PM for two years followed by Mr. Lapid. Mr. Lapid says his coalition has the support of 61 Members of the Knesset (MKs) — a razor-thin majority in the 120-member Parliament. Messrs. Lapid and Bennet are now pushing for a quick vote in the Knesset, while Mr. Netanyahu is putting pressure on the right-wing MKs of the coalition to vote against the government. Even if the coalition does sail through the Knesset vote, it might, with its conflicting ideological views, remain fractious and feeble. But that does not diminish the importance of the political changes that are under way. The country has seen four elections in the last two years, with no party winning a majority on its own in any. Last year, Mr. Netanyahu formed a short-lived unity government with the Opposition leader, Benny Gantz. Mr. Gantz, leader of the centrist Blue and White, is now with Mr. Lapid. It is Mr. Netanyahu’s repeated and failed attempts to form a stable right-wing government that have led the anti-Netanyahu parties from across the spectrum to come together. Also, this is the first time in Israel’s history that an Arab-majority party has signed a government coalition agreement. Till last year, Arab parties were considered untouchables by the mainstream Jewish parties. But now, the United Arab List (Ra’am), which has 4 MKs, has officially joined the coalition, breaking a political separation wall. If voted out of power, Mr. Netanyahu will have to fight a corruption trial and possible leadership challenges within the Likud without the shield of premiership. When the Gaza fighting broke out on May 10, coupled with riots in Israeli cities, many thought it would help him politically. But the Gaza fighting appears to have weakened his position among his right-wing allies, who alleged that his government surrendered to Hamas by agreeing to the ceasefire. Mr. Netanyahu is now caught between unhappy right-wing allies and a united opposition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/winds-of-change/article34731798.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI adds hospitality sector aid with Rs. 15,000 cr. credit window||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has opened a separate On-tap Liquidity Window to help mitigate the adverse impact of the second wave of the pandemic on certain contact-intensive sectors. The move would provide liquidity of Rs. 15,000 crore till March 31, 2022, with tenors of up to three years. Under the scheme, banks can provide fresh lending support to hotels and restaurants; entities related to tourism — travel agents, tour operators and adventure or heritage facilities; aviation ancillary services — ground handling and supply chain; and others including private bus operators, car repair services, rent-a-car service providers, event/conference organisers, spa clinics, and beauty parlours/salons. Banks will be permitted to park their surplus liquidity up to the size of the loan book created under this scheme with the RBI at a rate which is 40 basis points (bps) higher than the reverse repo rate. The hospitality sector welcomed the decision. “This is the first significant sign indicating that the government has taken note of the severe effect that the pandemic has had on the hospitality industry and the huge economic impact it will have on the sector as well as the nation,” Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) vice-president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said. Infusing liquidity would provide support to cash-strapped businesses without which the industry couldn’t have survived, he added. However, the tenure should be for at least five years as a duration of three years would not be sufficient to recover from the turbulence the industry faces, he stressed.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-adds-hospitality-sector-aid-with-rs-15000-cr-credit-window/article34731780.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI to purchase G-Secs worth Rs. 1.2 lakh cr. in second quarter||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will purchase G-Secs worth Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in Q2 of FY22 under G-SAP 2.0 (Government Securities Acquisition Programme) to facilitate the smooth evolution of the yield curve. “The specific dates and securities under G-SAP 2.0 operations will be indicated separately,” said Shaktikanta Das, Governor, RBI. “We do expect the market to respond appropriately to this announcement of G-SAP,” he added. The RBI would also purchase G-Secs worth Rs. 40,000 crore, including Rs. 10,000 crore of State Development Loans, under G-SAP 1.0 on June 17. Previously , the Governor had indicated that in addition to G-SAP, the Reserve Bank would continue to deploy regular operations under the liquidity adjustment facility, longer-term repo/reverse-repo, forex and open market operations (OMOs), including special open market operations, to ensure liquidity conditions evolved in consonance with the stance of monetary policy and financial conditions remained supportive for all stakeholders. In the current year, the RBI had undertaken regular OMOs and injected additional liquidity to the tune of Rs. 36,545 crore (up to May 31) in addition to Rs. 60,000 crore under G-SAP 1.0. A purchase and sale auction under Operation Twist was also conducted on May 6. The RBI will continue to conduct regular operations for liquidity management, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-to-purchase-g-secs-worth-rs-12-lakh-cr-in-second-quarter/article34731796.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI’s view on cryptocurrency stays, have major concerns: Das||RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday made it clear that the central bank’s view on cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin remains unchanged and it continues to have ‘major concerns’ on the volatile instruments. “There is no change in RBI’s position (on cryptocurrencies). Our circular clarifies the position very well,” Mr. Das told reporters. The RBI had first come out with a circular on the issue in 2018, cautioning people against investing in cryptocurrencies, that do not have sovereign character. It had barred entities regulated by it from dealing in such instruments. However, the Supreme Court, in 2020, struck down the circular. Mr. Das said a revised notification to financial institutions on Monday was necessitated because some banks were still referring to the old circular set aside by the Apex court and this was an attempt to set the record straight. The RBI had on Monday asked banks, NBFCs and payment system providers not to refer to its earlier 2018 circular in their communications to customers. “With regard to RBI’s position (on cryptocurrencies), I had said earlier, we have major concerns around cryptocurrency which we have conveyed to the government,” Mr. Das said.  Some of the cryptocurrencies have seen a massive dip in their per unit trading prices lately, leading to erosion of investor wealth. Mr. Das said the central bank is not into investment advice, but added that one should make one’s own appraisal and do due diligence before taking a call on investing in cryptocurrencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbis-view-on-cryptocurrency-stays-have-major-concerns-das/article34731787.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Thai jewellery trade eyes India with a new range||Trade promotion executives from Thailand said the COVID-19-induced Work From Home (WFH) culture has heralded a change in consumer behaviour, and are accordingly planning a new range of jewellery designs to cater to the demand. Thailand, the world’s third-largest exporter of silver jewellery and colour stones, following the U.S. and Hong Kong, has announced the Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair, to be conheld virtually between June 22-24, with a view to bagging large orders from India. Thai officials said consumer appetite for jewellery and accessories, dampened by the COVID-19 pandemic, had begun to increase. “With WFH, consumer behaviour has changed to embrace jewellery and accessories that highlight the upper half of the body visible on Zoom, MS Teams and Google Meets,” said a spokesperson for Thailand’s Department of International Trade Promotion (DITP). Thailand’s pre-COVID imports of gem and jewellery from India stood at $300 million and exports about $600-700 million. One of its main markets is India, with an export value of $143.97 million from January-March, as per DITP data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/thai-jewellery-trade-eyes-india-with-a-new-range/article34731778.ece
05 June 2021||MUMBAI,||No plan to print more money, asserts RBI chief||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday asserted that there was no plan to print more money. The Governor’s statement comes amid suggestions from some quarters that the RBI print more money to support the economy ravaged by the spread of COVID-19 and to protect jobs. “Central banks, with regard to printing of notes, have their own models and have their own assessment,” said Mr. Das. “I have seen many remarks [on printing money] that have come,” he said while answering a question from The Hindu.  “The central banks, with regard to printing of notes, take decisions based on so many complex factors relating to financial stability, inflation and stability of exchange rates,” he said. “The borrowing requirements of both States and the Centre had been handled very successfully last year,” the RBI Governor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-plan-to-print-more-money-asserts-rbi-chief/article34731782.ece
05 June 2021||mumbai,||Sensex slips as RBI trims GDP growth forecast||Equity indices treaded lower, weighed by banking, energy and FMCG stocks, after the RBI left interest rates unchanged but slashed the GDP growth estimate for this fiscal following the second wave of COVID-19. Lacklustre global cues and a weak rupee also soured risk appetite, traders said. The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 132.38 points, or 0.25%, lower at 52,100, a day after closing at its lifetime peak. The broader NSE Nifty slipped 0.13% to close at 15,670.25. Nestle India was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, declining 1.97%, followed by SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Titan, HUL and Reliance Industries. Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, L&T, Bajaj Finance and HDFC were among the gainers.  “A moderate increase in inflation forecast by the RBI led G-Sec yields increasing by 3 basis points, which resulted in profit-booking in banks,” said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy, Reliance Securities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sensex-slips-as-rbi-trims-gdp-growth-forecast/article34731792.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||PNB turns Rs. 586-crore profit in Q4||State-owned Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Friday posted a standalone profit of Rs. 586.3 crore for the fourth quarter ended March, aided by an increase in interest income. The second-largest public sector lender had reported a loss of Rs. 697.2 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20. Total income rose to Rs. 22,531.7 crore from Rs. 16,388.3 crore. Interest earned climbed 36% to Rs. 18,789.5 crore, PNB said in a regulatory filing. The numbers were not strictly comparable as Oriental Bank of Commerce and United Bank of India were merged into PNB effective April 1, 2020, it said. Net NPAs dipped to 5.7% against 5.8% in the year-earlier period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pnb-turns-rs-586-crore-profit-in-q4/article34731789.ece
05 June 2021||Mumbai,||Bank credit grows by 5.98 pc; deposits by 9.66 pc||Bank credit grew 5.98% to Rs. 108.33 lakh crore while deposits rose 9.66% to Rs. 151.67 lakh crore in the fortnight ended May 21, RBI data showed on Friday. In the comparable period a year earlier, bank credit stood at Rs. 102.22 lakh crore and deposits at Rs. 138.29 lakh crore, according to RBI's Scheduled Banks' Statement of Position in India. In the fortnight ended May 7, 2021, advances had risen 6.02% and deposits, 9.87%.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-credit-grows-by-598-pc-deposits-by-966-pc/article34731783.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt caps trade margin on oxygen concentrators at 70 pc||The government has capped the trade margin on oxygen concentrators in order to keep in check the price of the much-in-demand critical life-saving component amid the second wave of the pandemic. The trade margin has been capped at 70% on price to distributor level on oxygen concentrators.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-caps-trade-margin-on-oxygen-concentrators-at-70-pc/article34731785.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Lupin launches generic inhalation product in US market||Drug firm Lupin on Friday said it has unveiled Arformoterol Tartrate, an inhalation product to treat conditions such as chronic bronchitis and emphysema, in the U.S. market. The product is the generic version of Sunovion Pharmaceuticals Inc's Brovana inhalation solution, Lupin said in a statement.  It is for use by nebulisation only, the Mumbai-based drugmaker noted.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lupin-launches-generic-inhalation-product-in-us-market/article34731788.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||RailTel Corporation bags Rs 120 cr order from Bharat Coking Coal||State-owned RailTel Corporation on Friday said it has bagged a Rs. 120 crore-order from Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. “RailTel Corporation of India Ltd. has received the work order of a total amount of Rs. 119.72 crore from Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. for implementation of MPLS-VPN services, along with miscellaneous services at 340 locations of BCCL for a period of 60 months,” RailTel said in a filing with BSE.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/railtel-corporation-bags-rs-120-cr-order-from-bharat-coking-coal/article34731790.ece
05 June 2021||Paris,||Serena powers into round four to boost record hopes||Serena Williams sent out a warning to the rest of the depleted women's draw on Friday with a dominant straight-sets win over Danielle Collins to reach the French Open last 16 for the first time since 2018. The 39-year-old, still one short of Margaret Court's all-time record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles, won 6-4, 6-4. Wide open Serena, at eight, is now the highest seed left in her half of the draw, with all of the world's top four absent from the second week. Third seed Aryna Sabalenka was beaten by Russia’s Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-4, 2-6, 6-0. The Belarusian made a whopping 39 unforced errors against 41 winners and served eight double faults to six aces as her disappointing run at the Grand Slam stage continued. Serena will next face Kazakh 21st seed Elena Rybakina, with a potential quarter-final against old rival Victoria Azarenka up for grabs. The American had a slight scare in the second set when she fell 1-4 behind against 2020 quarterfinalist Collins, but won the next five games to secure victory. Serena thundered down five aces and hit 22 winners against Collins, winning in just 85 minutes on Court Philippe Chatrier. Easing ahead German sixth seed Alexander Zverev eased into the last 16 for the fourth successive year with a straight-sets win over Serbia’s Laslo Djere. The 24-year-old, last year’s US Open runner-up, saw off the 55th-ranked Djere 6-2, 7-5, 6-2 on Court Philippe Chatrier. The comfortable nature of victory was welcome for Zverev, who had fought back from two sets down to beat unheralded compatriot Oscar Otte in round one before edging three tight sets against Russian qualifier Roman Safiullin. "This is the main goal of my tennis career, to win Grand Slams. I feel like the last year I'm on the right track again," said Zverev. He will next face former World No.4 Kei Nishikori, whose third-round opponent Henri Laaksonen retired injured following the opening set. Rain briefly hit Roland Garros on Friday, but Zverev and Djere were able to continue under the Chatrier roof. The World No. 6 struck 31 winners and four aces as he dragged himself out of difficulty in the second set, saving three set points at 3-5 down on Djere's serve before winning 10 of the next 12 games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/serena-powers-into-round-four-to-boost-record-hopes/article34731893.ece
05 June 2021||Doha,||10-man India goes down to Qatar||A 10-man India defended creditably but still suffered a 1-0 defeat to Asian champion Qatar in their World Cup qualifying round match here on Thursday. Abdel Aziz scored in the 33rd minute in a match completely dominated by the Qataris. The two sides had played out a goal-less draw in their first leg match here in September 2019. Group topper Qatar, which is yet to lose a match, had waves of attacks with eight to nine players in the Indian half for most of the time. Goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh Sandhu had to pull off a series of saves to keep the margin of loss small. India played with 10 men from the 17th minute onwards after defender Rahul Bheke was red carded after a second booking; the first yellow card came in the ninth minute.  India did have two good moves in the match from counter-attacks with Manvir Singh in the thick of things on both occasions. India captain Sunil Chhetri, who returned to the team after recovering from COVID-19, was replaced by Udanta Singh at the start of the second half. A win-less India remains in fourth spot in Group E with three points from six matches. India next plays Bangladesh on June 7. Speaking after the match, Gurpreet said India must learn to capitalise on its chances. “I think we were very unfortunate with the result. Everybody in the pitch gave their everything and that’s what we need. Very very unfortunate not to get something out of this game,” he said in a video shared by All India Football Federation (AIFF) on its Twitter handle. “I think everyone is gutted because the way we played, we deserved something out of it. But things happen in football and we now move on to the next game.” India may have suffered a bigger defeat had it not been for Sandhu, who pulled off as many as nine saves in the group E match. Asked about his saves, Sandhu said: “I honestly didn’t (count the number of saves), but I think it was more than last time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/10-man-india-goes-down-to-qatar/article34731958.ece
05 June 2021||Chennai,||Ramesh Krishnan, the enchanting touch artist, turns 60||Former Indian tennis star Ramesh Krishnan had a long and successful career, spanning 15 years on the international circuit. He achieved a career-best world ranking of 23 in 1985 and registered wins over some of the world’s best players, including Mats Wilander, Jimmy Connors and Pat Cash. He had a storied Davis Cup career as well, playing a crucial role in India scripting wins over top-ranked teams such as Australia and France. Distant memory Asked to look back at his journey, Ramesh, who turns 60 on Saturday, told The Hindu that his career is a distant memory. “It feels like it was from another lifetime! I quit playing in 1993, which is 28 years ago, that’s a very faint memory,” said Ramesh, who has won eight ATP Tour singles titles.  Ramesh considers himself lucky to have played on the tour for a decade and a half. “Very fortunate to have had all that experience, which was quite unique. When I first started on the [ATP Tour], Vijay [Amritraj] was playing actively. So it was a good learning experience for me. We also had Sashi [Menon] and Anand Amritraj. Moreover, there was a lot more interest from the Indian media, too,” he said. “Especially Nirmal Shekar of The Hindu who covered most of my matches. He was a very good friend of mine. I really miss him.” When asked to pick his favourite ATP title, Ramesh chose the Hong Kong Open he won in 1986. “I remember the tournament very well because on three consecutive days, I played some of my best tennis. Beating Connors, Cash and Andres Gomez will remain special. And to beat Connors is always a big challenge. Once you’ve beaten him, he has made you very sharp for the subsequent matches,” said Ramesh, who made the quarterfinals at a Grand Slam thrice: Wimbledon (1986), US Open (1981 and ’87).  According to Ramesh, India’s victories over Australia and France on their home courts in the Davis Cup will remain very special. “The two matches stand out. Beating Australia [1987 World Group semifinals] in Sydney was a significant win and beating France in Frejus [1993 World Group quarterfinals] was special,” he said. Empathy for Osaka On the Naomi Osaka issue — the Japanese player chose not to attend press conferences at the ongoing French Open for mental health reasons — Ramesh empathised with the 23-year-old four-time Grand Slam champion. “While I empathise with her, post-match press conferences are mandatory and an important part of the game. Maybe players can be granted a little extra time after matches to compose themselves before facing the press,” he said. Like most, Ramesh is stuck indoors these days. “I watch the French Open and see an assortment of films,” he signed off.  In 1979, I won the junior title at Roland Garros. The final was played on the Centre Court right after the men’s singles final. As I walked off the court, the first person to congratulate me was the late, great Aussie, Lew Hoad, who was excited, in fact, more excited than me! I guess he was happy to see his good friend’s son win the title.    The Ramesh Krishnan factfile  DOB: June 5, 1961; Height: 5’7” Won the junior championships at Roland Garros and Wimbledon in 1979, was World No. 1 junior Key member of Indian team that made the Davis Cup final in 1987 Beat the then-World No.1 Mats Wilander in the second round of the 1989 Australian Open Won eight top-level singles titles and one doubles crown Coaches: T.K. Ramanathan (grandfather), Ramanathan Krishnan (father), Harry Hopman (1977-85), Roy Emerson (1985 onwards).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramesh-krishnan-the-enchanting-touch-artist-turns-60/article34731896.ece
05 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy to skip World Cup||Koneru Humpy will not play at the chess World Cup, which gets underway at Sochi, Russia, from July 10. “I have decided not to play because I have already qualified for the World championship’s Candidates tournament and because I am not sure if participating in an event that will have more than 300 players is safe in the time of a pandemic,” the World No. 3 told The Hindu on Friday. “I could have taken the risk if I hadn’t qualified for the Candidates, but since I have, by finishing second at the Grand Prix series, I thought there was no need for me to travel to Russia in these uncertain times.” She said she was hopeful of returning to tournaments after a few months. “I haven’t played an event since February last year and I am itching to get back on the circuit,” she said. “I am planning to play at the Grand Swiss tournament later this year.” Though neither Humpy, the reigning women’s World rapid champion, nor five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand is playing at the World Cup, India is still fielding a strong contingent in the form of P. Harikrishna, Vidit Gujrathi, B. Adhiban, Aravind Chithambaram, P. Iniyan, Dronavalli Harika, Padmini Rout, Bhakti Kulkarni and R. Vaishali.  I have decided not to play because I have already qualified for the Candidates tournament and because I am not sure if participating in an event that will have more than 300 players is safe in the time of a pandemic Humpy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-to-skip-world-cup/article34731943.ece
05 June 2021||KOCHI,||We have the team to finish among the top five: Amoj Jacob||His progress in the quartermile this year has been amazing, and now Amoj Jacob believes that India has the men’s relay team to finish among the top five in next month’s Tokyo Olympics. “For the first time, we have four runners who have gone below 46s. If we make it to Tokyo, we can finish among the top five in the 4x400m,” said the 23-year-old, the country’s fastest quartermiler this season, in a chat with The Hindu from the Patiala National camp. “If you look at the personal bests of Muhammed Anas, Arokia Rajiv, Noah Nirmal Tom and me, all of us have gone below 46s.” Jacob has improved his 400m personal best with every meet this year, opening with 46s in the Indian Grand Prix-2 in late February and then improving it to 45.70 (GP-3) and 45.68s while taking the Federation Cup gold in March. Was he surprised by his stunning run? “No, I was not surprised, I was prepared for the timing. I thought I could run around 45.5s, but in the Federation Cup, my judgement was quite wrong. I ran the first 300 very fast, then I got tired,” he explained. Jacob has a fantastic target now, a time that will topple the national record (45.21s) that belongs to Muhammed Anas, the 2018 Jakarta Asian Games silver medallist. “Basically I want to run below 45s. To go below 45, I’ll have to work on my start, the finish also. And also focus on the floating part, from 80 to 250m.” With such heavy thoughts running in his head, how does Anas look at him? “I’m the youngest of the lot and Anas is like my elder brother, he guides me with technique and everything. The rivalry is only on the track.” If Jacob clocks 44.90s before June 29, it will bring him a Tokyo ticket in the 400m. “But we are mainly focusing on the relays. The qualification time in the individual 400m is quite tough.” In the relays, India has a confirmed spot only in the mixed 4x400m and the next few weeks will be very anxious ones as the men’s team is in the 14th spot in the Road to Tokyo rankings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-have-the-team-to-finish-among-the-top-five-amoj-jacob/article34731951.ece
05 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Olympics-bound wrestler Sumit Malik fails dope test||In a jolt to Indian wrestlers’ campaign in the Tokyo Olympics, 125kg freestyle wrestler Sumit Malik has tested positive for banned substance methylhexaneamine (MHA). According to a Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) official, United World Wrestling (UWW) in its communication on Thursday night said Malik had been provisionally suspended for the doping violation. As per the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) list, MHA is prohibited in competition only as a specified stimulant. The WADA Code says “when an Adverse Analytical Finding is received for a prohibited substance or a prohibited method, other than a specified substance, a provisional suspension shall be imposed promptly…” “The UWW has said that Sumit’s ‘A’ sample returned positive. His ‘B’ sample is expected to be tested around June 10,” said a WFI official on Friday. Malik was tested during the World Olympic qualifier in Sofia last month. The WFI official said if Malik was held responsible for the doping violation (during the hearing process), then India would lose the Olympic quota place earned by him. Altogether eight Indian wrestlers, four each in men and women’s freestyle, have qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. Four years ago, prior to the Rio Olympics, 74kg wrestler Narsingh Yadav had failed a dope test in controversial circumstances and was withdrawn from the Olympics after the Court of Arbitration for Sport handed the Indian wrestler a four-year suspension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympics-bound-wrestler-sumit-malik-fails-dope-test/article34731956.ece
05 June 2021||Tokyo,||Tokyo ‘cornered’ into holding Games: Olympian Yamaguchi||Tokyo has been “cornered” into holding the games during the coronavirus pandemic, one of Japan’s best-known Olympians and an executive member of the Japanese Olympic Committee said in an outspoken editorial published Friday. Kaori Yamaguchi said the International Olympic Committee, the government and local organisers are ignoring widespread opposition to the Games from the Japanese public. Depending on how the question is phrased in different polls, between 50-80% of Japanese people oppose holding the Olympics. Scathing editorial “We have been cornered into a situation where we cannot even stop now. We are damned if we do, and damned if we do not,” Yamaguchi wrote in an editorial published by Japan’s Kyodo news agency. “The IOC also seems to think that public opinion in Japan is not important.” Yamaguchi won a bronze medal in judo at the 1988 Seoul Olympics and is also a former world champion. “What will these Olympics be for, and for whom?” she asked. “The Games have already lost meaning and are being held just for the sake of them. I believe we have already missed the opportunity to cancel.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-cornered-into-holding-games-olympian-yamaguchi/article34731900.ece
05 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Former players’ body up in arms||Former State players and some of the biggest names in Kerala football have opposed Kerala Football Association's proposed move to grant commercial rights for 12 years to a consortium of Meeran Sports LLP and Scoreline Sports Pvt. Ltd. On the forefront of the fight against KFA is Santosh Trophy Football Players Welfare Association (STFPWA) and its active members, including former Kerala Police legends U. Sharaf Ali, C.V. Pappachan and P.P. Thobias. The STFPWA — which has I.M. Vijayan as Ambassador and Joe Paul Ancheri as one of its vice-presidents — submitted a memorandum to Sports Minister Abdurahiman on Thursday seeking his intervention to stall the move. “We cannot watch in silence the death of football in the State. “We as players have done our best to promote this game. STFPWA is a welfare body formed to help former footballers. But this move of the KFA is not good for football and we have decided to oppose the move,'' said C.P. Harshan, a STFPWA office-bearer. STFPWA said the consortium had not submitted any concrete proposals to develop the game and the draft agreement contained many “detrimental clauses”. The STFPWA said KFA had done little to revive the numerous tournaments in the State and failed to provide platforms for aspiring footballers. The association said the game was alive in the State only because of the hard work by coaches and the mushrooming academies. The STFPWA also pointed that the KFA has turned a blind eye to the welfare of footballers. The STFPWA has said in the memoradum that if given an opportunity it was ready to run the affairs of the KFA. The STFPWA has also launched a campaign through various social media platforms to garner enough support for its fight against KFA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-players-body-up-in-arms/article34732102.ece
05 June 2021||Kochi,||National inter-State meet at two venues||The 60th National inter-State athletics championship will be held at two venues in Patiala, the National Institute of Sports (24 events) and the Punjabi University ground (19 events), from June 25 to 29. The event will be the last qualification opportunity for athletes for the Tokyo Olympics. The Athletics Federation of India will also be inviting athletes from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Chinese Taipei, Malaysia and Kazakhstan for the competition. “We are planning this competition very carefully due to the pandemic situation. “To avoid large gatherings at one place, we have decided to host the competition at two different locations in Patiala,” said AFI president Adille J. Sumariwalla.  Athletes who meet the AFI's qualification standards for this competition will only be allowed to take part. Entries are to be submitted online, on the AFI website by the affiliated States/UT, from June 10 to 18. The AFI, which confirmed the details of the inter-State meet on Friday, was however silent on the Indian Grand Prix-4 which it had planned to hold on June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-inter-state-meet-at-two-venues/article34731938.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tech Mahindra and FIDE sign MoU for Global Chess League||The International Chess Federation (FIDE) and Tech Mahindra have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to create the Global Chess league. As per the statement by FIDE on Friday, “The competition will be established as a first-of-its-kind “phygital” (physical and digital) league, engaging professional players and others. In principle, several franchise-owned teams, comprising titled players, juniors and wildcard entrants, will play each other in an exciting format.” FIDE further stated, “A new holding company will be created to operate the functioning of the Global Chess League, in which the FIDE president will be part of the Board of Directors and five-time world chess champion Viswanathan Anand as mentor and partner.” Mahindra Group’s chairman Anand Mahindra said, “From tweeting about the game to forming a league under Viswanathan Anand’s mentorship, and now on-boarding FIDE, the entire journey has been very gratifying. We hope the ‘Global Chess League’ will take the game to new heights.” FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich said, “We are endeavouring to dramatically enhance its visibility through a global league. I am certain Tech Mahindra’s expertise will further aid the Global Chess League, accelerate its popularity and lay out a riveting tournament for the chess fans.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tech-mahindra-and-fide-sign-mou-for-global-chess-league/article34731939.ece
05 June 2021||MADURAI:,||Yashavishree, Pranav triumph||V. Pranav (8.5 points) and N. Yashavishree (8 points) won the open and girls’ titles respectively in the Tamil Nadu State under-18 online chess championship, organised by Golden Knights CA, on Thursday.  Final standings (after nine rounds): Open (top 10): 1. V. Pranav (8.5), 2. S. Harshad (7.5), 3. S. Rohith Krishna (7.5), 4. M. Mohamed Anees (7.5), 5. L.R. Srihari (7), 6. Ayushh Ravikumar (7), 7. S.P.K. Arul Anandh (7), 8. Harsh Suresh (7), 9. S. Rohit (7), 10. S. Aswath (7).   Girls (top 10): 1. N. Yashavishree (8), 2. V. Meenatchi Rajam (7.5), 3. Divyabharathi Masanam (7), 4. V. Rindhiya (7), 5. S. Vijayasubhasri (7), 6. J. Shalini (7), 7. Akshaya Rajaraman (6.5), 8. S. Kanishka (6.5), 9. Femil Chelladurai (6.5), 10. V.P. Tanushree (6.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/yashavishree-pranav-triumph/article34732306.ece
05 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Pandurangan no more||Prof. M.R. Pandurangan, 85, former Director of Physical Education, University of Madras, passed away here on Thursday night after a heart attack. He is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. Pandurangan served as the University’s Physical Education Director from 1981-82 to 2000. He was also the Physical Education Director of Kilpauk Medical College for 12 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pandurangan-no-more/article34731998.ece
05 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pragg eyes another title||R. Praggnanandhaa will eye a second title on the Julius Bar Challengers Chess Tour when the Gelfand Challenge online event begins on June 10. The field has 10 players each from two teams — Team Polgar and Team Kramnik — and follows a round-robin format. These youngsters are trained and mentored by the highest rated lady player in chess history Judit Polgar and former World champion Vladimir Kramnik. If Nihal Sarin and D. Gukesh are part of Team Polgar, Praggnanandhaa and Leon Mendonca represent Team Kramnik. Winning the Polgar leg earned Praggnanandhaa a place in the Meltwaters Champions Chess Tour. After the first leg, held in April, Team Polgar aggregated 96.5 points to Team Kramnik’s 88.0. The team ahead after four events will travel to Dubai to witness the Magnus Carlsen-Ian Nepomniachtchi World chess title-match in November.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pragg-eyes-another-title/article34731940.ece
05 June 2021||New Delhi,||Former India hockey player Usman dead||Former India hockey player Usman Khan has died after a prolonged battle with cancer, the sport’s governing body in the country said on Friday while condoling his death. Khan was 76 and survived by three sons and a daughter. HI president Gyanendro Ningombam expressed condolences to Khan’s family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-india-hockey-player-usman-dead/article34731942.ece
05 June 2021||Southampton,||Shorter hard quarantine for Indian players||Spinner Axar Patel said the Indian team will serve a three-day hard quarantine before it is allowed to train at the Aegeas Bowl here ahead of the World Test Championship final against New Zealand. The Indian squad was in quarantine for 14 days in Mumbai prior to its departure and is in the middle of another yet shorter quarantine. “The plan is to quarantine. We have been told that we can’t meet each other for three days, so we will be quarantining for that much time,” said Axar in a video posted by BCCI, capturing the team’s journey to England in a charter flight. The men’s and women’s squads were in the same flight. After landing in London, the contingent reached Southampton.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shorter-hard-quarantine-for-indian-players/article34731889.ece
05 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Milkha’s wife’s condition deteriorates||Milkha Singh is “better and more stable” as he battles COVID-19 in the ICU of PGIMER Hospital here even as his wife and former volleyball captain Nirmal Kaur’s condition deteriorated because of the same ailment. Milkha also received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquiring about his health on Friday. In a statement, PGIMER said Milkha was better than Thursday when he was brought to the hospital with dipping levels of oxygen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkhas-wifes-condition-deteriorates/article34731890.ece
05 June 2021||Baku,||Singapore GP cancelled: promoter||The Singapore Grand Prix, scheduled for October 3, has been cancelled “due to ongoing safety and logistic concerns brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic,” the race promoter announced on Friday. “To cancel the event for the second year in a row is an incredibly difficult decision but a necessary one in light of the prevailing restrictions for live events in Singapore,” Colin Syn, deputy chairman of the race promoter, said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/singapore-gp-cancelled-promoter/article34731898.ece
05 June 2021||LONDON,||Third day’s play washed out||England and New Zealand were left kicking their heels in the Lord’s Pavilion after rain prevented any play on Friday’s third day of the first Test. The pitch and square remained fully covered all day and the umpires, following an inspection carried out while rain was still falling, announced that there was no prospect of play before the cut-off time for a re-start. On Saturday, 98 overs — as opposed to the standard 90 — are scheduled to be bowled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/third-days-play-washed-out/article34731888.ece
05 June 2021||Biella (Italy),||Sriram Balaji, Ramkumar duo in semifinals||Sriram Balaji and Ramkumar Ramanathan defeated Jacopo Berrettini and Flavio Cobolli 7-6(9), 7-5 to enter the doubles semifinals of the €44,820 Challenger tournament here.  Other results: $52,080 Challenger, Little Rock, US: Pre-quarterfinals: Goncalo Oliveira (Por) bt Sasikumar Mukund 4-6, 6-4, 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Michal Pervolarakis (Gre) & Sasi Kumar Mukund bt Ruben Gonzales (Phi) & Martin Redlicki (US) 6-2, 7-6(3); Christopher Eubanks (US) & Roberto Quiroz (Ecu) bt Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan & Purav Raja 7-6(5), 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Pre-quarterfinals: Mauro de Maio (Ita) bt Siddhant Banthia 6-2, 2-0 (retd.) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sriram-balaji-ramkumar-duo-in-semifinals/article34731949.ece
05 June 2021||Paris,||Sizikova denies match-fixing charge||A Russian tennis player suspected of match-fixing last year has been arrested during this year’s French Open, her lawyer told The Associated Press on Friday. The player, 765th-ranked Yana Sizikova of Russia, denied the allegations, according to her lawyer, Frederic Belot. He added that Sizikova wants to file a complaint for defamation. The Paris prosecutor’s office confirmed to the AP that a “women’s international player” was in custody, but it did not identify her. She was arrested on Thursday night on charges of “sports bribery and organised fraud for acts likely to have been committed in September 2020,” the prosecutor’s office said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sizikova-denies-match-fixing-charge/article34731897.ece
05 June 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Suns topple champion Lakers||Phoenix Suns, fuelled by 47 points from Devin Booker, toppled NBA defending champion Los Angeles Lakers 113-100 on Thursday, handing superstar LeBron James his first first-round playoff exit.  The results: WC: Portland Trail Blazers 115 lost to Denver Nuggets 126 (Nuggets wins series 4-2); Los Angeles Lakers 100 lost to Phoenix Suns 113 (Suns win series 4-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suns-topple-champion-lakers/article34731953.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Nammazhvar’s uniqueness||Nammazhvar is unique in many ways. He helped in the rediscovery of the Divya Prabandham. When Nathamuni heard pilgrims from Melkote sing Nammazhvar’s verses, he set off to discover the Divya Prabandham. Secondly, other Azhvars did not mention their names in their verses. So if some other Azhvar’s verses had been sung by the pilgrims, Nathamuni would not have had a clue about the authorship, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Thirumangai Azhvar also mentioned his name at the end of each set of verses. But he did not say that that set was part of a thousand verses. Whereas, Nammazhvar concludes each decad by saying that these ten verses were composed by Kurugur Sadagopan (Nammazhvar), and that these were part of the thousand verses which he had composed. So at the end of every decad, we get to know that there were thousand verses in his Thiruvaimozhi. There are more causes to celebrate Nammazhvar. When Nathamuni went to Kurugur, he met one who had come in the tradition of Madurakavi Azhvar. Madurakavi was the only one whose verses in the Divya Prabandham are not about Lord Narayana, but are about his Acharya Nammazhvar. When Nathamuni recited the eleven verses of Madurakavi before the Nammazhvar shrine in Kurugur, Nammazhvar gave him knowledge of not only his own works, but of the entire divine output of the Azhvars. Nammazhvar’s works give us the essence of the Vedas. His verses are recited in temples during utsavas, and Kamban says that if not for such recitation, what is the charm in utsavas? Vedanta Desika says that with the help of Nammazhvar’s works, we understand the esoteric meaning of the Vedas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/nammazhvars-uniqueness/article34731853.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 08:17 IST,||Sudoku — June 5, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-5-2021/article34732688.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Home-cooked meal from the chef||One of the nice parts of our annual trip to the Himachal hills was a stopover in Chandigarh. We would, usually on our way back to Delhi, stop at our friend’s parents’ place. Her mother is an awesome cook and would give us a delicious meal. That was where I first had – and instantly fell in love with – baked aloo chips. The dish consisted of round pieces of thinly sliced potatoes, mixed with some chillies and other masalas and then put in the oven. The dish popped up and hit my eyes last week when I was looking at the menu of a small home chef outlet called Kiran’s Cookhouse. That was the decider for me, and I placed an order for a vegetarian meal even though the kitchen offers dishes such as fried fish, kali mirch chicken and handi gosht . Apart from the chips walley aloo (as the dish is called), I asked for mixed pakoras , bharwa tindey-aloo , bharwa karela, masala bhindi, bedmi aloo, channey dal with lauki and, for dessert, paratha with gur . The rates are all very reasonable – between Rs. 100 and Rs. 200. For this feast, I paid a little less than Rs. 1,000. Kiran’s Cookhouse is in Noida, Sector 61, and I ordered through Swiggy. The food was still hot when it reached my doorstep. I started with the potato curry that came with the bedmi, and enjoyed the rush of asoefetida that it triggered. I liked the lauki dal , too – bits of bottle gourd in a thick channa dal . I had thought I’d had enough of tinda (which I had to eat almost every day after a health issue three years ago). But despite the bad press the poor tinda generally gets, I quite like this watery vegetable. And stuffed tinda – where the vegetable is filled with sundry masalas – is a particular favourite of mine. This was rather tasty – the usual masalas (coriander powder et al) had given it a punch. What gladdened my heart was the chips walley aloo -- potatoes sliced into thin discs, coated with dry spices, shallow fried and topped with  chaat masala. Kiran Cookhouse's okra was good, too; it had been prepared with a fair amount of onions and chillies. The food, I thought, was like home cooked fare, even though the chilli quotient was rather high. What didn’t impress me was the dish I was most looking forward to – stuffed karela . I love this dish, and it is cooked rather well at home these days. Sometimes we stuff the whole gourd with pickle masala (fenugreek, fennel seeds etc) and occasionally grated raw mango. This one looked appetising, but didn’t have the zing of a well stuffed karela. Still, it was good to know that a kitchen was delivering the much loved dish home. The paratha with gur didn’t work for us either, but that was possibly because this is a dish that has to be eaten just off the tawa. I remember how I loved it when it was prepared in our village home on winter evenings – the paratha holding the melting gur which would burst into the mouth when I bit into it. Here, the paratha was a bit too rubbery, and the gur had already melted and become sticky. But I am always happy when small entrepreneurs start their little businesses, focusing on old recipes that you don’t get in restaurants. Next on my agenda is khatti dal , which I thought I’d had enough of during my Himachal sojourns back in the late 70s and early 80s. But it’s nostalgia time – and this Himachali dish is cheerfully waving out to me.  The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/home-cooked-meal-from-the-chef/article34732343.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Farm to home||Nirupama Reddy, of the Chennai-based Hanu Reddy Mangoes, says that their harvest has been delayed this year and sales began only in June. “There was a delay in flowering at our mango grove. At our organic farms in Nellore, Andhra and at Guduvanchery near Chennai, we have harvested Banganapalli and imam pasand mangoes. We harvest the fruits a little early, in such a way that it reaches the customers at the right stage of ripening,” she says. “We sold 100 tonnes of mangoes last year. But this year, due to the restricted shop timings and intense lockdown, we are not sure how we will be able to reach out to our customers. We are working on those issues regarding logistics right now,” she adds. @www.hanureddymangoes.com.Call: 9884020848||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/farm-to-home/article34732033.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Life, one berth at a time||If you haven’t met a “binge-eater Pushpa” at a railway station, you have been one; the person who hastily grabs a few samosas wrapped in newspaper out of a platform vendor’s basket, through the train window grill. It is also through these window grills that we see bits of life unfolding in a train, as families unpack tiffin boxes, heave suitcases down from the upper berth, and socialise with strangers to kill time. The pulse of the Indian Railways is inevitably etched onto all of our travel experiences. For Chennai-based artist Bhavya Desai, a recent train journey from Chennai to Bengaluru opened the floodgates to many such memories and observations. He translates this experience into a series of illustrations that delves into the nostalgia-inducing, chaotic energy of the Indian Railways as we know it. ‘Binge-eater Pushpa’ is one of the many characters that make an appearance in this series titled Chaotically Organised. Bhavya recalls having five hours to kill in that train journey to Bengaluru. “I made the most of it. I spent a lot of time walking on the platforms. The journey instantly spoke to me,” he says. “There is so much more life in a train.” Here, adds Bhavya, you see people being themselves. From this treasure trove of interesting sights, Bhavya listed down all that he wants to showcase. “I have created sub categories. One is on life on the platform, which includes everything from water dispensers to coolies who drag heavy carriages. Another would be on the train itself — a look inside the coaches.” For instance, a work-in-progress sketch filled with line drawings shows a crowded station — food stalls, passengers lounging in wait, and porters shoving their way through. The chaos is also a warm reminder of life before the pandemic. Currently, he is working on a sub-series called By the Window that looks at characters and life in a train, through the cross section of a window. Similiar sub-series on the engines, solo travellers and the interior views of the train bogies, are also in the works. Bhavya plans to have 12 illustrations in each series, and hopes to wrap up the entire project in the next three to four months. “Throughout all the illustrations, there will be characters,” he adds. Observations aside, a lot of research also goes into the project, especially for the series on engines. “I am not too familiar with the models of engines. So, now, I am reading up on the different engines there are and about the retired engines as well. It’s so vast!” he says. The fact that the Indian Railways has such a huge, loyal fan following, pushes him to dig deeper. “This is also why I want people to give me ideas. I want to make this more inclusive. Drawing only what I have seen, is again limiting the scope of this project.”  Bhavya Desai’s works can be viewed on Instagram: @desaibhavya   The current sub-series, By the Window, looks at characters and life in a train through the cross section of a window||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/life-one-berth-at-a-time/article34732035.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Garden in a dish||“If you like Nature and art, you will love kusamono. It brings the greenery of a garden into your home,” promises Jeffery Vardon, dancer and choreographer. He came to know of this ancient Japanese method last year during the lockdown. “The word kusamono translates to ‘grass-thing.’ It is a potted collection of plants in a shallow dish. It is usually kept indoors and is a showpiece. Having a good kusamono in one’s home is considered to be a thing of pride in Japan,” he says. Jeffery learnt about kusamono online. “I saw a photograph and tried to recreate it, and it came out well. Traditionally, kusamono is set in a ceramic bowl. But I have even upcycled old pans in my house for it. I make soil with high water retention capacity to grow the plants, using coco peat, vermicompost, etc. It is very easy to maintain. All you have to do is spray it with water when the top soil dries up,” he explains.  Along with kusamono, Jeffery has also been experimenting with kokedama and terrariums. Kokedama is another ancient Japanese practice — it involves planting an ornamental plant in a mud ball. The ball can be covered by moss or rope. “It is gaining popularity in our country now,” he says.   Jeffery has been taking online workshops to teach this craft. “Most of them were done in association with The Green Club, an online group of Nature lovers. I have also started a YouTube channel, DIY With Jeff, where I share the basics of gardening,” he says, adding “I hope it helps people engage themselves and express their creativity during this lockdown.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/garden-in-a-dish/article34732037.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The crocodiles’ newest ally||Pramila Rajan’s relationship with the Madras Crocodile Bank dates back to the 1970s. Yet, her recent appointment as the director of the bank was sparked by something innocuous — a social media advertisement. “I first saw the ad calling for candidates last January, and jumped at the chance to interview,” says Pramila. Before she elaborates on her plans for the Croc Bank, the conservationist looks back at her decades-long tryst with it as an outsider. Her first experience with the organisation was facilitated by the late Jagannathan Vijaya. A pioneering herpetologist, Vijaya back in the late 1970s was just, “a dear friend,” recalls Pramila, “We graduated in Zoology together from Ethiraj College. I started spending weekends at Madras Snake Park with her and have measured baby pythons and weighed and fed vitamin drops to baby crocodiles. I also visited the Croc Bank with her, way back then.” “Around the same time, my father SJ Rajan, the officer-in-charge of the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) research centre in Kovalam, initiated turtle conservation activities under the guidance of Mr Romulus Whitaker. I used to help them collect and hatch turtle eggs at the centre and release hatchlings into the ocean,” she recalls. Ironically, due to the pandemic, she has been unable to visit the bank since her appointment. Plan of action “The park has been closed since March 16, 2020. It reopened and welcomed visitors for a brief period between November 10, 2020 and April 20, 2021 when it was forced to shut down again due to the second wave,” says Pramila. She states that her main focus is “to organise fundraising campaigns, for projects and zoo maintenance and focus on improving our social media presence to generate revenues”. Also in the pipeline is a series of videos focussing on different species at the bank, made for students of rural schools. “We are aiming to keep them ready by June or July,” says Pramila. Children and their parents have long been the bank’s most ardent fan base. Besides this, Pramila is hoping to rope in field experts to talk about their work, and organise online workshops and seminars. Another key aspect of her new role is to “ensure providing for its reptilian population and keeping its various projects alive. I would like to take forward the conservation initiatives of the zoo and its field stations.” Besides the Centre for Herpetology in Chennai, the Croc Bank has two more research stations: the Agumbe Rainforest Research Station (ARRS) in the Western Ghats of southern India, and the Gharial Conservation Alliance (GCA) in the Chambal River in northern India. While the bank’s well-wishers in Chennai cannot do much about the other centres, they have constantly supported its operations in Chennai in myriad ways. The Croc Bank’s adoption programme has seen a spurt in takers since last year, not only by individuals and families, but also leading businesses. “Ford has adopted 113 of our mugger crocodiles,” says Pramila, “We recently received a generous donation from TVS Motor Co. and others. Croc Bank has a strong network of friends in India and abroad and we are very grateful to everyone who helped maintain the zoo and its animals in excellent condition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-crocodiles-newest-ally/article34732036.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||On the couch with Irrfan||It is Irrfan. Irrfan Khan. Is it, yes, oh, I mutter. The TV remote stays mute. Addicted to the might and madness of the human mind for years through books, films, talks, I let the jazz of adrenaline play my veins in prep for the fourth season of the HBO series, In Treatment , that debuted recently. I am surfing through previous seasons (which aired between 2008 and 2010) on Disney + Hotstar. Having compulsively watched 50-something therapist Dr Paul Weston (actor Gabriel Byrne) over 70-plus episodes, I am in love with his non-verbals as with his spoken word. Shrink in shining armour. In dark jackets and polished shoes, he navigates his clients through abusive relationships, teenage rebellions, erotic transference, or difficult divorces. I have been in his clinic for many weeks, and Americans in therapy exhaling with cuss words amuses me. I was unprepared though to find Irrfan unpacking his life in Season 3.  In Treatment is intense. Often, a lifetime tides up between two people talking to each other. Reminiscent of intimate, theatre work. A viewer can pan Weston’s book-lined, wood-panelled office with the camera or invisibly take a seat. Produced and developed by Rodrigo Garcia — based on the Israeli series Be Tipul — the programme shows four patients each week in sessions with Weston, followed by one with his own therapist to dust his mental cobwebs.  Flashback to Sunil   In Treatment won many honours at The Emmys and Golden Globes after its 2008 launch. Several episodes for Season 3 were written by playwright Adam Rapp, with author Jhumpa Lahiri consulting on the Irrfan story. I had no idea though, until a day after the actor’s first death anniversary on April 29 this year that “one of the greatest actors alive”, as Rapp described Irrfan to The New York Times over a decade ago, was grieving all those years back on a Brooklyn couch. Sunil Sanyal, 2010. His psychic pain is as palpable as a limp, when herded by his son Arun and daughter-in-law Julia, he enters Weston’s office. Irrfan plays a greying widower in his 50s. His anguish, as the recently-bereaved husband of Kamala, struggling with his bristling present, a Bengali maths professor from Kolkata who loves recreational cricket, is a fascinating part of his acting oeuvre. Barely written about in India. Who else could have played a man so deeply thorned by conflict, shadowed by demons from a tumultuous past, and express it through the borderless language of his eyes. Confused by his unnerving dreams and insomniac neurosis, Sanyal longs to return to Kolkata. His daughter-in-law, a modern American woman, unabashed in her mannerisms as a wife, whose perfume reminds him of “black pepper and jasmine”, a mother unfettered by ideas of sacrifice unlike Sanyal’s dead wife, arouses a storm of resentment in him. The arousal is the presenting problem. “Can I smoke in your office… err Paul?” “Can I offer you some tea, Paul? In my country having tea with friends is how people grieve instead of paid therapy…” says Sanyal. Weston opens a window to prevent the smoke from Sanyal’s life lighting a fire, and brews tea for him. Sanyal mourns his wife but also his Brahmin Bengali-ness. And Kolkata, where caste decides emotional fates. A sudden déjà vu now circles me. I have met Sunil Sanyal before. It is not so much his sloppy, half-sleeved sweaters and closed toe, tan sandals, but the Kolkata-dusted bewilderment of a Bengali in New York that triggers the memory of Ashoke Ganguly from the 2006 film, The Namesake . Prof Ganguly was not as troubled in Mira Nair’s adaptation of Lahiri’s novel, but he is ponderous as only Irrfan can be.  Waiting for the connect  Now with the Covid-19 elephant in the room, the therapeutic space is crowded. As mental health dilemmas intensify globally, spiked peculiarly in the US by racial divisiveness, HBO has revived In Treatment . The fourth season opened on May 23 with African-American actor, Emmy awardee Uzo Aduba as the shrink. Dr Brooke Taylor sits on a Herman Miller chair in a Los Angeles home that looks like a gallery of modern art with sorbet sofas and tech tools. A male home health aide, an immigrant, is on a virtual session. Others meet Taylor at her house, including a Black teenage sex addict identifying as lesbian female. Taylor represents change but in the episodes so far, the “connect” is just about warming up. Like life clutched by the past, I rewind to Sunil Sanyal and Paul Weston, and find them seated on opposite sides of a glass in a detention centre. The boundaries are back. They speak through a visitor’s telephone. Sanyal is being deported to India for the “criminal threat” he poses to his daughter-in-law’s life while Weston struggles with a Parkinson’s diagnosis. “Will you be okay? Sometimes I worry about you…” a wry Sanyal quips to a grimacing Weston. “I know what it is like to feel such loneliness and I hope someday you will free yourself from it.” This last episode concludes with Sunil humming a Bengali song, of a moonlit night and a goodbye. Vidhaye bandhu vidhaye (farewell, friend, farewell) It is a breakthrough moment.  Shefalee Vasudev is editor of  The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/on-the-couch-with-irrfan/article34731744.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The dance of development||Dear Landomus Realty Ventures, Let me tell you how delighted I am on seeing your heart-warming ad in a prominent newspaper addressing our leadership. Your desire to invest $500 billion in our country’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) couldn’t have come at a better time. Your dream of making India a global destination by supporting the completion of projects in energy, social infrastructure, manufacturing, etc, is indeed commendable. While our indefatigable leaders may take some time to get back to you regarding your exciting offer, considering how busy they are now, as a dynamic, atmanirbhar citizen of New India, I have taken the liberty of responding to your letter with a small project that you could undertake in the interim. I assure you, it will enhance your reputation in no small way as a serious player in the infrastructure field. That your establishment is located in Secaucus, New Jersey, makes my proposal that much more poignant. Getting right to it, if you have read my previous columns, you may be aware of Ambujam Mami. Now, serendipitously, her second daughter lives in New Jersey. This brings us to my proposal: lending your support to completing Mami’s long-delayed arangetram project. A little back story here. Mami’s arangetram was originally scheduled to be held at NJ’s own legendary State Theatre on September 12, 2001. Invites were sent out, videographers were ready, caterers had made rava kesari with extra cashew. It was, as they say, all systems go. The previous day’s incident, unfortunately, put paid to Mami’s dream. She recovered though, with intense coconut-oil-based ayurvedic therapy in Kerala, and with renewed vigour, set a date in August 2005. She chose Hallandale Beach, Florida, as her venue. This did have more than a bit to do with her athimber , Natarajan (aptly named, LOL), running a largish home for seniors who’d fill up the back rows of the auditorium. Alas, Hurricane Katrina made landfall on that precise day. I prefer not to mention the other dates of Ambujam Mami’s aborted arangetrams because they’re bound to make us all revisit buried traumas. Suffice it to say, her arangetram saga is the tragic version of Forrest Gump. Anyway, she is fighting fit now. Twenty years of non-stop practise have made her a Black Belt in Bharatanatyam (there is a school offering one here, BTW) and Sundaram Mama develop a permanent, if alarming, facial tic that makes him look like Lalita Pawar. All we are asking for is an outlay of a mere $100, 000, jujube for someone with $500 billion. Don’t dismiss our proposal hastily, sirs, saying our ambitious yet low-cost project has nothing to do with any of the sectors you are interested in. It does. More than you can imagine. Your interests lie in the energy, social infrastructure, manufacturing, transport, food processing, water, and sanitisation sectors, don’t they? Any good arangetram requires inputs from all these sectors. A lot of energy will be required to power the twinkling serial lights on Ambujam Mami’s 40-foot cut-out. Social infrastructure, you say? What is an arangetram if not education, community, play, youth, recreation, sports, and faith, all combined? As for manufacturing, we will be making cut-outs, printing invites, tailoring dresses, won’t we? Don’t even make us explain transport, food processing, water, and sanitisation, okay? People will travel to the venue, eat processed food, drink water, and go to the loo. All covered. Looking forward to an early response from you, sirs. Let’s make India great. Yours in anticipation, KSD Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-dance-of-development/article34731746.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Big shorts||When you think of auteurs, it is usually in connection with a feature film or films of theirs, not shorts. Many of them do begin with shorts as calling cards, before going on to global fame with feature films. For example, you may know Martin Scorsese for several features, including Taxi Driver and Raging Bull , but one of the films he cut his cinematic teeth with was the short The Big Shave (1967). Similarly, while you may delight in Christopher Nolan’s work, including Inception and Interstellar , few remember him for the short Doodlebug (1997). What I’m looking at this week is shorts that auteurs made after they’d already achieved international acclaim. Spanish filmmaker Pedro Almodovar was coming off the majestic Pain and Glory (2019) when he directed, in lockdown no less, the 30-minute short The Human Voice (2020). Almodovar had directed several shorts before his breakthrough Pepi, Luci, Bom (1980). But this film, now available in India via bookmyshow, showcases a master working at the height of his powers. A free adaptation of Jean Cocteau’s monodrama of the same name, The Human Voice stars the ethereal Tilda Swinton as a woman who has broken up with someone but can’t get over him or her. It is a solo performance, with Swinton at one end of a phone in a monologue (we can’t hear what her interlocutor is saying). Swinton’s co-star is the apartment set she is in. And what an apartment it is, production designed to within an inch of its life by frequent Almodovar collaborators Antxón Gómez and María Clara Notari. The last time you might have seen an apartment so striking was in Pain and Glory , where it was Almodovar’s own living quarters that were gussied up. With The Human Voice , the director obviously rediscovered his appetite for shorts as he has two more in the works. Another filmmaker who frequently returns to shorts amidst his feature film work is Hong Kong master Wong Kar Wai. After the film In The Mood For Love (2000), arguably the pinnacle of his career so far, he made several shorts, notable amongst which are the DJ Shadow music video Six Days (2002); The Follow (2001), his segment of a series of BMW motors’ shorts collectively known as The Hire ; and The Hand (2004), his exquisite segment of portmanteau filmEros, an extended version of which is available in the tremendous Criterion blu-ray box set,The World of Wong Kar Wai. Swedish auteur Ingmar Bergman also dipped into the form occasionally. In 1976, where his other credit included Face to Face , he directed the short The Condemned Women Dance . And in 1984, while on After The Rehearsal , he brought outKarin’s Face, mainly pictures of his mother Karin from his personal photo album. At home, Satyajit Ray, in-between directing masterpiece after masterpiece, directed a few shorts. Incredibly, he made his first short Two in 1981, decades after he debuted with Pather Panchali in 1955. After that he directed the documentary short Bala and The Inner Eye and the fiction short Pikoo , all in 1981, and returned to the form just once more, with the documentary Sukumar Ray in 1987. Naman Ramachandran is a journalist and author of Rajinikanth: The Definitive Biography, and tweets @namanrs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/big-shorts/article34731748.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||She makes stress delicious||Humid. Anxiety-inducing. Intense. In the last two months, film reviewers around the world have been explicit about the discomfort that creeps in while watchingShiva Baby, Emma Seligman’s feature film debut. Yet not one of them wanted to cut short the experience. In fact, ‘claustrophobia’ joins sharp comedy and a breakout performance as some of the winning features of this tightly choreographed film about a floundering college student at a funeral service. “Danielle [Rachel Sennott] was taken from my time in university in New York. I was very stressed about what I wanted to do. And a lot of my friends were seeking an arrangement where they had sugar daddies,” says Canadian director and screenwriter, Seligman, over Zoom with The Hindu Weekend . Based on Seligman’s short of the same name, her thesis project at NYU, the film has Danielle attending a shiva, which is a Jewish mourning ritual, with her parents. She runs into her sugar daddy there and her ex-girlfriend. It is stressful and chaotic. Seligman, 26, shares that the film’s themes of identity and empowerment are what she too struggled with in college. “What I wanted to be the backbone [of the film] was reckoning with your self worth as a young woman, realising that it has been based on sexual validation and that it needs to go beyond that,” she says, adding that she also “sprinkled" other parts of her life “like my family, my sexuality”. On June 11, MUBI will be launching Shiva Baby as their LGBTQI+ focus for Pride Month. Seligman remarks that she is lucky it is reaching people beyond the Jewish or bisexual audience. “The short film had a lot of success among my Indian friends too. They loved it and kept telling me they were into it,” she recalls. As for the future of queer cinema, the challenges are many. Noting the lack of portrayal of bisexuality or pansexuality or gender fluidity on screen, she says, "We’ve made progress with telling gay stories and lesbian stories and trans stories, which is wonderful. I think people sometimes worry that audiences may not be able to wrap their head around someone who is in between or fluid with their sexuality or gender. I hope more and more people at the top who make the decisions begin to understand that and not be confused.” While Seligman has often talked about her “very insular Jewish upbringing” she hands it to TV shows like the teen drama series, The OC , and the medical drama, Grey’s Anatomy , for introducing bisexual characters on screen. “Eventually we got stuff like The Bisexual and Transparent, where there are tonnes of bisexual and pansexual characters. But as a kid, those were two shows that stuck out for me.” Meanwhile, the young filmmaker who managed to create her indie darling with a $225,000 budget is on to the big league. Coming up next: a queer high school comedy, Bottoms, with her lead actor and collaborator, Sennott, and Elizabeth Banks’ Brownstone production company.  Seligman tackles questions on authenticity, queer representation and her final van scene on weekend.thehindu.com   Watch: Emma Seligman   discussesShiva Babyon weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/she-makes-stress-delicious/article34731753.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Swara Bhaskar: artiste, LGBTQI+ ally, activist||One of Swara Bhaskar’s earliest memories of same sex relationships is from her days at Miranda College, New Delhi. “My best friend came out to me. I have witnessed his struggles in the years since. From the time I understood same sex relationships, I have been okay with it. It’s someone’s personal choice, so I don’t get why anyone should have a problem. Someone’s life is not a community participation project,” she says, displaying her scathing humour in a recent late night telephone chat. The 33-year-old’s new short film, Sheer Qorma , directed by Faraz Arif Ansari, is a tender love story between a woman (Bhaskar) and a non-binary person (Divya Dutta), who returns to India to meet their mother (Shabana Azmi). “It’s an interesting film because it tells the story of the LGBTQI+ community. Gender fluidity is not something that all of us are necessarily familiar with. Even I wasn’t entirely clear about what it meant when I did the film,” she explains. “Both the women are Muslim, both are lesbians. This film is very specific to the communities that are underrepresented in our society.” But, at its core, she says the film has a universal emotional appeal (as does her second short, Dobara Alvida , which is about the “emotions one tries to hide when a relationship is over”). “You don’t have to be an LGBTQI+ person or ally to empathise or understand children feeling misunderstood by their parents, and parents struggling to accept the choices of their children.” It is only fitting that Sheer Qorma has started its film festival journey this month — celebrated as Pride Month all over the world — with a screening at the Frameline Festival in San Francisco.  Sheer Qorma locates itself quite comfortably within Bhaskar’s very versatile and, at times, risky choices as an actor. Her first film, Niyati , never saw the light of day and she had almost packed her bags when Tanu Weds Manu (2011) came her way. She shone once again as the heroine’s friend in Raanjhanna (2013), but it was the sole leads of Nil Battey Sannata (2016) and Anarkali of Aarah (2017) that really cemented her credentials. Her last big screen release was the sequin-fest, Veere Di Wedding (2018). Last year she had three OTT outings, with Flesh (Eros Now), Rasbhari (Amazon Prime), and Bhaag Beanie Bhaag (Netflix). “More than Bollywood” is what her Twitter bio reads, and it is accurate. In a parallel life, this JNU alumna with a Masters degree in sociology is at ease taking on trolls online and making speeches at on-ground protests against some of the present government’s most oppressive policies. She has a voice and is not afraid to use it. “If I wasn't an actor, I would have been an activist, working at some NGO,” she says. When The Hindu Weekend catches up with the actor, she chats about the price she pays for her outspokenness, the direction she wants her career to take, and why she doesn’t like the ‘activist’ tag. What does it mean to you to be an LGBTQI+ ally? One of the important aspects of being an ally is to actually listen to the people from that community and learn from their lived experiences. When it comes to posting anything publicly, I always check with activists I know. Recently, I was tracking a debate about being outside the LGBTQI+ community and using the Rainbow flag, and if it is appropriation. Another time, I wanted to post a photo of myself in a pista-coloured lehenga on Instagram with the caption Tutti-frutti, and I checked with them if it is offensive. I always assume that I don’t know enough. While we have had a few films about same sex relationships, we are quite behind in our film industry. When there is diversity behind the camera, there will be diversity in the stories we see. This is not just true for LGBTQI+ stories, but also women, differently-abled, or Dalit stories. I am not making any value judgements, but compare a Gauri Shinde or Alankrita Shrivastava’s female protagonists with Madhur Bhandarkar’s and you’ll notice how different they are. You can see how a same sex story is handled in Onir’s film as compared to the more stereotypical lens of the ‘masala’ directors. People tell stories of their own lives and experiences. If we want our popular culture to be more inclusive, we just have to make sure that we have people from underrepresented categories behind the camera.  You have always been vocal with your opinions. But have you been more involved in social causes in the last few years [starting with the CAA-NRC protests]?  When I am called an activist, I feel like a bit of an imposter. I know real activists, and I know the everyday, grassroots kind of work that they put in and the lives they lead. I am a Bollywood actor who is trying to make more money, get famous, buy a bigger car. But yes, there is a side of me that is very involved and interested in what’s happening in the world. And that’s not something new. I have done it since college. What is new, however, is that now people recognise me at protests, and ask me to come and speak. You have often talked about how your activism has affected your acting career. Has it become better or worse?  What has gotten better is I’m not the only person who is vocal now. Ever since the CAA-NRC protests, I’m not the only person from the film industry who is speaking up. Having said that, I know that more and more people are getting nervous to cast me. They’re scared of controversy. There’s a lot of talk that ‘Swara is trouble’. Every producer that I've worked with since 2015 is concerned about my Twitter account. What’s different now, though, is that I’ve accepted it. I don’t care. Your last feature film wasVeere Di Wedding, a little over three years ago. Doesn’t that worry you? I’ve also had five releases on the web in that time. The industry is changing with different platforms that have come up and these are offering newer kinds of work. Also, of the three years, we’ve spent the last one in a pandemic. Of course, I’ve been concerned when I’ve lost brand work or when controversies [get attached] to my films. Every time something crops up, the right-wing social media will start a boycott Swara’s film or brand campaign. So, brands are scared to approach me unless it’s Women’s Day; then they want a strong, independent woman. It’s a negotiation. I’m old enough to understand that I chose a path and there is a price to pay. You have been writing scripts. Is that the direction you want your career to move towards? I’ve actually written two stories already and I’m struggling with a third. One is a very intense love story with a lot of angst, and the other is a happier film about friendship and a very messed up girl. So that’s more autobiographical. I want to write more and, hopefully, be able to produce it. But I don’t want to give up acting because I am still a vain and self-obsessed actor [please add that I am being self-deprecating so people don’t think I am an idiot!]||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/swara-bhaskar-artiste-lgbtqi-ally-activist/article34731776.ece
05 June 2021||Pride Month:,||Instapick||The pandemic may be ‘raining’ on parades, but a mix of offline and online events are ensuring the rainbow colours are visible across the globe. From Pride Movie Nights in San Francisco, and Netflix’s genre page, to Instagram’s partnership with The Queer Muslim Project. The virtual community’s Digital Pride Festival aims to inspire creativity and self-care. @thequeermuslimproject||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article34731755.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sleight of hand||Simple things like rubber bands and pens turn into magical tools in the hands of Mangesh Desai. Catch the illusionist’s workshop, Everyday Magic for Kids, today on Zoom, at 5.30 pm. Rs. 235, on in.bookmyshow.com. Meanwhile, grown-ups can use their time and hands for something constructive. Sign up for a Palm Weaving workshop with artist-blogger Madhushree Attal Rathi, and learn how to make small mats and baskets. Rs. 749. On Zoom at 7 pm. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/sleight-of-hand/article34731757.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Trip with Alice||Go down the rabbit hole with Alice. A theatrical, virtual reality show at London’s V&A museum explores the “origins, adaptations and reinventions” of Lewis Carroll’s surreal classic over the last 157 years. £20, on vam.ac.uk. Closer home, Daniel Fernandes is ready with a new set of jokes — a mix of scripted and interactive stand-up — on a live Zoom show tomorrow. With a lot of material to be created out of conversations with his audience, the stand-up comic promises a show that is “not family friendly”. At 7 pm. Rs. 399, on punchliners.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/trip-with-alice/article34731759.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rainbow moment||As a shout out to Pride Month, Fossil has reimagined its Minimalist 40mm watch case as a limited-edition with rainbow indexes (Rs. 5,495). The strap collection includes two reversible colourways (Rs. 1,495) featuring hues of the transgender and rainbow flag. Details: fossil.in. GAP has unveiled 100% organic tees, tie-dye hoodies, and more, designed by artists within the community (approx Rs. 2,000 onwards, gap.com), while Coach encourages you to tote your pride with their handbags (Rs. 14,500, on coach.com).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/rainbow-moment/article34731761.ece
05 June 2021||Naomi Osaka:,||Talking point||The Japanese player didn’t mince words when she withdrew from the French Open, admitting to “bouts of depression” since she won the United States Open in 2018. There has been vitriol (as expected), but also a large outpouring of support for the 23-year-old. The leaders of the four Grand Slam tournaments have now promised to address players’ concerns about mentalhealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article34731763.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the world||Kids have the lockdown blues? Theatre artiste Raell Padamsee has a solution: a series of fun Zoom workshops that explores everything fromHarry Potterto Broadway. Kick things off on Monday with a ‘Summer Cruise with Drama’. Spread over 10 days, for children between ages four and 13, the ‘adventure’ trip will take them on a virtual tour of Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, let them experience a Venetian gondola ride, enact the history of the Taj Mahal, and much more. 11.20 am, 4.20 pm, and 5.40 pm. Rs. 4,300, on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/around-the-world/article34731765.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Guneet Monga as mentor||If you’ve got a story, here’s a crash course that will help you give it shape, form and structure. Screenwriting Bootcamp with Satyanshu Singh (ofChintu Ka Birthdayfame) consists of three writing workshops, one peer-feedback session, and one pitchfest — to a panel that will include writer-director Roshan Abbas, author Divya Prakash Dubey, and other veterans. Three participants with the best ideas will also get a mentorship session with producer Guneet Monga. June 18 - July 4, registrations are open now. Rs. 3,499, on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/guneet-monga-as-mentor/article34731767.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature fix||This World Environment Day, tune into Netflix’s docu-series,Life in Color with David Attenborough, where the naturalist investigates how animals use colour to survive. While you are at it, also check out Discovery Plus’Endangered, and Apple TV’sThe Year Earth Changed(read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com). If you’d rather read, Rohan Chakravarty’sGreen Humour for a Greying Planet, a curation of the illustrator and wildlife buff’s gag cartoons and comic strips, releases today. Rs. 399, on penguin.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/nature-fix/article34731769.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||OTT update||There’s a lot that’s dropped (or is dropping) on OTT platforms. Here are a few to look out for. On Netflix, don’t missJagame Thandhiram, the Tamil gangster film starring Dhanush andGame of Thronesfame James Cosmo. Then there’sRay, the four-part anthology (of adapted short stories of Satyajit Ray), andSkater Girl, about a teen from Rajasthan who becomes a skater. Over on Disney+ Hotstar,Lokigets his own adventure trip,Raya and the Last Dragonmakes an entry, andLucacomes of age in the Italian Riviera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/ott-update/article34731771.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||On the couch with Irrfan||It is Irrfan. Irrfan Khan. Is it, yes, oh, I mutter. The TV remote stays mute. Addicted to the might and madness of the human mind for years through books, films, talks, I let the jazz of adrenaline play my veins in prep for the fourth season of the HBO series, In Treatment , that debuted recently. I am surfing through previous seasons (which aired between 2008 and 2010) on Disney + Hotstar. Having compulsively watched 50-something therapist Dr Paul Weston (actor Gabriel Byrne) over 70-plus episodes, I am in love with his non-verbals as with his spoken word. Shrink in shining armour. In dark jackets and polished shoes, he navigates his clients through abusive relationships, teenage rebellions, erotic transference, or difficult divorces. I have been in his clinic for many weeks, and Americans in therapy exhaling with cuss words amuses me. I was unprepared though to find Irrfan unpacking his life in Season 3.  In Treatment is intense. Often, a lifetime tides up between two people talking to each other. Reminiscent of intimate, theatre work. A viewer can pan Weston’s book-lined, wood-panelled office with the camera or invisibly take a seat. Produced and developed by Rodrigo Garcia — based on the Israeli series Be Tipul — the programme shows four patients each week in sessions with Weston, followed by one with his own therapist to dust his mental cobwebs.  Flashback to Sunil   In Treatment won many honours at The Emmys and Golden Globes after its 2008 launch. Several episodes for Season 3 were written by playwright Adam Rapp, with author Jhumpa Lahiri consulting on the Irrfan story. I had no idea though, until a day after the actor’s first death anniversary on April 29 this year that “one of the greatest actors alive”, as Rapp described Irrfan to The New York Times over a decade ago, was grieving all those years back on a Brooklyn couch. Sunil Sanyal, 2010. His psychic pain is as palpable as a limp, when herded by his son Arun and daughter-in-law Julia, he enters Weston’s office. Irrfan plays a greying widower in his 50s. His anguish, as the recently-bereaved husband of Kamala, struggling with his bristling present, a Bengali maths professor from Kolkata who loves recreational cricket, is a fascinating part of his acting oeuvre. Barely written about in India. Who else could have played a man so deeply thorned by conflict, shadowed by demons from a tumultuous past, and express it through the borderless language of his eyes. Confused by his unnerving dreams and insomniac neurosis, Sanyal longs to return to Kolkata. His daughter-in-law, a modern American woman, unabashed in her mannerisms as a wife, whose perfume reminds him of “black pepper and jasmine”, a mother unfettered by ideas of sacrifice unlike Sanyal’s dead wife, arouses a storm of resentment in him. The arousal is the presenting problem. “Can I smoke in your office… err Paul?” “Can I offer you some tea, Paul? In my country having tea with friends is how people grieve instead of paid therapy…” says Sanyal. Weston opens a window to prevent the smoke from Sanyal’s life lighting a fire, and brews tea for him. Sanyal mourns his wife but also his Brahmin Bengali-ness. And Kolkata, where caste decides emotional fates. A sudden déjà vu now circles me. I have met Sunil Sanyal before. It is not so much his sloppy, half-sleeved sweaters and closed toe, tan sandals, but the Kolkata-dusted bewilderment of a Bengali in New York that triggers the memory of Ashoke Ganguly from the 2006 film, The Namesake . Prof Ganguly was not as troubled in Mira Nair’s adaptation of Lahiri’s novel, but he is ponderous as only Irrfan can be.  Waiting for the connect  Now with the Covid-19 elephant in the room, the therapeutic space is crowded. As mental health dilemmas intensify globally, spiked peculiarly in the US by racial divisiveness, HBO has revived In Treatment . The fourth season opened on May 23 with African-American actor, Emmy awardee Uzo Aduba as the shrink. Dr Brooke Taylor sits on a Herman Miller chair in a Los Angeles home that looks like a gallery of modern art with sorbet sofas and tech tools. A male home health aide, an immigrant, is on a virtual session. Others meet Taylor at her house, including a Black teenage sex addict identifying as lesbian female. Taylor represents change but in the episodes so far, the “connect” is just about warming up. Like life clutched by the past, I rewind to Sunil Sanyal and Paul Weston, and find them seated on opposite sides of a glass in a detention centre. The boundaries are back. They speak through a visitor’s telephone. Sanyal is being deported to India for the “criminal threat” he poses to his daughter-in-law’s life while Weston struggles with a Parkinson’s diagnosis. “Will you be okay? Sometimes I worry about you…” a wry Sanyal quips to a grimacing Weston. “I know what it is like to feel such loneliness and I hope someday you will free yourself from it.” This last episode concludes with Sunil humming a Bengali song, of a moonlit night and a goodbye. Vidhaye bandhu vidhaye (farewell, friend, farewell) It is a breakthrough moment.  Shefalee Vasudev is editor of  The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-couch-with-irrfan/article34732345.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||The dance of development||Dear Landomus Realty Ventures, Let me tell you how delighted I am on seeing your heart-warming ad in a prominent newspaper addressing our leadership. Your desire to invest $500 billion in our country’s National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) couldn’t have come at a better time. Your dream of making India a global destination by supporting the completion of projects in energy, social infrastructure, manufacturing, etc, is indeed commendable. While our indefatigable leaders may take some time to get back to you regarding your exciting offer, considering how busy they are now, as a dynamic, atmanirbhar citizen of New India, I have taken the liberty of responding to your letter with a small project that you could undertake in the interim. I assure you, it will enhance your reputation in no small way as a serious player in the infrastructure field. That your establishment is located in Secaucus, New Jersey, makes my proposal that much more poignant. Getting right to it, if you have read my previous columns, you may be aware of Ambujam Mami. Now, serendipitously, her second daughter lives in New Jersey. This brings us to my proposal: lending your support to completing Mami’s long-delayed arangetram project. A little back story here. Mami’s arangetram was originally scheduled to be held at NJ’s own legendary State Theatre on September 12, 2001. Invites were sent out, videographers were ready, caterers had made rava kesari with extra cashew. It was, as they say, all systems go. The previous day’s incident, unfortunately, put paid to Mami’s dream. She recovered though, with intense coconut-oil-based ayurvedic therapy in Kerala, and with renewed vigour, set a date in August 2005. She chose Hallandale Beach, Florida, as her venue. This did have more than a bit to do with her athimber , Natarajan (aptly named, LOL), running a largish home for seniors who’d fill up the back rows of the auditorium. Alas, Hurricane Katrina made landfall on that precise day. I prefer not to mention the other dates of Ambujam Mami’s aborted arangetrams because they’re bound to make us all revisit buried traumas. Suffice it to say, her arangetram saga is the tragic version of Forrest Gump. Anyway, she is fighting fit now. Twenty years of non-stop practise have made her a Black Belt in Bharatanatyam (there is a school offering one here, BTW) and Sundaram Mama develop a permanent, if alarming, facial tic that makes him look like Lalita Pawar. All we are asking for is an outlay of a mere $100, 000, jujube for someone with $500 billion. Don’t dismiss our proposal hastily, sirs, saying our ambitious yet low-cost project has nothing to do with any of the sectors you are interested in. It does. More than you can imagine. Your interests lie in the energy, social infrastructure, manufacturing, transport, food processing, water, and sanitisation sectors, don’t they? Any good arangetram requires inputs from all these sectors. A lot of energy will be required to power the twinkling serial lights on Ambujam Mami’s 40-foot cut-out. Social infrastructure, you say? What is an arangetram if not education, community, play, youth, recreation, sports, and faith, all combined? As for manufacturing, we will be making cut-outs, printing invites, tailoring dresses, won’t we? Don’t even make us explain transport, food processing, water, and sanitisation, okay? People will travel to the venue, eat processed food, drink water, and go to the loo. All covered. Looking forward to an early response from you, sirs. Let’s make India great. Yours in anticipation, KSD Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-dance-of-development/article34732328.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Big shorts||When you think of auteurs, it is usually in connection with a feature film or films of theirs, not shorts. Many of them do begin with shorts as calling cards, before going on to global fame with feature films. For example, you may know Martin Scorsese for several features, including Taxi Driver and Raging Bull , but one of the films he cut his cinematic teeth with was the short The Big Shave (1967). Similarly, while you may delight in Christopher Nolan’s work, including Inception and Interstellar , few remember him for the short Doodlebug (1997). What I’m looking at this week is shorts that auteurs made after they’d already achieved international acclaim. Spanish filmmaker Pedro Almodovar was coming off the majestic Pain and Glory (2019) when he directed, in lockdown no less, the 30-minute short The Human Voice (2020). Almodovar had directed several shorts before his breakthrough Pepi, Luci, Bom (1980). But this film, now available in India via bookmyshow, showcases a master working at the height of his powers. A free adaptation of Jean Cocteau’s monodrama of the same name, The Human Voice stars the ethereal Tilda Swinton as a woman who has broken up with someone but can’t get over him or her. It is a solo performance, with Swinton at one end of a phone in a monologue (we can’t hear what her interlocutor is saying). Swinton’s co-star is the apartment set she is in. And what an apartment it is, production designed to within an inch of its life by frequent Almodovar collaborators Antxón Gómez and María Clara Notari. The last time you might have seen an apartment so striking was in Pain and Glory , where it was Almodovar’s own living quarters that were gussied up. With The Human Voice , the director obviously rediscovered his appetite for shorts as he has two more in the works. Another filmmaker who frequently returns to shorts amidst his feature film work is Hong Kong master Wong Kar Wai. After the film In The Mood For Love (2000), arguably the pinnacle of his career so far, he made several shorts, notable amongst which are the DJ Shadow music video Six Days (2002); The Follow (2001), his segment of a series of BMW motors’ shorts collectively known as The Hire ; and The Hand (2004), his exquisite segment of portmanteau filmEros, an extended version of which is available in the tremendous Criterion blu-ray box set,The World of Wong Kar Wai. Swedish auteur Ingmar Bergman also dipped into the form occasionally. In 1976, where his other credit included Face to Face , he directed the short The Condemned Women Dance . And in 1984, while on After The Rehearsal , he brought outKarin’s Face, mainly pictures of his mother Karin from his personal photo album. At home, Satyajit Ray, in-between directing masterpiece after masterpiece, directed a few shorts. Incredibly, he made his first short Two in 1981, decades after he debuted with Pather Panchali in 1955. After that he directed the documentary short Bala and The Inner Eye and the fiction short Pikoo , all in 1981, and returned to the form just once more, with the documentary Sukumar Ray in 1987. Naman Ramachandran is a journalist and author of Rajinikanth: The Definitive Biography, and tweets @namanrs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/big-shorts/article34732329.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||She makes stress delicious||Humid. Anxiety-inducing. Intense. In the last two months, film reviewers around the world have been explicit about the discomfort that creeps in while watchingShiva Baby, Emma Seligman’s feature film debut. Yet not one of them wanted to cut short the experience. In fact, ‘claustrophobia’ joins sharp comedy and a breakout performance as some of the winning features of this tightly choreographed film about a floundering college student at a funeral service. “Danielle [Rachel Sennott] was taken from my time in university in New York. I was very stressed about what I wanted to do. And a lot of my friends were seeking an arrangement where they had sugar daddies,” says Canadian director and screenwriter, Seligman, over Zoom with The Hindu Weekend . Based on Seligman’s short of the same name, her thesis project at NYU, the film has Danielle attending a shiva, which is a Jewish mourning ritual, with her parents. She runs into her sugar daddy there and her ex-girlfriend. It is stressful and chaotic. Seligman, 26, shares that the film’s themes of identity and empowerment are what she too struggled with in college. “What I wanted to be the backbone [of the film] was reckoning with your self worth as a young woman, realising that it has been based on sexual validation and that it needs to go beyond that,” she says, adding that she also “sprinkled" other parts of her life “like my family, my sexuality”. On June 11, MUBI will be launching Shiva Baby as their LGBTQI+ focus for Pride Month. Seligman remarks that she is lucky it is reaching people beyond the Jewish or bisexual audience. “The short film had a lot of success among my Indian friends too. They loved it and kept telling me they were into it,” she recalls. As for the future of queer cinema, the challenges are many. Noting the lack of portrayal of bisexuality or pansexuality or gender fluidity on screen, she says, "We’ve made progress with telling gay stories and lesbian stories and trans stories, which is wonderful. I think people sometimes worry that audiences may not be able to wrap their head around someone who is in between or fluid with their sexuality or gender. I hope more and more people at the top who make the decisions begin to understand that and not be confused.” While Seligman has often talked about her “very insular Jewish upbringing” she hands it to TV shows like the teen drama series, The OC , and the medical drama, Grey’s Anatomy , for introducing bisexual characters on screen. “Eventually we got stuff like The Bisexual and Transparent, where there are tonnes of bisexual and pansexual characters. But as a kid, those were two shows that stuck out for me.” Meanwhile, the young filmmaker who managed to create her indie darling with a $225,000 budget is on to the big league. Coming up next: a queer high school comedy, Bottoms, with her lead actor and collaborator, Sennott, and Elizabeth Banks’ Brownstone production company.  Seligman tackles questions on authenticity, queer representation and her final van scene on weekend.thehindu.com   Watch: Emma Seligman   discussesShiva Babyon weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/she-makes-stress-delicious/article34732330.ece
05 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Punjab govt. not to supply vaccines to pvt. hospitals||Facing criticism from several quarters, the Punjab government on Friday decided to withdraw its decision of providing limited COVID-19 vaccine doses to 18-44 age group people through private hospitals. Parties belonging to the Opposition, including the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), accused the ruling Congress government in Punjab of selling government quota vaccines at hefty profit to private hospitals. As the controversy raged, Punjab’s Health and Family Welfare department issued an order on June 4 withdrawing its earlier decision. “The order of providing one-time limited vaccine dose to 18-44 years age group population through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn,” said the order. “Further, it has been decided that the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them. The amount deposited by the private hospitals in the vaccine fund shall be refunded to them,” it added.  Akali Dal seeks probe Former Deputy Chief Minister and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal had alleged that while vaccine doses were available in the State, they were being sold to private institutions instead of being given free of cost to the common man. “A Covaxin dose costing the State Rs. 400 was being sold to private institutions at Rs. 1,060. The private hospitals were further selling the dose at Rs. 1,560,” he alleged, demanding a High Court monitored probe into the matter. Raghav Chadha, AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge, said that the State government had committed a ‘vaccine scam’. He said that due to the government’s apathy the people were being forced to get vaccinated from private hospitals at an overblown price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/punjab-govt-not-to-supply-vaccines-to-pvt-hospitals/article34732353.ece
05 June 2021||Guwahati,||Meghalaya mine owner sent to judicial custody||The owner of a coal mine in Meghalaya where five labourers are trapped since May 30 was sent in judicial custody on Thursday, a day after he surrendered, State Home Minister Lakhmen Rymbui has said. The five miners, feared dead, were trapped following a dynamite blast in the 500 feet deep pit. The mine, one of a few thousand in the State’s East Jaintia Hills district, was known to have been abandoned. Four of the trapped miners are from Assam and one from Tripura. A day after the mishap, the district police detained K. Chyrmang, former owner of the mine. But he tested positive for COVID-19 and was quarantined. “The current owner of the mine, Shining Langstang, surrendered on Wednesday night. He is a resident of Sutnga Pohshnong village and was presented before a local court on Thursday for judicial remand,” Mr. Rymbui said, adding that five people have so far been questioned and their statements recorded. District Superintendent of Police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa said a look-out notice had been issued for the absconding sordar (contractor of labourers) of the mine, Nizamuddin Ali. “A case has been registered against six people who had worked with the trapped miners and survived the accident for taking part in illegal mining activities. They have been escorted to their homes in Assam with instructions to appear as and when called,” Mr. Dhanoa said.  ‘Rain hampers rescue’ District officials said continuous rain has hampered the rescue efforts and it would be “extremely difficult” to pull out the miners, dead or alive. The authorities have requisitioned a few pumps to draw out the accumulated water in the pit and a crane for the rescue team to descend. The State Disaster Response Force team on Thursday managed to go down the pit and measured the water level to be about 152 ft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/meghalaya-mine-owner-sent-to-judicial-custody/article34732354.ece
05 June 2021||Guwahati,||Stop handover of Guwahati airport to Adani Group: AJP||The Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) has asked the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Airports Authority of India to stop handing over the Lokapriya Gopinath Bardoloi International Airport in Guwahati to the Adani Group. In a reminder to AAI Chairman Sanjeev Kumar and Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday, AJP general secretary Jagadish Bhuyan said the proposed privatisation of the airport would squeeze the already beleaguered travellers who are hit hard by the sharp drop in the economy and financial resources because of the pandemic. “It has come to our attention that the airports given to Adani Group on lease for the next 50 years include Jaipur, Lucknow, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Guwahati. Adani Group has already taken control of five of these,” Mr. Bhuyan said. Apart from taking over the Mumbai International Airport Limited and an agency that works with the Lucknow Airport, the group has increased rates for the services tenfold, causing significant hardships for passengers, the AJP said. The group will eventually take over the remaining airports, including the one in Guwahati, it added.  ‘Hurt and dismayed’ “We are hurt and dismayed by Centre’s unilateral and autocratic decision to privatise the airport named after a well-known freedom fighter and undivided Assam’s first Chief Minister Gopinath Bardoloi,” Mr. Bhuyan said. “Privatising and making civil aviation expensive defeats the very purpose of the UDAN scheme since the Guwahati airport is central to regional connectivity in the Northeast,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stop-handover-of-guwahati-airport-to-adani-group-ajp/article34732357.ece
05 June 2021||Patna,||BJP suspends Bihar MLC over remarks on Nitish||The BJP on Friday suspended MLC Tunna Pandey from the party with “immediate effect” for making “comments against the party line”. Mr. Pandey, who had recently called Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar a “chief minister of circumstances”, had on Thursday, met Osama Sahab, son of former RJD MP and strongman Mohd. Shahabuddin in Siwan. “The chairman of the BJP’s disciplinary committee, Vinay Singh, had served a show-cause notice to you for making comments against party’s discipline. In spite of this, you made another comment against party line... So, you’re suspended from the party with immediate effect,” said the letter of suspension issued by State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. Earlier on Thursday, Mr. Singh had served a show-cause notice to Mr. Pandey and asked him to reply in 10 days. Mr. Pandey’s term in the Legislative Council is scheduled to end on July 16. Mr. Pandey’s brother Bacchha Pandey is Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLA from Barharia, also in Siwan district. The suspension comes amid speculation that Mr. Tunna Pandey may join the RJD. “I’ll reply and present my case on whatever notice has come from BJP. Why I’m speaking against Nitish Kumar, I’ll tell this in front of my party leaders,” Mr. Pandey told journalists soon after meeting Mr. Sahab. Mr. Pandey’s criticism of Mr. Kumar had come in a series of tweets sparking sharp reactions from the NDA alliance partners. He had accused the Chief Minister of “being hand-in-glove with the liquor smugglers since 2009” and said he would “expose him (Mr. Kumar) that he would land in jail”. Responding to the remarks, JD(U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh, said, “Mr. Pandey himself was in liquor business and is peeved with the government after prohibition.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-suspends-bihar-mlc-over-remarks-on-nitish/article34732045.ece
05 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Prisoners go on rampage in U.P. jail||A jail head warder was injured after inmates, angered by the death of a fellow prisoner, went on a rampage for over four hours inside the premises of a prison in Uttar Pradesh’s Jaunpur district on Friday. The inmates pelted stones and bricks, threatened arson with a gas cylinder and set a blanket on fire in the compound of the prison, said a spokesperson of the State prison department.  Death of convict The incident took place after the death, allegedly due to illness, of convicted prisoner Nagesh Mishra, who was serving life imprisonment for murder. Senior officers later reached the jail with heavy police force to bring the situation under control and managed to get the prisoners back into their barracks “without any use of force” through cordial talks, said the spokesperson. “The situation in the jail is fully under control now,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prisoners-go-on-rampage-in-up-jail/article34732355.ece
05 June 2021||Agartala,||Drug peddler detained||Security personnel foiled an attempt to pass on drugs inside a COVID-19 care centre at Panisagar in north Tripura. They detained a peddler in connection with the incident that occurred on Thursday. Police said Shibu Debbarma came to deliver a mobile charger to a patient at the centre. During search brown sugar was found concealed inside the case of the charger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/drug-peddler-detained/article34732356.ece
05 June 2021||Pride Month:,||Instapick||The pandemic may be ‘raining’ on parades, but a mix of offline and online events are ensuring the rainbow colours are visible across the globe. From Pride Movie Nights in San Francisco, and Netflix’s genre page, to Instagram’s partnership with The Queer Muslim Project. The virtual community’s Digital Pride Festival aims to inspire creativity and self-care. @thequeermuslimproject||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article34732331.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Sleight of hand||Simple things like rubber bands and pens turn into magical tools in the hands of Mangesh Desai. Catch the illusionist’s workshop, Everyday Magic for Kids, today on Zoom, at 5.30 pm. Rs. 235, on in.bookmyshow.com. Meanwhile, grown-ups can use their time and hands for something constructive. Sign up for a Palm Weaving workshop with artist-blogger Madhushree Attal Rathi, and learn how to make small mats and baskets. Rs. 749. On Zoom at 7 pm. in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sleight-of-hand/article34732332.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Trip with Alice||Go down the rabbit hole with Alice. A theatrical, virtual reality show at London’s V&A museum explores the “origins, adaptations and reinventions” of Lewis Carroll’s surreal classic over the last 157 years. £20, on vam.ac.uk. Closer home, Daniel Fernandes is ready with a new set of jokes — a mix of scripted and interactive stand-up — on a live Zoom show tomorrow. With a lot of material to be created out of conversations with his audience, the stand-up comic promises a show that is “not family friendly”. At 7 pm. Rs. 399, on punchliners.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trip-with-alice/article34732333.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Rainbow moment||As a shout out to Pride Month, Fossil has reimagined its Minimalist 40mm watch case as a limited-edition with rainbow indexes (Rs. 5,495). The strap collection includes two reversible colourways (Rs. 1,495) featuring hues of the transgender and rainbow flag. Details: fossil.in. GAP has unveiled 100% organic tees, tie-dye hoodies, and more, designed by artists within the community (approx Rs. 2,000 onwards, gap.com), while Coach encourages you to tote your pride with their handbags (Rs. 14,500, on coach.com).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rainbow-moment/article34732334.ece
05 June 2021||Naomi Osaka:,||Talking point||The Japanese player didn’t mince words when she withdrew from the French Open, admitting to “bouts of depression” since she won the United States Open in 2018. There has been vitriol (as expected), but also a large outpouring of support for the 23-year-old. The leaders of the four Grand Slam tournaments have now promised to address players’ concerns about mentalhealth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article34732335.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Around the world||Kids have the lockdown blues? Theatre artiste Raell Padamsee has a solution: a series of fun Zoom workshops that explores everything fromHarry Potterto Broadway. Kick things off on Monday with a ‘Summer Cruise with Drama’. Spread over 10 days, for children between ages four and 13, the ‘adventure’ trip will take them on a virtual tour of Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre, let them experience a Venetian gondola ride, enact the history of the Taj Mahal, and much more. 11.20 am, 4.20 pm, and 5.40 pm. Rs. 4,300, on in.bookmyshow.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/around-the-world/article34732336.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Guneet Monga as mentor||If you’ve got a story, here’s a crash course that will help you give it shape, form and structure. Screenwriting Bootcamp with Satyanshu Singh (ofChintu Ka Birthdayfame) consists of three writing workshops, one peer-feedback session, and one pitchfest — to a panel that will include writer-director Roshan Abbas, author Divya Prakash Dubey, and other veterans. Three participants with the best ideas will also get a mentorship session with producer Guneet Monga. June 18 - July 4, registrations are open now. Rs. 3,499, on insider.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/guneet-monga-as-mentor/article34732337.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||Nature fix||This World Environment Day, tune into Netflix’s docu-series,Life in Color with David Attenborough, where the naturalist investigates how animals use colour to survive. While you are at it, also check out Discovery Plus’Endangered, and Apple TV’sThe Year Earth Changed(read the full story on weekend.thehindu.com). If you’d rather read, Rohan Chakravarty’sGreen Humour for a Greying Planet, a curation of the illustrator and wildlife buff’s gag cartoons and comic strips, releases today. Rs. 399, on penguin.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nature-fix/article34732338.ece
05 June 2021||June 05 2021 00:00 IST,||OTT update||There’s a lot that’s dropped (or is dropping) on OTT platforms. Here are a few to look out for. On Netflix, don’t missJagame Thandhiram, the Tamil gangster film starring Dhanush andGame of Thronesfame James Cosmo. Then there’sRay, the four-part anthology (of adapted short stories of Satyajit Ray), andSkater Girl, about a teen from Rajasthan who becomes a skater. Over on Disney+ Hotstar,Lokigets his own adventure trip,Raya and the Last Dragonmakes an entry, andLucacomes of age in the Italian Riviera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ott-update/article34732339.ece
