06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. sends ‘one last notice’ to Twitter to adopt new IT Rules||The government on Saturday sent out “one last notice” to U.S.-based social media platform Twitter to immediately comply with the new IT Rules that came into effect on May 26, and warned that failure to do so will lead to the platform losing exemption from liability under the IT Act. In a notice addressed to Twitter Inc’s deputy general counsel Jim Baker, the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) said the refusal to comply with the rules, which came into force more than a week ago, demonstrated Twitter’s lack of commitment and efforts towards providing a safe experience for the people of India on its platform. “...as a gesture of goodwill, Twitter Inc. is hereby given one last notice to immediately comply with the rules, failing which the exemption from liability available under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000, shall stand withdrawn and Twitter shall be liable for consequences as per the IT Act and other penal laws of India,” the notice said. Twitter declined to comment on the notice. MeitY pointed out that while Twitter has not shared the details of its chief compliance officer, the resident grievance officer and the nodal contact person nominated by the company are not employees of Twitter Inc. in India, as required under the rules. Further, the office address submitted for Twitter Inc. is that of a law firm in India. Noting that Twitter, in its earlier responses, had failed to address clarifications sought by the Ministry and indicate full compliance with the rules, the MeitY said, “Needless to state, such non-compliance will lead to unintended consequences, including Twitter losing exemption from liability as intermediary available under Section 79 of the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. This has clearly been provided under rule 7 of the aforesaid rules.” India has been among the first countries in the world, outside the parent country of Twitter Inc., to enthusiastically adopt the platform, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-sends-one-last-notice-to-twitter-to-adopt-new-it-rules/article34742506.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State braces for likely third wave||The State government has decided to administer at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine to people above 40 years of age by July 15. The decision was announced by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after a review meeting on COVID here on Saturday. Mr. Vijayan directed all departments to make preparations on a war footing to combat the third wave of COVID-19, which some experts believe is imminent. Maximum cooperation of the public should be ensured in this endeavour, he said. Biggest vulnerability As age seems to be the biggest vulnerability as far as COVID is concerned, the State has taken the conscious decision to cover the maximum number of people who are likely to have the beginnings of lifestyle diseases with at least one dose of vaccine. The government is directly purchasing vaccines to administer to 56 prioritised groups in the 18-44 age group. The 40-45 age band at the upper end of this group has now been chosen for universal vaccination in the hope that more vaccines could be made available this month. In the 45-plus age group, nearly 50 lakh people are yet to receive even a single dose of vaccine. The State was hoping to increase the pace of vaccination as 38 lakh doses of vaccine were expected to be available this month, Mr. Vijayan said. Paediatric care The State, in preparation to meet the third wave of COVID-19, has already prepared a surge plan for public health facilities, with focus on paediatric ICU and high-end care facilities, as it is being given to believe that the disease burden might shift to children, who are now not immunised against COVID-19. Mr. Vijayan said that as part of the preparations, genetic surveillance would be heightened and that vaccine breakthrough infections and infections in children would be monitored. Genetic surveillance data from the State would be analysed systematically every week for early warnings about any new mutations in the circulating virus strains.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-braces-for-likely-third-wave/article34742683.ece
06 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,||Shadow of debt looms over Dharmapuri||The little black goat hungrily suckled from the feeding bottle Muthammal held to its mouth. Ms. Muthammal had just bought half a litre of milk from her neighbour Ambigai, who stood by holding her aluminium milk can, measuring to refill the feeding bottle. “She bought this kid as a new-born from someone, who needed money. She will raise it, and then sell it to make some money,” Ms. Ambigai said, explaining the economics of goat rearing in M.Thanda village in the dry Eiryur block of Dharmapuri. “Sometimes it may go up to Rs. 10,000, if she is lucky.” As she waits, Ms. Muthammal tells Ms. Ambigai that she withdrew the last of the MGNREGS work payment of Rs. 1,200 this week. Those were the wages for the six days of work credited for March that she had saved up. “There is no more work now,” said Ms. Muthammal. Work under the scheme has come down to just three weeks a year now, with more people and less work, never 100 days, said Ms. Ambigai. With the pandemic induced lockdown and work under the MGNREGS drying up, the rural economy is tottering, barely sustained by the State government’s COVID-19 cash relief of Rs. 4,000 for every ration card, with dry rations providing minimal sustenance.  Ms. Ambigai, who supplies an average of 5 litres daily to the local milk cooperative society, diverted some milk to Ms. Muthammal’s goat because she needed the extra money. While the cooperative society procures milk at Rs. 22 per litre, she can sell it in the open for Rs. 40 per litre. But there’s a catch. “The society’s offtake is a steady income. I know they will buy it. Here, no one can afford milk every day. They will buy on one day but then may not buy for another 10 days. I can’t lose the society,” says Ambigai. Though the society has not paid her since March, she’s certain they will clear the dues. “But on days like these, when someone asks, I sell it.” And Ambigai is unaware of larger changes effected by government policies since her payments are yet to come. The cooperative societies have cut down the procurement price by Rs. 3 payable to the suppliers like her. Across villages, as women go about their daily chores, the spectre of debt owed to the SHGs is the staple of every conversation. The women were given loans on the understanding that they would find work and that their menfolk were also working, says Ambigai. But, now the men have returned from their jobs and are unemployed. “Without men, we ate what was there, not needing to cook three times. Now, the rations and the gas always falls short,” she says as her husband who was employed in a snacks making unit, has returned having lost his source of income. In a predominantly rain-fed, drought prone region like Dharmapuri, the summer showers brought seasonal farm work for the landless majority, on the marginal landholdings in the village. But not this year. With cash flows to the rural economy drying up, those with meagre landholdings have turned to family labour as the men working in small scale units and informal sector have returned due to the lockdown. Lack of remittances from them has also meant little money to pay the farm labour. “They [farmers] will start coming for loans once this lockdown is over,” predicts, K. Periasamy, secretary of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society at Jarthalav. The Society lends crop loans to landholding farmers, apart from jewel loan and loans to women’s SHGs. “We will not lend a rupee if there are outstanding loans. Every year, there are outstanding loans because farmers say the ‘cane is lost, crop is burnt’. But, this year, the State government had waived Agricultural Cooperative Society farm loans and SHG loans ahead of the elections. For the majority of women’s SHGs serviced by the regional rural banks and nationalised banks, this loan waiver to the Societies-lent SHGs has left them feeling deprived. “Society lends only to those with land. Benefits are accrued to those with land and the rest of us don’t get anything,” said Vijayshanthi in Paruvadhanapalli village in Pennagaram block, who has a loan of Rs. 38,000 from her sangam and a jewel loan from a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shadow-of-debt-looms-over-dharmapuri/article34742508.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Diagnostic services at govt. hospitals||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered commencement of diagnostic labs at government-run district headquarters hospitals in 19 select districts from Monday. The services will be offered in Mahabubnagar, Nizamabad, Sangareddy, Medak, Jangaon, Mulug, Mahbubabad, Kothagudem, Jagtial, Siddipet, Nalgonda, Khammam, Sircilla, Vikarabad, Nirmal, Karimnagar, Adilabad, Gadwal and K.B. Asifabad. The preparations for labs at hospitals in these towns were already completed. The decision on diagnostic services offering 57 types of investigations at these labs was taken at a meeting held by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with health officials on Saturday. The labs will have state-of-the art machines like fully automatic clinical chemistry analysers, fully automatic immunoassay analysers, five part cell counters, Elisa readers and washers and fully automatic urine analysers. Imaging devices like ECG, 2D Echo, ultrasound machines and digital X rays will also be set up. They will generate 400 to 800 precise reports per hour which will be despatched to the cell phones of patients or their attendants. Besides, the patients will be provided ambulances to take them to hospitals and back to make it totally free from the time they leave their homes. The government will employ pathologists, microbiologists, radiologists and other qualified technicians at the centres. Mr. Rao said on the occasion that the government had improved basic infrastructure at primary health centres and other hospitals across the State in view of COVID-19 pandemic. One more step was being taken now to step up healthcare to common public. The decision to open diagnostic services, which was the most important part of health facilities, free of cost, at district headquarters hospitals was a milestone in the history of State. Health was becoming more and more expensive as time passed. Poor people faced the plight of selling their properties to pay for medical expenses. The bill for diagnosis of disease was higher than treatment itself. Investigations to diagnose ailments of heart, kidney, liver, lungs, cancer and thyroid had become inevitable for common public. Added to the list of diseases recently was COVID, he added. The doctor would prescribe medicines to patients at government hospitals but they would have to first visit private diagnostic centres for investigations spending thousands of rupees. This was a huge financial burden on poor. The poor suffered recently from COVID testing and treatment. In this background, Mr. Rao said the government realised mere treatment given by doctors at its hospitals was not enough as investigations were also highly important. Therefore, the decision to start diagnostic services in 19 districts was taken. They will be further opened phase wise wherever required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/diagnostic-services-at-govt-hospitals/article34742899.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,||II PU: SSLC, I PU marks to be considered for grading||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has directed the Department of Pre-University Education to also consider the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) marks when grading second pre-university (PU) students. While announcing the cancellation of II PU examination on Friday, the Minister said the previous year’s marks would be taken into consideration. This decision, however, received a mixed reaction, with many stakeholders pointing out that students tended to not take I PU exams as seriously as SSLC and II PU finals. In a note to officials, the Minister said considering SSLC marks along with that of I PU results would protect the interests of students and make the grading system more “comprehensive” and “fair”. The “results” — which will be a combination of scores from two years — will be announced likely by the end of June. In another letter, Mr. Kumar has asked Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who also holds the Higher Education portfolio, not to give weightage to II PU marks while announcing the Common Entrance Test (CET) rankings this year. “Normally, CET rankings are announced after taking into consideration both II PU marks and the entrance test scores. This year, a grading system has been introduced for II PU students and students who are not happy with their grades are given an option to appear for examinations. If II PU marks are taken into consideration while announcing the CET ranks, those who challenged the grading system and appeared for examinations will be at disadvantage,” he said in the letter. If the Higher Education Department gives the green signal to the proposal made by the Primary and Secondary Education Minister, the Karnataka Examinations Authority, which conducts the test, will announce CET ranks without considering II PU marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-sslc-i-pu-marks-to-be-considered-for-grading/article34742547.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST revenue falls to Rs. 1.02 lakh crore in May||India’s Gross GST revenue fell to Rs. 1.02 lakh crore in May, from a record Rs. 1.41 lakh crore in April, but the number was likely to be revised upwards, the government said on Saturday. The May collections, broadly pertaining to transactions in April, are the lowest since September 2020, which recorded revenue of Rs. 95,480 crore. Further dip expected Economists expect the collections to dip further in June even though the current lockdowns across the States may not be denting activity as much as last year’s national lockdown. “The moderation in GST inflows was expected as evident in the sequential slowdown in e-way bills between March and April. With the extension and widening of restrictions by various States in May 2021, the generation of e-way bills have declined further, which will further dampen GST collections in June,” said ICRA chief economist Aditi Nayar. The Rs. 1,02,709 crore collected in May includes revenues from domestic transactions till June 4. This is 65% higher than May 2020, when just Rs. 62,151 crore was received amid the national lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-revenue-falls-to-rs-102-lakh-crore-in-may/article34742510.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Green light to metro, malls, markets as Delhi ‘unlocks’||With new COVID-19 cases on the decline in the Capital, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced new relaxations, including resumption of metro services with 50% capacity and reopening of malls and markets on odd-even basis from June 7 (Monday). Liquor vends and neighbourhood shops are set to become operational once again as part of the city’s unlocking process. Private offices will be allowed to function with 50% staff while those working in essential services can work at 100% capacity. Cinemas and theatres, bars, gyms, spas, barber shops and beauty parlours will, however, continue to remain shut; restaurants have been allowed to be in operation but can only provide home deliveries and takeaway services. “The COVID-19 situation in Delhi appears to be improving and keeping that in mind we began the unlock procedure last week. It is necessary to bring the economy back on track,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a digital briefing. The lockdown extension announced last week, he said, will be applicable till 5 a.m. on Monday, following which all markets and malls will open on an odd-even basis from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. In all government offices in Delhi, 100% of Group A officers will have to work while those junior to them will work at a capacity of 50%. Private offices can reopen at 50% capacity. The CM said efforts should be made to ensure that more people work from home and work hours should be staggered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/green-light-to-metro-malls-markets-as-delhi-unlocks/article34742880.ece
06 June 2021||NELLORE,||Distribution of herbal preparation from Monday||With the State government giving its green signal following the A.P. High Court’s intervention, the stage is set for the distribution of three variants of B. Anandaiah’s herbal preparation from Monday. Mr. Anandaiah has made elaborate arrangements for procuring the ingredients through his network of volunteers. ‘Bhoomi puja’ was performed for the temporary sheds at Krishnapatnam on Saturday with the blessings of Sri Govindananda Saraswati Swami of Hampi. The district administration, with a view to avoiding crowding at the village and in adherence to the COVID-19 protocols, made arrangements for the distribution of the herbal preparation in a decentralised manner. It appealed to the people from other places not to rush to Nellore, or Krishnapatnam and instead seek the preparation online from Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu. The website for the purpose would be announced later, YSRCP’s Sarvepalli MLA Kakani Govardhan Reddy said. The district administration would arrange for the distribution of the herbal preparation in other districts with the help of the officials there, he added. Preference would first be given to the COVID-19 patients and later to others seeking it as an immunity booster, he made it clear. The demand within the Sarvepalli Assembly segment would first be met, Mr. Anandaiah said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/distribution-of-herbal-preparation-from-monday/article34742511.ece
06 June 2021||islamabad,||Kashmir road map must for talks: Imran||Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Friday that Pakistan is ready to restart talks with India if New Delhi provides a road map towards restoring the previous status of the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir. “If there is a road map, then, yes, we will talk,” Mr. Khan told Reuters in Islamabad. Previously, Mr. Khan and his government have held that India would have to first reverse its 2019 steps for any normalisation process to begin. “Even if they give us a road map, that these are the steps that we will take to basically undo what they did, which is illegal, against international law and United Nations resolutions... then that is acceptable,” Mr. Khan said. India’s External Affairs Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kashmir-road-map-must-for-talks-imran/article34742658.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,||No more cash transactions at Sub-Registrar offices||Citing instances of government money getting transferred to private accounts and used for illegal and hawala transactions, the State government has banned acceptance of cash and demand drafts at Sub-Registrar offices. A recent circular states that all transactions should be done through banks or using digital payment modes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-more-cash-transactions-at-sub-registrar-offices/article34742548.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,||CM promises gradual unlocking||On the day Karnataka’s COVID-19 test positivity rate dropped below 10 and stood at 9.69, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa hinted at gradually easing lockdown restrictions in districts that report TRP of less than 5. He told reporters on Saturday that he would hold discussions with officials and take a decision in four or five days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-promises-gradual-unlocking/article34742549.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Row erupts as RSS handles lose ‘blue ticks’||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s personal Twitter account lost its “blue tick” of verification on Saturday morning, only to have it restored later in the day after the matter was taken up by his office with officials of the social media platform, in a set of events that set off a spiral of such complaints by several senior members of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) as well. According to Twitter, Mr. Naidu now mainly tweets from his official account @VPSecretariat rather than his personal Twitter account @mvenkaiahnaidu. Officials from the social media platform said this was the reason the blue tick of the account was removed. According to Twitter rules, accounts that are inactive, that is, not logging in for more than six months lose the badge or blue tick of verification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/row-erupts-as-rss-handles-lose-blue-ticks/article34742504.ece
06 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,||Determined to conduct Inter, SSC exams, says Minister||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said the State government would not cancel the Class X (SSC) and Intermediate final examinations for the academic year 2020-21, but prepare to conduct the exams under the safest conditions. Speaking to newsmen here, Mr. Suresh said that parents were demanding that the State government assure the safety of their children while conducting the examinations. “We are also concerned about it and postponed the final examinations owing to the spread of COVID-19. However, there has been no demand from parents to cancel the examinations,” he said. The State government was determined to conduct the examinations as their results and marks would decide the future academic career of students, particularly IIT entrance and EAMCET, the Minister said. In Andhra Pradesh, above 11 lakh Intermediate students and six lakh Class X students would appear for their final examinations in the 2020-21 academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/determined-to-conduct-inter-ssc-exams-says-minister/article34742495.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi hospital ‘bans’ nurses from talking in Malayalam||A Delhi government hospital on Saturday banned its nursing staff from speaking in Malayalam in the hospital and warned of “serious action” if they do not talk in English or Hindi.. “A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language is being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patient and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience. So it is directed to all Nursing Personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication otherwise serious action will be taken (sic),” read the order issued by Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research. Reacting to the order, a nurse from Kerala working at GIPMER said: “There are around 300-350 Malayali nursing staff at the hospital and we always talk to the patients in Hindi. Do you think they will understand anything if we talk to them in Malayalam? Now they are saying that we can’t even talk among ourselves in Malayalam.” The nurse said they will oppose the move through the hospital’s nurses’ union on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-hospital-bans-nurses-from-talking-in-malayalam/article34742881.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon in Jharkhand, Odisha by June 15: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to advance into Odisha, Jharkhand, parts of West Bengal and Bihar, the India Meteorological Department said on Saturday, hinting at its good progress in the next 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-in-jharkhand-odisha-by-june-15-imd/article34742660.ece
06 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||First Covaxin dose suspended in Assam||The Health Department in Assam has suspended the first dose of Covaxin until sufficient stocks are available. The decision on Friday coincided with the relaxation of pandemic-induced curfew in the State by an hour and a directive to not allow home isolation for COVID-19 positive people with comorbidities. “We are expecting a batch of 50,000 Covaxin doses for the 18-44 age group in about a week. We have about 20,000 doses but we have given priority to those who have to get the second jab within 42 days,” the State’s Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-covaxin-dose-suspended-in-assam/article34742661.ece
06 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers protest outside BJP leaders’ offices||Observing ‘Sampoorna Kranti Diwas’ on Saturday on the first anniversary of the promulgation of the Centre’s farm laws, farmers burnt copies of the laws outside the residences and offices of leaders of the BJP and its allies in various States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-protest-outside-bjp-leaders-offices/article34742883.ece
06 June 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata’s nephew made TMC general secretary||In a major development in the Trinamool Congress, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee was on Saturday appointed the party’s national general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamatas-nephew-made-tmc-general-secretary/article34742884.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Doorstep ration delivery stalled by Centre: CM||The Delhi government’s “revolutionary” doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled by the Central government just days before it was to be launched, read a statement released by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/doorstep-ration-delivery-stalled-by-centre-cm/article34742885.ece
06 June 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC refuses to stay MUHS exams||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Saturday refused to grant interim relief to 44,000 medical students who are to appear physically for the examinations held by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences on June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bombay-hc-refuses-to-stay-muhs-exams/article34742986.ece
06 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||A year after Nisarga, Raigad builds resilience||A year after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Murud, the Raigad administration has disbursed relief to the affected people and is on the path of building resilient infrastructure such as multi-purpose cyclone shelters in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-year-after-nisarga-raigad-builds-resilience/article34742987.ece
06 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Demolition drive in Dharwad suspended||A demolition drive initiated by the HDMC on Saturday to clear illegal structures at Super Market locality in Dharwad was suspended after a while, following stiff resistance from shopkeepers and a few political leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/demolition-drive-in-dharwad-suspended/article34742630.ece
06 June 2021||Chennai,||21,410 fresh COVID-19 cases recorded in T.N.||A total of 21,410 fresh COVID-19 cases and 443 deaths were recorded in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. In Coimbatore, 2,663 people tested positive, while Chennai’s daily count came down to 1,789.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/21410-fresh-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-tn/article34742592.ece
06 June 2021||Chennai,||No bidders for T.N.’s tender for vaccines||Tamil Nadu’s global tender for COVID-19 vaccines, which closed on Saturday, did not find any bidders. This has put the State’s plans to vaccinate nearly 3.6 crore people in the 18 to 44 years age group in jeopardy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-bidders-for-tns-tender-for-vaccines/article34742589.ece
06 June 2021||Chennai,||40 hospitals pulled up for violations||At least 40 private hospitals in the State have been pulled up for violations, including “charging exorbitant rates” for treating COVID-19 patients. So far, 10 hospitals have lost their permits to treat COVID-19 patients, following violations including charging patients in excess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/40-hospitals-pulled-up-for-violations/article34742590.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The coming together of the powerful five||Twenty years after it was first thought of, the BRICS group of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa still mystifies all. Hailed by members as an alternate grouping of emerging economies that challenge the post-War world order, sneered at by critics as a rag-tag band of disparate countries across four continents with little in common, and which, aside from China, have not fulfilled their economic potential, BRICS still defies a focus. In addition, ties between countries such as Russia and China are growing at a much strong pace than the group’s own cohesion, which is increasingly tested by tensions between members like India and China. In recent months, it seems, India’s membership of the U.S.-India-Australia-Japan Quadrilateral Strategic Dialogue (Quad) is taking a higher profile, with a major vaccine initiative and summit of the leaders planned later this year. India, Brazil and South Africa have equal, if not stronger, strategic ties with western powers today, prompting Rachel Salzman, author of Russia, BRICS, and the Disruption of Global Order, to ask whether BRICS is a bridge between the east and west or whether it is being positioned as a bulwark against them. To be clear, BRICS was not invented by any of its members. In 2001, Goldman Sachs’ Jim O’Neill authored a paper called “Building Better Global Economic BRICs”, pointing out that future GDP growth in the world would come from China, India, Russia and Brazil. Significantly, the paper didn’t recommend a separate grouping for them, but made the case that the G-7 grouping, made up of the world’s most industrialised, and essentially Western countries, should include them. Mr. O’Neill also suggested that the G-7 group needed revamping after the introduction of a common currency for Europe, the euro, in 1999. In 2003, Goldman Sachs wrote another paper, “Dreaming with BRICs: Path to 2050”, predicting that the global map would significantly change due to these four emerging economies, and that BRIC economies combined would outstrip the western dominated world order before 2039. In 2006, leaders of the BRIC countries met on the margins of a G-8 (now called G-7) summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, and BRIC was formalised that year. The global financial crisis of 2007-08 reinforced the idea as BRIC countries had been relatively unscathed in the market collapse. On June 16, 2009, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh met with Presidents Hu Jintao, Dmitry Medvedev and Lula da Silva for the first BRIC summit in Yekaterinburg, and South Africa was subsequently admitted two years later. Common ground for the members was built by ensuring that no bilateral issues were brought up, but the contradictions remained. Many economists soon grew tired of “emerging” economies that didn’t reach the goals they had predicted. Others saw India’s closer ties with the U.S. after the civil nuclear deal as a sign its bonds with BRICS would weaken. Meanwhile, Russia, which had hoped to bolster its own global influence through the group, had been cast out of the G-7 order altogether after its actions in Crimea in 2014. China, under Xi Jinping, grew increasingly aggressive, and impatient about the other underperforming economies in the group, as it became the U.S.’s main challenger on the global stage. Long-term prospects China’s decision to launch the trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative in 2017 was opposed by India, and even Russia did not join the BRI plan, although it has considerable infrastructure projects with China. South Africa’s debt-laden economy and negative current account has led some to predict an economic collapse in the next decade. Brazil’s poor handling during the Covid-19 crisis has ranked it amongst the world’s worst-affected countries, and its recovery is expected to be delayed. India’s economic slowdown was a concern even before Covid-19 hit, and government policies like “Aatmanirbhar” were seen as a plan to turn inward. Meanwhile, concerns about aggressions from Russia in Ukraine and Eastern Europe and China in the South China Sea, the border with India and internally in Hongkong and Xinjiang, as well as creeping authoritarianism in democracies like Brazil and India have made investors question long-term prospects of the group. In the market, BRICS has been mocked for being “broken”, while others have suggested it should be expanded to include more emerging economies like Indonesia, Mexico and Turkey, called the “Next-11”. Others suggested BRICKS (including South Korea). Perhaps the biggest blow to the BRICS firmament was dealt by the very company that laid its foundations: In 2015, Goldman Sachs wound up its BRIC fund, which had reportedly lost 88% of its asset value since 2010, and merged it with a larger emerging markets fund. In an article he wrote for Project Syndicate in 2021, to mark the idea of “BRICs at 20”, Mr. O’Neill said he was disappointed by the group’s performance but hadn’t lost hope entirely. All the contradictions and criticism notwithstanding, BRICS is an idea that has endured two decades, an idea its members remain committed to, and not one has skipped the annual summits held since 2009. Along the way, BRICS has created the New Development Bank (NDB) set up with an initial capital of $100 billion, a BRICS Contingent Reserve Arrangement fund to deal with global liquidity crunches, and a BRICS payment system proposing to be an alternative to the SWIFT payment system. While its raison d’etre was economic, BRICS statements have always been deeply political, calling for more inclusion in the multilateral world order, decrying U.S.-Europe backed military interventions, and expressing an independent line on several world events from Afghanistan to West Asia. Reforming the UN India is set to host the BRICS summit under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chairmanship, either virtually or in person with Presidents Vladimir Putin, Xi Jingping, Jair Bolsonaro and Cyril Ramaphosa later this year. The BRICS ministerial meeting held this week sent several important signals to that end, issuing two outcome documents, including the first “standalone” joint statement on reforming multilateral institutions, including the UN and the UNSC, International Monetary Fund and World Bank and the World Trade Organization. It remains to be seen how far countries like China and Russia, which are already “inside the tent” at the UNSC, will go in advocating for the other BRICS members to be a part of a reformed Security Council. Another important agreement was the BRICS ministerial decision to support negotiations at the WTO for the waiver of trade-related intellectual property rights (TRIPs) for vaccines and medicines to tackle the Coronavirus pandemic. While it stopped short of backing the India-South Africa proposal for a three-year waiver, something Brazil has been holding out given opposition from big Pharmaceutical companies, BRICS support at the WTO for the TRIPs waiver negotiations will be a boost for the effort. It will also be interesting to watch how BRICS countries move ahead on a “BRICS Vaccine Centre”, proposed to be based in Johannesburg, given that at least three members — Russia India and China — have manufactured a substantial chunk of all globally authorised vaccines. What appears clear is in the post-Covid world, priorities for all economies will change, and offer up a churning in the world of the kind seen two decades ago, when the idea of a grouping of emerging economies was first floated. For BRICS, the next few months could crystallise that idea, or sink it further, leaving others to wonder whether the “Rise of the Rest” as it was once called, is an idea whose time will ever come at all.  In Focus  The origins of BRICS can be traced back to a paper written by Goldman Sachs’ Jim O’Neill in 2001, titled “Building Better Global Economic BRICs”, in which he said Brazil, Russia, India and China would drive economic growth in the future  In 2006, leaders of the BRIC countries met in St. Petersburg, Russia, and the grouping was formalised that year On June 16, 2009, PM Manmohan Singh met with Presidents Hu Jintao, Dmitry Medvedev and Lula da Silva for the first BRIC summit in Yekaterinburg. South Africa was admitted two years later    Contradictions and criticism notwithstanding, BRICS is an idea that has endured two decades, and not one of the leaders has skipped the annual summits since 2009||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-coming-together-of-the-powerful-five/article34742468.ece
06 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers hold protests outside BJP leaders’ offices, residences||Observing ‘Sampoorna Kranti Diwas’ on Saturday on the first anniversary of the promulgation of the Centre’s farm laws, farmers burnt copies of the laws outside the residences and offices of leaders of the BJP and its allies in various States. Shouting anti-BJP slogans, groups of farmers were seen holding demonstrations and burning copies of the farm laws outside or near residences and offices of BJP leaders and its political alliance partners in Punjab and Haryana. The demonstrations were held on a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the ongoing farmers’ protests. Demonstrations were also staged in other States, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Telangana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, according to the SKM. At Panchkula in Haryana, after they were stopped in their march towards Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta’s residence, members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union blocked the Kalka-Zirakpur Road. At Hisar, farmers protested near the residence of Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala. At Tohana in Fatehabad, scores of farmers led by Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Yogendra Yadav gathered to “court arrest” in protest against the Haryana government’s arrest of farmers following a recent spat with Tohana MLA Devender Babli. Amid the raging controversy, Mr. Babli, in a video statement about the incident on June 1 in Tohana, said, “I am a public representative and I uttered certain words that were inappropriate. I take my words back.” The SKM, however, said on Monday, a sit-in would be held in front of all the police stations across Haryana if the ruling BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) government did not withdraw the cases filed against the farmers. Farmers associated with the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC), a prominent outfit at the forefront of the ongoing agitation, burnt copies of the farm laws in 11 districts of Punjab, primarily in the Majha and Doaba region, while Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) members burnt copies at around 50 places across 15 districts in the State, according to Sukhdev Singh, general secretary, BKU(U). Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the KMSC in Amritsar, accused the BJP of imposing a “pro-corporate agenda” on farmers and labourers. “The entire country has come together and is raising voice against the farm laws,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-hold-protests-outside-bjp-leaders-offices-residences/article34742439.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. alleges inequity in vaccine policy||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi alleged that the Centre’s unfair policy of vaccine distribution was leading to inequity. Reports said 80% of the vaccines went to just six cities, he stated. Reports suggested that 50% of the doses went to only nine hospitals, he said. “In the absence of a fair policy of vaccine distribution, the inequality policy of the Modi government will give such results,” he observed in a tweet. BJP leaders have been claiming that the Opposition parties had changed the goalpost. They said the Opposition first demanded that the States should be given control of the vaccination policy and when it was done, they wanted the Centre to take over. Clarifying the Congress’s position on the issue, Mr. Gandhi said, “I have always said this, the vaccines should be procured by the Centre and distributed by the States.” In a joint letter written on May 12 to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 12 Opposition parties demanded that the Centre provide free and universal mass vaccination. “Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic. Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country,” the letter said. Congress President Sonia Gandhi was one of the signatories. Recently, four Chief Ministers of non-BJP ruled States had picked loopholes in the vaccination policy of the Centre.  Vaccines should be procured by Centre and distributed by the States Rahul GandhiCongress leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-alleges-inequity-in-vaccine-policy/article34742449.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,||7-day average of daily vaccination improves||India recorded 1,13,254 new COVID-19 cases and 2,545 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,88,07,211 cases and 3,46,648 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 21,410 new infections, followed by Kerala (17,328) and Karnataka (13,800). Maharashtra recorded 741 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (443) and Karnataka (365). Maharashtra’s new deaths figure includes backlog fatalities which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Jharkhand, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 20.84 lakh samples were tested in the country on Friday (the results for which were made available on Saturday). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 4.8% on June 4 compared to 9.8% recorded a week before. About 36.5 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is 7.75 lakh doses higher than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 5.87 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in India stood at 25.98 lakh on June 4, which is more than the 18.1 lakh recorded a month ago. About 19.5% of adults in India, 40.1% of those aged above 45 and 44.4% of people aged above 60, have been administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Saturday. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. India continues to record the highest number of new cases in the world with 1,37,947 average daily infections on June 4. The two other countries with the highest new case count after India were Brazil (64,211) and Argentina (30,425). Nearly one in every three new cases is from India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/7-day-average-of-daily-vaccination-improves/article34742456.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||From kingmaker to king||Earlier this year, Naftali Bennett joined coalition talks with Israel’s opposition as a potential kingmaker. Opposition leader Yair Lapid, whose Yesh Atid is the second largest party in the Knesset with 17 seats after Likud, was trying to put together a coalition to replace Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, but he did not have the majority. Mr. Bennett, whose right-wing Yamina party has seven legislators, was expected to join the coalition. But not many thought that when Mr. Lapid’s deadline to form the government expires on June 2, it would be Mr. Bennett who would emerge wearing the crown. Mr. Lapid has claimed that his coalition has the support of 61 Members of the Knesset (MKs). If the majority is proved in Parliament, Mr. Bennett would be Israel’s next Prime Minister, replacing Mr. Netanyahu, his former boss and the country’s longest-serving head of government. Born in Haifa to wealthy Jewish immigrants from the U.S., Mr. Bennett, 49, has built his political career as a right-wing alternative to Mr. Netanyahu. Like most other Israeli politicians, he had served in the military. In 1999, after his military stint, Mr. Bennett founded an American start-up, Cyota, which made anti-fraud software. The company was sold to a U.S. security company for $145 million in 2005. In 2006, the millionaire entrepreneur said goodbye to his business career to join politics. He became the chief of staff of Mr. Netanyahu, who was then the Opposition leader. That was the launching pad. After parting ways with Mr. Netanyahu, Mr. Bennett championed pro-settler politics. He became the director of Yesha Council, an organisation that fought for the expansion of Jewish settlements in Palestinian territories, and founded, along with Ayelet Shaked, My Israel, an extra-parliamentary Zionist group. Subsequently, Mr. Bennett joined the far-right Jewish Home, and became its leader in 2012. New Right When Jewish Home was part of Mr. Netanyahu’s coalition, Mr. Bennett had served as a Minister several times. He handled education, Diaspora and defence portfolios. In December 2018, he left Jewish Home and founded the New Right. The new party had a rocky start in electoral politics. In the April 2019 election, the New Right failed to enter the Knesset. That was the first of the four deadlocked elections Israel has seen in two years. In the second vote, in September 2019, Mr. Bennett formed a right-wing coalition with Jewish Home and National Union-Tkuma, called Yamina. They won seven seats, declaring the arrival of Mr. Bennett as a right-wing force in Israel’s fractious political landscape. In the March 2020 election, Yamina won six seats. When Mr. Netanyahu joined hands with Blue and White leader Benny Gantz to form a unity government, Mr. Bennett decided to sit in the Opposition. The Netanyau-Gantz coalition did not last long, pushing the country into another election. This time, Mr. Bennett fought the polls without Jewish Home and Tkuma. Still Yamina won seven seats in March. Mr. Bennett’s views on Palestinians are well-known. He has said the creation of a Palestinian state would be “suicidal” for Israel. In the past, he has proposed “autonomy with steroids” for Palestinians in some parts of the West Bank and urged the Israeli government to annex the areas where Jewish settlements have been built. It may sound ironical that the same Bennett with his hawkish views could become the first Israeli leader forming a government with support from an Arab-majority party. Ra’am (United Arab List) is one of the eight parties in the ‘change’ coalition. What brought them all together is their shared goal to replace Mr. Netanyahu. Mr. Lapid, the architect of the coalition, offered the Prime Minister’s job to Mr. Bennett for two years may be because he thought that was the only way to rally two right-wing parties — Yamina and New Hope — into a predominantly centrist coalition. Stitching together a coalition is only the first step. The next is to prove majority in the Knesset. Even if the coalition passes the Knesset test, Mr. Bennett would face an enormous challenge to lead the most diverse coalition in Israel in decades. It’s to be seen whether he could set aside his ideological views and find common ground for governance with the other members in the coalition, and if he does, for how long.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/from-kingmaker-to-king/article34742470.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Resistance and reflection||Ever since Naomi Osaka won her first title in 2018 at Indian Wells — dubbed the fifth Grand Slam in tennis — and backed up that victory by defeating the legendary Serena Williams in the very next tournament in Miami, she has lived a life under the spotlight. Anointed the next big thing in women’s tennis, she duly won her first Major at the 2018 US Open by beating Serena in the final. Since then, she has won three more hard-court Majors, established herself as one of the world’s best, and according to Forbes , is the best-paid female athlete ever, earning $55 million from endorsements alone in the past 12 months. All through this success, her calm and poise have stood out and the head that wore the crown didn’t seem to hang heavy. This was especially true during that US Open final, which will be equally remembered for Serena’s run-in with the chair umpire and the partisan crowd booing Osaka for denying Serena a record-equalling 24th singles Grand Slam. Off court, Osaka’s was a leading voice in the Black Lives Matters movement against police brutality. Born to a Japanese mother and a Haitian-American father, she has lived nearly all her life in the U.S. At the 2020 US Open that she won, she wore seven masks for seven matches, each highlighting the name of a victim of racial injustice. Seen in this context, Osaka’s decision ahead of the ongoing French Open to shun the obligatory press conference because she didn’t want to “subject herself to people who doubt her” and her refusal to engage on the same with tournament authorities seemed surprising. For someone who had taken to the big stage like duck to water and lit up the occasions she graced with refreshing candour, it seemed out of step. After the first-round victory, Osaka skipped the media interaction and was immediately threatened with a default. A day later, she withdrew from the tournament, and her statement acknowledged that her initial message could have been clearer and better-timed. Also, for the first time, Osaka detailed her struggles with depression and anxiety, setting the stage for reflection. The terms of the debate, however, had been set by then. Social media influence Osaka is probably the first of global tennis superstars to have lived a life entirely under the influence of social media. The absolute control of the message it offers has often led to players shunning conventional media. But as Osaka found out, while one-way communication offers freedom, there is very little space for dialogue and certainly no immunity from the backlash a loosely worded or wrongly timed message can potentially generate. Osaka’s first statement did mention the word “mental health” but it seemed generic and instead of driving a much-needed conversation on mental well-being of athletes, it led to discussions on her below-par record at the French Open and Wimbledon, something the 23-year-old ostensibly wanted to avoid by refusing to talk to the media. She has not progressed beyond the third round at either event. Bred on the hard courts of the U.S, Osaka has a power game best suited for acrylic, on which the bounce is true and a repeatable technique works. Clay and grass demand fleet-footed movement, sharp instincts and patience, all of which are still works in progress for Osaka. While solutions to the clay and grass riddles will take time, her ascent as one of the biggest sporting icons has been rapid. Osaka’s stardom has come at a tenuous time for a deeply divided America and the world. Where globalisation and multiculturalism are under increasing strain, Osaka, with her cultural diversity, is being projected as the poster child by the liberal order. She also represents Japan, which ironically is a nation with one of the least ethnically diverse populations, and is gearing up for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics. Such is her pull and heft that when she initially withdrew from the semifinals of the 2020 Cincinnati Open to protest against police violence, the organisers decided to suspend the tournament for a day in solidarity. The present episode in Osaka’s nascent career is probably the first to stir some resistance. When the temperatures eventually cool, the hope is for better outcomes for all stakeholders, including players, media and the fans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/resistance-and-reflection/article34742472.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Middle class badly hit, needs loan moratorium’||A petition was filed in the Supreme Court to direct the Union government to offer a moratorium on loans for the period between June and August, stating that the pandemic has wrecked homes and is pushing the middle class into poverty. “It is not a hidden truth that the middle class have been badly hit by the financial implications of COVID-19. The second wave has actually been worse than the first, and the death toll is just one of the indicators of its severity,” the Distress Management Collective, an NGO represented by advocate Jose Abraham, said. The weekly extension of lockdowns for the past month-and-a-half had resulted in more people from the middle class losing their jobs, and those who have their jobs safe at the moment faced prospects of substantial salary cuts, the petition said. ‘Driven into poverty’ A report by the Pew Research Centre stated that about 32 million people were driven into poverty by the pandemic last year. Loan accounts should not be classified as non-performing assets by banks and financial institutions for non-payment of monthly instalments between April and August, it said. The petition asked the court to intervene with the Union government to roll out a financial package primarily focusing on the severely affected sections of society and also keeping in mind an imminent third wave. “Consider the grievances of scores of borrowers who have taken housing loans or loans that fall in other categories from banks...” it stated. It referred to how work had slowed for professionals like lawyers, who have shifted back to their hometown. “The Small and Medium Enterprises [SME] sector has also been badly jolted by the second wave of the pandemic,” it said. The emergence of the second wave had come at a time when the SME sector had hardly recovered from the blow received by the first wave, it pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/middle-class-badly-hit-needs-loan-moratorium/article34742430.ece
06 June 2021||Agra,||A deserted Taj waits for the missing buzz||The monument to love and its environs are deserted. Parking lots are empty; ticket counters are shut; State police personnel lounge around the closed gates to the Taj Mahal, fiddling with their masks or mobile phones with little else to do. Agra city is open now, but as you drive towards the Taj itself, the desolation is evident. Some shopkeepers stand outside the Meena Bazaar, complaining how they had been ruined, while the odd autorickshaw brings the odd pilgrim to Hazrat Syed Jalal Shah Bukhari’s dargah just outside the Taj. Unmasked Babloo, who drives an e-rickshaw, says he has no work. “Earlier, I used to make Rs. 600-800 a day, now I am lucky to get Rs. 50-60 from local passengers,” he said. Iqbal, an auto driver, is on the same boat as Babloo. If there’s no work, why does he bring his vehicle out on the streets? “What to do sitting at home? Today, I brought some passengers to the dargah. That seems to be it for the day. Our situation is very bad,” he said. Rajiv Saxena, vice-president of the Tourism Guild of Agra, estimated that the city had lost about Rs. 5,000 crore on account of the two lockdowns since end-March 2020. Industry in doldrums Nationally, the Confederation of Indian Industry estimated in September 2020 that the Indian tourism and travel industry was set to lose Rs. 5 lakh crore on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Five lakh people are directly or indirectly employed by tourism in the city, Mr. Saxena told The Hindu . “Tour guides, for instance, are not able to pay the school fees for their children,” he said. “There has been no mapping of people’s requirements on the part of the administration,” Mr. Saxena said, adding ruefully that tourism did not make politicians win elections. Agra District Magistrate Prabhu Narain Singh claimed that the city was hoping the Taj Mahal would open up when the current closure deadline set by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) expired on June 14. The Taj, along with other ASI-protected monuments, has been shut since April 15. In 2020, these were closed from March 16 to July 16. “After June 14, they [the ASI] might open the Taj. The decision to close came from the ASI, the decision to open will also come from them,” Mr. Singh said. On Friday, Agra reported only 200 COVID-19 cases. Death toll As of Friday, Agra district, which has a population of about 50 lakh, roughly equally divided between the urban and rural spreads, had reported 424 COVID-19 deaths overall. “As on March 20, the number of deaths reported was 174,” Mr. Singh revealed. Rahul Rathore, who manages the only electric crematorium in the city, claimed that between 50-55 bodies were cremated at the facility every day between April 13 and May 5. “We had to introduce a token system as we have four furnaces in the facility,” he stated. Banners at the now-deserted crematorium, which is also close to the Taj Mahal, point to the all-pervading fear that gripped relatives and friends bringing the bodies of loved ones. They said a sum of Rs. 1,000 would be charged for lifting COVID-19-positive bodies and placing them inside the furnace. Otherwise, Mr. Rathore said, the funeral service was free. Outside the Taj, the silence is broken by a bunch of well-built men who want to take a peek at Shahjahan’s memorial for his wife, Mumtaz Mahal, unaware that it has been closed from April 15 this year. Mithilesh Kumar and his associates are policemen in civvies from Haryana, who are returning to Jind after paying a visit to Jharkhand on work. “We thought we could see the Taj while coming back. But it’s closed — we didn’t know that,” Mr. Kumar said. For Agra, the reopening of the Taj and the return of the domestic tourist is an obvious priority. Hari Sukumar, vice president of Jaypee Palace Hotel, said his hotel was booked to capacity on the Diwali weekend in 2020. Most hotel guests were people who drove into Agra from the National Capital Region. Mr. Sukumar is hopeful that destination weddings and offices keen to have team gatherings will offer a new lease of life to the tottering tourism industry as it must wait for the return of the foreign tourist.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-deserted-taj-waits-for-the-missing-buzz/article34742452.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘COVID-diabetes link needs study’||Nikhil Tandon , Professor and Head, Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, AIIMS, Delhi, says there is the possibility of new-onset diabetes in COVID-19 patients but more data is required to understand the phenomenon. He also elaborates on the treatment for diabetic COVID-patients. Excerpts:  Why do viral infections lead to elevated blood sugar levels? Any infection or febrile illness can elevate blood sugar levels. It is basically a consequence of the mechanism that the body employs to fight the infection. In some cases, the medicines given to treat that infection may cause this rise in blood sugar levels. When there is an increase in inflammatory markers, an extreme example of which is the “cytokine storm” in the case of COVID-19, it affects both the insulin release by the pancreas as well as the sensitivity of the tissue to insulin. Insulin facilitates the movement of glucose into tissues and any malfunctioning (either in production or tissue sensitivity) will lead to elevation of glucose levels in the blood.  Is it difficult to treat diabetic COVID-19 patients? In most cases, a person with well-controlled diabetes responds to the COVID-19 treatment the same way a non-diabetic does. However, in people with long-standing and poorly controlled diabetes, or those with diabetic complications such as kidney or heart disease, the management of COVID-19 can become more complex. Conversely, the management of COVID-19 in such patients can make the treatment of diabetes more difficult. For example, steroids, which are an important part of COVID-19 treatment, can cause a significant worsening in blood sugar control. Hence, patients with diabetes invariably require treatment with intensive insulin regimens.  Can COVID-19 cause diabetes? Diabetes is an asymptomatic disease in most people, so there could be a good number of people who may not be aware of their diabetes before they caught COVID-19. There are studies that state that in poorly resourced countries, as many as 50% people with chronic illness, such as diabetes, are undiagnosed. Then there are people who may have had the tendency to develop diabetes, and COVID-19 has caused what we called stress hyperglycemia. In some patients, it could be a combination of stress hyperglycemia and medications such as steroids. And finally, there is an ongoing discussion about the possibility of COVID-19 disease itself causing new-onset diabetes in a patient. Theoretically, COVID-19 can also cause diabetes as the pancreas have ACE2 receptors, which can enable SARS-CoV-2 to gain entry into the pancreatic beta cells, resulting in structural and functional damage. However, we need more data to support this. So, when can we say that COVID-19 has caused diabetes? At the time of COVID-19, if we do a test called HbA1c, which gives us average glucose of the previous three months, and if these levels are elevated, it means that the person had diabetes even before he contracted COVID-19. If the HbA1c was normal, we should reassess the blood glucose levels after the COVID disease has settled and the steroid therapy (if used) has been discontinued — the glucose levels will normalise if either the disease itself or steroid therapy contributed to the rise in blood sugar. If the blood sugar remains high weeks after recovery from the acute disease or the cessation of steroids or both, it will raise the possibility of COVID having caused the diabetes.  (For the full interview, log on to bit.ly/nikhiltandon)    Pancreas have ACE2 receptors, which can enable SARS-CoV-2 to gain entry||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-diabetes-link-needs-study/article34742465.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe Punjab vaccine sale: Minister||The BJP on Saturday demanded a probe and accountability after allegations surfaced of profiteering by the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government in Punjab by selling COVID-19 vaccines to private hospitals. Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri in a press conference in New Delhi said the State government’s decision to withdraw the controversial order showed that there was something “fishy” in the matter. He said Congress president Sonia Gandhi and party leader Rahul Gandhi had questioned the Modi government over the vaccine supply “when their government in Punjab was indulging in alleged profiteering to the tune of Rs. 38 crore by selling jabs to private hospitals”. Large doses of vaccines have been found dumped in Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled State, he alleged. “Government profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain,” Mr. Puri said adding, “heads should roll”. He also sought to know the “nature of the fund” to which the money received by the State government from private hospitals was credited. Citing a Punjab government communication, he said it had procured Covishield vaccines for Rs. 412 per dose but sold it to private hospitals for Rs. 1,000 and they, in turn, charged Rs. 1,560 from the people. Two private hospitals in Mohali charged people Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 3,200, he alleged. Taking exception to the Punjab government statement that its decision has not been taken in the right spirit, Mr. Puri said it pointed to concealment of corruption and a culture of impunity in the Congress. Mr. Puri also said that the Congress’ questioning of efficacy of domestically developed vaccines can now be seen in another light, maybe because the party wanted imports of foreign vaccines for getting “commission”. Benefits of farm laws Mr. Puri also brought in the three controversial farm sector laws in his presser accusing Opposition parties of spreading misinformation and lies. “The State of Punjab saw record procurement, contributed over 32% of 411.19 lakh tonnes of the wheat procured, with over Rs. 26,103.89 crore credited to bank accounts of farmers directly,” he said. Opposition leaders had alleged that the new laws would lead to the minimum support price regime and mandis being done away with, he said. Attacking the critics of the Central Vista project, the Minister asserted that as of now work on raising a new parliament building, costing Rs. 900 crore, and Central Vista avenue costing Rs. 400 crore was under way. “An MLA hostel being built in Maharashtra is alone costing Rs. 900 crore,” he alleged.  Govt. profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain Hardeep PuriUnion Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-punjab-vaccine-sale-minister/article34742447.ece
06 June 2021||Srinagar,||Six-year-old sets an example for children in the Valley||Mahira Irfan, who studies in Class 1, has brought into the spotlight her media-shy family and the nondescript Maharajpura Colony in Batamaloo area, Srinagar. Her video on the “taxing online classes” during the pandemic forced the J&K administration to change its teaching policy this week. The six-year-old’s two-storey house has turned into an overnight attraction for local people and the media. “Media men have been lining up to do her interviews,” her father, a businessman, said. “We are not used to it,” he added. Earlier this week, Ms. Irfan, finding her four-hour daily online classes taxing, gave vent to her despair in a video that went viral on all social media platforms. She said she did not know about Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but was told about him by her father. “My father told me that it’s Modi sahib who gets to decide on the lockdowns [related to the pandemic]. I decided to address my video to Modi sahib . I am happy the class timing has been reduced to 30 minutes. But I miss my school,” said Ms. Irfan, in a red dress, pausing to collect her thoughts in reply to a question. In her 45-second extempore message to Mr. Modi, she said, “ Asalam-alaikum Modi sahib . I want to share about what happens to small children. I get elaborate homework, as much as is assigned to senior students. Our classes start at 10 a.m. and end by 2 p.m. Why such prolonged online classes Modi sahib ?” Her appeal found a connect with Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha. “Very adorable complaint. Have directed the school education department to come out with a policy within 48 hours to lighten the burden of homework on school kids,” Mr. Sinha tweeted last Monday. In a rare order on June 1, the J&K administration directed all schools to reduce pre-primary and primary online classes to 30 minutes and 90 minutes a day, respectively. “For the students up to 8th standard, online synchronous learning may be undertaken for not more than two sessions of 30-45 minutes each on working days,” the order said. However, the J&K Education Chamber demanded a roll back of the order, saying “education policies cannot be changed based on a viral video”. “We have not been consulted [on the decision],” G.N.Var, president of the Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir, said. The office of Directorate of School Education, on Friday, decided to stick to the decision spurred by the video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-year-old-sets-an-example-for-children-in-the-valley/article34742432.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Job creation needs a boost, says Gangwar||Union Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said there is a need for greater support to healthcare systems, social protections and job creation to counter the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. He was addressing the virtual meeting of Non-Aligned Movement Labour Ministers under the 109th session of the International Labour Conference on Friday. He “reiterated India’s commitment towards making all possible efforts to counter the impact of the pandemic, and emerge stronger”, a Labour Ministry statement on Saturday said. Mr. Gangwar said the world had seen loss of lives and livelihoods, slowing down of economics and adverse impact on entire sections of society, particularly the vulnerable sections. “He said, there is need to ensure better support to the healthcare systems, social protection and employment generation. Governments are required to deal with the pandemic and provide an effective response at policy levels, to balance business continuity, income security and above everything, well-being of all, he added,” the statement said. He said there was a need to develop a new approach towards the style of work, given the extraordinary changes in the past year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-creation-needs-a-boost-says-gangwar/article34742441.ece
06 June 2021||St. Petersburg,||Modi, Xi capable leaders, can solve bilateral issues: Putin||Asserting that both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping are “very responsible” leaders, Russian President Vladimir Putin on Saturday said both are capable of solving China-India issues, and cautioned against any interference from “extra-regional power” in the process. With Russia publicly critical of the Quad, the four-nation grouping of India, the U.S., Japan and Australia, Mr. Putin said though it was not up to Moscow to assess how any nation should participate in an initiative and to what extent they should build their relations with other countries but no partnership should be aimed at making friends against anyone. The Russian President’s remarks, to a question on Moscow’s view on Quad and India’s participation in it, were a veiled reference to the Chinese claim that the grouping is to contain Beijing’s influence in the strategic Indo-Pacific region. No contradictions He also said there were no “contradictions” in Russia’s partnership with India and the ties with Beijing. “Yes, I do know that there are some issues related to India-China relations but there are always a lot of issues between neighbouring countries but I know the attitude of both the Prime Minister of India and also the President of China. These are very responsible people and they earnestly treat each other with utmost respect and I believe that they will always arrive at a solution to any issue that they might face. “But it is important that no other extra-regional power is interfering with that,” he told PTI through a translator during a virtual interaction.  Trust factor Asked about the growing proximity between Russia and China and if that will impact the Indo-Russia security and defence cooperation, Mr. Putin said the relations with India were developing quite rapidly, quite successfully based on “trust”. “We highly appreciate such a high level of cooperation with our Indian friends. These relations are of a strategic nature. They cover a whole range of avenues of our cooperation in economy, energy and hi-tech. In defence, and I am not just talking about purchase of Russian arms...We have very deep profound relations with India based on trust,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-xi-capable-leaders-can-solve-bilateral-issues-putin/article34742443.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan makes progress on terror finance ratings||Pakistan improved its ratings with the Asia Pacific Group (APG) on Money Laundering, a 41-country grouping that is a regional associate of the Financial Action Task Force, ahead of a decision on its grey listing status later this month. Of the 40 parameters, Pakistan has made progress in about 21 and been downgraded on 1, the APG’s Mutual Evaluation Report (MER) published on June 4 said, adding that this meant Pakistan moves ‘up’ one category in its evaluation at the APG. “Overall, Pakistan has made notable progress in addressing the technical compliance deficiencies identified in its MER and has been re-rated on 22 recommendations,” explained the APG’s second follow up report on the MER, adding that it had cleared 31 of 40 points in total as compliant or largely compliant of the international body’s standards on anti-money laundering/combating financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) measures. “Pakistan will move from enhanced [expedited] to enhanced follow-up, and will continue to report back to the APG on progress to strengthen its implementation of AML/CFT laws. Pakistan submitted its third progress report in February 2021,” said the APG’s report that was presented in May, which noted that Pakistan had passed a number of new laws in the past few months that made its systems more compliant on these issues. The APG’s meeting, which included India, also retained Bhutan on the “enhanced follow-up” list, with 29 of 40 recommendations being rated as compliant or largely compliant. Government sources here said it is not necessary that Pakistan’s improvement in the APG would also lead to a reprieve at the FATF, which will decide at its next plenary session from June 21-25 on whether to retain Pakistan on the greylist, downgrade it to the blacklist or remove it from the colour-coded list of countries facing punitive measures that has impacted its global credit rating and access to international loans. In particular, Pakistan’s inability to end funding to the UN Security Council- designated terror groups and entities, including the Haqqani group, the Al-Qaeda, the Lashkar-e-Taiba and the Jaish-e-Mohammad, and prosecute their leadership successfully had held up its ratings. The Paris-based FATF, has thus far cleared Pakistan on 24 of 27 points on the action plan it has been tasked with since 2018, leading its Industries [now Energy] Minister Hammad Azhar to declare in February 2021, that being downgraded to the FATF blacklist is “not an option” any longer. The last three outstanding action points on which Pakistan claims it will also be cleared are: demonstrating that terrorist financing (TF) investigations and prosecutions target persons and entities acting on behalf or at the directive of the designated persons or entities; demonstrating that TF prosecutions result in effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions; and demonstrating effective implementation of targeted financial sanctions against all designated terrorists, particularly those acting for them or on their behalf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pakistan-makes-progress-on-terror-finance-ratings/article34742450.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Retired officials write to Modi on Lakshadweep||A group of retired bureaucrats wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday to express concern over what it termed were “disturbing developments” in the Union Territory of Lakshadweep “in the name of development”. Ninety-three former All India and Central Services officers of the Constitutional Conduct Group wrote to Mr. Modi on the occasion of World Environment Day to raise concerns over the introduction of draft regulations on land and development. Among the signatories were former Environment and Forests Secretary Meena Gupta, former Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah and former Foreign Secretary Sujatha Singh. The non-partisan group raised concerns through its open letters about the Centre’s farm laws and the government response to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We are a group of former civil servants of the All India and Central Services who have worked with the Central and State Governments in the course of our careers... We write to you today to register our deep concern over disturbing developments taking place in the pristine Union Territory [UT] of Lakshadweep in the name of ‘development’,” the letter stated. Referring to draft regulations introduced by Lakshadweep Administrator P.K. Patel, the group said the proposals were drafted without local consultation and were now with the Union Home Ministry for necessary approvals. “It is clear that each of these draft regulations is part of a larger agenda that is against the ethos and interests of the islands and islanders,” the letter stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/retired-officials-write-to-modi-on-lakshadweep/article34742423.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Row erupts as RSS handles lose ‘blue ticks’||“How does Twitter determine inactivity? It is based on logging in. To keep the account active, the account holder must make sure to log in at least once every six months,” said an official from the social media site. While Mr. Naidu’s office got in touch with Twitter and got back the verification, it set off a social media flurry from RSS sympathisers that the Twitter handles of their senior leaders — RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, and senior office bearers like Suresh Soni, Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar had also been divested of the blue tick of verification. RSS functionary Rajiv Tuli alleged that it “clearly shows biasness and a clear example of ‘tech feudalism’ by Twitter.” The verification had been restored to all accounts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-erupts-as-rss-handles-lose-blue-ticks/article34742424.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||G7 nations agree on uniform minimum tax||Ministers met face-to-face in London for the first time since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a copy of the final agreement, the G7 ministers said they would “commit to a global minimum tax of at least 15% on a country by country basis”. “We commit to reaching an equitable solution on the allocation of taxing rights, with market countries awarded taxing rights on at least 20% of profit exceeding a 10% margin for the largest and most profitable multinational enterprises,” the text added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/g7-nations-agree-on-uniform-minimum-tax/article34742425.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. sends ‘one last notice’ to Twitter||The Ministry added it is “beyond belief” that the company has doggedly refused to create mechanisms that will enable the people of India to resolve their issues on the platform in a timely and transparent manner. “Leave alone proactively creating such a mechanism, Twitter Inc. is in the inglorious bracket of refusing to do so even when mandated by law,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-sends-one-last-notice-to-twitter/article34742426.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Experts discuss law and social sciences at meet||As part of its Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, hosted a webinar on ‘Interdisciplinary connections between Law and Humanities’ on Friday. The session, moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, saw speakers discuss the ways in which law and the social sciences are connected, the nature of this inter-disciplinarity and its opportunities. Pointing out that there has been a move from traditional to more esoteric practices, Sridhar Krishnaswami, Deputy Dean and Professor, Department of Journalism and Mass Communication, Faculty of Science and Humanities, SRMIST, said: “We need to have fusion and that is why interdisciplinary courses are the needed solution today.” V.M. Kannan, advocate at the Supreme Court, emphasised that one cannot study law only to become a lawyer. “Law does not exist on its own. Humanities precedes the law and is all about changing culture, and hence the interdependence.” Professor Gurudath Anantharamaiah Chilkunda, Dean, Faculty of Law, SRMIST, said legal education in India has become highly professional. “Law is being attached to other degrees like BA LLB [Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Law], B. Com LLB [Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Law], B. Sc LLB [Bachelor of Science and Bachelor of Law], BBA LLB [Bachelor of Business Administration and Bachelor of Law], and B. Tech LLB [Bachelor of Technology and Bachelor of Law] —making it an attractive option for students.” The session ended with the speakers fielding questions from the audience. View it at http://bit.ly/SRMISTTHYT1||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-discuss-law-and-social-sciences-at-meet/article34742428.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Electorate will penalise govt. for anti-farmer steps’||Marking the first anniversary of the three controversial farm laws, the Congress on Saturday said the electorate will penalise the Narendra Modi government for trying to rob the livelihood of the farmers and accused the government of taking anti-farmer steps for the last seven years. In a statement, Randeep Surjewala, Congress general secretary and communication in-charge, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had claimed that he was creating an opportunity for the farmers through these laws. Instead, Mr. Modi was giving a trade worth Rs. 25 lakh crore to his crony capitalist friends at the cost of 62 crore farmers, he said. “With these black laws, the BJP government created opportunities for hoarding and black marketing of foodgrains for its capitalist friends, while the farmers had to brave lathi charge, water cannons and tear gas shells,” Mr. Surjewala said. He said the “unethical” provisions in the law providing for contract farming were intended to make the farmers “bonded labourers” of select capitalists. “It seems that the Modi government remains committed to pay back its crony capitalists who helped them capture power in 2014,” he added. Mr. Surjewala also accused the BJP government of working for the corporates since the day they came to power in 2014. “As soon as the Modi government came to power in 2014, it tried to grab the lands of the farmers through an ordinance. Then in 2015, the Modi government filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court stating that farmers can never be given cost plus 50% profit as the Minimum Support Price [MSP]. Then came the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana in Kharif 2016, from which a few insurance companies earned a whopping profit of Rs. 26,000 crore.” The BJP government, he said, waived loans worth Rs. 10 lakh crore of the corporates, but refused to extend the same courtesy to farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/electorate-will-penalise-govt-for-anti-farmer-steps/article34742435.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Shadow of debt looms over Dharmapuri||While the cooperative society procures milk at Rs. 22 per litre, she can sell it in the open for Rs. 40 per litre. But there’s a catch. “The society’s offtake is a steady income. I know they will buy it. Here, no one can afford milk every day. They will buy on one day but then may not buy for another 10 days. I can’t lose the society,” says Ambigai. Though the society has not paid her since March, she’s certain they will clear the dues. “But on days like these, when someone asks, I sell it.” And Ambigai is unaware of larger changes effected by government policies since her payments are yet to come. The cooperative societies have cut down the procurement price by Rs. 3 payable to the suppliers like her. Across villages, as women go about their daily chores, the spectre of debt owed to the SHGs is the staple of every conversation. The women were given loans on the understanding that they would find work and that their menfolk were also working, says Ambigai. But, now the men have returned from their jobs and are unemployed. “Without men, we ate what was there, not needing to cook three times. Now, the rations and the gas always falls short,” she says as her husband who was employed in a snacks making unit, has returned having lost his source of income.  In a predominantly rain-fed, drought prone region like Dharmapuri, the summer showers brought seasonal farm work for the landless majority, on the marginal landholdings in the village. But not this year. With cash flows to the rural economy drying up, those with meagre landholdings have turned to family labour as the men working in small scale units and informal sector have returned due to the lockdown. Lack of remittances from them has also meant little money to pay the farm labour. “They [farmers] will start coming for loans once this lockdown is over,” predicts, K. Periasamy, secretary of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society at Jarthalav. The Society lends crop loans to landholding farmers, apart from jewel loan and loans to women’s SHGs. “We will not lend a rupee if there are outstanding loans. Every year, there are outstanding loans because farmers say the ‘cane is lost, crop is burnt’. But, this year, the State government had waived Agricultural Cooperative Society farm loans and SHG loans ahead of the elections. For the majority of women’s SHGs serviced by the regional rural banks and nationalised banks, this loan waiver to the Societies-lent SHGs has left them feeling deprived. “Society lends only to those with land. Benefits are accrued to those with land and the rest of us don’t get anything,” said Vijayshanthi in Paruvadhanapalli village in Pennagaram block, who has a loan of Rs. 38,000 from her sangam and a jewel loan from a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shadow-of-debt-looms-over-dharmapuri/article34742437.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||GST revenue falls to Rs. 1.02 lakh crore in May||The Rs. 1,02,709 crore collected in May includes revenues from domestic transactions till June 4. This is 65% higher than May 2020, when just Rs. 62,151 crore was received amid the national lockdown that began in late March 2020. “The actual revenues for the month of May 2021 would be higher and would be known when all the extended (compliance) dates expire,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement, citing the relaxations given to taxpayers in filing returns in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19. “…While the taxpayers with turnover above Rs. 5 crore had to file their returns by June 4, which they would have otherwise filed by May 20, smaller taxpayers with turnover less than Rs. 5 crore still have time till first week of July to file the returns without any late fee and interest and the revenue from these taxpayers is deferred till then,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-revenue-falls-to-rs-102-lakh-crore-in-may/article34742440.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Insurance firms asked to settle claims faster||Insurance companies have processed just 419 claims pertaining to frontline healthcare workers who lost their lives in the COVID-19 pandemic, Union Finance and Corporate Affairs Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday, urging insurers to expedite settlement of pending claims under different schemes. The government had launched the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP) Insurance Scheme for health workers with a life insurance amount of Rs. 50 lakh. So far, Rs. 209.5 crore has been disbursed to nominees of the deceased healthcare workers, the Minister noted in a meeting with chiefs of insurance companies. Directing States to take up COVID-19 claims of health workers on a priority basis, Ms. Sitharaman said a new simplified system had been put in place to address “delays arising out of States sending documents” that must be put to “maximum” use. As per the new mechanism, “a simple certificate” from the District Magistrate (DM), endorsed by the nodal State health authority would be sufficient to process claims. Citing an example from Ladakh of a health worker’s insurance claim being settled within four hours of receiving the DM’s certificate, Ms. Sitharaman called for a similar approach to be maintained in future as well. The PMGKP scheme for healthcare workers has been extended for a year after the emergence of the second COVID-19 wave in April.  The Minister also sought to accelerate the disbursement of pending claims under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana (PMJJBY) and the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) during the pandemic. The PMJJBY and the PMSBY, launched in 2015, provide life and accidental insurance covers respectively of Rs. 2 lakh each, at an annual premium of Rs. 330 and Rs. 12 respectively. Under the PMJJBY, a total of 4.65 lakh claims amounting to Rs. 9,307 crore has been paid, of which 1.2 lakh claims amounting to Rs. 2,403 crore were settled since the beginning of the pandemic last year. The PMSBY scheme has settled 82,660 claims worth Rs. 1,629 crore by May 31 this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/insurance-firms-asked-to-settle-claims-faster/article34742457.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Hospital tells nurses not to speak in Malayalam||A Delhi government-run hospital on Saturday banned nursing staff from speaking in Malayalam in the hospital, and warned of ‘serious action’ if they do not talk in English or Hindi. Nurses of the hospital and other Delhi government hospitals have criticised the order, and said they always talk to patients in Hindi. “A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patient and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience. So it is directed all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication. Otherwise serious action will be taken,” reads an order issued by the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research in Delhi on Saturday. A nurse, who said there were 300-350 Malayali nursing staff in the hospital, said they would oppose the move through the hospital’s nurses’ union on Monday. “We only talk to other people from Kerala in Malayalam at the hospital. It is our mother tongue. How can they say the staff cannot talk in Malayalam? Will they tell Punjabis not to talk in Punjabi among themselves?” said Jeemol Shaji, a nurse from Kerala, who is the general secretary of the nurses’ union in LNJP Hospital, the largest Delhi government-run hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hospital-tells-nurses-not-to-speak-in-malayalam/article34742460.ece
06 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Raimona is Assam’s sixth national park||Raimona in Kokrajhar district has become Assam’s sixth national park. Eastern Assam’s Dehing Patkai Wildlife Sanctuary, under stress for unregulated coal mining in the vicinity is in the process of becoming the seventh national park, Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said at a function to mark World Environment Day on Saturday. The five national parks that existed prior to the 422 sq. km Raimona are Kaziranga, Manas, Nameri, Orang and Dibru-Saikhowa. Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said a notification declaring Raimona as a national park was brought out on Saturday. “Upgrading Dehing Patkai has been a long-felt need for the conservation of rainforest and elephant habitats,” Mr. Suklanaidya stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raimona-is-assams-sixth-national-park/article34742662.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New database for missing persons||The Interpol has launched a new global database named ‘I-Familia’ to identify missing persons through family DNA and help the police solve cold cases in member countries. Describing it as a groundbreaking database officially launched this month, the Interpol, in a statement, said it applied cutting-edge scientific research and used the DNA of relatives to identify missing persons or unidentified human remains around the world. DNA kinship matching is used mostly in cases where a direct sample of the missing person is not available. “I-Familia is the first global database to automatically control for such differences without requiring knowledge of the missing person’s genetic ancestry and provide standardised guidelines on what constitutes a match,” the Interpol said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-database-for-missing-persons/article34742886.ece
06 June 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC refuses to stay MUHS exams||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Saturday refused to grant interim relief to approximately 44,000 medical students across the country who are to appear physically on June 10 for exams held by the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS). A single judge Bench of Justice Avinash Gharote said, “Every examinee should have himself tested for COVID-19 and produce a negative report along with his hall ticket. As a safety measure, it would be advisable for each examinee to have conducted an RT-PCR test upon himself and only in case, he finds such a test is negative, he may sit for the exams.” “The MUHS, therefore, is directed to issue an advisory to the principals of various colleges and also to publish on its website indicating that it would be desirable that each examinee should have himself tested for COVID-19 and should produce a negative report along with his hall ticket on June 10,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-refuses-to-stay-muhs-exams/article34742988.ece
06 June 2021||Kolkata,||Abhishek is TMC general secretary||In a major development in the Trinamool Congress (TMC), Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee was on Saturday appointed its national general secretary. Mr. Banerjee, nephew of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was heading the party’s youth wing and the post of national general secretary was held by senior leader Subrata Bakshi. Mr. Banerjee (33 was the only star campaigner of the party after Ms. Banerjee in the recent Assembly polls that saw the defeat of the BJP. He played a crucial role in engaging Prashant Kishor and his organisation IPAC for the polls. Senior party leader Subrata Mukherjee said, “Abhishek has fulfilled the responsibilities that were given to him. He has scored 100 out of 100 and that is why he has been given the new responsibility”. Partha Chatterjee, another senior party leader, made the announcement after a meeting of the working committee and core committee of the party. Actor Sayoni Ghosh has been appointed head of the party’s youth wing, Lok Sabha member Kakuli Ghosh Dastidar head of the women’s wing and Rajya Sabha member head of the trade union wing. One party one post The TMC also changed presidents of several districts, keeping the policy of one person one party. “Today, the All India Trinamool Congress takes a new step towards effective leadership. Going forward, we shall be committed towards being #OnePersonOnePost party. Once again, our commitment to serve the people of India in the best way possible, remains top priority,” the party tweeted from its official handle. During the meeting, the issue of leaders from the BJP who want to return to the TMC was also discussed. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the issue required a policy decision of the higher-ups. He, however said that several leaders from the BJP were in communication with the party. BJP leader Prabir Ghosal has expressed displeasure that senior party leadership did not contact him after death of his mother. He joined the BJP before the Assembly polls and contested and lost from Uttarpara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/abhishek-is-tmc-general-secretary/article34742433.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Judgment in Tejpal case a huge setback’||The trial court judgment acquitting journalist Tarun Tejpal, former editor-in-chief of Tehelka magazine, who was charged in 2013 of the rape, unlawful confinement and sexual harassment of a young woman journalist working at the magazine, is a grave miscarriage of justice, and a massive setback for the Indian women’s rights movement and the safety of working women in particular, the Network of Women in Media, India, (NWMI) has said. The court put the victim on trial, persistently shaming and discrediting her, NWMI said. The judgment by Additional Sessions Judge Kshama M. Joshi sets out standards for a “sterling witness” and the “normative” look of a traumatised woman, it added. The judgment ignores the key evidence of an apology e-mail written by Mr. Tejpal, including one in which he acknowledged a “shameful lapse of judgement” and “clear reluctance” on the part of the survivor, the network said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/judgment-in-tejpal-case-a-huge-setback/article34742436.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BMS concerned over minimum wage revision||The Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Saturday wrote to Union Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar to raise its concern at the lack of revision in minimum wages for the past seven years and the recent decision of the government to appoint a committee on fixing wages over the next three years. BMS general secretary Binoy Kumar Sinha wrote that setting up of the six-member expert group this week to fix minimum wages and national floor minimum wages had set aside the recommendations of the Satpathy Committee, which was formed in 2017 and submitted its report in 2019. “Further it is notable that the government has given the committee [expert group] three years to present its report, which soun- ds ridiculous as the tenure of the incumbent government is set to end, under normal circumstances, before the completion of the tenure of the committee.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-concerned-over-minimum-wage-revision/article34742444.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nadda holds meet with BJP office-bearers||BJP president J.P. Nadda’s two-day meet with the national general secretaries of the party began with exhaustive reporting on the ‘Seva hi Sanghathan’ (service through organisation) programme he launched last month and a brief discussion on the recent Assembly polls. Mr. Nadda later briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the discussions. The meet, which is to end on Sunday, was being held in person. According to a general secretary present at the meeting, the office bearers first gave detailed presentation on the work that had been assigned to them under the programme, which envisaged reaching out to over one lakh villages to spread awareness of the pandemic, provide medical and other help to people. “The first half of the meeting was dedicated to briefing by general secretaries and after lunch, Morcha chiefs of the various wings did their share of presentations.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nadda-holds-meet-with-bjp-office-bearers/article34742445.ece
06 June 2021||Mumbai,||Five-level plan to lift curbs in Maharashtra||Maharashtra government announced a five-level plan to relax lockdown-induced restrictions based on the weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued late on Friday night. As per the order, which comes into effect on June 7, municipal areas and districts will be treated as separate units. In the first category, cities and districts, with a positivity rate of 5% and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25%, will open up completely with regular timings of essential and non-essential shops, malls, theatres, auditoriums, restaurants, private offices, public places, and sports establishments. Film shootings and social and political gatherings can also resume. In the second category, areas with positivity rate of 5% and oxygen bed occupancy of 25% to 40%, essential and non-essential shops can open as per regular timings, but malls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums and restaurants will function at 50% capacity. For the third level — places with positivity rate of 5% to 10% and oxygen bed occupancy of over 40% — essential shops can stay open till 4 p.m., and non-essential shops will be open till 4 p.m. only on weekdays. In the fourth category — positivity rate of 10% to 20% and oxygen bed occupancy of more than 60% — essential shops will be open till 4 p.m. Only food parcels and takeaways will be allowed. In the fifth category — positivity rate of over 20% and oxygen bed occupancy of over 75% — only essential shops will remain open till 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-level-plan-to-lift-curbs-in-maharashtra/article34742458.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Tough test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tough-test/article34742462.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Metro can operate at 50% capacity||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 5 announced that the Delhi Metro would be allowed to function at 50% capacity, in addition to shops and malls being allowed to open on odd-even basis from June 7. Mr. Kejriwal said these provisions would come into effect as part of the ongoing unlock procedure in the city. “The COVID-19 situation in Delhi seems to be under control; around 400 cases have emerged in the last 24 hours. We have decided to allow shops and malls in the city to open on odd-even basis,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “We are preparing for the possible third wave of COVID to hit the city; for that, our preparations are based on tackling the peak of around 37,000 cases per day,” he said. In addition to forming a paediatric task force, the State government is creating capacity for the storage of 420 MT of oxygen in the city, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-metro-can-operate-at-50-capacity/article34742466.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||States, UTs have over 1.65 crore vaccine doses: govt.||More than 1.65 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with States and Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. So far, over 24 crore doses had been provided to the States and UTs, it said in a statement. The total consumption, including wastage, stood at 22,65,08,508 doses, according to the data available at 8 a.m. on Saturday, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-uts-have-over-165-crore-vaccine-doses-govt/article34742454.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Decks cleared for import of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, Russia’s Sputnik V into Brazil||Brazil has agreed to import Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine, Covaxin. The National Health Surveillance Agency of Brazil — Anvisa — had earlier denied permission to import Covaxin after authorities found that the Indian plant in which the jab was being made did not meet the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) requirements. According to Anvisa’s approval, Brazil is expected to receive four million doses of Covaxin initially. All batches for Brazil must meet GMP requirements, the country said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decks-cleared-for-import-of-bharat-biotechs-covaxin-russias-sputnik-v-into-brazil/article34742463.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revival of road in tiger reserve shocks activists in southern districts||The administrative and financial sanction for improvement and maintenance of a forest road not in use for decades in the core zone of the Srivilliputhur-Megamalai Tiger Reserve has shocked the activists in the southern districts. Some of them have petitioned the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to stop any improvement work on this “illegal” and “non-existent” road in the core habitat of the newly formed reserve. Activists say the sanction was accorded during the previous AIADMK rule this February when Rs. 51.15 crore was allocated for upgrading the existing forest roads as bituminous surface roads with cross drainage works. Of this, Rs. 1.2 crore has been sanctioned for the improvement of the road between Upper Manalar-camp shed and Upper Manalar-Old Vellimalai in Theni district covering a distance of 2.2 kilometres. “The irony is that it is a dilapidated old coop road of 27 km used for protection, perambulation by the Forest Department. The Megamalai reserve forest notification clearly states that there exists only a one-metre right of way on this entire stretch of the coop road of 27 km near Oothakudisa, and, that too, to a length of just 666.8 metres. This shows the one-metre right of way is a reserved forest that has been notified as a tiger reserve,” according to the petition submitted to the NTCA. The fifth tiger reserve in Tamil Nadu, notified on February 8, is crucial in two respects. It will maintain the vital forest contiguity between the Periyar Tiger Reserve in Kerala and the Kanniyakumari forests in the extreme south. It will be an extremely important buffer for the spill-over tigers of the Periyar Tiger Reserve. In the petition, the activists have said a high ridge that divides the Periyar Tiger Reserve and the Srivilliputhur-Megamalai Tiger Reserve is the core zone of both reserves covered with dense, evergreen forests. Also, this high ridge gives birth to the Vaigai river in Tamil Nadu and the Mullayar in Kerala. The Tamil Nadu side of the ridge has many estates, whose access was through this road about 25 years ago. So there was an ever-persistent demand by the estate owners to open up this road for commutation, they point out. An illegal dirt track of 3.5 km was made by the estate owners by cutting through pristine forests and a public interest litigation petition was pending before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. “This 3.5-km illegal dirt track can easily be connected to the proposed road of 2.2 km,” says an activist. The activists allege that this is a blatant violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act in a critical tiger habitat, that too, within 20 days of the tiger reserve having been notified. Any road inside the reserve has to be approved by the NTCA and the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee, they say. The financial sanction was given solely with the intent of helping the estate owners, with no concern for conservation, they say. They want the DMK government to initiate an inquiry into the sanction of money for maintenance of this forest road by the previous AIADMK government, though it knew that it was a tiger reserve. Senior officials of the Forest Department said the Wildlife Warden of the Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary had inspected the area after receiving the complaint and a due official process would be followed, without anyone being favoured.  This is a blatant violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act in a critical tiger habitat, that too, within 20 days of the tiger reserve having been notified||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/revival-of-road-in-tiger-reserve-shocks-activists-in-southern-districts/article34742609.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily case count dips to 21,410||The State on Saturday recorded 21,410 fresh COVID-19 cases and 443 deaths. With this, Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 22,16,812, while its toll rose to 26,571. As many as 2,663 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, while Chennai’s count came down to 1,789. There were 1,569 cases in Erode, 1,171 in Salem and 1,104 in Tiruppur. Thanjavur’s daily cases fell below 1,000 as 929 people tested positive, while Chengalpattu recorded 862 cases. As many as 32,472 people were discharged after treatment. These included 4,656 people in Coimbatore and 4,158 in Chennai. With this, the State’s active caseload dropped to 2,57,463. Chennai reported 62 deaths, followed by Coimbatore with 43 and Chengalpattu with 41. Twenty-four people died in Erode and 20 in Salem. Cuddalore and Vellore recorded 15 deaths each. Teenager dies Among the deceased was a teenager — a 16-year-old from Dindigul with diabetes — who was admitted to the Theni Medical College Hospital on May 28. He died on June 2 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Five people in their 20s, of whom four were women, succumbed to the infection. They included a 25-year-old woman from Tiruchi with systemic hypertension, who was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on May 28, and died on June 3 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, 1,75,365 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 2,85,46,677. A total of 83,020 people were vaccinated on Saturday, taking the State’s overall vaccination coverage to 96,74,470. The number of vaccination sessions dropped to 1,821 — 1,493 for Covishield and 328 for Covaxin. Among those vaccinated were 47,909 people in the 18-44 age group, 23,620 people aged 45 to 59 and 9,674 senior citizens. With this, 16,82,097 people in the 18-44 age group, 34,65,346 in the 45-59 age group and 26,40,473 senior citizens have been inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-case-count-dips-to-21410/article34742627.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Those buying drugs to be tracked||Following cases of “self-treatment” at home for COVID-19, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has directed all pharmacies in the city to send daily details of residents who purchase paracetamol and antibiotics. The civic agency is taking measures to facilitate the isolation of such patients and admit them in COVID-19 Care Centres, if required. According to a Corporation official, pharmacies that fail to send details will be penalised. The phone number and name of the residents should be e-mailed to the civic agency by the pharmacy on the day of purchase of the medicine. Corporation officials will call such residents over the phone, fix appointments and send teams for testing at their doorsteps. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the instructions had been issued to treat potential COVID-19 patients at an early stage. Currently, as many as 17,226 COVID-19 patients are in home quarantine in the 15 zones of the city. While 1,114 beds in COVID-19 Care Centres are occupied, 7,453 beds are vacant. Officials will also conduct tele-counselling with patients in home quarantine and identify those suffering from fever for more than five days. These patients will be taken to care centres or other tertiary-care hospitals. Deaths at home Mr. Bedi said while the number of cases had reduced in the city, he had ordered officials to analyse each case to prevent deaths at home. Officials led by Deputy Commissioner Alby John Varghese have analysed deaths at home on a case-by-case basis during the pandemic in areas such as Valasaravakkam, Nerkundram and Ramapuram, and ordered staff to intensify surveillance to prevent such deaths. Meanwhile, on Saturday, the Corporation conducted 447 fever camps in which 26,298 people were screened and 1,162 were sent for testing. The civic body increased the number of COVID-19 vaccinations on Friday with 34,094 residents taking the jab. A total of 20.87 lakh residents have been vaccinated. While 15.5 lakh have received the first dose, 5.8 lakh have received the second.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-buying-medicines-to-be-tracked/article34742596.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu cancels Class 12 board examinations||Tamil Nadu on Saturday decided to cancel the State Board Class 12 examinations in view of the second wave of COVID-19. Recently, the CBSE cancelled the Plus Two exams following a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. Panel to be formed “A committee will be formed to chalk out ways to award marks,” Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said shortly after School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi submitted a report based on the opinion of educationists, politicians, teachers’ associations, journalists, medical professionals, psychiatrists, students and parents. “The committee, headed by the School Education Secretary, will have the Higher Education Secretary, the Vice-Chancellor of Madras University and headmasters of schools as members,” Mr. Stalin said. It would soon submit its report, and marks would be given based on its reco- mmendations. “Admissio-ns to higher educational institutions will be on the basis of the marks,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cancels-class-12-board-examinations/article34742586.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine hesitancy may pose hurdles in auto hub||Companies in the automobile hub near Chennai are conducting vaccination drives for their employees, following a State government directive amid the second wave of COVID-19. However, there is hesitancy from a section of the workers in taking the vaccines. The State government in its order of May 29 asked the industries (including automobile units) to vaccinate all employees within a month. “There is hesitancy among workers to take the jab. A lot of misinformation is being spread on Facebook and WhatsApp about the vaccines, which is making some workers sceptical. Both the unions and managements are creating awareness,” G. Vinayagam, president, United Union of Hyundai Employees (UUHE), said. “We have conducted 10 vaccination camps, in association with the district health authorities (Sriperumbudur health centre officials) and private hospitals. We have covered around 10.73% [1,685 employees of 15,700] of our employees and we will continue this to cover everyone,” Stephen Sudhakar J., senior vice-president & unit head – people strategy and business support, Hyundai Motor India Ltd., said. Employees of various automobile industries expressed their reservations about taking the vaccine when they spoke to The Hindu . “We read through social media that people died after taking the vaccine. I also heard several people have fallen sick and got infected after taking the first dose. My family is reluctant in allowing me to take the shot,” said an employee who wished anonymity. “Ford has started organising vaccination campaigns. There is reluctance shown by workers. Now, only Covishield is available. Some of them are comfortable taking Covaxin,” Selvaraj, an employee and former president of the Chennai Ford Employees Union, said. Demand for leave S. Kannan, deputy general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Tamil Nadu, said the companies should give two days paid leave after employees take the jab. “A car company which has a presence in another country gives two days leave to workers after vaccination. But the same company refuses to grant leave in its factory near Chennai. The State government should look into this,” he added without naming the company. To queries from The Hindu , commercial vehicle maker Daimler India said it was providing full reimbursement for employees and their dependent family members to be vaccinated across India. The company has been conducting an awareness programme on vaccination and had opened a vaccination centre at its manufacturing plant in Oragadam, which can process up to 250 people a day. “We have an employee base of nearly 1,750 people, and most of them are in their late 20s or early 30s. We have managed to vaccinate nearly 45% of our employee base, and a similar number of our outsourced workforce,” Satish Sharma, president, Asia Pacific, Middle East & Africa, Apollo Tyres Ltd., said. TVS Motor Company and its group companies will vaccinate around 35,000 direct and indirect company employees across India. “We have vaccinated more than 50% of the employees through various vaccination drives at all our plants and offices across the country,” R. Ananda Krishnan, executive vice-president, human resources and information technology, TVS Motor Company, said. Dubbed “Detroit of Asia”, Chennai houses major automobile makers — Hyundai, BMW, Daimler, Renault-Nissan, Ford Motors, Ashok Leyland, TVS Motor and Yamaha Motors — and has an annual installed capacity to produce 1.71 million units of vehicles, according to information from Guidance Tamil Nadu, the State’s nodal agency for attracting investments. The State is number one in tyre manufacturing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-hesitancy-may-pose-hurdles-in-auto-hub/article34742604.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||40 private hospitals in State pulled up for violations||At least 40 private hospitals in the State have been pulled up for violations, including “charging exorbitant rates” for treating COVID-19 patients. So far, 10 private hospitals have lost their permits to treat COVID-19 patients, following violations including charging patients in excess of the government stipulated rates for COVID-19 treatment. Officials of the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services said though the number of complaints were not the same as during the first wave, a number of hospitals were in trouble for charging more than the cost prescribed by the State government. “We have issued notices to 22 hospitals for violations, including excess charges for treatment. We have cancelled COVID-19 treatment permissions to 10 hospitals so far. They cannot admit new patients, while existing in-patients should be treated and discharged. The Directorate has been taking action under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act,” an officer said. On Friday, the Directorate issued notices to 20 more private hospitals for charging exorbitant rates. “We had received complaints through the State health helpline 104. If these hospitals do not initiate refunds, we will not only cancel their COVID-19 treatment permissions, but also their clinical registrations,” he said. On May 22, the State government had issued an order fixing maximum rates that private hospitals could charge patients for COVID-19 treatment. For those covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, it had fixed Rs. 5,000 a day for patients not requiring oxygen support, and Rs. 15,000 for those requiring oxygen support. For critical cases, it fixed Rs. 35,000 for ICU with ventilatory support, Rs. 30,000 for ICU with non-invasive ventilation and Rs. 25,000 for ICU with oxygen as stepping down. For the general public, the State government fixed the cost of treatment on a par with CMCHIS. As per the government order, hospitals could face action under the Clinical Establishments Act and the Disaster Management Act if the charges are proven. Officials said private hospitals should adhere to the rates stipulated in the G.O. issued on May 22. People can lodge complaints on excess charges through the State health helpline 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/40-private-hospitals-in-state-pulled-up-for-violations/article34742622.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Beach cleaning initiative launched||The south region of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Saturday launched a beach cleaning initiative with support from the Environmentalist Foundation of India (EFI). The launch coincided with World Environment Day, observed on June 5 every year. Commenting on the initiative, Raja Gopal Sunkara, Regional Deputy Commissioner (South), GCC, said with the beaches closed to the public due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the intention was to make use of this period to thoroughly clean all beaches in the region. Pointing out that the region already had two beach cleaning machines that were being deployed often, he said one more machine was being borrowed from the central region for the initiative. The clean-up started near Broken Bridge on Saturday. “As of now, our plan is to finish this clean-up activity in about one-and-a-half to two months,” he said. Collaborative exercise Apart from helping with manpower, the EFI will also be partially supporting the fuel cost for the machines.  Mr. Sunkara said the south region was planning to develop a model with active community involvement to keep the beaches clean. “Once the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted and when the beaches become accessible to the public, we want to actively engage volunteers, the public and the shopkeepers on Elliot’s Beach and other places to try and maintain cleanliness,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/beach-cleaning-initiative-launched/article34742594.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,049 new species of flowering plants added to State’s flora||At least 1,049 new species of flowering plants have been added to the State’s flora in the past three decades.  Flowering Plants of Tamil Nadu, A Compendium , a book published by the Care Earth Trust, a Chennai-based biodiversity research organisation, has comprehensive details of flowering plants distributed across Tamil Nadu. At present, there are nearly 6,723 species of flowering plants, including wild and cultivated or invasive species, found in the State. The 1,400-page book with rich illustrations took three years of research and data collation for taxonomist D. Narasimhan and his co-author Sheeba J. Irwin. Funded by the National Biodiversity Authority of India and the Tamil Nadu Biodiversity Board, the book has exhaustive details, including nomenclature, flowering seasons, plants’ life forms and other information on medicinal and horticultural significance. “We have included species’ English and Tamil names wherever possible and their distribution in the State, India and the world. We found that nearly 53% of the species found in the State were herbaceous (which have characteristics of herbs). This includes all kinds of grasses. Nilavembu is one of the herbaceous plants with more than 30 species,” said Prof. Narasimhan, retired associate professor, Department of Botany, Madras Christian College, and adviser, Care Earth Trust. Worrisome trend One of the worrisome trends is that 36% of the flowering plants in the State were cultivated or invasive species introduced, which may prove detrimental to the native varieties, he said. Similarly, invasive alien species of flora, wattle trees introduced from Australia and lantana have covered hilly regions like Kodaikanal and Nilgiris, choking native species. Noting that the Madras High Court had formed a committee to remove the invasive species, Prof. Narasimhan said: “We cannot avoid invasive species. But we must know how to keep them under check and not let them affect native species.” Tamil Nadu is home to 292 endemic plant species, such as Impatiens Tamilnadensis at Theni Hills and Sonerila Kanniakumariana endemic to the Kanniyakumari Wildlife sanctuary. These species need conservation efforts. The book, which is awaiting launch, would be a one-stop reference material and tool for conservation efforts. It would be made available in libraries, research centres and all educational institutions, said Care Earth Trust’s managing trustee Jayshree Vencatesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1049-new-species-of-flowering-plants-added-to-states-flora/article34742601.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces high-level panel to study impact of NEET||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday announced the constitution of a high-level committee, headed by former judge of the Madras High Court Justice A.K. Rajan, to study the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical college admissions in Tamil Nadu. “The committee will study whether NEET has affected students on the fringes of society, suggest corrective measures if NEET has caused any harm and alternative ways and legal means for medical college admissions for all, and its possible implementation,” the Chief Minister said in a statement. Noted educationists and officials will be members of the high-level committee. “Tamil Nadu has a historical duty to uphold social justice, and the State government is committed to taking measures to remove the effects of NEET,” Mr. Stalin said. Affecting some students He said educationists were of the opinion that NEET had severely affected students of rural areas, those from poor families in urban areas, government schoolchildren and those who had studied in Tamil-medium schools. “The [erstwhile] DMK government led by Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] enacted a law for admission to medical colleges based on the marks scored in the Class 12 examinations, and the State government has launched many legal battles [on this front],” he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-high-level-panel-to-study-impact-of-neet/article34742612.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami meets Panneerselvam||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday called on party coordinator O. Panneerselvam at a city hotel. The meeting lasted nearly 15 minutes. It was a courtesy call, said AIADMK sources. According to a party release, Mr. Palaniswami met Mr. Panneerselvam to condole the death of the coordinator’s brother recently. Among those present at the meeting were former Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and former Member of Parliament N. Balaganga. The development assumes importance in the light of Mr. Panneerselvam not being present at a meeting held by Mr. Palaniswami at the party headquarters on Friday. The Leader of the Opposition had said there were no differences of opinion with his colleague. AIADMK organisation secretary and former Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said there was nothing to be surprised about the meeting. “What is wrong in the coordinator and the co-coordinator holding a meeting,” he wondered. Emphasising that there were no differences in the party, he said, “Only the media are trying to exaggerate them.” But the party was working “vibrantly”. He was talking to reporters after paying homage at the mausoleum of Indian Union Muslim League leader M. Muhammad Ismail, along with former Ministers B. Valarmathi and Gokula Indira. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to order a study of the reasons for the increasing deaths of patients, though active cases were dipping and oxygen shortage was easing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-meets-panneerselvam/article34742614.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges Modi to expedite construction of AIIMS||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday sought the personal intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commence the construction of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Thoppur, Madurai. “I request that a dedicated team of officers with adequate financial and administrative powers be appointed immediately and measures be taken by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to finalise and commence its construction immediately. The State government is willing to extend all cooperation necessary for the immediate commencement and early completion of the project,” he said in a letter to the Prime Minister. He said even though the foundation stone for the institute was laid by Mr. Modi on January 27, 2019, and land for the prestigious institution had already been transferred, there had been no physical progress in the establishment of the institution, except the construction of a compound wall. “The expeditious setting up of the institution is necessary for providing quality tertiary care to people of the southern districts of Tamil Nadu as well as its neighbouring States,” he said. While the Centre had appointed a president and an executive director and constituted some committees for the institute, it had been learnt that the panels did not have the authority to execute a project of this size. “Meanwhile, there are also reports that due to this avoidable delay, the option of starting the institution at some other location, temporarily, is also being considered. This may further delay the project,” the Chief Minister said.  The expeditious setting up of the institution is necessary for providing quality tertiary care to people of the southern districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-modi-to-expedite-construction-of-aiims/article34742619.ece
06 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Govt. posts new SPs for districts||In yet another major shuffle, the State government has effected transfers of superintendents of police (SP) level officers. G. Shashank Sai, who was serving as the Superintendent of Police for Karur district, has been posted as Superintendent of Police for Tiruppur district. He will be replacing Disha Mittal, who was posted as the Deputy Commissioner of Police – Mylapore, Greater Chennai Police as per a previous order.  Meanwhile, P. Sundaravadivel, who was serving as the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Headquarters), Tiruppur City Police, was posted as the new Karur SP. The following are other SP level officers transferred and the districts they posted as SPs. Ashish Rawat- Nilgris, V. Sasi Mohan - Erode, M. Sree Abinav- Salem, Saroj Kumar Thakur- Namakkal, C. Kalaichelvan- Dharmapuri and E. Sai Charan Tejaswi- Krishnagiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-posts-new-sps-for-districts/article34742878.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin honours nurse for saving infants||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday appreciated Jayakumar, a nurse at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital For Women And Children in Chennai. He saved 47 children and their mothers during a recent fire accident at the hospital. The Chief Minister invited Mr. Jayakumar and his wife Devika to the Secretariat on Saturday and honoured them. When a fire broke out in the hospital on May 26, Mr. Jayakumar broke the windows and used fire extinguishers to put out the flames before the arrival of the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. As many as 36 infants and 11 children, who were kept in incubators, and their mothers were saved due to Mr. Jayakumar’s actions, an official press release said.  When a fire broke out in the hospital on May 26, Mr. Jayakumar broke the windows and used fire extinguishers to put out the flame||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-honours-nurse-for-saving-infants/article34742624.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 relief assistance distribution from June 15||The second instalment of COVID-19 financial relief and provisions kit containing 14 items would be distributed through ration shops to rice family card holders between 8 a.m. and 12 noon from June 15, said Food and Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani on Saturday. He said tokens for availing the Rs. 2,000 assistance and the 14 items would be distributed between June 11 and 14. “The cash and hamper will be given together to rice ration card holders,” Mr. Sakkarapani said in a statement. Chief Minister Stalin had announced Rs. 4,000 as relief and the first instalment of Rs. 2,000 was distributed earlier. Mr. Sakkarapani said the government was able to save Rs. 80 crore for the purchase of provisions during the first instalment because of the transparent procurement policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-relief-assistance-distribution-from-june-15/article34742610.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel all entrance exams: PMK||The PMK on Saturday demanded that all entrance exams be cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, party founder S. Ramadoss said that students would not be able to prepare and focus for the NEET scheduled on August 3. “It would be a violation of human rights if any test is organised. If we have to choose between exams and life of students, we have to choose the students. The Centre and the State government should understand this,” he said and added that the admission process for colleges must begin. Meanwhile, party MP Anbumani Ramadoss said that Tamil Nadu faced a severe environmental crisis and ecosystem restoration was essential for the State’s growth. “Restoration of ecology should be one of the main goals of Tamil Nadu. Protection of ecology, raising awareness and restoration of lost ecologies should be one of the primary aims,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-all-entrance-exams-pmk/article34742602.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown to continue in State till June 14||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Saturday extended the COVID-19 lockdown by one more week from June 7 till 6 a.m. on June 14, but relaxed the restrictions region-wise based on the spread of the infection. The curbs will be eased more in Chennai and districts in northern and southern parts, where the number of cases has come down, than in 11 districts, predominantly in the western and delta regions, where the rate of infection is higher. However, shopping complexes, malls, tourist places, cinemas and salons will remain shut across the State. A government order issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu said that in Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Karur, Namakkal, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai, the easing of the curbs would be limited since the disease had not come under control. Across the State, standalone provision shops, grocery stores, fish and meat stalls and platform shops selling vegetables, fruits and flowers will be allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-to-continue-in-tamil-nadu-till-june-14/article34742588.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Global tender for vaccines gets no bidders||Tamil Nadu’s global tender for COVID-19 vaccines, which closed on Saturday, did not attract any bidders. This has put the State’s plans to vaccinate nearly 3.6 crore people in the 18-44 age group in jeopardy. On May 15, the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) floated a global tender for the supply of 3.5 crore vaccines with a delivery schedule of 180 days, progressively, from the date of the purchase order. June 5 was the last date for the tender. A senior official confirmed that the global tender had fetched no response from bidders. “This is the same situation as in some other States. Bidders are not willing to overlook the Government of India and supply directly to the States,” an official said. He added that there was no point in extending the deadline for the tender. “We need to assess the prospects and decide,” he added. Oral, injectable vaccines In the tender document, the TNMSC had called for COVID-19 vaccines, with the dosage form of oral or injectable, liquid or freeze dried, type being live attenuated, manufactured from purified inactivated, obtained from human plasma or manufactured using recombinant DNA technology, etc., which can be stored in 2-8 degrees Celsius. The State government had decided to float a global tender to procure vaccines as allocation from the Centre was insufficient to vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/global-tender-for-vaccines-gets-no-bidders/article34742625.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man crushed to death in Mannady||A 58-year-old man died at a temple in Mannady after a concrete slab collapsed on him. The victim was identified as Diwakar, 58, a resident of Velachery, and was working as a contract staff at the Customs Department. He used to visit the Rettai Vinayagar temple on Thambu Chetty Street daily. On Saturday, a concrete slab from the temple wall collapsed on him. He died on the spot. Police sent the body to the Government Stanley Hospital for a post-mortem examination, and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-crushed-to-death-in-mannady/article34742599.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School staff to get vaccinated by June 20||All teaching and non-teaching staff from government and government-aided schools and Chennai Schools (run by the Greater Chennai Corporation) have been asked to take the COVID-19 vaccine before June 20. In a circular, the Chennai Chief Educational Officer said teachers who have got vaccinated would have to submit the vaccination certificate to the officials in charge of their school's jurisdiction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-staff-to-get-vaccinated-by-june-20/article34742607.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two lions with COVID-19 responding to treatment||Out of the eight lions that tested positive for COVID-19 at the Arignar Anna Zoological Park, Vandalur, two aged lions are slowly responding to treatment. According to a press release, Head of the Forest Department S. Yuvaraj reviewed the animals’ health condition on Saturday. The visit followed the death of Neela, a 9-year-old lioness, on June 3. The other lions are under close observation and on a prescribed treatment regimen. Srikumar, professor and head, Wildlife Department; Baranitharan, assistant professor, internal medicine; Bothiappan, assistant professor, clinical medicine; and in-house veterinarians— Thayasekhar, veterinary officer, and Sridhar, veterinary assistant surgeon — were continuously monitoring the lions, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-aged-lions-with-covid-19-slowly-responding-to-treatment-in-vandalur/article34742598.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||27 districts get new SPs||In yet another major shuffle, the State government has transferred officers of the level of superintendents of police (SP) in 27 districts. P.V ijayakumar has been shifted from Tirupattur and posted as SP, Chengalpattu. M. Sudhakar has been posted as SP, Kancheepuram while the incumbent D. Shanmugapriya has been transferred. M.R. Sibi Chakravathy has been moved from Cyber Cell CB-CID and posted as SP, Tirupattur and Om Prakash Meena has been shifted from Nagaipattinam to Ranipet. The following are the other SP-level officers transferred with their districts in brackets: Allpatil Pavan Kumar (Tiruvannamalai), N. Shreenatha (Villupuram), S. Sakthi Ganeshan (Cuddalore), Pa. Moorthy (Tiruchi), P. Sundaravadivel (Karur), S. Mani (Perambalur), K. Feroz Khan Abdullah (Ariyalur), Nisha Parthiban (Pudukottai), V.R. Srinivasan (Tiruvarur), G. Jawahar (Nagaipattinam), G. Suguna Singh (Mayiladuthurai), Ashish Rawat (the Nilgris), V. Sasi Mohan (Erode), G.S hashank Sai (Tiruppur), M. Sree Abinav (Salem), Saroj Kumar Thakur (Namakkal), C. Kalaichelvan (Dharmapuri), E. Sai Charan Tejaswi (Krishnagiri district), V. Baskaran (Madurai), M. Manohar (Virudhunagar), T. Senthil Kumar (Sivaganga), Dongare Pravin Umesh (Theni), and R. Krishnaraj (Thenkasi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-districts-get-new-sps/article34742980.ece
06 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations towards relief fund||Philanthropists and industrialists met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Saturday and made donations towards the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). MGM Healthcare managing director M.K. Rajagopalan, along with directors Prashanth Rajagopalan and Urjitha Rajagopalan, handed over a cheque for Rs. 1 crore to Mr. Stalin. Pothy’s Pattu Aalayam managing director S. Ramesh gave a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. TechIndia Infoway Pvt Ltd’s CEO and president R. Sathyakumar and its chief administrative officer S. Uma Maheshwari gave a cheque for Rs. 50 lakh in the presence of MLA M.K. Mohan. Medway Hospitals chairman T. Palaniappan and its director Narendra Srisrimal presented a cheque for Rs. 21 lakh. MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin gave contributions made by people in his constituency and those given to Rural Industries Minister T.M. Anbarasan, together amounting to Rs. 52.05 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-towards-relief-fund/article34742620.ece
06 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Work towards making State COVID-19-free: Irai Anbu||Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu on Saturday urged officials in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts to take all necessary measures so that the State was completely COVID-19 free. A release issued at the end of a meeting he held with officials from the two districts said that he wanted the Collectors to create more awareness among the public so that they came forward to take the COVID-19 vaccination, complied with precautionary measures like wearing mask and maintaining physical distance and not venture out during the lockdown unless there was an emergency. His visit comes days after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin held a meeting in Coimbatore to review the COVID-19 control measures in the western districts. Mr. Anbu learnt about the steps taken to control COVID-19 spread by the two districts, the medical infrastructure created thus far and what more was in the pipeline, the availability of essential drugs, oxygen supply, the current status of vaccination, vaccine stock on hand and the door-to-door survey under way in urban and rural areas in the two districts, the release said. The release said the case count in the districts had come down in the past few days because of the steps the respective administrations had taken and spoke about control rooms established at the Collectorates in Coimbatore and Tiruppur for COVID-19 positive persons to call for help and various other steps taken thus far. Earlier, the Chief Secretary visited the additional beds with oxygen support established at the Codissia Trade Complex’s A hall. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Special Officer for COVID-19 control for Coimbatore and Principal Secretary M.A. Siddique, Public Secretary D. Jagannathan, Director, Employment and Training, and Special Officer for COVID-19 Control for Coimbatore Corporation K. Veera Raghava Rao, Director, Town and Country Planning, P. Ganesan and senior officials were present at the meeting. The Chief Secretary also reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Salem and Erode districts and observed that while the cases have been decreasing in Northern Tamil Nadu, the numbers have been increasing in the western districts. He advised officials to increase field workers’ strength and create awareness on restrictions. Mr.Irai Anbu presented 35 oxygen concentrators donated by RPG Foundation to health department here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-towards-making-state-covid-19-free-irai-anbu/article34742872.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industry associations in Coimbatore district seek support for units||With the State government permitting partial operation of industries only in some districts even as it announced continuing of the lockdown with some relaxations, industry associations seek support for the units. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association M.V. Ramesh Babu said exporting units in Coimbatore will not be able to operate with just 10 % workforce as the workers cannot use two-wheelers to travel to work. MSME units cannot organise common vehicles for transport. Only when there is production and supply of products will the units have flow of funds. The units have no option but to remain closed for another week. So, the State and Central governments should extend financial support to the MSMEs here. Ashwin Chandran, chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, said the textile units in Madurai and Tiruchi districts should be permitted to operate with 50 % workforce as there is a decline in COVID-19 cases there. In the eight districts where the cases are high, the units should be permitted to operate with workers who are staying on the premises. There are several challenges for the units if the workers are kept idle at the industries. The units are vaccinating the workers and it is easy to vaccinate every worker if they come to work, he added. In Tiruppur, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council A. Sakthivel and president of Tiruppur Exporters Association Raja M. Shanmugham welcomed the decision to permit the exporting units to work with 10 % workforce. This will give confidence to international buyers and the units will be able to take forward the orders on hand, said Mr. Shanmugham. The government should organise availability of vaccination so that all the workers are vaccinated, added Mr. Sakthivel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-associations-in-coimbatore-district-seek-support-for-units/article34742649.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Awareness programme, competitions mark World Environment Day||Activities ranging from digital awareness programme to observation of ‘no vehicle day’ marked the observation of the World Environment Day here on Saturday. Indian Navy’s training establishment INS Agrani, Coimbatore, organised poster making, painting competition, slogan and essay writing for children based on this year’s theme ‘ecosystem restoration’. A mass clearing of non-biodegradable waste like plastic-based materials was carried out inside the establishment. A sapling plantation drive was undertaken in various parts of the establishment and INS Agrani had committed to plant 100 palm trees prior to this year’s monsoon, said a release. The preparatory activities towards the plantation drive were conducted as part of the World Environment Day. Also, a ‘no vehicle day’ was observed on the campus and all personnel were encouraged to voluntarily minimise power consumption in their residence from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Friday and Saturday. A scheduled power cut was also carried out from 5.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. on the two days, the release said. The ENVIS Centre on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore, observed the World Environment Day digitally through a Facebook Live programme. IFGTB director C. Kunhikannan inaugurated the programme and highlighted that ecological restoration aimed to recreate, initiate, or accelerate the recovery of an ecosystem that had been disturbed. Disturbances were environment changes that altered ecosystem structure and function. Common disturbances included logging, damming rivers, intense grazing, hurricanes, floods, and fires, he said. He also highlighted the preparation of Detailed Project Reports for rejuvenation of 13 major rivers in India by the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education. A painting competition on the theme environment was organised for people from different walks of life. Prizes were given to the winners and E Certificates to all the participants. An awareness poster highlighting the current year’s theme was also released during the occasion and was digitally transmitted to students and all other stakeholders. Kannan C.S. Warrier, Senior Principal Scientist and ENVIS Coordinator, S. Vigneswaran, Senior Programme Officer, and John Prasanth Jacob, Chief Scientist took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/awareness-programme-competitions-mark-world-environment-day/article34742646.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coffee Board seeks IT relaxation for coffee growers||The Coffee Board has written to the Union government seeking exemption for coffee growers from tax deducted at source for cash withdrawals. In a memorandum to the government, the Board pointed out that according to an amendment to the Income Tax Act, 2 % was tax deducted at source for aggregate cash withdrawal of Rs. 20 lakh and 5 % was tax deducted at source for withdrawals of Rs. 1 crore if the recipient had not filed returns for three assessment years. However, commission agents or traders operating under Agriculture Produce Market Committee and registered under any law relating to agriculture produce market of the respective State were exempted from the amendment. Coffee growers, present in large numbers in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, had 70 % of the cost as the labour component and large number of migrants as permanent and casual workers. They need to withdraw cash to pay wages to these workers and to buy inputs for the crop. The coffee growers, most of who were small-scale, should be exempted from tax deduction at source for cash withdrawals, said the Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coffee-board-seeks-it-relaxation-for-coffee-growers/article34742653.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Early testing and follow-up led to reduction in cases’||The reduction in COVID-19 cases in the city is on account of a few systemic changes made to the way the Coimbatore Corporation handled its response, says K. Veera Raghava Rao, special officer for the COVID-19 management for the civic body. From 1,961 COVID-19 positive cases on May 26, the number has more than halved to 823 cases on June 4. This is because, the corporation identified persons who showed fever symptoms and ensured that they gave swab samples either at fever camps or urban primary health centres or a private lab. The exercise to identify persons having fever and showing COVID-19 symptoms gained strength with the deployment of 4,200 persons on ground for a door-to-door survey of every house in the city. Then came the role of focus volunteers who called over phone and also physically checked on persons in home quarantine. Each volunteer called on 30 or 40 positive persons a day, enquired about their well-being like asking about the symptoms they were having, their oxygen saturation level, etc., and asked if they were in need of medicines, essentials or wanted any help. The third was the call centre, says Mr. Rao adding that persons at the centre called all positive persons in home quarantine at least once a day or every two days as a follow up. Based on their interactions with positive persons, the staff categorised them into red, yellow and green – red category was persons who required hospitalisation, yellow was for persons who showed COVID-19 symptoms but were stable and did not require immediate hospitalisation and green was for persons who were relatively healthy. If persons in yellow category showed no improvement for four or five days, the callers would alert the corporation doctor concerned for taking them to hospital. In addition, there were zonal teams as well. Each team checked on persons who had turned COVID-19 positive in the last five days. The corporation also strengthened its set up at triage centres to ensure that no person who had reported positive was out of its radar, Mr. Rao says. The corporation matched the data from its field staff, COVID-19 Care Centres, government and private hospitals and triage centres to see every person who had reported positive for the day was accounted for. This helped prevent the COVID-19 spread. In the coming days, the corporation will concentrate on enforcement of safety guideline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-testing-and-follow-up-led-to-reduction-in-cases/article34742870.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death||A 22-year-old man was hacked to death by his friend near Madukkarai here late on Friday. According to the police, the deceased, S. Jeevanantham from Bodipalayam near Madukkarai, had been doing painting works and he had the habit of injecting drugs on himself. His friend Manikandan has been residing in a rented house at Bodipalayam. He has been doing daily wage work in an industrial unit at SIDCO industrial estate. As per the statement given by Manikandan to the police, he met Jeevanantham near a temple at Seerapalayam around 9.30 p.m. Jeevanantham had borrowed Rs. 300 from him five days ago with which he purchased a drug from Kuniyamuthur. According to Manikandan’s statement, he injected the drug on the right hand of Jeevanantham as demanded by him. Jeevanantham then complained to Manikandan that he was not getting high from the drug. He demanded Manikandan to buy more doses of the drug. When Manikandan said that he did not have money, Jeevanantham demanded Manikandan to sell the latter’s phone and buy the drug with that money. Jeevanantham also threatened Manikandan that he would kill him and his parents if he did not get him more drug, said the police. Manikandan, according to the police, went to his house and returned with a sickle. He hacked Jeevanantham on head. Manikandan left for his house after disposing of the body in a pit nearby. The police said that Manikandan surrendered at the station with his lawyer on Saturday. He was produced before a judge and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-hacked-to-death/article34742877.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Caution against online cheating||The Cyber Cell of Coimbatore City Police cautioned about attempts made by fraudsters to cheat people, especially the elderly and pensioners, on the pretext of offering various banking services online. The Cyber Cell has asked people to be cautious about calls wherein fraudsters ask to share the one time password (OTP) by promising to issue new ATM card and to activate online bank services for ease of transactions during the lockdown. They also ask OTP by claiming to merge ATM cards of different banks into one. According to the Cyber Cell, such fraudsters were targeting elderly people and pensioners the most.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caution-against-online-cheating/article34742647.ece
06 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tea Board disburses subsidy||The Tea Board, Coonoor, has disbursed Rs. 1.09 crore to six tea estates/factories under Plantation Development Scheme (big grower) and incentive for orthodox tea production. Schemes According to a press release, for the first tranche of subsidy disbursements under various schemes of the Board for the year 2021-22, Rs. 5.8 lakh was disbursed to pone tea garden for uprooting and replanting activity and Rs. 1.03 crore to five orthodox tea manufacturing units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-board-disburses-subsidy/article34742648.ece
06 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Donated||Members of North Indian Association handed over two sanitiser machines, 100 pulse oximeters and 900 masks to Collector S. Nagarajan for COVID-19 patients. A release said the members requested the district administration to conduct a vaccination camp for their volunteers involved in relief works amid the lockdown.   The Coimbatore Chapter of the Art of Living Foundation recently launched its helpline for COVID-19 patients. A release said the helpline provided services such as providing information regarding hospital bed availability, oxygen suppliers, ambulance services, free online consultation by doctors and mental health programmes. The foundation also recently donated two oxygen concentrators, 400 personal protective equipment kits, 1,000 N95 masks to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, according to the release. For details, contact 97902 00300, 93610 12348 and 94430 81750.   Isha Foundation announced that it would offer cremation services free of cost for COVID-19 victims for the next three months at the 18 crematoriums under its maintenance in the State. In a tweet on Sunday, the Foundation said this initiative would be a “gesture of solidarity with all those who have lost their loved ones to the deadly virus.” The 18 crematoriums maintained by Isha Foundation comprised 12 crematoriums in Coimbatore district, four in Chennai and one each in Namakkal and Neyveli.   Public speaker Dan Ram announced that his volunteers had been supplying 200 food packets to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital amid the second wave of COVID-19. A release said the volunteers also donated oxygen concentrators to these two hospitals recently.   Tiruppur North District Congress Committee president P. Gopi urged Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to vaccinate persons who were involved in cremating the COVID-19 victims. A release said he submitted the party’s petition addressed to the President regarding vaccinating one crore citizens a day against COVID-19, following which he suggested that the district administration must send healthcare personnel to crematoriums to vaccinate the workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donated/article34742643.ece
06 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination centres witness heavy rush||With only 100 tokens issued a day for vaccination, all the 10 Uban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in the corporation limits witnessed heavy rush on Saturday. As many as 15,000 doses of vaccine arrived in the district and vaccination camps resumed on June 3 at the Government Hospital at Perundurai, 10 UPHCs and Block PHCs and Additional PHCs in the district. Pre-registered persons in the portal seeking vaccination are not accepted at the centres and token system was followed resulting in a large number of people gathering at each centre right from the morning. The corporation had placed a board at all the UPHCs informing the public that only 100 doses were available for a particular day and issue of tokens commenced at 8 a.m. Also, persons above 45 years were only vaccinated. On Saturday, over 500 persons waited in long queues outside each of the UPHCs while tokens were issued only to 100 persons. This caused disappointment among the persons who were unable to receive the token resulting in altercations with the staff. While many wanted to receive their first jab, staff at the centres told them that only second jab Covaxin will be administered which further caused uneasiness among the crowd. At Agathiyar Street, police had to intervene to pacify the crowd. In rural areas, chaotic situation prevailed at many of the vaccination centres as only 100 tokens were issued to the huge gathering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-centres-witness-heavy-rush/article34742868.ece
06 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Talavadi farmers want fair price for their produce||Farmers in Talavadi expressed concern over vegetables procured from them at a meagre price being sold at exorbitant price to people during the total lockdown here. Tomato, cabbage, chilly, beans, beetroot, cauliflower, chowchow, brinjal, Ivy gourd and other gourd varieties are cultivated widely by farmers in the hill. Every day, farmers take their produce to the mandis where vegetables in large quantities also arrive from Chamarajanagar in Karnataka. The vegetables are auctioned in the evening and the successful bidder transports the produce to the wholesale markets in Erode, Coimbatore and Kerala. Auctioned price of various vegetables a kg at the Talavadi Vegetable Commission Mandi and Traders Welfare Association on Friday evening were tomato Rs. 2.50, cabbage Rs. 3, chilly Rs. 10, beans Rs. 40 to Rs. 60, beetroot Rs. 14, chow chow Rs. 10, brinjal Rs. 10 and Ivy gourd Rs. 13. On Saturday, the price fixed for retail sales by the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business were tomato Rs. 34, brinjal Rs. 34, beans Rs. 26 to Rs. 78, chilly Rs. 25 and cabbage Rs. 15. S. Manickam, a farmer, said the price of vegetables when reaching the end users doubled whereas the producer got a meagre price. “We sell tomatoes for less than Rs. 3 a kg whereas it is sold for Rs. 20 a kg to the consumers. The difference of Rs. 17 a kg goes to commission agents, wholesalers and retailers while the farmers suffer,” he added. Kannaiyan Subramaniam of Talavadi Farmers Association in his social media post expressed serious concern over the crashing price of vegetables to the farmers and skyrocketing prices to the consumers. The farmers said the issue of poor pricing was a perennial problem to them in the hills as they faced difficulty in transporting the produce to the plains and marketing it. “The State government should purchase vegetables from us directly and sell them,” said Mr. Manickam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/talavadi-farmers-want-fair-price-for-their-produce/article34742650.ece
06 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Triage centre starts functioning at school||The triage centres (screening centre) that functioned at two places in corporation limits were closed and started functioning at Kalaimagal Girls Higher Secondary School on Meenatchi Sundaranar Road from Saturday. After a person tests COVID-19 positive, they are taken to the centres that functioned at the District Headquarters Hospital (Erode GH) and the Corporation Marriage Hall, near the bus stand. Various tests were conducted and based on the results, the doctors team either sent the patient to the Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai or asked them to be in home isolation. If the patient is unable to be in home isolation, they are sent to the Covid Care Centres. As many as 50 patients were screened every day at each of the two centres in the past two months. Due to space constraints, the civic body decided to start the centre on the school premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/triage-centre-starts-functioning-at-school/article34742866.ece
06 June 2021||Kovilpatti,TAMIL NADU||27-day-old baby tests positive for COVID-19||A 27-day-old male baby is in home quarantine after he tested positive for COVID-19. Sources in the Department of Public Health said a woman from Idaiseval near here gave birth to a male baby at the Kovilpatti Government Hospital on May 7. The mother and the baby were discharged after a few days. When the baby’s grandfather had COVID-19 symptoms, he was screened and he tested positive. Subsequently, other family members including the baby were screened by the personnel from Villiseri Primary Health Centre on June 2. While all others including the young mother tested negative, the baby tested positive for the viral infection. “He is in home quarantine and under constant monitoring,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/27-day-old-baby-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article34742968.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||468 new cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 468 new positive cases on Saturday, increasing the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 67,520. A total of 981 persons got discharged and the number of active cases stood at 12,616. Twelve deaths were recorded, increasing the district’s toll to 960. Virudhunagar district continued to report 400 plus new positive cases for the fourth day in a row on Saturday and fatalities shot up again to double digit —13 deaths — after a let up for two days. The district had reported four and five deaths on June 3 and 4. However, eight women and five men succumbed to the viral infection on Saturday. Among them, three men and one woman were aged below 50 years. A total of 472 persons tested positive and the highest number of 1,224 patients got discharged on Saturday. This brought down the total number of active cases to 5,539. Meanwhile, the total number of positive cases crossed 40,000-mark and stood at 40,051 with the number of discharges at 34,058.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/468-new-cases-in-madurai/article34742708.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Signature campaign against use of tobacco held in Madurai||A signature campaign against the use of tobacco, organised by Nala Dental Hospital, was held on the hospital premises here on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) T.K. Rajasekhar initiated the signature campaign. Doctors J. Kannaperuman and Anusha also participated in the event. The signature campaign concluded the week-long awareness programmes conducted by the hospital since the World No-Tobacco Day that falls on May 31. According to Dr. Kannaperuman one-third of the adult population across the world uses tobacco in some form. About 90% of the people diagnosed with cancer in mouth, throat and lips use tobacco in some form. Tobacco users are six times more likely to develop oral cancers. Tobacco users are also likely to develop gum disease, which can attack roots and cause teeth to fall out. Even smokeless tobacco products can irritate gum tissue, causing gums to loosen around teeth, making it easier for bacteria to settle in and develop decay, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/signature-campaign-against-use-of-tobacco-held-in-madurai/article34742985.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response on PIL plea to rehabilitate manual scavengers||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State in a public interest litigation petition seeking rehabilitation of manual scavengers as per the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. A Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took a serious view of the issue and sought a response from authorities in the PIL petition filed in 2017 by advocate Sahaya Philomin Raj of Madurai. The case was adjourned till July 7. The petitioner said that he was engaged in bringing awareness to manual scavengers in Madurai and Virudhunagar districts. He said that he had identified 132 manual scavengers in Madurai and 164 manual scavengers in Virudhunagar. The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act was enacted to prohibit manual scavenging and to rehabilitate the identified manual scavengers and their families, the petitioner said. He pointed out that the workers were unaware of the Act and the rehabilitation measures enumerated in the Act. Moreover, the authorities were not taking steps to identify the manual scavengers for the purpose of rehabilitation. The petitioner said that the authorities must identify the workers as manual scavengers in order to provide them identity cards so that they could avail the rehabilitation measures as per the Act. A survey committee should be established to identify the workers, he said. The committee should arrange for creating awareness among the manual scavengers and government officials who were supposed to implement the provisions under the Act, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-seeks-response-on-pil-plea-to-rehabilitate-manual-scavengers/article34742702.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Money from waste to be contributed to relief fund||The Green Club of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), along with Madurai Corporation, collected old plastic, steel and other recyclable products from residents across the city on Saturday. The products, which were collected on World Environment Day, would be sold and the proceeds contributed to Chief Minister's COVID-19 relief fund. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan, who participated in the event at Bethaniyapuram, stressed the importance of preserving nature. He said in the first phase the initiative was undertaken in 25 wards. Soon, it would be undertaken in all 100 wards of the city. He thanked the residents for complying with the rules of the intense complete lockdown, which helped to reduce the spread of coronavirus infections.. The MP said the Chief Minister had urged the Cenre to supply sufficient COVID-19 vaccines to the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/money-from-waste-to-be-contributed-to-relief-fund/article34742704.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea for donation from Ramakrishna Math||Sri Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, who are rendering welfare services to the people during the COVID-19 pandemic, have sought donations from devotees, admirers and philanthropists in order to continue the work. In a press release issued on Saturday, its president Swami Kamalatmananda said Rs. 33.20 lakh was required to continue the welfare projects. The math was distributing food packets to needy persons at key junctions in the city. The cost per day was Rs. 70,000. The estimated cost for the project was Rs. 18.20 lakh. The math was also providing grocery kits worth Rs. 1,000 to 1,500 families. The cost of the project was Rs. 15 lakh, he said. Contribution Devotees, admirers and philanthropists could contribute to the welfare cause by transferring their contribution to Ramakrishna Math bank account. The full address, PAN number and mobile number should be mailed tomadurairkm@gmail.com. Cheques were also accepted. The details of the bank account: Account name: RAMAKRISHNA MATH, Bank: Indian Bank, Branch: Bibikulam, A/C no.502069359 savings bank A/C and IFSC Code: IDIB000B066. The donations were exempted under Section 80 G of the Income Tax Act, the president said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-donation-from-ramakrishna-math/article34742705.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Couple end life due to financial crunch||A couple, who had a love marriage without the knowledge of their parents, ended their life due to tough financial situation. Police said S. Solai Senthil, 25, remained unemployed after marriage. Hence, he could not run his family, living separately from parents. The couple then decided to end their life. While his wife died in May, he survived. However, after knowing that his wife had died, he made another suicide attempt and ended his life by hanging in Arapalayam on Friday. Karimedu police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-end-life-due-to-financial-crunch/article34742979.ece
06 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Decision on lockdown welcomed||The Agro Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the State government’s decision to ease the lockdown restrictions. Permitting the essential commodities like provisions, grocery and some of the industrial and trade-related services to resume would help these sectors. In a press statement issued on Saturday, Agro Chamber President S. Rethinavelu thanked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for allowing the services of electricians, carpenters, vehicle repair workshops, plumbers and motor technicians to resume work. He hoped that the relaxations would be extended to the other sectors step by step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decision-on-lockdown-welcomed/article34742981.ece
06 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||More machinery to be mobilised for desilting||More earth-moving machinery will be mobilised for expediting works on desiltation of waterbodies in Nagapattinam district, Additional Chief Secretary of Public Works Department Sandeep Saxena said on Friday. Referring to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin's announcement that water will be released from Mettur dam on June 12, Mr. Saxena told mediapersons that the extent of equipment utilised for desilting works will be increased by 20 % through mobilisation from Highways, Agricultural Engineering, Geology and Mining and other departments. The plan is to have two operators for each earth-moving machinery so that the work can progress unhindred from morning to evening under the watch of farmers’ groups. The resources at the disposal of District Rural Development Agency would be optimised to carry out the desilting works in ‘C’ and ‘D’ category canals such that the water will reach the tail-end areas for irrigation, he said. Accompanied by Collector Praveen P. Nair and other senior officials, Mr. Saxena inspected the works in progress. Eighty nine works are being carried out in the district to a cumalative length of 574 km at a cost of Rs. 5.25 crore. About 62 works were nearing completion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-machinery-to-be-mobilised-for-desilting/article34743015.ece
06 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 12 deaths, 613 new cases||The COVID-19 fatality rate and new cases continued to show a declining trend in the Union Territory. In the last 24 hours, ending at 10 a.m. on Saturday, 12 persons succumbed to the virus and 613 new cases got registered. Of the total deaths, 7 were reported in Puducherry, 3 in Karaikal and 2 in Yanam region. The new cases were detected from screening 9,086 persons. While Puducherry recorded 470 new admissions, Karaikal registered 106 cases. Yanam and Mahe regions recorded 21 and 15 new cases respectively, data released by the Health Department showed. The test positivity rate has come down to 6.75%, from almost 15% a few weeks ago. The recovery rate has gone up to 90.41%. The overall tally is 1,613 deaths, 8,783 active cases, a total of 10,94,751 cases and 9,44,264 people treated and discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-12-deaths-613-new-cases/article34742605.ece
06 June 2021||R. KrishnamoorthyTIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Frame guidelines for online classes after pandemic situation eases: forum||The Aided College Teachers' Association (ACTA) has said that it would be in the best interest of students if the State Government desists from formulating guidelines for online classes for 2021-22 academic year, at this point of time, citing the pandemic situation across the country. In the wake of the Director of Collegiate Education inviting views of principals, teachers, representatives of Parent-Teacher Associations, student representatives and office-bearers of teachers' associations, the ACTA has made a representation to the State government stating that there were apprehensions in the minds of people that the worst was yet to come. “There is a sure possibility of more extensions of lockdown. A comprehensive decision on arriving at the academic calendar and number of working days, conduct of classes and examinations can be taken only when the pandemic situation abates,” S. Sahaya Sathish, State general secretary, ACTA, said in a letter to the Director of Collegiate Education. For the last one year, the colleges are conducting only online classes which are inaccessible to the rural and underprivileged students. Online classes and examinations can never be an alternative to the inter-personal classroom dynamics. “Only when the pandemic situation eases can any concrete and meaningful decision be taken on the issue,” Prof. Sahaya Sathish said, emphasising that any deliberation regarding the online mode of classes and examinations can be kept in abeyance. ‘Not a viable substitute” The Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers’ Association has observed that online teaching can be only a temporary / stop-gap arrangement and not a viable substitute for face-to-face regular classes. The teaching-learning evaluation process must factor in the socio-economic constraints of the students, which includes factors such as Internet connectivity, physical endurance, psychological factors, and effectiveness of content delivery mode, the TNGDTA said. The association has, however, given its views on the next course of action pertaining to conduct of online classes, the duration of the classes, use of digital tools, the approach to be adopted by the course teacher, the new method for Continuous Internal Assessment, dress code for teachers, assignments/homework for students, and grievance redressal mechanism. The teachers’ associations submitted their views at online meetings convened by the Regional Joint Directors of Collegiate Education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/frame-guidelines-for-online-classes-after-pandemic-situation-eases-forum/article34743016.ece
06 June 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Three DPCs opened||With harvesting of paddy on around 3,000 hectares under way in and around Rajapalayam, the Department of Agriculture has opened three direct purchase centres (DPCs) in the block. “With good rainfall reported in the last three months, the farmers had gone for paddy cultivation in an additional 1,000 ha,” said Agricultural Officer G. Dhanalakshmi. Harvesting has been going on for the last 10 days and the DPCs have come up in Rajapalayam, Seithur and Devadanam. Even as harvesting was going on, rain in the last two days has come as a spoilsport. “The crop has fallen in some areas. However, since it is ready for harvest, maximum yield can be achieved even if the water drains in a couple of days,” the officer said. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, along with Joint Director of Agriculture, S. Uthandaraman, inspected the DPCs on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-dpcs-opened/article34742978.ece
06 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Public should take available vaccine, says Health Secretary||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Saturday said people should take whichever vaccine dose is available as all vaccines are safe. Along with Salem Collector S. Karmegam and Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital Valli Sathyamoorthy, he inspected the hospital and reviewed COVID-19 situation. Talking to presspersons, Dr. Radhakrishnan said that the World Health Organisation guidelines states that public should not choose the type of vaccine and should take available vaccine as all types are safe and provides immunity. The State has received 1.01 crore vaccine doses and 95.91 lakh doses have been administered. More vaccine supply is expected after June 6 and the Centre has allocated 42 lakh doses for this month to the State. On black fungus disease, he said that public should be aware that the disease has occurred in non-COVID-19 patients as well, hence, measures should be taken to maintain diabetes under control. Second-line drugs for its treatment are being procured and provided and the State has requested the Centre to provide higher allocation of liposomal amphotericin B doses. On suspension of permission to two private labs for conducting tests here, he said that quality tests are conducted regularly at government and private labs and if they fail, they are asked to stop testing temporarily, correct issues and resume. Severe action is taken when false results are given deliberately, he added. A few private hospitals are indulging in collecting exorbitant charges from patients and bringing ill-name for entire group. In such cases, not just corrective action, the amount collected in excess would also be returned to the patient. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that the peak in 10-17 districts has started reducing and in 10-15 districts it is in plateau state. He advised the public to come forward for tests and treatment when there are symptoms and not to delay treatment only then deaths could be prevented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/public-should-take-available-vaccine-says-health-secretary/article34742874.ece
06 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Swab collection to deter violators||Swab samples were collected from motorists who were found venturing out of their houses unnecessarily. The district administration along with civic bodies and police are enforcing strict lockdown measures to prevent the public from venturing out of their houses. Police have set up check points and important junctions within the district and at inter-district borders to check movement of the public. Though grocery shops were closed and sale of essentials was made mobile, vehicle movement was significant on roads. Majority of motorists claim medical reasons for venturing out of their houses. The District Collectorate junction, one of the major junctions within the city saw continuous movement vehicles, derailing all containment measures. To restrict the public movement, a swab collection centre was set up at the junction and motorists who were found violating restrictions underwent COVID-19 tests and swab samples were collected from motorists for tests. The Salem City police has set up check points at 20 places and over 700 police personnel were deployed to check movement of vehicles. Since the beginning of the current lockdown, the Salem City police have seized 2,642 vehicles for venturing out unnecessarily and 71,662 cases were registered for violating COVID-19 protocol procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/swab-collection-to-deter-violators/article34742876.ece
06 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam for drinking water purposes was reduced from 2,000 cusecs to 750 cusecs on Saturday evening. According to officials from Public Works Department, the discharge was reduced due to recent rain. Water level at the dam on Saturday was 96.9 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The storage was 60,896 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 555 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discharge-from-mettur-dam-reduced/article34742654.ece
06 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||New Commissioner assumes charge||The new Commissioner for Salem City Police Najmul Hoda assumed office here on Saturday. Mr. Hoda was formerly Chief Vigilance Officer at Tamil Nadu News Print and Papers limited in Karur. His predecessor here, Santosh Kumar, has been posted as Inspector General of Police, North Zone, Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-commissioner-assumes-charge/article34742652.ece
06 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Protests held in Thanjavur||Protests by way of burning copies of the three new agriculture laws enacted by the Union Government were staged at different places in Thanjavur district on Saturday. While the demonstration organised by the All India Farmers Protest Coordination Committee, Thanjavur District Unit, was staged near Thanjavur railway junction, similar demonstrations were organised by members of farmers associations affiliated to political parties at Kumbakonam, Peravurani, Budalur, Sembiyanallur near Ammapettai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protests-held-in-thanjavur/article34743029.ece
06 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Saplings planted||Planting of 400 saplings on Tamil University Staff Quarters campus, Thanjavur, began on World Environment Day. Vice-Chancellor G. Balasubramanian said the forest department had come forward to rear the saplings. The programme coincided with the State-wide sapling plantation drive launched by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on June 3, the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister M.Karunanidhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saplings-planted/article34743013.ece
06 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Storage level at Manjalar dam reaches its maximum level||PWD engineers have given the final flood warning to the public residing close to the riverbed in Manjalar near Periakulam in the district as the storage level at the Manjalar dam had reached its maximum level on Saturday. Widespread rain in the western ghats and the summer rain in and around the district in the recent days had resulted in steady rise in the storage level from 42 feet to 55 ft. The maximum storage at Manjalar dam is 57 feet. The residents in Ganguvarpatti, G Kallupatti in the district and Batlagundu in neighbouring Dindigul district had been cautioned. The PWD officials had already given the second warning, when the storage level crossed 53 ft. The Manjalar dam has been receiving 192 cusecs and the entire inflow had been discharged. The dam has 487.35 mcft and as on date, it had 435.32 mcft. The officials said that Silver Cascade falls in Kodaikanal experienced heavy flow and there was widespread rain in many parts of Dindigul district for about 30 to 45 minutes on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/storage-level-at-manjalar-dam-reaches-its-maximum-level/article34742983.ece
06 June 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Compensation handed over to victims of anti-Sterlite protest||M. K. Kanimozhi, Member of Parliament, on Saturday handed over compensation of Rs. 1 lakh each to 93 persons who were affected in the anti-Sterlite protest on May 22, 2018. As the protest ended with police firing following arson and attack on public properties by a group of people, Justice Aruna Jegadeesan Commission that was constituted to probe the police firing in the agitation recommended to the government to give compensation to the affected. Subsequently, the Tamil Nadu government announced that Rs. 1 lakh each would be given to the 93 people and Rs. 2 lakh to the family of the victim who died even as he was in Palayamkottai Central Prison after being arrested in connection with another case. Ms. Kanimozhi handed over the compensation to the affected in the presence of Collector K. Senthil Raj and Ministers Anita R. Radhakrishnan and P. Geetha Jeevan. She also launched the planting of s under Miyawaki method in Thoothukudi. This project is being jointly funded by Tamilnad Mercantile Bank and VOC Port Trust. Ms. Kanimozhi formally commissioned the oxygen generators, sponsored by Loyal Textile Mills, in the presence of Ministers at Kovilpatti Government Hospital. Kovilpatti MLA and former minister Kadambur C. Raju of AIADMK also participated in the event. As the State Government had announced that a statue of writer Ki. Rajanarayanan would be installed in Kovilpatti, Ms. Kanimozhi inspected a few spots for this purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/compensation-handed-over-to-victims-of-anti-sterlite-protest/article34742970.ece
06 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws turn ambulances||The Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam cadre have deployed six autorickshaw ambulances across the port town to serve the poor during the lockdown. As demand for ambulances has increased unprecedentedly during the pandemic, rushing the patients to the nearest or the government hospitals for treatment has become a challenging task, especially for the poor. With the number of patients, especially the COVID-19 infected, being taken to the hospital is very high, people in need of the services of the ambulances find it tough to get an ambulance in the hour of crisis. “Having witnessed the plight of the poor, we’ve decided to operate auto ambulances within Thoothukudi Corporation limits for serving the people round-the-clock within minimum charges. We’ve fitted mini oxygen cylinders and obtained permission for operating this service,” said Abdul Ghani, Thoothukudi city president of TMMK. To avail autorickshaw ambulance service, the public may contact 99523 44782 (for Anna Nagar area), 99941 60650 (for Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital areas), 90036 97630 (for Terespuram area), 88702 83133 (for Zakhir Hussein area), 94433 71393 (for Zailani Street area), 98943 69630 (for Shanmugapuram area) round-the-clock. “Based on the response from the public and demand for these vehicles, the number of auto ambulances will be increased,” said Thoothukudi city secretary of TMMK Samsudeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaws-turn-ambulances/article34742974.ece
06 June 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Protest against farm laws||CPI (M) cadres burnt copies of the controversial farm laws here on Saturday to register their solidarity with the farmers agitating indefinitely in Delhi. Led by Srinivasan, president of farmers’ wing of the party, the cadres burnt copies of farm laws in front of their party office here and raised slogans against the Farm Acts. They demanded the Union Government to repeal the laws that ‘have been introduced to safeguard the welfare of corporate firms’. They also said the Centre should hold talks with the protesting farmers. In Tirunelveli, the cadres led by district secretary K. G. Bhaskaran staged an agitation in front of the Melapalayam Zone Office of Tirunelveli Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/protest-against-farm-laws/article34742972.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate on the decline||Although the central districts continued to report a high positivity rate for COVID-19, health officials here say that it was on the downward trend over the past few days. Official sources in the districts said that the decline in cases will reflect in the positivity rate only after the cases report a steady decline for over a week. In Tiruchi, the positivity rate was around 15% over the last week, senior officials said. “The number of cases while declining overall, continues to spread in the rural parts of the district. There are pockets where cases continue to spread,” an official said. The district administration is taking a 10-day average in hotspots to keep track of the trend in cases, the official said. “If 100 cases is the average, the following week we see 150, that means that there is an increasing trend and we will ramp up testing in the area to contain the spread,” the officials said. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Ram Ganesh said that the Health Department was also increasing vaccine administration to contain the spread of the infection. “If we identify a hotspot, we quickly arrange camps to vaccinate the neighbouring localities. This way even if it does spread, mortality rate will be low,” he said. In other districts in the region, the number of cases saw a sharp increase over the last week but was on a declining trend over the recent days. Karur had reported nearly 24% positivity rate last week, but had a marked dip of 13% on Saturday. Thanjavur In Thanjavur, where the number of cases reported a slight dip over the last couple of weeks, the positivity rate was at 14%. Collector M. Govinda Rao said that the district recorded a positivity rate of as high as 20%, but there was an apparent downward trend. The district administration had increased testing to around 6,500 samples per day. “We have set up 35 screening centres, including 14 government hospitals, and primary healthcare centres. Mobile screening camps were also introduced wherein doctors and healthcare workers travel across the district, especially to the rural parts where there is an increase in cases,” Mr. Rao said. As many as 5,000 volunteers, equipped with thermal scanners and pulse oximeters, had also been deployed to conduct door-to-door testing, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-on-the-decline/article34743011.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Next Anna University VC must be from within State’||Managements of engineering colleges affiliated to Anna University nurse an earnest desire that the next Vice-Chancellor must be the suitable candidate from within the State. Two months after formation, the Search Committee has invited applications for the VC post from distinguished academicians with high level of competence, integrity, moral and institutional commitment, and educational and work experience notified by the State government. “The State government must ensure that the new VC is a candidate fulfilling all the required parameters and also belongs to Tamil Nadu so that there will be a realistic approach towards affiliated colleges,” P. Selvaraj, chairman of Consortium of Self-Financing Engineering Colleges in Tamil Nadu, said. "Substantial focus of the previous Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa, who completed his tenure on April 11, was on research; it cannot be faulted as such, but the approach was not attuned to the prevailing eco-system for engineering education in the State. Managements could not convey their preference for a comprehensive outlook through a calibrated approach due to communication gap. A suitable candidate from within the State will be able to toe a pragmatic line," Mr. Selvaraj said. In the previous few instances, the Chancellor's choice of candidates for the State varsities from within Tamil Nadu was appreciable. “We don't see any reason why the same approach should not suit the case of Anna University,” he said. The three-member Search Panel is headed by Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar as the Governor’s nominee. Sheela Rani Chunkath, retired IAS Officer, is the Government nominee, and former Vice-Chancellor of Madras University S. P. Thyagarajan, the Syndicate nominee. “Anna University being a premium institution, candidates from a broad spectrum are likely to apply. The Governor and Chancellor will be keen on appointing the ideal candidate irrespective of geographical factors. Yet, when of equal merit, there is no reason why a suitable candidate from within the State must not be chosen,” former Vice-Chancellor of Madras and Madurai Kamaraj universities P.K. Ponnuswamy said. Though there is no written rule, choice of a meritorious candidate with knowledge of local language will, no doubt, be in the best interests of the State, Prof. Ponnuswamy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/next-anna-university-vc-must-be-from-within-state/article34743014.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown slows down pace of Mukkombu barrage work||The total lockdown has once again slowed down the work on construction of a barrage across Kollidam river at Mukkombu near here. The work, being undertaken at an estimate of Rs. 387.60 crore, began in June 2019. The new regulator is being constructed 75 metres away from the damaged structure downstream of the riverbed. After two months of brisk work, the North East monsoon and subsequent discharge of surplus water into the Kollidam from Mukkombu put a break on the work for about one-and-half- months. When the L&T, which is executing the project for the Public Works Department (PWD), was concentrating on work ‘below the ground level’ in March 2020, the national lockdown came into force and the work was suspended for about 45 days. The company had to bring back the migrant labourers from their native places to resume the work. As per the plan, the company was to have to completed the work by May this year. The pace of construction work has once again been slowed down due to the effects of yet another lockdown. Unlike the first lockdown, but for a few migrant workers, most of them preferred to stay back at the work site. But the supply chain restrictions on movement of specialised machinery has impacted the work progress. There are also issues in sourcing construction workers, who are hired from nearby villages, due to the spread of the virus. Moreover, bouts of illness caused by the COVID-19 among the workers and engineers also forced the officials to slow down the pace of construction. “The unseasonal rains in January and the subsequent lockdown have impacted the progress of work. However, we have not stopped the work. It will gain pace in the days to come,” said a senior official of the PWD. 80% of work over The official added that more than 80% of the work had been completed despite all these hurdles. Most of the works on the southern arm of the regulator had been completed. There were some works in the northern arm.There would be no issues in water regulation when Mettur dam is opened for irrigation on June 12 as the construction had reached to the superstructure level. Chances were bright for completing the works within July, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-slows-down-pace-of-mukkombu-barrage-work/article34743021.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 3,500 fresh cases in central region||As many as 3,330 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the centtral districts on Saturday, while 68 patients succumbed to the virus. Nagapattinam district reported the highest number of deaths with 13 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Tiruchi reported 11, and Perambalur, 10. Karur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur reported eight deaths each, while Ariyalur and Thanjavur reported five each. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 929 patients reporting positive. Tiruchi district reported a significant dip in the number of fresh cases - 651 cases were reported. Meanwhile, a total of 64 patients who had been undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Saturday. Nagapattinam reported 510 fresh cases, while similar declining trend was also reported in Tiruvarur, with 431 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts only had 11 ICU beds vacant. Karur district reported a slight dip in cases with 322 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. While the district had only a handful of vacancies for ICU beds over the last few days, 20 beds were available on Saturday. Ariyalur reported 192 fresh cases, Perambalur, 158 and Pudukottai, 137. Bed vacancy in these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had only six vacant ICU beds, Perambalur 10 and Ariyalur none.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-3500-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article34743012.ece
06 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||80 tonnes of medical oxygen arrives from Bhilai||An Oxygen Express, carrying about 80 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen from Bhilai, arrived in Tiruchi on Saturday. The oxygen was immediately loaded on to container trucks and despatched to 13 government hospitals in the region. While Tiruchi and Thanjavur Government Medical Colleges received the maximum supply of 12 tonnes each, Tiruvarur Government Medical College received 10 tonnes. Besides, the oxygen was also transported to Pudukottai, Namakkal, Dindigul, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai government hospitals and Raja Mirasudar Hospital in Thanjavur. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru, who inspected the despatch of supplies with Collector S. Sivarasu, told reporters that fresh cases of COVID-19 was coming down. Expressing hope that there would not be a third wave of the pandemic, Mr. Nehru said the government, however, was fully geared up to meet such eventuality. Additional health infrastructure such as oxygenated beds were being created in rural areas of Tiruchi. Three oxygen plants were being established at Lalgudi, Thuraiyur and Manapparai besides a unit being established by the Corporation in the city, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/80-tonnes-of-medical-oxygen-arrives-from-bhilai/article34743026.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHEL continues its efforts on eco-friendly initiatives||Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), Tiruchi, is committed to continuous improvement in the workplace and environment through air pollution control, sewage treatment, composting and reduction in water consumption through recycling and re-use, its General Manager and Head T.S. Murali, said on Saturday. The company’s Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Management Systems have repeatedly been certified for compliance with globally recognised ISO 14001 standards for environment management and OHSAS 18001 standards for occupational health and safety, he said administering the World Environment Day pledge to employees through video conference. The BHEL Township in Tiruchi has once again been certified as a ‘single-use plastic-free’ township by an external inspection agency, Mr.cMurali said and added that rainwater harvesting and use of treated wastewater for horticulture had been regular features of the factories and townships of BHEL, Tiruchi. Mr. Murali planted a sapling on the administrative building premises to mark the occasion. Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam Members of Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, led by its State advisor K.C. Neelamegam, planted 15 saplings of native tree species at the Golden Rock Railway Colony to mark the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bhel-continues-its-efforts-on-eco-friendly-initiatives/article34743027.ece
06 June 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Concerted effort has brought down number of fresh cases||The multi-pronged strategy adopted by the district administration has brought down the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Tirunelveli district and also the number of deaths. When the number of fresh cases started sky-rocketing with the onset of the ‘second wave,’ demand for medical oxygen too shot up. The district reported 1,107 fresh cases on May 9 last and the number hovered between 600 and 800 over the next two weeks. Unfortunately, the southern districts were then staring at oxygen shortage that worsened the situation further. So, Collector V. Vishnu deployed health workers to check the parameters of every resident at their doorstep and lift swab samples from COVID-19 suspects. The focus was on early identification of patients as patients coming to the hospital in the eleventh hour require huge quantity of medical oxygen to save them. The suspects and the patients coming for treatment were first directed to the triaging centre created at Gandhimathi School that averted long wait for screening and admission in the hospital, if it is required. While the patients with serious symptoms were immediately admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital opposite the triaging centre, people with mild symptoms were taken to the COVID Care Centres. The remaining asymptomatic patients were asked to be in home quarantine. Meanwhile, the 24x7 COVID Control Room established at the Collectorate to follow the patients – right from identifying them during the doorstep check to treatment – had positive impact on the patients. When Minister for Medical Ma. Subramanian was apprised of its functioning during his visit to the COVID Control Room recently, he was quite amazed at it, saying that it was far superior to the model being followed in Chennai. The Collector also introduced ‘oxygen nurses’ for optimal usage of medical oxygen. This system drastically cut down the oxygen usage by the COVID-19 patients as they were given only the right quantum of the life-saving gas based on their medical conditions and frequently checked oxygen saturation levels. All these measures have resulted in number of new cases coming down from over 1,000 to below 200 and the number of deaths remain in single digit. “This success scripted by the district administration is purely a team effort and the credit should go to everyone involved in it. The tahsildars of Radhapuram and Thisaiyanvilai did a stellar job along with the Sub-Collectors while doctors of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital – right from the Dean to the nurses - rose to the occasion. And we’re reaping the benefit today,” Mr. Vishnu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concerted-effort-has-brought-down-number-of-fresh-cases/article34742976.ece
06 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Over 10% of samples collected from youngsters turn positive||More than 10% of samples lifted from the people moving around in the city without valid reason during the intensified lockdown have tested positive for COVID-19. After the intensified lockdown was clamped, the police erected check-posts near Anna Statue in Tirunelveli Junction, Chellapandian Traffic Island at Vannarpet and Thatchanallur to discourage people from moving around without any valid reason on their two-wheelers. However, youngsters continued to defy the instructions by the police. Many when caught by the police, were made to write 5 Thirukkural couplets on a piece of paper as a punishment. As most of them do not know anything about Thirukkural, the mobile phones came to their rescue in completing the task. In the next stage, the police have started lifting swabs from the violators with the help of health workers. More than 10% of these people have tested positive. “Over the past five days, we’ve lifted 438 samples from such persons caught at check-posts in Tirunelveli Junction, Vannarpet and Thatchanallur,” he said. “More than 10% of them - 48 - have tested positive for COVID-19. Since we’ve collected their addresses and the phone numbers, we’ve started screening them to ascertain their health condition and get them admitted to hospital if their health condition is not that good,” said a senior corporation official. He said the movement of these youngsters might have spread the viral infection to others who had come out for buying medicines or food and for some other genuine reason. “These people, without knowing that they had contracted the virus, are moving around. The worst part is that these youngsters might have been the reason behind the infection of their family members as they are not aware that they had been infected. So we expect the police to assume tough posture against these violators at least in the days to come,” said a senior doctor of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital posted in the COVID-19 ward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-10-of-samples-collected-from-youngsters-turn-positive/article34742967.ece
06 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 110 persons booked for violation||The Tiruppur City Police registered cases against more than 110 persons for participating in the funeral of a history-sheeter in violation of the COVID-19 lockdown rules. The police said the body of Samsuddin (23) was found on June 2 inside a godown on A.B.T. Road and that he allegedly had several cases including robbery registered against him. Over 100 persons participated in his funeral and the videos surfaced on social media platforms, the police said. Based on the video evidence, the Anupparpalayam police booked over 60 persons and Tiruppur North police booked over 50 persons on Saturday under sections of Indian Penal Code, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public Health Act and Disaster Management Act on charges of violating the lockdown rules, the police said. Meanwhile, the Tiruppur Central police arrested three persons namely Karthi (22), Deva (21) and Ikram (22) on charges of murdering Samsuddin, and remanded them in judicial custody. Efforts to nab two more accused – Adhi and Jayaraman – are on. Preliminary investigations revealed that the deceased and the five accused were part of the same gang and that the murder was allegedly done due to financial gains, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-110-persons-booked-for-violation/article34742644.ece
06 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Commotion outside Tiruppur govt. hospital||Minor commotion prevailed outside Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday as a section of the public demanded COVID-19 vaccines after they were told that no vaccination would be done at the hospital. According to the Tiruppur City Police, around 50 persons who were waiting outside the hospital began arguing with the hospital authorities at around 9 a.m. They claimed that they had already received tokens and demanded to be vaccinated. The police personnel who rushed to the hospital held talks with the public, following which they dispersed, the police said. No case was registered, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commotion-outside-tiruppur-govt-hospital/article34742862.ece
06 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Upgrade Govt. Pentland hospital’||Vellore MLA P. Karthikeyan has submitted a petition to Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Friday regarding the upgradation of the Government Pentland Hospital into a multi-speciality hospital as soon as possible. The Health Minister, along with Minister for Handlooms and Textiles R. Gandhi and Vellore MP D.M. Kathir Anand, inspected COVID-19 prevention measures, vaccination centres, containment areas and availability of oxygen beds in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts. They also inaugurated additional bed facilities in the three districts. The petition was submitted during the Minister's visit. Long-pending demand According to Mr. Karthikeyan, this has been a long-time demand of the people of Vellore district. “When it was a combined district, residents of 13 Assembly constituencies used to come to this hospital for treatment. Many of the important medical wings were shifted to the Government Vellore Medical College and Hospital when it was started in 2005,” he stated in the petition. Since the GVMCH is located on the outskirts of Vellore town, people have to travel a long distance during emergencies. “If someone suffers a snake bite, he has to go to the GVMCH. Hence, it would be convenient if the Pentland hospital, situated on 5.5 acres of land, is upgraded,” the MLA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/upgrade-govt-pentland-hospital/article34742606.ece
06 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Three held for bid to brew illicit arrack||The police arrested H. Kasiviswanathan (35) and S. Valavanthan (39) of Meenakshi Nagar and C. Anand (40) of Muthal Nagar for attempting to brew illicit arrack in their houses on Friday. A team raided their houses following a tip off and found that they were fermenting raw materials in plastic pots. The police said that foul-odour was emanating and was also causing irritation to the eyes. All the three were sent to judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-bid-to-brew-illicit-arrack/article34742977.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hardware traders wary of doing business amid vegetable shops||With the State government lifting curbs on several trading activities in some of the districts from Monday, the Tiruchi district administration has begun consultation with various stakeholders on the ways and means to continue the wholesale and retail trading of vegetables and fruits on West Boulevard Road in the city As a part of its efforts to avoid overcrowding at Gandhi Market so as to check the spread of COVID-19, the Tiruchi Corporation closed it about three weeks ago and shifted the retail and wholesale operations of the market to West Boulevard Road. Traders were allowed to utilise WB Road from Kamaraj Arch to Vellamandi. While wholesale trade takes place at night, retail trading is allowed between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. The trading hours for all types of trades were restricted to 10 p.m. and 6 a.m. from May 25 following the intensive lockdown. To ensure availability of vegetables and fruits, the Corporation allowed about 500 traders to sell vegetables on wheels. Based on the Saturday’s announcement, it is expected that most of the hardware, electrical, paint and other shops selling construction materials will reopen on Monday. This has raised doubts over the continuation of vegetable trading on West Boulevard Road, where hardware stores are located. The hardware traders demand that the vegetable market be shifted immediately from West Boulevard Road and it should be cleaned for enabling them to reopen shops on Monday. To give effect to the State government’s announcement on imposing lockdown with various relaxations, Collector S. Sivarasu held an informal discussion with revenue and Corporation officials on Saturday. A section of Gandhi Market traders also took up the issue of reopening the market. Mr. Sivarasu told The Hindu that  it was not possible to reopen Gandhi Market in the present circumstances. It had been communicated to the traders clearly. It was better to have a market in the open. It was with this aim that trading at Gandhi Market was shifted to WB Road. Since wholesale vegetable trade was being done only in the night, it would not have bearing on permanent traders on West Boulevard Road. The idea of shifting the vegetable trading again to G. Corner would also be explored, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hardware-traders-wary-of-doing-business-amid-vegetable-shops/article34743019.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination drive to resume today after a day's break||The COVID-19 vaccination drive remained suspended in Coimbatore district on Saturday owing to unavailability of vaccines. The district administration said on Saturday that the drive will be continued in the corporation limits on Sunday. On Saturday, the vaccination drive did not take place in the corporation limits and in rural areas of the district, said sources with the Health Department. According to a senior official with the Health Department, the district received 5,000 doses of vaccines late on Saturday, after issuing the communication. The stock was reserved for Sunday as it could not communicate the availability of the vaccine to the public. The district administration said 3,700 doses of Covaxin will be administered through 36 vaccination centres within the corporation limits. It said that the doses will be administered to people aged above 45, who have taken their first shot of Covaxin and have completed 28 days of window period. The health official added that the district was expecting more stocks of vaccine. According to the district administration, 5,41,702 doses of vaccines were administered to people aged above 45 and 82,573 doses were given to people in the 18-44 age group in the district so far. Details shared by the administration showed that vaccination for the 18-44 age group did not take place for five days from June 1. Tiruppur On Saturday, the district’s 32 government vaccination centres had only 6,520 doses of vaccines including 4,550 doses of Covishield and 1,970 Covaxin doses. Despite the appeal made by Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Friday to not overcrowd the centres, some of the vaccination centres such as Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital witnessed additional crowds on Saturday. Health officials said that the vaccine stock was exhausted on Saturday and that additional 2,000 doses of Covaxin were received. On a priority basis, the Covaxin doses would be administered to those above 45 years of age in need of second dose of vaccination, the officials noted. As of Friday, 2,56,273 beneficiaries received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccines in Tiruppur district, which is around 11.5% of the 22,20,520 target beneficiaries, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-drive-to-resume-today-after-a-days-break/article34742865.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Calling mucormycosis black fungus is a misnomer’||Mucormycosis is not a new disease. It has been there from time immemorial, saysDr. Venkatesh Prajna, chief, Department of Medical Education, Aravind Eye Hospitals, Madurai. In an interview withThe Hindu,’ he says, mucor is not a black fungus.   Is mucormycosis a black fungus?   Dr. Prajna: Mucormycosis is often referred to as ‘Black fungus’. This is a misnomer. Mucor is not black fungus. Black fungus, often called as Dematecious fungi or pigmented fungi, are a completely different family. Mucor does not belong to the black fungus family.  Why is mucormycosis called black fungus infection? It is so called because it causes tissue necrosis. Any necrosed decomposed tissue produces eschar and that is coloured black. So, technically, Mucor is not a black fungus, but causes the tissue affected by necrose turn black.    Is mucormycosis a new disease? Mucormycosis is not a new disease. It has been present from time immemorial. It is always reported from people who are immunocompromised (like people after chemotherapy, people with high diabetes with diabetic ketoacidosis etc ). It is an old disease, but the incidence has increased duringCOVID-19 times.    Is mucormycosis present more in the Covid ward or hospitals? It is present everywhere in the environment. It is not present exclusively only in COVID-19 wards or hospitals. It is present in your house, in your garden, on the road, in the plants etc. No person can escape inhaling Mucor. Our normal protector cells in our blood like the WBCs and other immune cells easily take care of the Mucor and are able to neutralise them quite easily.    Does mucor spread to others like Covid ? Mucor does not spread from one patient to an attender. It does not affect normal individuals whose immunity is high. Contrary to what is commonly believed, Mucor is a low virulence fungus. It is considered to be an opportunistic pathogen, ie, it affects people only with altered immunity.    Is mucor really a threat to mankind? During these times, opportunistic fungi like Mucor or Candida can escape the immune surveillance mechanism and set up the infection. These fungi start by forming a small colony, which, if unchallenged by the immune mechanisms, becomes slowly larger and larger till it occupies a large amount of space. It is something like a person occupying a plot of land illegally and, if not evicted, slowly brings in friends and family and makes it into his own territory. So, the point to understand is that as long as one has a good immune system, mucor is not a problem.    Who are the people at more risk? Severely diabetic patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19 should get their diabetes tested periodically. It has been found that many patients were not aware that they had diabetes. It has also been noted that during COVID-19, the disease also causes alteration in the metabolism of glucose. Hence, strict control of diabetes is important.    What are the steps in treatment? If the ENT surgeon has confirmed the diagnosis of Mucor, then it is better to clean up the sinuses by surgery and to debride the fungus as much as possible. This surgical treatment can be supplemented with injection of Liposomal Amphotericin B. This is the drug of choice. After 2-3 weeks of treatment, then other antifungal drugs like Posaconazole can be supplemented. Fungal infection takes time to heal and, hence, the full treatment can take months.    What are the symptoms of the patient? Usually, Mucor presents three to four weeks after COVID-19. The symptoms are pain on one side of the face along with swelling. There will be pain in the tooth area, nasal discharge, prominence of eyeball and double vision. It is to be noted that all redness and pain in the eye are not due to Mucor. It affects only a tiny percentage of patients affected by COVID-19. We have also noted that people have become unduly concerned.  Mucormycosis is not a new disease; it has been present from time immemorial Dr. Venkatesh PrajnaAravind Eye Hospitals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/calling-mucormycosis-black-fungus-is-a-misnomer/article34742712.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Intersex group seeks medical support||Members of Intersex Asia, an independent regional network of intersex organisations, have sought adequate medical support for their community during the COVID-19 pandemic. A number of governments across the globe have helped their citizens financially during the pandemic. But these measures have been aimed at the general population. Additional support is required for the already marginalised groups which are most often left behind, a report by Intersex Asia pointed out. The measures taken by governments do not include intersex people and their specific demands. Governments and policy-makers should consult with the members of the intersex community to include their concerns in their policy to deliver welfare schemes aimed at reducing inequalities, the report ‘Invisibility Amplified’ authored by Intersex Asia coordinator Prashant Singh and executive director Hiker Chiu said. South representative of National Council for Transgender Persons, Gopi Shankar of Madurai, was part of a team that prepared an online questionnaire to assess the plight of intersex people from nine Asian countries from September 10 to October 30 last year. The survey report highlights the fact that intersex people faced discrimination during the pandemic and it affected their mental health. Call for health strategies The health strategies need to be addressed by the states to not just counter the COVID-19, pandemic, but also immediate, medium and long-term human rights and sex/gender specific consequences, the survey report pointed out. Apart from healthcare, members also face vulnerabilities in areas such as employment, education and housing, the report further said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intersex-group-seeks-medical-support/article34742713.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district sees further drop in new cases||Coimbatore district on Saturday reported 2,663 new cases of COVID-19, registering a decline from Friday’s 2,810 cases. The number of active cases of the disease decreased from Friday’s 35,694 cases to 33,658 on Saturday. The Health Department said that 4,656 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from COVID-19 on Saturday. The district’s death toll increased to 1,468 after 43 more persons succumbed to the disease. Tiruppur district reported 1,104 new cases, taking the overall tally to 67,100. The Health Department reported 11 new deaths, which took the district’s toll to 548. As many as 18,754 active cases were reported in Tiruppur district and 840 more patients were discharged on Saturday. A Sub-Inspector attached to Uthukuli police station in Tiruppur district died on Saturday while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Police sources said that R. Gopalan (58), who served as an SI in Uthukuli police station for around two years, died at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital in the morning. His 23-year-old son had also died of COVID-19 on May 27, the sources noted. Erode district reported 1,569 new cases, taking the tally to 64,596. While 1,721 persons were discharged, 15,902 continue to be under treatment. Twenty-four persons died, raising the death toll to 425. As many as 1,171 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. As per bulletin, 20 deaths were reported, including seven women patients. In Namakkal, 682 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. A total of 11 deaths were reported, including three women patients. In the Nilgiris, 517 persons tested positive. The number of deaths in the district increased from 109 to 114.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-sees-further-drop-in-new-cases/article34742864.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shortage of oxygen cylinders hits stainless steel units||Owners and labourers of stainless steel units in Othakadai say they have suspended production for the past two months due to lack of supply of oxygen cylinders. The surge in COVID-19 positive cases has increased the demand for oxygen cylinders resulting in poor supply to the units. There are separate units in Othakadai for tinkering, welding and polishing, which employ around 3,000 people. There are two types of stainless steel units in Othakadai. The tinkering units procure stainless steel utensils with manufacturing defects from factories in Mumbai and Jodhpur, rectify the defects and sell them throughout the State and in Karnataka. There are also other units that procure stainless steel sheets from Delhi and manufacture utensils. All units require oxygen cylinders to make stainless steel vessels. However, the rise in COVID-19 cases has increased the demand for oxygen cylinders. As a result, these units could not procure oxygen cylinders for their production. “With no income for the past two months, families of all labourers find it difficult to make ends meet. Many of them have borrowed heavily and are struggling to repay their dues,” says S. Malaikannan, president of Ever Silver Units Labourers' Association. The situation was grim even before imposition of complete lockdown, he adds. In this scenario, a few traders are selling a limited number of oxygen cylinders at exorbitant rates, says N. Pandi, president of Yanamalaiyaan Eversilver Re-Manufacturers Association. “Before this crisis, an oxygen cylinder sold at Rs. 350. But now, with the availability of limited cylinders, an oxygen cylinder is being sold at Rs. 1,500. The government must intervene to ensure that cylinders are not sold at such exorbitant rates,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shortage-of-oxygen-cylinders-hits-stainless-steel-units/article34742707.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown in T.N. till June 14||Only wholesale trade will be allowed in fish markets and slaughterhouses. The district administration will identify adequate open spaces for wholesale fish markets. All government offices will function with 30% of their workforce. Match units can function with 50% of workers, adhering to the standard operating procedure. In the districts with low infection rates, the Sub-Registrar Offices will function, but only 50% of the tokens for registration will be issued. Self-employed persons, such as plumbers, electricians, computer and motor technicians and carpenters, can work between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. with e-registration. Shops selling electrical goods will be allowed to operate between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. Bicycle and two-wheeler repair shops, hardware shops, motor spare parts sellers, stationery and book shops, and vehicle repair shops of travel operators can also function between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. People can travel in rented vehicles with e-registration. In taxis, three occupants, including the driver, are allowed. Autorickshaws can ply with two passengers. Those who want to visit the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal, Yercaud, Yelagiri and Courtallam for “emergency” purposes should obtain an e-pass from the Collectors. Export units that have orders to fill and their vendor units in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Karur, Erode, Namakkal, Tiruchi and Madurai will be allowed to work with 10% of workers. ( The g overnment order can be accessed at      http://bit.ly/TNGOon   LockdownExtension )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-in-tn-till-june-14/article34742617.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. cancels Class 12 board examinations||He said that though the government was firm in its opinion that the Class 12 examinations alone should be considered a qualification for higher education, medical professionals felt that postponing the examinations would mentally affect the students. The Chief Minister said that though the decision was taken in the interest of students, the government would ensure admission to higher educational institutions based on the State board curriculum without any problem. Mr. Stalin said it was not appropriate to hold national-level examinations such as NEET after the public examinations were cancelled. “Since no announcement [on NEET] has been made so far, I have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to cancel all entrance examinations for admission to higher education,” he said. He also pointed out that the Centre had already cancelled the CBSE examinations for Plus Two and many other States had cancelled their board examinations. Those who expressed themselves against and for the Class 12 board examinations were unanimous that the health of students should be protected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cancels-class-12-board-examinations/article34742615.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Low-value plastic on the rise during pandemic||Since the outbreak of the pandemic in 2020, single-use, low-value plastic has made a comeback much to the dismay of activists and solid waste management experts. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has diverted resources to contain the spread of COVID-19, has not been able to crack down on the rampant use of low-value plastic. Sandya Narayanan, member of Solid Waste Management Round Table (SWMRT), pointed out that while there was no change in the retail sector, where eco-friendly options continue to be in use, usage has increased in smaller hotels, tea shops, and among street and pushcart vendors. “This section has always been difficult to control. Apart from thin plastic carry bags, used masks and gloves are posing another challenge,” she said. G. Nagaraj, founder of Indian Ploggers Army, said that disposable paper and plastic cups, tissues, gloves and masks are routinely found in black spots. While group plogging activities have not been taken up over the past two months, Bengaluru’s 50-odd active ploggers continue the activity on an individual basis in their respective localities, he said. DWCCs hit The lockdown has also impacted those managing Bengaluru’s 120-odd Dry Waste Collection Centres (DWCCs), where low-value plastic is piling up. The situation is compounded by the fact that all recycling and processing industries are currently shut. The Karnataka government recently constituted a State-level special task force to prepare a comprehensive action plan for the elimination of single-use plastic and implementation of Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016. In Bengaluru, a task force will be set up under the BBMP Chief Commissioner. But for now, COVID-19 is the civic body’s priority. The BBMP is hoping to crack down on plastic users once the pandemic eases. BBMP Joint Commissioner (SWM) Sarfaraz Khan said that much of the low-value plastic that is found in the city comes from other States. “Earlier, there were regular checks at the commercial tax check posts on the city’s outskirts. “Now, this has completely stopped,” he said, and admitted that enforcement had been put on the backburner for now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-value-plastic-on-the-rise-during-pandemic/article34742560.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM hints at unlocking based on positivity||Amid a receding second wave of COVID-19, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said lockdown restrictions would be lifted in districts that report less than 5% COVID-19 positivity. Speaking to reporters, he saidhe would hold discussions with officials and take a decision in four or five days. A few days ago, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had set three criteria for unlocking — less than 5% positivity in the district, over 70% inoculation of priority groups, and community role in COVID-appropriate behaviour. The State government is expected to unlock economic activities in a phased manner to contain the spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister commenced the process of crediting Rs. 3,000 each into the bank accounts of construction workers as COVID-19 relief announced under the first package last month. He launched the programme under the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme, and in the first instalment a total sum of Rs. 110 crore will be credited into the accounts of four lakh construction workers. The Chief Minister said 25 lakh workers registered under the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board fund would get the financial aid. Funds would be transferred to all eligible workers in the next few days. A sum of Rs. 749.55 crore has been set aside for providing Rs. 3,000 each to construction workers under the package. Online platform Mr. Yediyurappa also launched an online platform for the submission of applications seeking monetary aid by unorganised workers. Eleven categories of unorganised workers, such as tailors, mechanics, pottery makers, hamalis, goldsmiths, and blacksmiths, are eligible for the monetary aid of Rs. 2,000, he said. Responding to a question on reducing the price of petrol, he said there was no proposal before the government right now. Petrol price stood at Rs. 97.92 a litre in Bengaluru on Saturday. On the vaccination front, Mr. Yediyurappa said more than 1.47 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin had been administered to the people of the State as on June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-hints-at-unlocking-based-on-positivity/article34742572.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Silicon Valley or TecHalli?||Should Bengaluru’s title ‘Silicon Valley of India’ be replaced with a more desi -sounding ‘TecHalli’? Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra & Mahindra, thinks so. He recently took to Twitter and said he was not thrilled by Bengaluru being called ‘Silicon Valley of India’. He argued that it is too ‘derivative’ and ‘wannabe’, and therefore sought new and better naming options. He asked, “What do you think would be a good, original title for India’s high-tech capital?” Many suggestions came up in response to his tweet on Caption Competition. Of them, ‘TecHalli’ made the cut. It was suggested by Srinivas Reddy Patiolla, a delivery manager based in Hyderabad. Mr. Mahindra invited Nandan Nilekani to be a co-judge. Between the two, four entries were short-listed. Finally, ‘TecHalli’ suggested by @SrinivasPReddy was declared the winner. It won praise for innovatively integrating a native Kannada word ( halli meaning village) into the title. “Anand had done this online caption competition and he asked me if I wanted to be co-judge. He shortlisted a few options. I selected a few names, and he selected a few too. Finally settled down on TecHalli,” said Nandan Nilekani, a technocrat who played a role in bringing the tech capital status to Bengaluru. The other options included IndTechGram, TechPattana and IndTechTown.  His entry cleverly put the ‘H’ in Tech to double use. By capitalising the ‘H’ he drew attention to ‘Halli’ meaning Village/Place in Kannada. So we now go from Silcon Valley to TecHalli! Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra & Mahindra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/silicon-valley-or-techalli/article34742556.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical device manufacturer cheated of Rs. 48 lakh||The North East cybercrime police have registered a case against two conmen who cheated a Bengaluru-based medical devices manufacturing and marketing firm of Rs. 48 lakh by promising to supply it with sanitisers and thermal scanners. In his complaint to the police, the director of the firm said the accused claimed to be representatives of a pharma company in Assam. They had approached him online to sell the products which are high in demand in the market. After several rounds of formal discussions, the firm placed a bulk order and transferred Rs. 48 lakh on different dates between April 4 and May 5. They agreed on a date for when the consignment would be shipped. However, they missed the deadline for the supply and started citing excuses such as transportation and non-availability of raw material. The conmen finally stopped all communication and switched off their phones, said the police. After repeated attempts to reach them, the director on Thursday, filed a police complaint. The police are tracking down the accused based on the bank account details and their mobile phones . Two similar cases of cheating, but on a smaller scale were also reported on June 1 at different police stations. In two cases, in Whitefield and Brigade Road, the victims lost a total of Rs. 4.4 lakh while trying to buy oxygen concentrators online. The police have warned the public to remain vigilant while purchasing medical devices and medicines online as instances of fraud are on the rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/medical-device-manufacturer-cheated-of-rs-48-lakh/article34742561.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivaram Karanth Layout: BDA floats tender for EIA report||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has floated a tender to appoint a consultant to prepare the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report for formation of Shivaram Karanth Layout. Only when the EIA is ready, can the BDA apply for Environmental Clearance (EC) from the Ministry of Environment & Forest, and Consent to Establish (CTE) from the KSPCB. “Once EIA report is ready, we will approach the authorities concerned seeking clearance,” said a BDA official. Shivaram Karanth Layout has been a controversial project. In 2008, the BDA had issued a preliminary notification for formation of the layout, which was quashed by the Karnataka High Court in November 2014. The BDA challenged the HC order in the Supreme Court. The apex court cancelled the High Court order and directed the BDA to issue final notification for formation of the layout in 2018. The BDA notified 3,546 acres in 17 villages between Hesaraghatta Road and Doddaballapur Road, including Yelahanka and Yeshwanthpur hoblis, to form the layout. “As per the Supreme Court order, land acquisition process is on. Six officers are issuing notices to land owners and passing awards. Meanwhile, we have prepared a draft layout plan and detailed project report, which is required to take up civil works such as roads and drainage systems,” said a BDA official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivaram-karanth-layout-bda-floats-tender-for-eia-report/article34742562.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Price of black fungus treatment will be capped, says Sudhakar||The government is likely to soon cap the price for treatment of black fungus at private hospitals, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said. Speaking to the media, he maintained that there was no shortage of medicine for the treatment of black fungus. “The Centre has allocated more than 1,000 vials. Black fungus patients get free treatment at all government hospitals. The government is also thinking of capping the price of treatment in private hospitals,” he said. So far, 1,784 cases of black fungus have been reported in the State and 62 people have recovered. “About two to three weeks of treatment is necessary, and it takes five to six weeks for complete recovery. Unfortunately, 111 people have lost their lives to black fungus,” said Dr. Sudhakar. In the backdrop of reports of medicine shortage, he said 9,750 vials of Amphotericin-B drug, which is used for the treatment of black fungus, has been allocated to Karnataka by the Centre, and 8,860 vials were received on Friday. “So far, we have received 18,650 vials. A total of 8,860 vials have been used by government hospitals, while 9,740 vials have been provided to private hospitals.” The Minister also announced that as many as 100 ICU beds were being set up through Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/price-of-black-fungus-treatment-will-be-capped-says-sudhakar/article34742574.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free vaccination drive for the underprivileged||Healthcare chain Narayana Health,in association with GiveIndia, launched a free COVID-19 vaccination drive here on Saturday. Beginning with inoculating 2,000 people in the first phase, the drive will be expanded to a wider population of migrant labourers and underprivileged and under-served sections of society across the country. In phase one, the inoculation drive was launched in two places in Bengaluru, coveringbeneficiaries above the age of 18. The programme was flagged off by Devi Prasad Shetty, founder and chairman, Narayana Health, and GiveIndia founder 2.0 and CEO Atul Satija. With the campaign, the #GetOneGiveOne vaccination drive was also announced with the aim of ensuring free and faster access to vaccines for underprivileged citizens. Donation Under the campaign, vaccine recipients at Narayana Health can donate a vaccine dose to someone in need. Corporates will also be encouraged to donate for every employee they get vaccinated through Narayana Health. Speaking at the virtual launch of the initiatives, Dr. Shetty said, “Vaccination is the cheapest and most effective way to protect the country against COVID-19. A poor family of four will find it expensive... When you get your vaccine, please think about donating another vaccine to GiveIndia’s #GetOneGiveOne campaign.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-vaccination-drive-for-the-underprivileged/article34742575.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Positivity rate under 10%||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Karnataka dropped below 10% and stood at 9.69%, according to Saturday’s bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. As many as 13,800 new cases were reported, as well as 365 deaths. With this, the overall cases rose to 26.83 lakh, while the toll jumped to 31,260. There are 2.68 lakh active cases in the State. The case fatality rate stands at 2.64%. There were 25,346 people discharged, taking the total to 23.83 lakh. The number of tests conducted in a 24-hour period was 1.42 lakh. Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban reported 2,686 new cases and 206 deaths. Other districts that reported a high number of cases were Mysuru (1,155), Belagavi (847), Dakshina Kannada (714), Shivamogga (710), and Tumakuru (695). Meanwhile, 2,46,170 people were vaccinated till 3.30 p.m. on Saturday, taking the total number of people vaccinated to 1,49,77,980.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/positivity-rate-under-10/article34742578.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Relief for PDOs on survey for school admissions||In a partial relief to Panchayat Development Officers (PDOs) across the State, the High Court of Karnataka has extended till July 15 the deadline to complete the door-to-door survey to identify children eligible for school admission under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. “In the prevailing situation of COVID-19 engulfing the entire globe and even the rural areas of the State, where the direction in the show-cause notices is to be complied, it would be impossible for the PDOs to do a door-to-door survey and identify and register children...” the court observed. Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while disposing of a petition filed by the Karnataka State Panchayat Development Officers’ Welfare Association, Dakshina Kannada district unit, Mangaluru. The petitioner-association had questioned the notices issued by the government to its members asking why action should not be initiated against them for failing to complete the door-to-door survey by April 15. Though the court did not interfere with the show-cause notices, as it is for the respective PDOs to reply to the allegations levelled against them, it said that given the COVID-19 situation, July 15 should be treated as the deadline to complete the survey, not April 15.  Identifying students The government has instructed PDOs to conduct door-to-door surveys to identify children eligible for school admission under the RTE Act, 2009||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-for-pdos-on-survey-for-school-admissions/article34742580.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manufacturing oxygen units||To mitigate the oxygen shortage in the country, defence PSU major BEML has started manufacturing 960 LMP medical oxygen units at its KGF complex. They have been set up under a transfer of technology agreement withDefence Bioengineering and Electro Medical Laboratory under DRDO. A release said the first set of units has been rolled out and is being delivered to Koppal Institute ofMedical Sciences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manufacturing-oxygen-units/article34742581.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NHAI developing four national highways in Karnataka: Karjol||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has taken up 1,980 km of work in Karnataka at an estimated cost of Rs. 35,280 crore, according to Deputy CM Govind M. Karjol, who holds the Public Works Department (PWD) portfolio. Briefing the media about ongoing works, he said the NHAI has taken up Bengaluru-Mysuru, Tumakuru-Shivamogga, Ballari-Hiriyur, and Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway roadwork. Work on the Bengaluru-Mysuru four-lane highway is expected to be completed in 2022. Work on a bridge connecting Sigandur-Chowdeshwari temple in Shivamogga district is progressing at a cost of Rs. 482.84 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-developing-four-national-highways-in-karnataka-karjol/article34742565.ece
06 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Demolition drive suspended after opposition||A demolition drive initiated by the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation(HDMC) on Saturday to clear the illegal structures at the super market in Dharwad was suspended after a while, following stiff resistance from shopkeepers and a few political leaders. On Saturday, the HDMC officials began early morning operation under police cover to clear the illegal structures. However as some shops were razed and as the news spread, a large number of shopkeepers gathered at the site protesting against the demolition drive during the lockdown. Advocate M.M. Choudhary, who came to the spot with copies of a court order, confronted the municipal officials and sought to know how they could initiate the drive, when the matter was pending before the court. However the municipal officials clarified that they were acting according to law. As Mr. Choudhary continued his argument with the officials, the police took him into custody. A little later, former councillor and Congress leader Deepak Chinchore came to the spot and accused the municipal officials of taking undue advantage of the lockdown to target the petty vendors. He said that at a time when the officials were supposed to take steps to check the spread of COVID-19, they were creating problems for the poor vendors. Following his objection, the municipal authorities suspended the operation and returned. Later, addressing a hurriedly called press conference, KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri and Mr. Deepak Chinchore questioned the HDMC action and alleged that during the lockdown, violating the COVID-19 protocol, the municipal officials and the police had gathered in large number to carry out the drive. They alleged that those who were supposed to protect law and order, were engaged in violation and the district administration should immediately file cases against them for violating the COVID-19 protocol. Mr. Neeralakeri said that as per the High Court order, the municipal corporation should first rehabilitate them before clearing the structures. Mr. Chinchore urged the authorities to take action on the issue in consultation with all the stakeholders after the lifting of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demolition-drive-suspended-after-opposition/article34742631.ece
06 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Total Revolution Day’ observed in Dharwad||In response to the call for ‘Total Revolution Day’ by Samyukta Kissan Morcham members of different organisations staged symbolic protests at various places in Dharwad district on Saturday and demanded repeal of the farm laws. People staged a symbolic protest following the COVID-19 protocol in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Dharwad. Staging the protest, national president of Citizens for Democracy S.R. Hiremath burnt the copies of the farm laws and demanded their immediate repeal. Mr. Hiremath said that last June 5, the Union government had issued ordinance on three farm laws that were against the interests of the farm sector, farmers, and the public. The other participants called on the public to take a pledge to drive away corporate companies from the farm sector. They announced that the agitation would continue till the new farm laws were repealed. It might recalled that thousands of farmers from various States have camped on the borders of New Delhi as part of the indefinite agitation seeking repeal of the farm laws and the farmers’ frontal organisation had given call for ‘Total Revolution’ on June 5. In response to the call, farmers staged symbolic protests in various villages across the district and burnt copies of the farm laws seeking their immediate withdrawal. Similar protests by members of various other organisations were held at various district and taluk headquarters and at villages in various districts of north Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/total-revolution-day-observed-in-dharwad/article34742641.ece
06 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Restrictions relaxed in Dharwad||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil issued an order on Saturday relaxing lockdown restrictions and allowing opening of grocery stories, bakeries, and meat stalls for four hours from Monday. The relaxations in guidelines will come into force from Monday and will continue till June 14. As per the revised guidelines, shops selling food items, grocery, bakery items, fruits, vegetables, meat, fish, animal feed, and milk booths will be permitted to do business from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. from June 7 to 14. Ration shops under the public distribution system (PDS) will be open from 6 a.m. to noon. The eateries, restaurants, and hotels are permitted to provide takeaway services from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. The Deputy Commissioner has also allowed the hotels to keep their kitchens open to offer home delivery from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Liquor shops will be open from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restrictions-relaxed-in-dharwad/article34742642.ece
06 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Gather information about COVID-19 package beneficiaries’||Following the State government’s announcement of a special package to the financially weaker sections hit by the COVID-19 lockdown, Koppal Deputy Commissioner Vikas Kishor Suralkar directed officers concerned to gather the information about unorganised workers to disburse financial aid. In a meeting at his office on Saturday, Mr. Suralkar told the officers to identify the beneficiaries of the package who were entitled to get Rs. 2,000 each. “Many unorganised and self-employed workers have lost their income owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. The government has categorised such people into 11 groups and offered a financial aid of Rs. 2,000. We need to identify the beneficiaries in the district and get their applications submitted in the Seva Sindhu portal. You can use all the common service centres and facilities at gram panchayats for the purpose,” Mr. Suralkar said. He made it clear that those beneficiaries who had received the aid announced in the last year’s lockdown need not apply once again provided their back account was active. “There is a possibility of genuine beneficiaries missing the benefits of the package owing to the lack of information about the package. Government servants have to inculcate awareness about the package among the people and ensure all the beneficiaries are covered. If the bank accounts of the beneficiaries are inactive, necessary measures should be initiated to get them activated,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gather-information-about-covid-19-package-beneficiaries/article34742639.ece
06 June 2021||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Oxygen bank set up||The Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana, Pune, and the Jain Social Group, Kalaburagi, have set up an oxygen bank in the city. Preetam Mehta, administrator at the bank, said that the oxygen bank was set up by the funds donated from the community.  Patients’ can contact 97429 91143 to avail themselves of the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-bank-set-up/article34742638.ece
06 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada gets its first oxygen production plant||The oxygen generation plant at the community health centre (CHC) at Vamadapadavu in Bantwal started its operation on Saturday and it became the first plant to be commissioned in the government health facility in Dakshina Kannada. An oxygen generation plant each is coming up at the Government Wenlock Hospital and Government Lady Goshchen Hospital in Mangaluru. The oxygen generation plant at the 30-bed CHC at Vamadapadavu has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. The 500-litre capacity plant generates 47 litres of oxygen per minute. Americare India Foundation, Maharashtra, has constructed the plant. After commissioning the plant, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said more oxygen generation plants would start operation in the district. Apart from two government hospitals in Mangaluru, each of the four taluk hospitals in the district would have oxygen generation plant, he said. Mr. Naik said health facilities at the Vamadapadavu CHC and other government facilities, including Bantwal taluk hospital, were being further strengthened to handle the likely third wave of COVID-19. Mr. Naik appreciated efforts of the district administration and the health staff in effectively handling of the second wave of COVID-19. Dakshina Kannada Member of Parliament and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel attended the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dakshina-kannada-gets-its-first-oxygen-production-plant/article34742636.ece
06 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Plant as many trees as possible: Limbavali||Minister for Forests, Kannada and Culture Aravind Limbavali said on Saturday that conserving the environment is the responsibility of all and hence people should plant as many saplings as possible wherever there is enough space. He was speaking at Dharmasthala after launching a programme of planting fruit-bearing saplings on the occasion of World Environment Day. The Minister said that increasing the greenery will yield pure natural oxygen to people and animals. The Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) and the Forest Department will jointly plant fruit bearing saplings on 125 hectares in the surrounding of Dharmasthala. A forest raised on Miyawaki method on half-an-acre at Dharmasthala was inaugurated on the occasion. The Minister also launched a green bus at the temple town on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/plant-as-many-trees-as-possible-limbavali/article34742634.ece
06 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||World Environment Day celebrated||The Dakshina Kannada administration celebrated World Environment Day on Saturday by planting saplings. The Coast Guard Karnataka celebrated by cleaning Panambur beach. The exercise to plant saplings by the district administration was initiated by district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary. He said Mahatma Gandhi’s call for the need to preserve the environment for the next generation was relevant now. Degradation of environment causes lot of damage. Mr. Poojary said more than 1.70 crore saplings will be planted under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme in the State. Forest, Transport and other departments will undertake greening activity. The Coast Guard Karnataka planted 300 saplings on the premises of Coast Guard headquarters and in the residential area. Personnel from Coastal Security Police and Central Industrial Security Force, and members of Surf Club joined in the activity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/world-environment-day-celebrated/article34742632.ece
06 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||9 deaths, 1,266 new cases in DK and Udupi||Nine COVID-19 patients died and 1,266 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Saturday. Eight COVID-19 patients died and 714 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada district. With 804 patients discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 7,808. As many as 14,186 people received vaccine. There were 50 active cases of mucormycosis. In Udupi, one patient died and 552 new cases were reported. With 734 patients discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 4,323. There were 16 active cases of mucormycosis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/9-deaths-1266-new-cases-in-dk-and-udupi/article34742637.ece
06 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Shilpa Nag to return to duty today||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Shilpa Nag, who announced her resignation from the Indian Administrative Service on Thursday, said she would be returning to duty from Sunday, pending the acceptance of her resignation. She had resigned alleging harassment by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri. Ms. Nag said she met Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, in the presence of Regional Commissioner G.C. Prakash, at the Administrative Training Institute (ATI) in Mysuru on Friday and presented a hard copy of her resignation. “My senior colleagues advised me to take time off and reconsider my decision. They didn’t accept the resignation,” she said. Letters sent “I took time off today. But I sent my resignation letter again today by e-mail as well as registered post to the Chief Secretary. Pending its acceptance, I have decided to continue work so that there is no problem for the city,” Ms. Nag said. She also chose to respond to the explanation sought by Ms. Sindhuri on the CSR (corporate social responsibility) aid coming in from private companies. Contending that Ms. Sindhuri’s statement on the matter was “misleading”, Ms. Nag, in a statement, claimed that the “allegations that the CSR report was not furnished are completely false”. The MCC Commissioner had been appointed as district nodal officer for CSR based on an order issued by the Deputy Commissioner on May 7. But, after the MCC Commissioner was removed as the nodal officer on June 1, all the undistributed items were handed over the Deputy Director of the Palace Board, the new nodal officer, Ms. Nag said. “A comprehensive report listing all the items received has also been submitted,” she said in the statement. Protocol issue Meanwhile, questions have been raised in official circles about whether Ms. Nag ought to have announced her resignation at a press conference amid high drama, instead of following the standard procedure. Sources said there were set rules and a format to submit one’s resignation, and announcing it at a press conference was definitely not one of them. “Seeking accounts or calling for details is routine and there is pressure on every government official to deliver as it is a battle against a pandemic. Hence, nothing warranted taking such an extreme step,” an official source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shilpa-nag-to-return-to-duty-today/article34742577.ece
06 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Just over 5% of patients have claimed medical insurance||Just 5.3% of all persons testing positive for COVID-19 in Karnataka have claimed medical insurance, while claims in the name of the dead account for 7.3% of the total COVID-19 deaths. Out of the total 26,04,431 positive cases reported in the State till May 31, there were 1,40,198 insurance claims. Medical insurance is extended to COVID-19 patients under hospitalisation as well as home isolation. Similarly, 2,150 insurance claims have been made in the name of persons who have died of COVID-19 in the State so far, while a total of 29,090 deaths had been reported till May-end. According to data made available by the General Insurance Council of India to Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private initiative to analyse COVID-19 trends across the country, the percentage of insurance claims for hospitalisation and home isolation against the total COVID-19 patients as well as claims for the dead against the total COVID-19 deaths were marginally lower in Karnataka when compared to the India average. Though the number of claims dipped from 5,504 in January this year to 1,053 in February, it rose to 4,302 during March, before reaching 6,679 during April and catapulting to a whopping 57,581 during May, the month that witnessed the COVID-19 peak in the State. Mysore Sanjeev, convenor of Project Jeevan Raksha, said there has been a decline in the percentage of insurance claims as against the total cases in the State from March this year — from 8% in March to 5% in April and May. Even though the number of claims increased, their percentage against the total cases came down. Financial burden “This trend indicates there is a possibility of private hospitals insisting on direct payment for treatment. It also points to an increase in the number of uninsured patients undergoing treatment,” said Mr. Sanjeev, adding that the financial implications of undergoing COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals were forcing lower and middle-income families to avoid hospitalisation in the early and moderate stages of infection, thus exposing them to greater risk. The financial burden arising out of COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals may be contributing to the higher mortality in Karnataka, especially in semi-urban and rural areas. Citing data available with the National Statistical Office functioning under the Union Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Mr. Sanjeev said that more than 80% of the country’s population, or more than 108 crore people, had no option but to fund their hospitalisation expenses from their savings, which are otherwise kept for their retirement, children’s education, or marriage. Barely 13% of the country’s citizens are covered under government-sponsored health insurance schemes, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/just-over-5-of-patients-have-claimed-medical-insurance/article34742569.ece
06 June 2021||Special Correspondent,KARNATAKA||Vijayendra’s Delhi visit related to Enforcement Directorate probe: Yatnal||Former Union Minister and Vijayapura City MLA Basanagouda Patil R. Yatnal on Saturday claimed that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra had gone to New Delhi in connection with Enforcement Directorate (ED) inquiry and not for discussing State politics with national leaders. Speaking to presspersons in Vijayapura on Saturday, he claimed that the ED was investigating on money “illegally stashed in Mauritius” through a transfer to a motor vehicle company. Regarding Mr. Vijayendra’s meeting with BJP national president, Mr. Yatnal said the party chief would not speak to party’s State vice-president over COVID-19 handling and party’s internal issues. “If at all they want to discuss, they will do so with the State president or Chief Minister and not with State vice-president. There are nine State vice-presidents. It is not true that the national president spoke about the issue with Mr. Vijayendra leaving other vice-presidents,” he said.  Mr. Yatnal also asked Mr. Yediyurappa to take political retirement in a respectful manner. If he continued in power listening to his coterie,then he would have to face a lot of disgrace, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vijayendras-delhi-visit-related-to-enforcement-directorate-probe-yatnal/article34742567.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Birds step outside Lalbagh during lockdown, explore neighbourhood||A little into the lockdown both this year and in 2020, videos, photos and write-ups of peafowl (the peacock is just the male) started popping up on social media and in the news. And there were videos from Lalbagh too. Though people had reported sightings of peafowl sporadically in the past from there, it was never frequent. But with the lockdown, they were there right along Krumbiegel Road too. This year again, the birds seem to have moved in right after the lockdown was implemented, albeit a little faster. Two of them, both females, were sighted in various parts of Lalbagh. The ability of birds to fly gives them greater mobility than most animals. It is not that all birds keep moving from place to place even if they can, and some, like our common sparrow, are known to live quite sedentary lives. Others that are nesting don’t move from place to place during that period. Most migratory birds, which come south, start moving back to the colder north by April, and they are almost completely gone by the end of the month. So the birds that were exposed to the effects of the lockdown were our resident species. They breed when the migratory birds have left and are no longer there to compete for food in May and June. But over Lalbagh and the neighbouring Basavanagudi, people have noticed some changes. Many of the bird species in Lalbagh, which were largely confined to the greenery there, have been sighted wandering into even small residential gardens in the neighbourhood. The Paradise Flycatcher, which is infrequently found in Lalbagh, is one such bird. The Red Whiskered Bulbul, a lively little bird with very cheerful calls, could be seen even on once busy streets that have small trees along them in Gandhi Bazaar. The more active Grey Tit could be found on trees on various streets, including on J.C. Road, which was unthinkable earlier. The number of Golden Backed Woodpecker increased in Lalbagh, and the lone individual hanging out there for the past couple of years, got a partner. The Alexandrine Parakeet, the largest parakeet we have here, also stayed over in Lalbagh during the last lockdown, and they are here this year too. Prof. Madhavi Rangaswamy, of the Psychology Department at Christ University, who is an avid birdwatcher, says, “Traffic sounds and machine noise are way less than before, and we humans are becoming aware of the bird calls. We also have more time on our hands, so we will also notice more”. Prof. Chetan Nag of Jain University, who is doing a study of the disturbance effects in Lalbagh, echoes this view. “Bulbuls and Tailor Birds have been more audible due to the reduction in noise pollution” he says. Though the scientific community has been waxing loud about the changes COVID-19 could lead to in orientation of field research, there have been very few systematic studies with proper sampling design on the effect of the lockdowns on birds, which have surfaced so far.  (Dr. Krishna M.B. is an ecologist and ornithologist from Bengaluru who is interested in bird and habitat conservation and improvement)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/birds-step-outside-lalbagh-during-lockdown-explore-neighbourhood/article34742564.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police chief interacts with citizens||Police Commissioner Kamal Pant directed the police to restrict the use of megaphones by pushcart vendors operating in residential areas in response to a complaint filed by a resident during a virtual interaction on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-chief-interacts-with-citizens/article34742557.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU: SSLC, I PU marks to be considered for grading||“Normally, CET rankings are announced after taking into consideration both II PU marks and the entrance test scores. This year, a grading system has been introduced for II PU students and students who are not happy with their grades are given an option to appear for examinations. If II PU marks are taken into consideration while announcing the CET ranks, those who challenged the grading system and appeared for examinations will be at disadvantage,” Mr. Kumar said in the letter. If the Higher Education Department gives the green signal to the proposal that has been made by the Primary and Secondary Education Minister, the Karnataka Examinations Authority, which conducts the test, will announce CET ranks without consideringII PU marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-sslc-i-pu-marks-to-be-considered-for-grading/article34742582.ece
06 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||A promise of security for Thottappally’s avian guests||Environmentalists, birdwatchers and people’s representatives have joined hands to protect the blue-cheeked bee-eaters nesting at Thottappally in Alappuzha. To prevent people from going near the nests, a temporary fence using sticks was erected around the nesting ground on Saturday. Earlier, environmentalists and birdwatchers had expressed serious concern over the ongoing “indiscriminate” mineral sand-mining at the Thottappally estuary, which is close to where the migratory birds have created nests, and demanded action to protect the place. Apart from being a nesting ground for migratory birds, the Thottappally coast has long been one of the prime locations for egg-laying Olive Ridley turtles, which are legally protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. According to Green Roots Nature Conservation Forum, a conservation group based at Thottappally, ongoing mining activities might have prevented blue-cheeked bee-eaters from nesting in large numbers at Thottappally this time around. Threat to nesting The mineral sand-mining in the area was first started at the Thottappally harbour in the last decade. In 2020, the government extended mining to the nearby Thottappally estuary. “The mining activities are posing a major threat to the nesting of turtles and spelling doom for the ecology of the area,” says Saji Jayamohan, secretary, Green Roots Nature Conservation Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-promise-of-security-for-thottappallys-avian-guests/article34742689.ece
06 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Coir workers jobless, penniless||Chacko Varghese, 63, has been an employee of a small-scale fibre mat production unit at Aryad in Alappuzha for many years. He used to earn around Rs. 400 a day until April 2021, when the restrictions imposed by the government to tackle the second wave of COVID-19 forced the factory to shut operations temporarily. “The past few weeks have been a nightmare. Besides becoming jobless and penniless, some of my family members contracted COVID-19. Our lives have turned upside down. With no cash, I find it hard to buy medicines for my wife who is a heart patient. We lived all these days on the food packets delivered by the grama panchayat,” he says.  Another coir worker, Baburaj, 66, of Pazhaveedu says he has never experienced an ordeal of this magnitude in his entire life. “COVID-19 and subsequent restrictions have prevented people like me from earning a living. The pandemic has made me indigent,” he says. Products pile up The pandemic has brought the coir industry, already going through a difficult patch, to its knees. It has robbed the livelihood of thousands of coir workers who depended on modest daily or weekly earnings. Although the government has given its nod for the industry to restart operations, albeit with restrictions, coir products remain piled up at units due to cancellations of orders. “We are facing a grim situation. Products worth Rs. 1.5 lakh are accumulated in my unit. We are allowed to restart operations, but there are hardly any orders for coir products. The government should intervene and initiate measures to procure coir products. If products continue to pile up, we will be forced to halt operations, which will push our employees further into poverty,” says Sunny C., owner of a small-scale fibre mat production unit at Komalapuram in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coir-workers-jobless-penniless/article34742943.ece
06 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Diversification to benefit estates||The crisis-ridden plantation sector in the State is expected to benefit hugely by the diversification proposal in the State Budget presented on Friday. An amount of Rs. 2 crore has been set aside for a project for promoting cultivation of subsidiary crops, mainly fruit varieties such as rambutan, avocado, dragon fruit, and mangosteen, in plantations. The government intends to formulate policy and implement the project within six months. The sector is struggling because of a fall in price and shortage of workers. In the tea sector alone, many small estates have remained closed for nearly two decades, prompted by a steep fall in international tea prices at that time. The subsidiary crops will provide income to such estates. Planters said there was also the prospect of export of value-added products. The plantation sector has generally welcomed the move. Thomas Jacob, former chairman, Association of Planters of Kerala (APK), said it was a long-term demand of the plantation sector. The plantations have to create additional income for their survival. During 2011-13, the total income from the plantation sector in the State was over Rs. 20,000 crore. It has come down to Rs. 7,000 crore now. “The decision will help the sector regain its past glory. The government should implement the project without delay,” said Mr. Jacob. Concrete measures However, a former manager of a closed small-scale tea estate in Peerumade taluk said concrete measures had to be taken to open the shut down estates. An earlier package for reopening these estates had not yielded result. “Diversification is a long-drawn process. More time and investment are needed to get an income from diversification in such shut down estates,” he said. However, for managements of functional estates, including rubber, the move would yield positive results, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/diversification-to-benefit-estates/article34742687.ece
06 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Police register cases against 68 persons||The police have registered cases against 68 persons in connection with the alleged felling of centuries-old rosewood trees from private plantations within the Muttil South village limits in the district by flouting all norms. They were charged under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC, and the cases were registered on a complaint from Revenue officials, police sources said. The incident came to light after Forest Department officials seized 54 pieces of illegal rosewood logs worth Rs. 60 lakh from a saw mill at Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district on February 9. The wood was transported from Wayanad to the saw mill without valid documents, and the seizure was made on a tip-off. The logs were transported by one Roji Augustine on behalf of a timber company at Vazhavatta in the district, but those accused in the case are yet to be arrested. Later, officials had found that the timber lobby had axed 202 cubic metres of huge rosewood trees at 42 sites at Vazhavatta, Avalattukunnu, and Karimkannikunnu within the Muttil South Village office limits at low prices by misinterpreting the Government Order (GO). Those logs of wood, worth more than Rs. 8 crore, have been confiscated and shifted to the timber depot of the Forest Department at Kuppady.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-register-cases-against-68-persons/article34742725.ece
06 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||Artists too feel the heat of curbs||Sitting at his house, C.V. Unnikrishnan Peruvanan is busy chiselling on aniyalam , an elaborate adornment and ornament worn by Theyyams, to ensure that it is in good shape for the next festival season. Unnikrishnan and others like him involved in creation of aniyalam are clueless about their future as the pandemic hit the last festival season with only very few Theyyam performances. It is a centuries-old tradition - a living cult of performance and worship performed at kavus (sacred groves)  and temples in northern Malabar.  Cancelled orders For the second consecutive year, aniyalams , made of softwood and cloths, have no takers after many cancelled orders owing to the pandemic outbreak. For Unnikrishnan, a recipient of many awards, the work to create aniyalam begins two to three months before the start of the Theyyam season, which begins in early November and ends by May. He says the work requires time and patience and is done using a sharp knife, carving intricate designs on softwood. About 15-20 people of Vannan and Malai communities are involved in aniyalam making, says K. Mohanan Peruvanan, who has been making aniyalam for over 30 years. “We had a lot of work before COVID-19, as many temples, tharavadus , and kavus organised Theyyam. Those performing Theyyam bought aniyalam from them. However, many orders got cancelled due to the pandemic,” he says. He says what they earn during the season helps to sustain them and for purchasing material to make aniyalam for the next season. Another artist V.P. Ajesh says many organisers are thinking of scaling down the amount to be spent on organising Theyyams. However, aniyalam has to be made the traditional way, as has been done for centuries. He says the cost of softwood and other material for making aniyalam has increased and they have to suffer losses that increases their plight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/artists-too-feel-the-heat-of-curbs/article34742945.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB not to take action against govt. medical college hospital||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) will not initiate prosecution measures against or impose environment compensation on the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, for its failure to comply with the Biomedical Waste (BMW) Management Rules, 2016. The decision was taken by the PCB Chairman owing to the pandemic situation and the efforts of the government in tackling it. It would not be appropriate on the part of the board to initiate such severe action against the hospital authorities, as it was a hospital exclusively meant for taking care of the COVID-19 patients, said a letter issued by the Chairman to the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Environment, on May 18. “The recent report received from the district office is not encouraging and the non-compliance is continuing,” it, however, said. The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal had pulled up the government in February for not complying with its directives for effective implementation of the waste management rules. SLMC report The Bench had quoted the reports by the State-Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on solid waste management and the PCB on the poor functioning of the sewage treatment plant at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam. The government institution must be a model for others in implementing waste management rules, and the government must provide all necessary infrastructure and funds, as health was its primary responsibility, according to the tribunal. The SLMC and the regional PCB office had suggested imposing environment compensation on the hospital authorities for their failure to comply with the norms. The hospital authorities said that certain technical hurdles had delayed the revamping of the sewage treatment plant. “We have now resumed the work. The storage of biomedical waste generated on a daily basis is also done as per the directives issued by the board,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pcb-not-to-take-action-against-govt-medical-college-hospital/article34742722.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Community list to benefit students and jobseekers||The benefits of economic reservation in employment, educational institutions and other welfare schemes will become one step easier for members of forward communities with the State government notifying the list of 164 such communities. Its for the first time that such a list, which covers the communities that roughly account for around 25% of Kerala population, has been published. The Nair Service Society (NSS) had locked horns with the Left Democratic Front government over the delay in publishing the list, finalised by the A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai Commission in 2019. The NSS had secured an order from the Kerala High Court directing the government to release the list. The much awaited list was released on Friday after the NSS served a notice on the Chief Secretary for contempt of court.  The Hindu had earlier reported on the list, which includes Hindu communities such as Nair, Pothuval, Kurup, Menon, Pillai, Kaimal and Unnithan among others. From the Brahmin community, Namboothiri/Namboothirippad, Potty, Bhattathiri/Bhattathirippad, Varma, and Tamil Brahmin find their way onto the list, besides 16 Christian communities. Easy for beneficiaries M.R. Hariharan Nair, chairman of the Kerala State Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, said the list would make it easier for the beneficiary community members to apply for socio-economic schemes such as scholarships, soft loans and vocational training programmes which are recommended by the panel and approved by the government. It would also be beneficial for applicants for the schemes offered by the Kerala State Welfare Corporation for Forward Communities. For economic reservation, the list would help the authorities to issue a positive certificate stating that the applicant belongs to the forward community than a negative certificate stating that the applicant did not belong to any community that enjoyed the benefits of any reservation, he said. V.M. Gopala Menon, member secretary to the Ramakrishna Pillai commission, felt that job seekers and students of forward communities could obtain community certificates from village offices for availing of the benefits under the 10% reservation for economically weaker sections. Though the official list of communities belonging to the Other Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and others who enjoyed the benefits of caste reservation was available, there was no such list for forward communities, Mr. Menon added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-list-to-benefit-students-and-jobseekers/article34742959.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,769 new cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam district recorded 1,769 new COVID cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 16.29% on Saturday. A total of 10,862 samples were sent for testing. Ten health workers were among those who tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded the highest number of cases with 97 people testing positive in the area. Edathala saw 67 new cases, Kalamassery 62, Elamkunnapuzha 49, Sreemoolanagaram 46, Palluruthy 43, Kunnathunad 42, and Payipra 39. North Paravur, Thripunithura, and Mulavukad recorded 37 new cases each, while Fort Kochi and Vengola saw 35 cases each. As many as 1,778 people were considered to have recovered on the day, and the district’s active case load stands at 20,452. A total of 58,335 people remain in quarantine. While 302 people were newly admitted to treatment centres on the day, 367 were discharged. While 14,651 people are recovering from the infection at home, 1,539 are at private hospitals, 596 patients are at government hospitals, and 1,856 people are recovering at FLTCs, SLTCs, and domiciliary care centres. A total of 435 patients are recovering in ICUs. The number of ICU admissions has dropped from a total of 496 patients in ICUs a week ago. Two patients are under treatment for mucormycosis in the district. Patients shifted Meanwhile, police personnel in Kuttampuzha clad in personal protection equipment kit moved pandemic-infected people in Kunjipara tribal colony to multiple domicile care centres with the help of Health, panchayat and Revenue authorities on Saturday. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik deployed cops following reports of the spurt in infection in the colony where 50 out of the 90 tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1769-new-cases-in-ernakulam/article34742720.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Confusion over evaluation method for Class 10 CBSE||Teachers and students remain worried about the alternative evaluation method proposed by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for Class 10 students after their written exams were cancelled following the pandemic situation. A Principal of a school in Kayamkulam says that the institution not yet uploaded the marks on the board website, hoping that the authorities would address the anomalies in the method proposed for standardisation of marks. As per the board, the best overall performance in the previous three years of the board exam has to be taken as the reference year for moderating marks assessed by the school for 2021. For example, if the overall average of students in a school in 2017-18 is 72%, in 2018-19 is 74% and in 2019-20 is 71%, the result committee of the school has to use the subject-wise averages of 2018-19, which remain the highest for moderation. Within range The subject-wise marks allotted by the schools for 2021 should be within a range of + or -2 marks obtained by the school in the reference year. The board guidelines state that the overall average marks for 2021 should not exceed the overall average marks obtained by it in the reference year. Principals of various schools have informed the board that they are ready to submit the documents showing the better performance of the students in 2020-21 compared to the results achieved in the reference year. Non-compliance The board has clarified that the schools concerned cannot go as per the performance in the current year and leaving the reference year while fixing the marks. “If you calculate the results as per the performance in the present year, it will be treated as non-compliance of the proposed policy,” it said. T.P.M Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE Schools Management Association, says the confusion related to the guidelines for alternative evaluation for Class 10 students has not yet been resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-over-evaluation-method-for-class-10-cbse/article34742690.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||For Moolampilly evictees, an anniversary of failed promises||Over the last 13 years, families evicted for the rail and road connectivity project of the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal have unfailingly mourned anniversaries of many unfulfilled promises. This Sunday marks the 10th anniversary of the revised Moolampilly rehabilitation package, which is far from being fully implemented. So far, only 42 of the 316 evicted families have moved into houses on the rehabilitation plots. Four out of seven of those plots are reclaimed land and found faulty by the Public Works Department. Four houses on two such plots at Thuthiyoor, near Kakkanad, have either developed cracks or tilted to a side. “Since eviction, 32 evictees have died without being rehabilitated. The government should appoint an officer with discretionary powers for rehabilitation, as entrusting the task with the same administrative machinery that carried out the eviction is inherently flawed,” said Francis Kalathunkal, general convener, Moolampilly Coordination Committee. Revenue Minister K. Rajan said a stock-taking of the Moolampilly issue would be done on a priority basis. Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran, who has always aligned with the evictees, petitioned the Minister to chair a meeting to fast-track rehabilitation. “The injustice meted out to the evictees is a blot on our democratic, political and administrative systems,” he said. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan said the matter would be taken up in the Assembly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-moolampilly-evictees-an-anniversary-of-failed-promises/article34742953.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||ATS collects voice samples of Ravi Pujari||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) probing the Panampilly Nagar beauty parlour firing case on Saturday collected the voice samples of gangster Ravi Pujari, the third accused in the case, further corroborating his role in the incident. The voice samples will now be scientifically compared with the alleged voice clips of the gangster that the investigation team had collected from a news channel. Shortly after the firing outside the beauty parlour owned by actor Leena Maria Paul on December 15, 2018, the channel had received a call from a man claiming to be the gangster owning up the incident. The investigation team is looking for a scientific match of the voice clips, which will corroborate the charges against him though he is already learnt to have admitted it during the ongoing grilling. The gangster reportedly targeted Ms. Paul after he was alerted about her alleged involvement in financial misappropriation cases that probably made her a fit target for extortion. He allegedly contracted gangs in south India for the extortion bid, and the latter are suspected to have assigned the job to some local criminal elements here. The firing turned out to be a somewhat botched-up job, as it emerged that the youngsters engaged, who were eventually arrested, had no previous experience in using firearms and had to be trained before pulling off the stunt. At least two more accused involved in the case are absconding, while the gangster is being grilled to find whether more people were possibly associated with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ats-collects-voice-samples-of-ravi-pujari/article34742954.ece
06 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Tests reveal poor state of dumping yard||Tests of samples collected by the State Pollution Control Board from the leachate drain at the solid waste management plant of the Kochi Corporation at Brahmapuram have revealed exceeding levels of biological oxygen demand and other parameters. The situation was no different in samples collected from the outlet portion of the nearby septage treatment plant that revealed exceeding levels of faecal contamination (6,20,000 cfu/100 ml) and biological oxygen demand (135 mg/l against the limit of 30 mg/l). The biological oxygen demand, which is a proxy for organic pollution, was 4,269 mg/litre against the limit of 30 mg/litre in the samples collected from the drain that collected the leachate from the old waste heaps at the yard. The levels of nitrogen and sulphide were 61.98 mg/l and 59.6 mg/l against the prescribed limits of 10 mg/l and 2 mg/l respectively. Both the samples were taken in the first week of March. The board and the State Level Monitoring Committee on Solid Waste Management had earlier warned the civic body that the untreated leachate from the site would run into the nearby Kadambrayar river with the onset of monsoon. The waterbody was identified by the Central Pollution Control Board as one of the polluted river stretches in the country. A branch of Chitrapuzha close to the septage plant was also facing the threat of untreated pollutants, according to the report prepared by the board. The board found that the septage treatment facility was not functioning properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tests-reveal-poor-state-of-dumping-yard/article34742956.ece
06 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Budget boost for coastal protection initiatives||Efforts to protect the nearly 600-km Kerala coast and people living on the coast may witness a sea change, with the revised Budget for 2021-22 promising to tap into local knowledge, leverage green solutions, and adopt the latest engineering techniques for the purpose even as the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) is set to finalise plans to establish a major mangrove research and propagation station. Coastal area conservation measures will be formulated to integrate new technologies and green solutions like mangrove vegetation, said Minister for Finance K.N. Balagopal in the Assembly on Friday. On utilising the knowledge of the local people and addressing their concerns, the Minister said: “Extensive stakeholder consultations will be conducted with local participation before finalising designs. For this, the views of community organisations working in coastal areas will be sought with the assistance of the Local Self-Government and Fisheries departments.” Going by the experience of the local people, green cover along the coast can help prevent sea erosion in places like Chellanam. K.K. Rarghuraj of Kufos, an expert in mangroves, had said at a recent consultative meeting on Chellanam that the segment of the coast between Fort Kochi and Chellanam lacked substantial beach formation. Beaches are needed to grow mangroves and provide bioshield protection to the coast. Kufos Vice Chancellor Riji K. John said the proposal for establishing an international centre of excellence in mangrove research and development was being finalised. Once operational, the Rs. 100-crore station will combine the vast resources available with Kufos for propagation of mangroves by providing knowledge backup as well as seeds and tissue-cultured plants. The facility is slated to come up on 50 acres at the fisheries station of the varsity on Puthuvype island. A meeting of environmental and fisheries scientists in Kochi in May 2019 had proposed the setting up of such a facility. The task was then taken up by A. Ramachandran, then Vice Chancellor. The final proposal will be submitted soon to the Fisheries Minister, Dr. John said. He added that mangrove growth along the coast would help lower temperature.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-boost-for-coastal-protection-initiatives/article34742965.ece
06 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Call for improving ecological conditions||The coming years will see the sea getting rougher and formation of frequent cyclonic storms triggered by the heating up of the Indian Ocean, and the way to protect the coast will be to improve and rejuvenate ecological conditions, said experts at a webinar organised by the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) on World Environment Day on Saturday. Storm surge triggered by cyclonic storms results in high waves, which invade the shores as was seen on coastal areas of the State recently. Human interventions in coastal areas have resulted in the loss of biological cover and deterioration of ecological conditions. Rejuvenating these conditions, including developing mangrove covers, can help ease the situation, the participants said. They said a few segments of the coast near Mumbai were saved to some extent by mangrove growth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-for-improving-ecological-conditions/article34742715.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Couple held with drugs in Ernakulam||The Ernakulam Rural police on Saturday arrested a husband-wife duo allegedly with 22 grams of MDMA worth around Rs. 1 lakh. The arrested were identified as Sanoop, 24, and Rizwana, 21, of Muthukulam in Alappuzha. They were nabbed after District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthick received a tip-off saying that the couple were travelling with drugs on the Bengaluru-Kanyakumari Express. Sanoop has cases registered against him for smuggling ganja in various stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/couple-held-with-drugs-in-ernakulam/article34742723.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||2 kg of MDMA seized near Angamaly||In one of the biggest drug hauls in the State in recent times, the Ernakulam Rural Police on Saturday arrested two persons with 2 kg of MDMA, a premium drug that also goes by the name ‘ecstasy’, worth crores in the international market from near Angamaly. The arrested are Sivaprasad aka Shyam, 29, of Cherthala, and Aabid, 33, of Taliparambu. A combined team of the rural police and the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF) was lying in wait for the accused after the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik received a tip-off on the drug movement. They were intercepted while smuggling in the drug in a pick-up van from Chennai. The vehicle has been taken into custody. The consignment was reportedly for sale in the district. The accused had been operating from a rented house at Kuzhupilly near Munambam. The rural police have made multiple drug seizures since last year’s lockdown, including nearly 150 kg of ganja smuggled in from Andhra Pradesh in two separate incidents. More than 10 persons were also arrested in connection with ganja smuggling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-kg-of-mdma-seized-near-angamaly/article34742724.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Panchayat move to pass resolution challenged||The Kerala High Court has issued notice to the Thalayazham grama panchayat in Kottayam on a petition against the panchyat’s move to convene a meeting for considering a resolution moved against the reforms and regulations initiated by the Lakshadweep administration. The notice was issued on Friday on a petition filed by K.S. Preejumon, a panchayat member, seeking to quash the notice given for considering the resolution against the Lakshadweep Administrator. Centre’s domain According to the petitioner, the Constitution did not permit a panchayat to pass a resolution against the law made by Parliament or regulations made by the President. The matters relating to Lakshadweep was within the domain of the Union government. The petitioner alleged that the attempt of the panchayat was to create fear and hatred among a section of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-move-to-pass-resolution-challenged/article34742691.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||K-Rail to consult public on SilverLine eco issues||Consultative meetings will be held with members of the local community in all 11 districts through which the 570-km-long SilverLine, the semi-high-speed rail corridor that will link Thiruvananthapuram and Kasaragod, will pass, to allay ecological and allied concerns, top officials of K-Rail, the implementing agency, have said. A comprehensive environment impact assessment (EIA) study too will be done. They were responding to queries raised by the public at Green Signal, a webinar on ‘Environmental aspects of SilverLine, organised by K-Rail in connection with World Environment Day on Saturday. Quarrying worries The government must have consultative process with the public, the primary stakeholders of the project, said John Samuel, former Head, International Governance Cell of the U.N. “Ecological concerns must be overcome since Kerala is facing multiple threats, including from its fragile coastline. The impact of large-scale quarrying that will have to be done for the project must be studied in depth.” Mr. Samuel said booklets must be published in Malayalam, detailing steps being taken to alleviate environmental concerns. Pressure from the automobile lobby must be overcome to bring down the number of cars on Kerala’s roads. If properly implemented, the project will bring about an economic corridor spread across the State, preventing concentration of population in cities vulnerable to flooding. Joseph K.J., general manager of K-Rail, said culverts would be provided for smooth flow of water beneath the rail corridor. Underpasses would be provided every 500 metres for people to cross to the other side. Overbridges too would be built.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/k-rail-to-consult-public-on-silverline-eco-issues/article34742994.ece
06 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Collegium moots 4 names for HC judges||The Kerala High Court collegium is learnt to have recommended the elevation of four judicial officers as High Court judges. They are Sophy Thomas, High Court Registrar General; P.G. Ajithkumar, Registrar (Subordinate Judiciary); C. Jayachandran, Kottayam Principal District and Sessions Judge, and C.S. Sudha, Ernakulam Principal District and Sessions Judge. Once their appointments are through after the Supreme Court collegium's approval, the High Court will have six women judges. The High Court now has 36 judges against the sanctioned strength of 47.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collegium-moots-4-names-for-hc-judges/article34742958.ece
06 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||From frying pan to fire in this traditional sector||When the State government announced a week-long lockdown early May, Kaveri and her co-workers considered it a short-term setback. They thought work will resume after seven days at their factory at Chadayamangalam as they had left behind piles of shelled cashew in the long tin-roofed room attached to the borma. “We were waiting for the call as the nuts needed to be peeled, graded, and packed at the earliest. We waited for nearly a month,” she says. The labourers have lost many working days due to the second wave and the extended lockdown, that too when the sector is struggling to stay afloat. Minimal staff “Now, the processing unit is functional, but with minimal staff. Though I am one among few fortunate women who could return to work, I know our hardships will continue. At first the factories were not opening due to raw material shortage and now this pandemic has thrown us from frying pan to fire,” she adds. Sheeba, a 37-year-old single mother, now has an income much lower compared to pre-COVID-19 days. Her scanty savings had dried up by the end of 2020 and a family of four is completely dependent on her. “I took up the job though the wages were not good. I had no other option and the second wave hit at a crucial time. They had promised us normal wages by March, but now we are once again back to square one. I have no idea how to deal with the mounting debt and other expenses,” she says. Like several other sectors, cashew industry too had incurred huge losses last year when the pandemic hit export prospects and supply chain. The blow was too severe since the industry has been facing an unprecedented crisis for the last few years and the second lockdown has aggravated the situation.  Cashew industry had incurred huge losses last year when the pandemic hit export prospects and supply chain||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-frying-pan-to-fire-in-this-traditional-sector/article34742950.ece
06 June 2021||Kollam,KERALA||1,787 test positive in Kollam, 1,212 new cases in Alappuzha||Kollam district reported 1,787 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,029 recoveries on Saturday. While 1,777 people contracted the infection via local transmission, the others include four NRIs, two persons from another States and four health workers. The district currently has 42,245 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,28,437. While 3,346 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,50,748 primary and 16,600 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha district reported 1,212 new COVID-19 cases and 949 recoveries on Saturday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 10.80%. Of the fresh cases, 1,200 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of five others remains unidentified. Seven people who reached the district from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 16,184. On Saturday, the police registered 76 cases and arrested 11 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 724 people for not wearing masks, 406 people for violating physical distancing norms, and 14 people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 248 vehicles. 802 recover in Kottayam As many as 822 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 819 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 15.92%. With 86 cases, Panachikkad panchayat reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottayam municipality with 76 cases. As many as 802 persons recovered from the disease in the district during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 7,045. Five deaths In Pathanamthitta, 472 persons tested positive for the disease. Of this, 466 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR for the day was 13.1%. With 39 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 26 cases. The pandemic also claimed five more lives in the district. As many as 931 persons recovered from the disease during the day in the district, bringing down the total active cases to 6,634.  (with inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1787-test-positive-in-kollam-1212-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34742693.ece
06 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||NGT panel to ascertain damage to Meenachil||The clash between authorities and environmentalists over the proposed flood risk management works in the Meenachil river has taken a new turn with the Southern Zone Bench of the National Green Tribunal appointing a joint committee to ascertain the alleged damage caused to the riverine environment. Considering a petition filed by the Kottayam Nature Society, the Bench has ordered the constitution of a committee to inspect the area and submit a report. It comprises a senior officer from the regional office of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change in Bengaluru, a senior scientist from Kerala State Biodivesrity Board, Assistant Conservator of forest, Executive Engineer of the Major Irrigation Department, Kottayam, and the Kottayam Collector. The Forest Department has been appointed as the nodal agency for co-ordination. The bench has directed the committee to ascertain ‘‘as to whether any study has been conducted or any plan has been evolved as contemplated under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, considering the nature of impact of flood in those areas in previous years and what are the steps taken by them in previous years to prevent such recurrence in the coming years.’’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-panel-to-ascertain-damage-to-meenachil/article34742692.ece
06 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Small establishments bear the brunt||Small establishments have taken the brunt of COVID-19. A few months of relaxations did not help them to recoup the huge losses incurred during the first lockdown and the second one is the final nail in the coffin for many. M.K. Ismail from Balussery had a publishing business of mostly religious books, which he used to sell at public meetings. But with restrictions on such gatherings, he is unable to fend for his small family. “This lockdown is not like the previous one. The first time we had some savings, enough to manage for a few months. This one came when we least expected,” he says. Families in dire straits Vineetha T.’s tailoring shop at Koyenco Bazaar was a means of income for four families, all of whom are in dire straits now. Vineetha herself manages to survive at the mercy of her daughter, whose salary as the employee of a construction firm has been cut by half. Mumtaz O.V. and her husband, who had run a small bunk selling snacks at Mananchira, are now living at the mercy of her father, who too is struggling to find jobs as a painter. Neither of the three could find an alternative means of income due to the lockdown curbs. However, all of them have stories of heavy debt that need to be cleared soon. “Bankers have started calling asking for loan repayments. We have come so far. I don’t know the way forward,” says Vineetha. The absence of income has affected the livelihood of most shop workers. “We get free ration and food kits. Besides, there are people who help in a non-financial way. We will not die of hunger but the tension of debt will kill us, if we do not get back to our jobs soon,” says Mumtaz.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-establishments-bear-the-brunt/article34742939.ece
06 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||92 Ayur Raksha Clinics opened||Ninety-two Ayur Raksha Clinics have been opened under the aegis of the Department of AYUSH and the District Ayurveda COVID Response Cell in Kozhikode district to contain the pandemic. K.M. Mansoor, District Medical Officer (AYUSH), told the media here on Saturday that the clinics were functioning at eight government hospitals and other government dispensaries. Swasthyam, a resistance initiative, and Sukhayushyam for senior citizens are being implemented through them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/92-ayur-raksha-clinics-opened/article34742716.ece
06 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Hairdressers’ brush with traumatic times||For hairdresser P.K. Kunhimohammed, the lockdown has compounded his miseries. He lost his unborn child during the peak of COVID-19 after his pregnant wife developed complications. Forced to remain at home without work for over a month, Kunhimohammed’s family is surviving with the cash borrowed from his friends. His shop at Alachully, near Kottakkal, has remained closed for over six weeks. “We faced the worst of helplessness and misery during the days I spent at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, with my pregnant wife. With hardly any cash in hand and no work, we tested positive for COVID. And soon my wife lost our child in premature labour. It was traumatic,” says Kunhimohammed. Hairdressers are skilled class of people who hardly get any relaxation during the lockdown. “It’s because of our nature of work. As we deal with hair and beard, we work in close proximity to people. So chances are more for the spread of the virus,” says Abdul Salam T.T., a barber at Chappanangadi. Mounting worries For Salam, the lockdown has brought in added worries about repaying the cash he borrowed for his house work.“The repayment worries apart, life has almost ground to a halt,” says Salam. Many in the profession across the State are going through hardships. “Ours is not an isolated case. Everybody is suffering. So let’s adjust to the woes, and there’s no point complaining,” says Salam. Siddeek T.T., a hairdresser at Villur near Kottakkal, too shares the same experience. “Most of us are going through debts. It is the biggest problem,” he says. A section of the workers, however, are managing to gain their daily bread by going to houses for work. In villages, some people are going to hairdressers’ houses. But many have paid a price by contracting COVID in the mean.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hairdressers-brush-with-traumatic-times/article34742941.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||One crore vaccine doses given||Kerala has administered over one crore doses of COVID vaccine as on June 4 midnight. Of these, 78,75,797 are first doses administered, while 21,37,389 persons in the State have received both doses of vaccine. Health Minister Veena George in a statement here on Saturday said that the State could proceed with vaccination at a fast pace because of the total involvement and cooperation of health workers in the process. Kerala has achieved this with zero wastage of vaccine, which has come in for much appreciation from the Union Health Ministry too, she pointed out. In the 18-44 years group, the State has vaccinated 4,74,676 persons on the basis of a list of prioritised categories. Among these, 50 persons have already received the second doses too. In the 45-60 years age group, 27,96,267 persons have received one dose of vaccine while 1,97,052 persons have received both doses. In the 60 plus age group, 35,48,887 have received one dose of vaccine, while 11,38,062 have been fully vaccinated. Health workers Among health workers, 5,20,788 have received one dose of vaccine while 4,03,698 among them have received both doses of vaccine. Among front-line workers, 5,35,179 of them have received one dose of vaccine while 3,98,527 among them have received both doses of vaccine. The State had received a total of 1,04,13,620 dose vaccines. Of these, the State had purchased 8,84,290 doses directly, while Centre had provided 95,29,330 doses. Another 50,000 doses of Covaxin is also expected to arrive in the State later in the day. Vaccines received at the regional vaccine stores are distributed to districts on the basis of the population, vaccine usage and existing stocks in districts. COVID-19 vaccination had commenced in the State on January 16 and in the first phase, health workers and front-line workers were provided the vaccines. The vaccination of the 60 plus age group began on March 1 and that of those in the 45 plus group on April 1 The State also began the vaccination of those in the 18-45 age group on the basis of priority on May 1, by directly purchasing vaccines from manufacturers. Among this age group, 56 categories are being vaccinated on the basis of priority, because of the scarcity of vaccine. Priority group Students and those going abroad for jobs are being vaccinated as a priority group and they are being given the second dose at an interval of four to six weeks. The government has now decided to give at least one dose of vaccine to all above 40 years of age in the State . The vaccination programme will be expanded to others as more vaccine becomes available, Ms. George said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-crore-vaccine-doses-given/article34743001.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. launches mass cleaning drive||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation marked World Environment Day on Saturday by launching the 'Karuthal' mass cleaning drive and planting saplings in various parts of the capital city. Education Minister V. Sivankutty inaugurated the 'pacha thuruth' (green islet) prepared by the Corporation at the Government Model Boys' Higher Secondary School in the presence of Mayor Arya Rajendran, Deputy Mayor P.K. Raju, standing committee chairpersons and other officials. Later, Mr. Sivankutty also inaugurated the cleaning drive at Attakulangara. Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil inaugurated the drive at the Medical College ward. The Mayor planted saplings at the Corporation compound and later at the house of the late councillor Sabu Jose in Vettukad, in memory of the councillor who succumbed to COVID-19 recently. Dry day today City residents have been requested to observe a ‘dry day’ on Sunday. The Corporation has announced a 'Dry day challenge' to bring an element of healthy competition. The wards in which dry day-related mosquito source destruction and other activities are carried out in the most number of houses will receive a sanitation award as part of the challenge. The Corporation has prepared a detailed action plan for the monsoon cleaning and vector disease control activities to be taken up this week. Volunteers will be assigned for 30-50 households to carry out source destruction activities to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. On June 7, the health wing will carry out checks in scrap shops, tyre repairing shops and other commercial establishments in each health circle as part of source destruction activities. Fogging and spraying will be carried out in each of the wards till June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-launches-mass-cleaning-drive/article34742992.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Out of job and surviving on parents’ pension||For eight years, Chitra, a daily wager at the National Textile Corporation’s (NTC) Vijayamohini mills here, had earned just enough to meet her family’s expenses. Now, for the past one year, the family of six has been depending on the old-age pensions of her parents. When the NTC closed down its 23 spinning mills following the COVID-19-induced lockdown in March last year, Vijayamohini mills too downed its shutters and remained closed for more than one year. When the mill reopened in March this year, temporary workers were not called back. It again closed for some weeks for quality check of the fibre raw material before reopening on June 1. But not even the permanent workers who had worked during the period have not been paid their salaries for the past two months, while more than 150 temporary workers remain forgotten. “I used to get Rs. 427 for a day’s work. I was supposed to become a permanent worker in 2020, when the mill closed down due to COVID-19. We were told that we will be called back when there is work. But they have neither called us or paid anything,” Chithra says. Daughters’ studies Her husband, a daily wager, used to earn some money when there was work. But during the lockdown, even he can’t go out for work. Their daughters, aged 14 and 11, are now attending online classes. The entire family now survives on the welfare pensions that Chithra’s parents get. “Even to recharge the phone for them to attend online classes, we need a few hundred rupees. From this year onwards, the younger daughter will also need a phone, but we have no money to buy one,” says Chithra. The Vijayamohini mill is currently running much below capacity, as the raw material is also running out. “There is only enough cotton to run the mill for 3-4 more days. The NTC has still not sent any raw material from Mumbai, citing paucity of funds,” says M.T.Antony, secretary of the Trivandrum Textile Workers' Union, affiliated to the CITU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/out-of-job-and-surviving-on-parents-pension/article34742947.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. pins its hopes on stepped-up lockdown||Kerala entered the first day of a stepped-up lockdown enforcement phase on Saturday to accord the government more latitude to exert greater COVID-19 transmission control. The government has shut down public and private institutions and offices till further notice to reduce the potentially contagious interplay between people. With office traffic off the road, the police will clamp down harsher on nonessential travel. A precursor An official says the five-day quarantine could be the precursor of a cyclical containment strategy to prepare for a possible third wave and keep the disease at bay until Kerala moves closer to universal vaccination. It may entail a routine in which the workforce will divide themselves into alternating shifts, with less than 50% employed a day. The administration hopes the new measure will help sustain economic activity, albeit at a much lesser scale, and help the government cushion the loss of employment and financial devastation to some extent. Gig economy allowed The government has allowed food to be delivered home as parcels. However, hotels could open only after 9 a.m. and should down shutters by 7.30 p.m. As per the new regulations, only ration shops and stores selling food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk and dairy products could open for business during the specified 9 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. period. The government has allowed the retail of meat, fish and cattle feed. It has also permitted animal husbandry-related activities. Bakeries could open for business. There is no restriction on medical shops and fuel pumps. Replanting of rubber is allowed, given the monsoon season. All other retail and commercial activities, including production, remained banned. Persons entering Kerala will require an RT-PCR negative certificate. Citizens could venture out to stock up on medicines and essential supplies from neighbourhood shops. The ban on public transport and inter-district travel remain. Autorickshaws and taxis could ferry passengers to and fro from airports, railway stations, vaccination centres, and hospitals. Night curfew regulations remain. Freight movement will continue as usual. The government had earlier eased the restriction on walking or jogging for exercise in pubic spaces in the morning (5 a.m. to 7 p.m.) and evening (7 p.m. to 9 p.m.). The current order did not specify whether the administration had banned outdoor exercise during the four days. On June 8, a top-level epidemic management committee headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will review the impact of the current augmented lockdown regime to decide the future course of action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-pins-its-hopes-on-stepped-up-lockdown/article34743003.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||One crore fruit saplings to be distributed in State||The Agriculture Department is distributing one crore saplings to farmers as part of encouraging the cultivation of fruit trees in the State. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan inaugurated the distribution on Saturday, World Environment Day, by planting a rose apple on the sprawling Raj Bhavan grounds. Good quality grafts This year, good quality grafts and saplings of more than 20 types of fruit trees, including jackfruit, mango, rambutan, mangosteen, papaya, chikoo, passion fruit, banana, gooseberry, pomegranate and rose apple, are being distributed to farmers. The Agriculture Department has entered into a tie-up with the Forest and Local Self-Government departments for the initiative. The Agriculture Department had launched the initiative last year as part of Subhiksha Keralam, a State government campaign meant to ensure food security during the COVID-19 outbreak. In the first edition, the department had distributed 1.36 crore fruit tree saplings. The initiative gels with this year’s World Environment Day theme of ecosystem restoration and contributes to the expansion of fruit tree cultivation across the State, according to the department. The saplings are arranged through farms under the department, Agricultural Karma Senas, Vegetable and Fruit promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK), Kerala Agricultural University and agro-service centres. Agriculture Minister P. Prasad, who presided over the inauguration on Saturday, planted an Allahabad Safeda variety of guava. Agriculture Director K. Vasuki was present.  The Agriculture Department had launched the initiative last year as part of Subhiksha Keralam||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-crore-fruit-saplings-to-be-distributed-in-state/article34742964.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Hospital admissions post a decline||The State on Saturday reported 17,328 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,16,354 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 14.89%. The active case pool dipped further to 1,67,638 patients, with 24,003 patients reported to have recovered on the day. The State added 209 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths, taking the cumulative fatalities to 9,719. These are not deaths reported in the past 24 hours but which occurred over the past several days. Hospitalisations and ICU occupancy are on its way down and though it is a slow process; the trend is steady. On Saturday, 2,649 persons were hospitalised. The number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has also started dipping and now stands at 34,925. Total ICU admissions of critically ill patients has declined. The number of patients in ICUs was 3,496, while those requiring ventilator support dropped to 1,415. The active case pool has dipped in all except six districts. Thiruvananthapuram district continues to have a high number of hospitalisations (5,829) and deaths despite the fact that the active case pool has only 13,765 patients. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 26,18,410 cases. Highest in capital Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,468, followed by Malappuram 1,980, Palakkad 1,899, Kollam 1,787, Ernakulam 1,769, Thrissur 1,582, Kozhikode 1,497, Alappuzha 1,212, Kottayam 822, Kannur 684, Kasaragod 520, Pathanamthitta 472, Idukki 395 and Wayanad 241 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-admissions-post-a-decline/article34742999.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aramam Arogyam launched||Health Minister Veena George formally inaugurated the Aramam Arogyam project implemented by the Department of AYUSH on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday. The project, implemented in association with the National AYUSH Mission and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGS), involves creating herbal gardens in health institutions functioning under the department. The initiative was inaugurated through videoconferencing with the planting of medicinal herbs in the compounds of Ayurveda and homoeopathic dispensaries in Mezhuveli grama panchayat in Pathanamthitta. Seedlings were simultaneously planted in two centres each in all districts. Ms. George said the project also aimed at creating awareness on medicinal plants among the public and encourage them to nurture and use them in their houses. It will be implemented across all institutions under the department within a year. The seedlings were being obtained from Oushadi, Kerala Agricultural University, and the social forestry division of the Forest Department. The State Medicinal Plant Board has been providing technical support for the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aramam-arogyam-launched/article34742961.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJP holds crucial meet today||The core committee of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala is meeting in Kochi on Sunday amid a slew of controversies related to election campaign financing. A State police investigation into the alleged movement and subsequent theft of the party’s ‘election funds’ at Kodakara in Thrissur threatened to drag the names of BJP State president K. Surendran and its star campaigner actor Suresh Gopi into its vortex. Tribal leader C.K. Janu’s detractors in her party, the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Sabha, have accused Mr. Surendran of paying Rs. 10 lakh to woo her to the BJP fold. A contestant told journalists that he had received Rs. 2 lakh and a mobile phone to withdraw his ‘dummy’ candidature against the leader in Manjeswaram. Not much support So far, few top leaders have come out openly in defence of Mr. Surendran, giving the impression that the party has largely left the State president to fend for himself. By some accounts, Mr. Surendran is likely to face criticism at the core committee meeting. He could also attempt to gain the committee’s backing by citing a Congress-CPI(M) axis to defame the BJP. The BJP’s lacklustre showing in the 2021 Assembly elections is likely to weigh heavily on the meeting. Senior State leaders like O. Rajagopal, P.K. Krishnadas and Sobha Surendran have reportedly demanded a full accounting of the party’s poll debacle. Some of them had earlier questioned the alleged one-upmanship of the State leadership in candidate selection and fund allocation. A party insider said the purported rumblings of dissent in the BJP might find an echo in the core committee meeting, but any drastic fallout was unlikely.  Police probe into campaign financing, poor show in elections will figure in core committee meet||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-holds-crucial-meet-today/article34743004.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||From seed bombs, confidence sprouts||On Saturday, World Environment Day, Ahzana Nazrin planted a rambutan sapling and sent photos of it to her teachers. The day before, the Class 3 student of SNV Upper Primary School, Kattuputhussery, Pallickal, in Thiruvananthapuram district had made seed bombs with much relish. Ahzana who suffers from hearing and visual impairments, besides a heart ailment, made 18 seed bombs as part of the World Environment Day celebrations organised by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala’s Kilimanoor block resource centre (BRC). Ansi Farook, Ahzana’s mother, says her daughter loves plants and trees and understands the purpose of seed bombs. Hence she was very keen on making them. The feedback from her teachers made her day. Many differently abled children find it difficult to sit still and concentrate on one thing, but when an activity such as seed-bomb making is involved, it is an entirely different matter. Finishing the activity is also a boost to their confidence. Nearly 720 differently abled students, including those with visual impairments, under the Kilimanoor BRC have been making seed bombs since the beginning of the month with the support of a video prepared by a special educator. How they are made Seeds are covered with a layer of compost and hidden inside small balls of earth and then dried. The idea is to get the students to plant the bombs on land surrounding their houses or scatter them in open spaces once the lockdown ends, or gift them to friends and neighbours in connection with the World Environment Day celebrations. A shower or two later, they will be able to see the labour of their love germinate and put down roots where these were sown, thus adding to the green cover. There are other goals too—increasing biodiversity, water and soil conservation, cleaner air, thus helping to mitigate the effects of climate change. The seeds can also be preserved for long this way, sprouting when they receive some water. Inclusive Education for the Disabled Children (IEDC) trainer Vysakh K.S. who is conducting the seed bomb programme with the help of 13 special educators, says it is more than a message about environment to these students. It helps development of fine motor skills, overcomes tactile defensiveness, and improves eye-hand coordination and concentration in such children, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-seed-bombs-confidence-sprouts/article34743006.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Organisational polls sought in Congress||The Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), trade union wing of the Congress, has held the deep-rooted factionalism in the party’s State unit to be responsible for its poor show at the recent Assembly polls. The feeder organisation, which conducted a post-poll study into the debacle, on Saturday demanded immediate steps for organisational elections and to restructure the party by doing away with ‘jumbo committees’. Expresses optimism INTUC State president R. Chandrasekharan, who interacted with mediapersons here on Saturday, said the long-pending internal elections was not an insurmountable task as it was portrayed by various sections. He expressed optimism that the exercise could be completed within six months, during which the party unit could be led by a caretaker president in the State. Mr. Chandrasekharan added that the INTUC will hold elections to its State and district committees by the end of the year. Bemoaning the practice of elevating ‘ineligible persons’ to various positions, the study called for promoting only members of District Congress Committee (DCCs) and the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) as office-bearers of such units. Mullappally flayed Criticising the leadership of KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, he alleged that he has been inaccessible for party workers and failed to rein in factionalism. He also neglected the party’s feeder organisations, thereby squandering the potential of their extensive network at the grassroots level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/organisational-polls-sought-in-congress/article34742960.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,468 fresh cases in district, 2,236 recoveries||The capital district recorded 2,468 more COVID-19 cases as the number of active cases rose to 13,765 on Saturday. As many as 2,236 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 16.83% when 14,661 people were subjected to tests. The source of infection was unknown in 161 cases. Fourteen health workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death toll rose by 66 to reach 2,019. Gearing up for the expected third wave of the pandemic, District Collector Navjot Khosa said the SAT Hospital will be made the nodal hospital for COVID-19 treatment for children in the district. paediatric intensive care unit having a capacity of 50 beds will be established as part of such efforts. While 40 beds will be reserved for children, the remaining will be kept aside for infants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2468-fresh-cases-in-district-2236-recoveries/article34742990.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Equality meet achieves carbon neutrality||A global meet on gender equality hosted by The Gender Park earlier this year achieved carbon neutrality and became the first carbon neutral event of the State government. The Gender Park, under the Women and Child Development Department, organised the second edition of the International Conference on Gender Equality from February 11 to 13 in association with UN Women. With sustainability as its core theme, the meet was held on The Gender Park’s new campus in Kozhikode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/equality-meet-achieves-carbon-neutrality/article34742695.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccines for Technopark staff, families||The first batch of COVID-19 vaccine to be distributed among Technopark employees and their family members will reach the capital on June 8. The vaccination will commence on June 10. Vaccines will be distributed free of cost to Technopark employees and their family members. The shots are being procured by Technopark Employees Cooperative Hospital directly from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, for Rs. 790 per dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccines-for-technopark-staff-families/article34742694.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plea to drop blended learning plan||The All India Save Education Committee (AISEC) has urged the University Grants Commission (UGC) to abandon its plan to encourage the blended mode of teaching and learning. In a letter to the UGC, M. Shajar Khan, secretary of the AISEC Kerala chapter, said on Saturday that the move contravened the government’s constitutional obligation to provide scientific, secular and democratic education in a universal manner in the physical mode. According to him, any reform that steered away from the classroom-centred teaching process is fraught with disastrous consequences that could affect the careers of students. Communication technologies can augment and amplify the scope of study materials, but cannot function as alternative mechanisms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-drop-blended-learning-plan/article34742962.ece
06 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Budget a bid to fox people: BJP||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the LDF government’s revised Budget for 2021-22 was an attempt to fox the people of the State. It held no hope or promise for the people. The Rs. 20,000 crore COVID-19 package and Rs. 11,000 crore coastal package were mere pronouncements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/budget-a-bid-to-fox-people-bjp/article34742957.ece
06 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Databank of trees||A databank of trees in the Vattiyurkavu constituency will be prepared as part of the ‘Green Vibe’ programme of the Vatiiyurkavu Youth Brigade, V.K.Prasanth, MLA, has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/databank-of-trees/article34742993.ece
06 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||New millipede species found in Kannur||A new species of millipede, just 3 millimetres long, has been discovered from a sacred groves in Kannur. The species has been discovered in a study conducted by the Department of Zoology, Christ College, Irinjalakuda, to understand the importance of biodiversity of sacred groves in Malabar. The millipedes have been found in a grove named Thekkumbadu Koolom Thazhekavu. The 20-hectare grove is located on an inland island, surrounded by mangroves. Specialised antenna “These millipedes dwell under the rotting plant debris in the moist soil of the grove. Its body is pale pink and possesses 20 segments in males and 19 segments in females. The eyeless millipede is characterized by 34 pairs of pale yellow legs. They sense their surroundings with a pair of very small but specialised antenna,” says Sudhikumar A.V., Head, Department of Zoology, Christ College, who led the study. Aswathy M. Das, research scholar, Centre for Animal Taxonomy and Ecology (CATE), the biodiversity research lab associated with the college, and Sergi I. Golovatch, diplopodologist, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, are the members of the study team. “The body of these millipedes is flat. They belong to a small millipede family called Pyrgodesmidae in the genus Klimakodesmus. The species is named Klimakodesmus bilobocaudatus, ” says Dr. Sudhikumar. Boosting soil fertility These millipedes consume fallen leaf litter, and may process some 15%-20% of calcium input into the soil. Hence they play an important role in increasing soil fertility. Female millipedes can lay up to 250 eggs by the end of a breeding season (monsoon season), the study says. The fact that a different species of millipede from the same genus has been found in Sri Lanka makes this a significant discovery, says Dr. Sudhikumar. “The presence of this slow dispersal organism is further evidence of the connection between India and Sri Lanka.” A long gap This finding is also important as no progress has been made in the study of indigenous millipedes in India since the studies during the colonial period. So far, only 57 species of millipedes have been found in Kerala, all discovered before Independence, he adds. The findings are published in the latest issue of Zootaxa, an international scientific journal published from New Zealand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-millipede-species-found-in-kannur/article34742497.ece
06 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Thekkinkadu gets a tree map||A three-month-long exercise has mapped the number and rich diversity of trees at Thekkinkadu Maidan, Thrissur city’s green lung. There are 661 trees in 93 species in the sprawling area, of which Kanikkonna ( Cassia fistula ) is the most abundant one, numbering 65. The exercise was carried out by INTACH (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) volunteers under the guidance of N. Sasidharan (former chief scientist of the Kerala Forest Research Institute [KFRI]) and P.S. Easa (former director of the KFRI). The foliage of rain trees provides the maximum canopy. There are 48 copperpod ( Peltophorum pterocarpum ) with bright yellow flowers and 45 rain trees ( Albizia saman ), 34 mango trees ( Mangifera indica ) and 47 teak trees ( Tectona grandis ), mostly in the southern area of the maidan. In addition, there are 16 Ilanji ( Mimusops elengi ) and 21 mahogany ( Swietenia macrophylla ) trees. Among the 93 species, 38 are exotic trees, 26 are ornamental/garden plants, and 46 are species of medicinal value, including Kadukka ( Terminalia chebula ) and Thanni ( Terminalia bellirica ). The experts are of the opinion that the rich variety of trees make the maidan a unique ecosystem. “More tree species, connected to the nearby temple (Vadakkumnathan Temple), can be added, which in turn will improve the biodiversity too. The tree health needs to be assessed. Trimming and removal of branches must be done, if necessary,” they suggested. A landscape plan could be prepared for the maidan with a plan for further planting of suitable species, they noted. INTACH will release a brochure and conduct an exhibition soon for the public, based on the tree-mapping, for creating awareness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thekkinkadu-gets-a-tree-map/article34742997.ece
06 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Probe sought into actor’s chopper trip||Congress leader Padmaja Venugopal in a Facebook post has sought an investigation into the helicopter trip of cine actor and BJP leader Suresh Gopi. “Why investigation has been limited to [BJP leader] K. Surendran’s helicopter trip. Suresh Gopi too came to Thrissur in a helicopter. We suspect smuggling of money in that copter too,” Padmaja wrote in her post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-sought-into-actors-chopper-trip/article34742955.ece
06 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIT likely to question Suresh Gopi||The special team investigating the Kodakara black money heist may question cine actor Suresh Gopi, the BJP candidate in the Thrissur Assembly constituency. The team is examining details of helicopter trips made by BJP leaders for poll campaign. The copter journey of Mr. Gopi too will come under the scanner. The special investigation team (SIT) questioned secretary Dipin and Lebish, driver of BJP State president K. Surendran, on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-likely-to-question-suresh-gopi/article34742995.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rosewood felling: Forest Dept. to seek AG’s advice||Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran has said that the department will seek the advice of the Advocate General on the recent illegal felling and sale of rosewood trees from private plantations at Muttil in Wayanad district. Addressing a ‘meet the press’ event at the Calicut Press Club here on Saturday, he said the report submitted by officials on the issue was not satisfactory. Though the title deed of the plantations was in the name of private persons, they did not have the permission to cut or sell trees from the premises. The officials had claimed that no one had been arrested so far even as over 40 cases had been registered. This was because the smuggled wood was yet to be reclaimed. The Revenue Minister too has sought a report from officials. Follow-up action will be taken based on the reports. “It was a loot of our forest wealth. Culprits will be brought to book. I have discussed the issue with the Chief Minister and at least five senior officials. If the ongoing probe does not make any headway, other agencies will be roped in for the purpose,” Mr. Saseendran said. The Minister added that people’s committees would be formed in grama panchayats in the hilly regions to conserve wildlife. Elected representatives and Forest officials will be members of the committee. Mr. Saseendran claimed that he was completely aware of the need to protect the environment though he did not consider himself to be an ‘environmental extremist’. “There is a plan to develop mini forests within cities. I have conveyed to the Kozhikode Mayor that the first of such forests can be opened in the city if land is available,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rosewood-felling-forest-dept-to-seek-ags-advice/article34742718.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||1,497 more test positive for virus in Kozhikode||As many as 1,497 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Saturday. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) was 14.31% when 10,703 samples were tested. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 1,488 locally acquired infections, and nine without a known source. There were 1,848 recoveries, and the active caseload of the district is 16,017. Meanwhile, a mucormycosis death was reported at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode. The deceased is a native of Chorod near Vadakara. He had been admitted to the hospital with symptoms on May 24. Meanwhile, a COVID ward was opened at the Government Hospital for Women and Children at Kottaparamba in Kozhikode city. It is located in the MCH building built under the National Health Mission and has 50 beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1497-more-test-positive-for-virus-in-kozhikode/article34742717.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slow, steady drop in infections in southern States||Amidst a receding second wave of COVID-19, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday said lockdown restrictions would be lifted in districts that report less than 5% COVID-19 positivity. Speaking to reporters, the CM said he would hold discussions with officials and take a decision in 4-5 days. The Indian Council of Medical Research had set three criteria for unlocking — less than 5% positivity in a district, over 70% inoculation of priority groups, and community role in COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The State is expected to unlock economic activities in a phased manner. The positivity rate for Karnataka had dropped below the 10% mark and stood at 9.69%, according to Saturday’s bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. As many as 13,800 new cases were reported, as were 365 new deaths. Test positivity rate Kerala reported 17,328 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday, when 1,16,354 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate stood at 14.89% on Saturday. The State’s active case pool dipped further to 1,67,638 patients on Saturday, with 24,003 patients reported to have recovered on the day. Hospitalisations and ICU occupancy are on their way down and though it is a slow process, the trend is steady. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals in the State has also started dipping and now stands at 34,925. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients in the State has declined, and on Saturday, the total number of patients in ICUs was 3,496, while those requiring ventilator support dropped to 1,415. The active case pool has dipped in all districts and in all except six districts, there are less than 10,000 patients in the active case pool. Thiruvananthapuram district continues to have a high number of hospitalisations (5,829) and deaths despite the fact that the active case pool has only 13,765 patients. 18 deaths in Telangana Continuing the trend of a slow and steady drop in the novel coronavirus infections, a total of 2,070 new positive cases and 18 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Saturday. A record number of 1,38,182 samples were tested for COVID-19 infection on Saturday, and the reports for 1,418 samples were still awaited. A total of 3,762 infected persons were declared recovered during the day, taking their cumulative total to 5,57,162.  Daily tally dips to 21,410 The State on Saturday recorded 21,410 fresh COVID-19 cases and 443 deaths. With this, Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 22,16,812, while its toll rose to 26,571. As many as 2,663 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, while Chennai’s count came down to 1,789. There were 1,569 cases in Erode, 1,171 in Salem and 1,104 in Tiruppur. Thanjavur’s daily cases fell below 1,000 as 929 people tested positive, while Chengalpattu recorded 862 cases. As many as 32,472 people were discharged after treatment. These included 4,656 people in Coimbatore and 4,158 in Chennai. With this, the State’s active caseload dropped to 2,57,463. Chennai reported 62 deaths, followed by Coimbatore with 43 and Chengalpattu with 41. Twenty-four people died in Erode and 20 in Salem. Cuddalore and Vellore recorded 15 deaths each. A total of 83,020 people were vaccinated on Saturday, taking the State’s overall vaccination coverage to 96,74,470.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slow-steady-drop-in-infections-in-southern-states/article34742499.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka HC rejects plea of Kerala man||The Karnataka High Court has declined to interfere with a trial court’s order of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) taking cognisance of offences against Kerala native Rijesh Ravindran, 37, in a drug racket case spread over Karnataka and Kerala. Justice H.B. Prabhakara Sastry dismissed the petition while observing that the order of taking cognisance of offence by the trial court cannot be found fault with. On the contention made on behalf of the accused that the trial court could not have taken cognisance of the offence as the NCB had not filed the report in the manner prescribed in the law, the High Court found nothing wrong in the procedure followed by either the NCB or the trial court. The court also declined to accept the contention made on behalf of the petitioner-accused that the NCB had not filed the report before the trial court within 180 days. The order pointed out that the complaint lodged by the NCB is nothing but the final report of investigation as per the procedure prescribed under the the Narcotic Substances and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Drugs seized The NCB, during a raid at Rijesh’s apartment in Chokkanahalli during August 2020, had seized 40 g of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and 180 bolts of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD). The NCB had raided his apartment based on information given by another accused, Mohammed Anoop, who was said to have told the NCB that he had supplied 40 g of MDMA tablets to Rijesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-hc-rejects-plea-of-kerala-man-charged-by-ncb/article34742487.ece
06 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force seizes red sanders dumps in Chittoor, Kadapa||Combing parties of the Forest Department and the Red Sanders Task Force seized red sanders dumps at two separate places in Kadapa and Chittoor districts on Saturday. Divisional Forest Officer (Rajampeta) G. Srinivasulu told the media at Railway Kodur that four striking forces teams were formed to comb the Seshachalam hills in the division. One team noticed the movement of two Srikalahasti-based red sanders smuggling operatives near Railway Kodur and took them into custody. During interrogation, it was revealed that they were ready to facilitate the transport of red sanders logs dumped at the forest fringe areas, and the same were seized along with a motorcycle. Similarly, another 30 logs were seized at a forest location by a team at Obulavaripalle in Rajampeta division. In the second incident, the Chittoor police along with the Red sanders task force conducted a raid at Gangamma Kona forest location near a hillock in Nagalapuaram mandal, and seized 101 red sanders logs, scattered into 10 dumps. Senior officials from Tirupati rushed to the spot and inspected the terrain. The seized logs were shifted to Tirupati. A case was registered. DFO (Rajampeta) G. Srinivasulu said that top priority would be given to protection of red sanders wealth in Seshachalam hills. Celebrating World Environmental Day at Rajampeta, the DFO said that in addition to the existing striking forces, fresh teams would be formed and combing operations would be intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/task-force-seizes-red-sanders-dumps-in-chittoor-kadapa/article34742519.ece
06 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mango growers pin hopes on pulp industries||Mango growers in Chittoor district are pinning their hopes on the pulp industry this year, as the yield is expected to be around 35%, slightly more than the previous years. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the farmers fear poor pricing for the produce, recalling the scenario three years ago when the price plummeted to below Rs. 7,000 per tonne, which included governmental support. However, this year, the growers’ association is hopeful of getting Rs. 10,000 per tonne. About 45 pulp industries in the district are ready to lift about 4 lakh tonnes, with a crushing capacity of 10,000 tonnes per day. The association members on Saturday met Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy at Puttur, seeking his intervention to get good price for the produce. The growers also brought to his notice that those who had raised the table varieties of mango were bogged down with zero exports to the northern States and abroad owing to COVID-19. After speaking to the Horticulture Department officials, Mr. Narayanaswamy urged the association members to follow a set pattern in harvesting the crop at different phases so that it would be convenient for the pulp industries to process crushing. District mango pulp industries forum secretary Govardhan Babi said the fears of the farmers were taken to the notice of the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mango-growers-pin-hopes-on-pulp-industries/article34743037.ece
06 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP trying to disrupt peace in Lakshadweep, alleges CPI||CPI national secretary K. Narayana on Saturday alleged that the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre was trying to disrupt peace in Lakshadweep by interfering in the culture and lifestyle of the people there. In solidarity with the people of the island State, the CPI would organise protests across the country on June 8, Mr. Narayana told the media in Tirupati. Mr. Narayana said that a majority of the people in Lakshadweep were Muslims. Dig at Jagan “As there are chances of cancellation of his bail in the CBI and ED cases, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is trying to gain sympathy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” the CPI leader alleged. That was the reason why the Chief Minister had reacted strongly to the alleged remarks of his Jharkhand counterpart against Mr. Modi, the CPI leader observed. Referring to the resignation of former Telangana Minister Eetala Rajender from the TRS, the CPI leader said that if he joined the BJP, it would be a blow to the ruling party in that State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-trying-to-disrupt-peace-in-lakshadweep-alleges-cpi/article34743035.ece
06 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 lakh beneficiaries will have their own house by next year: housing corp. MD||A.P. State Housing Corporation Limited(APSHCL) Managing Director N. Bharat Gupta said that nearly 30 lakh beneficiaries of Navaratnalu- Pelarandariki Illu scheme would have their own house by next year. After laying the foundation stone for houses to be constructed under the scheme at Pasumarru village in Chilakaluripet constituency, Mr. Bharat Gupta said this was the biggest yet housing project taken up by the State government. He said that the government had announced incentives for the beneficiaries, including provision of 20 tonnes of sand, provision of construction material free of cost. District Collector Vivek Yadav said that the project would create a permanent asset for the families as well as give a fillip to the local economy. Mr. Vivek Yadav said the Jagananna housing colony would be built in 41.63 acres where 1,773 plots have been earmarked, benefiting 1,565 beneficiaries. The State government would be spending Rs. 28.17 crore on the project providing facilities and creating infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/30-lakh-beneficiaries-will-have-their-own-house-by-next-year-housing-corp-md/article34742517.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students going abroad get priority jab||Students going abroad for higher studies are being given COVID-19 vaccination under special plans in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Karnataka to meet foreign entry requirements. Telangana’s free vaccination drive began at the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) in Hyderabad on Saturday. Around 7,000 students registered and nearly 280 got the first dose on day one. Only Covishield vaccine was being given, and the time interval between two doses was reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks. IPM director K. Shankar said the State government sought and received permission from the Centre to reduce the interval for students. A code was generated for IPM to give the second dose after four weeks. Vaccination certificates would be generated on CoWin. The State Health department uploaded an e-link to register for the drive on ‘health.telangana.gov.in’ on Friday. Using the ‘Vaccination for students going abroad’ link, the applicants were directed to another site to enter mobile numbers. The date and time slot for vaccination was then communicated. From Monday, around 700 students would be given the jab every day. Students must carry their original passport and show either the visa stamp or admission letter from a recognised overseas university. In Andhra Pradesh, thousands of students planning to travel abroad for the September intake had been told by many universities in the U.S. that vaccination with a World Health Organisation (WHO)-approved vaccine was mandatory. Even though the Central government had opened vaccination for the 18-plus age group, the State government deferred it for this section, as supply was limited. Only those over 45 were being vaccinated. However, the decision was amended to accommodate students with overseas travel plans and NRIs. “The only option we have is Covishield. We can’t risk taking Covaxin given the possibility of delay in approval by WHO beyond September. Even if I take Covishield now, the next dose can be taken just a week before September. If everything goes as planned there may be no issue, otherwise I have to go for the January term,” C. Swetha, an aspirant, said. In Kerala, students and individuals going abroad for higher studies or jobs and for whom a vaccination certificate was necessary, were being given Covishield vaccine with doses spaced four to six weeks apart. The government issued an order stating that those going abroad would get vaccination certificates from the Health and Family Welfare Department with the passport number on it. They were given priority in the 18-44 year age group and would be provided Covishield from stocks directly procured by the State. As the CoWin portal did not allow the second dose before 12 weeks, it would be recorded separately by districts. The districts would verify live visa, admission or job confirmation or work permit. Karnataka started vaccinating students set to travel abroad for education or on work from June 1. On day one, 275 were vaccinated. The State government said students under this category could take a second Covishield dose after 30 days.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-going-abroad-get-priority-jab/article34742501.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||One horned rhino, gaur born in Nehru Zoological Park||The Nehru Zoological Park (NZP) has become richer by a one horned rhinoceros and a gaur, which were born recently. A press release from the zoo announced the news on the occasion of the World Environment Day on Saturday. The male Gaur calf was born on June 2, while the one horned rhinoceros calf, also male, was born a fortnight ago. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Sobha named the gaur ‘Komaram Bheem’ after the legendary tribal leader, and the one horned rhino, ‘Nanda’, during the celebration of the World Environment Day. Plantation efforts She hailed the twin births as worth cheers in the otherwise gloomy pandemic scenario. On this occasion, a plantation of native wild species was taken up inside the zoo. Wild fruit bearing trees were planted, which would invite free ranging frugivorous birds and small mammals, besides increasing the floral composition, the press note said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-horned-rhino-gaur-born-in-nehru-zoological-park/article34742489.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharmila appoints party spokespersons||A day after a formal application was made to the Election Commission of India for registration of YSR Telangana Party, former CM Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s daughter Sharmila appointed nine official spokespersons to her proposed party. They included Konda Raghava Reddy, who was the former president of Telangana unit of YSR Congress headed by Ms. Sharmila’s brother and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. The other members of the panel are Tudi Devender Reddy, Indira Sobhan, Pitta Ram Reddy, Epuri Somanna, Syed Mujeeb Ahmed, Matin Mujahid, Bhumi Reddy and Biswa Ravinder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sharmila-appoints-party-spokespersons/article34742491.ece
06 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||137 people preparing to leave abroad take COVID vaccine||As many as 137 persons preparing to leave abroad for studies or employment have been administered the Covishield vaccine at a special drive held at Rangaraya Medical College here on Saturday. The drive is meant for people in the 18 to 45 age group. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said another special drive would be conducted for those preparing to leave for foreign countries for their education or employment. The appointment for the vaccination would be fixed based on the documents pertaining to the purpose of the visit to the foreign countries. The registration is in progress at the District Medical and Health Office in Kakinada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/137-people-preparing-to-leave-abroad-take-covid-vaccine/article34743048.ece
06 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: infra boost for AU, SVU and JNTU-K||The State government wants to see Andhra University, Sri Venkateswara University and JNTU-Kakinada in the “top ten club” of the rankings of the National Institute of Ranking Framework (NIRF). Addressing a meeting after unveiling the bronze statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar on the JNTU-Kakinada campus here on Saturday, the Minister said that as part of the endeavour, the government was keen on developing infrastructure and improving academic standards of these institutions. More than Rs. 3,600 crore was spent on the Nadu-Nedu, giving a facelift for government schools in the last financial year. In 2021-22, a sum of Rs. 4,000 crore would be spent on improving infrastructure in the educational institutions, he added. Ministers K. Kannababu, Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and P. Viswaroop, and Special Chief Secretary and JNTU-K V-C (in-charge) Satish Chandra were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-infra-boost-for-au-svu-and-jntu-k/article34743039.ece
06 June 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP gave me Rs. 2 lakh, smartphone: Sundara||K. Sundara, who withdrew his nomination to contest from the Manjeswaram constituency in the 2021 Assembly election and later joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has revealed that he was given Rs. 2 lakh and a smartphone to effect the change. According to him, the reason he was made to switch sides was because he got over 400 votes in the 2016 Assembly elections that spoiled the opportunity of BJP State president K. Surendran’s victory. In 2021, on the eve of the last day of withdrawing the nomination for the Assembly election, he decided to withdraw the nomination and join BJP for which Mr. Sundara said he had demanded Rs. 15 lakh. But he was given Rs. 2 lakh and a mobile phone. The BJP gave the money to his mother and promised to help him open a wine shop and to construct new house in Karnataka. Before all this, Mr. Sundara filed the nomination as a BSP candidate. But he was in the news after he went missing. BSP leaders lodged a missing complaint at the Badiyadukka police station. The leaders claimed they could not contact Mr. Sundara on phone and alleged that their candidate had been abducted by the BJP. However, it had to withdraw the complaint after the BJP released a statement that Mr. Sundara had decided to support the party candidate and to withdraw his nomination. Mr. Sundara’s revelations come at a time when the noose is tightening around the BJP in the Kodakara black money heist case.Manjeswaram MLA A.K.M. Ashraf demanded a comprehensive probe into the revelations and claimed that the money and kits were given at various places in Manjeswaram, and it was laundered by the BJP Karnataka leadership. The issue would be raised in the Assembly. Meanwhile, BJP Kasaragod district president K. Srikanth rejected the revelations of Mr. Sundara as a “fabricated story.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-gave-me-rs-2-lakh-smartphone-sundara/article34742494.ece
06 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police restore kidnapped baby to its mother||The Adoni police restored a newborn baby to her parents within 36 hours of being kidnapped from a private hospital and arrested the accused. Kurnool Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli told mediapersons on Saturday that one Renuka delivered a baby at Vamsi Chaitanya Nursing Home in Adoni on June 2. A resident of Adoni, Jhansi, who had a son and later underwent three miscarriages, had been reportedly telling her family that she was pregnant. She allegedly came in touch with an ayah, Yashoda, of the nursing home and found out about the deliveries on that day. Jhansi reportedly paid Rs. 500 to the ayah and got the rejected placenta. On May 3, donning a burkha, she went to the hospital allegedly told the couple that she had come from Government Mother and Child Hospital to get the new-born vaccinated. An unsuspecting Renuka’s husband Srinivasulu sent the newborn along with his mother-in-law with Jhansii. After reaching the hospital in an auto, Jhansi reportedly asked the child’s grandmother to get a photocopy of Aadhaar card of her daughter. When the woman went to get tit, Jhansi allegedly sped away with the child. The police, who formed a team with Adoni II Town Circle Inspector Pamuluri Srinivasulu and eight other personnel, arrested the accused on Friday after tracing her mobile phone number and trying to identify her from the CCTV footage at several places. The driver of the final autorickshaw that Jhansi took to reach home, helped police in rescuing the baby girl. Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang appreciated the Kurnool SP for the quick action and Deputy Superintendent of Police K.S. Vinod Kumar along with his team members for their efforts in tracing the kidnapped child.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-restore-kidnapped-baby-to-its-mother/article34743034.ece
06 June 2021||NALGONDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco worth Rs. 1 crore burnt||Sending a strong message to people that manufacture, storage and distribution of tobacco products would invite penal action, and that the contraband would be turned to ash, the Nalgonda district administration, on Saturday, burnt nearly Rs. 1 crore worth banned tobacco and its nicotine variants. This was permitted by the order of District Collector Prashant J. Patil and carried out by the district police and officials from the Food Safety department at the police training centre grounds. According to Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath, searches and seizures of the unauthorised tobacco products were made in Nalgonda, Miryalaguda and Devarakonda. He said that the police in coordination with the Food Safety department would intensify its vigil and continue more such checks to arrest the distribution of the contraband.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tobacco-worth-rs-1-crore-burnt/article34742917.ece
06 June 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Superintendent of GGH transferred to Kurnool||Government General Hospital Superintendent J. Prabhakar, who is charged with sexually harassing a house surgeon, has been transferred to the GGH in Kurnool. The government’s decision was based on the preliminary findings of the two committees that had been constituted to inquire into the issue. The committees, one headed by T. Bapi Reddy, Joint Collector (Aasara and Welfare), and the other constituted by the Directorate of Medical Education and headed by G. Sambasiva Rao, Principal of A.C. Subba Reddy Government Medical College, completed their inquiry, official sources said. The statements of the house surgeon, fellow medicos, and GGH doctors had been recorded, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/superintendent-of-ggh-transferred-to-kurnool/article34743040.ece
06 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore district reports six COVID-19 deaths||Active cases came down to about 25,500 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh even as nine more patients succumbed to the viral disease in a span of 24 hours. As many as 459 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 659 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the cumulative tally in the region to more than 2.31 lakh. The number of recoveries outnumbered new infections by little over 1,700 in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Saturday. Six patients in SPSR Nellore district and three in Prakasam district died of COVID, taking the toll to 1,668. So far, SPSR Nellore district has accounted for 848 deaths and Prakasam district for 820, a health bulletin released by the State government said on Saturday night. Recoveries As many as 1,942 patients recovered in Prakasam district and another 914 patients in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours. Over 2.04 lakh patients have been recuperated so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-district-reports-six-covid-19-deaths/article34742520.ece
06 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘There will be total revolution if farm laws are not repealed’||Farm union activists consigned to flames copies of the three farm laws on the anniversary of the ‘Total Revolution Day’(Sampurna Kranti Divas), launched by Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan in Bihar in 1974. The activists, led by All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee Prakasam District Convenor Ch.Ranga Rao, came to the Prakasam Bhavan, shouting slogans against the farm Acts. “There will be a second ‘Total Revolution Movement’ if the laws are not repealed,” All India Kisan Sabha district Secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy said. They also demanded statutory backing to the minimum support price(MSP) regime as MSP for almost all crops remained elusive. “We will continue our stir till our demands are met or the Narendra Modi government goes out of office,” added CPI(M)-led Tenant Farmers Association leader P.Hanumantha Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/there-will-be-total-revolution-if-farm-laws-are-not-repealed/article34742522.ece
06 June 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||18 children orphaned by COVID in district||Till about a month ago, Raju (6) and Rajeswari (8) used to cuddle with their parents in the single-bedroom rented house, for a peaceful night of sleep. Though their parents were having difficulty in making both ends meet, as daily wage labourers are the worst hit during this ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, they were a happy family. But the pandemic stole the happiness, as the siblings lost their parents in quick succession, to the coronavirus. During the ongoing second wave, the district, especially the city, has been seeing an unprecedented number of infections and at the same time increase in deaths. According to the records, as many as 75,386 people were infected and the district recorded close to 364 deaths. And all these happened within a period two months, April and May. Due to the abnormal death rate, 18 children, including four siblings all aged between six and 15 years, have become orphans by losing both their parents. “On one side while the district is grappling with issues such as health infrastructure, oxygen and bed shortage, on the other hand we had to deal with the problem of orphans. The cases were coming out fast and luckily the State government had come out with a plan to identify such cases, provide solace and rehabilitate them,” said Chairperson of Child Welfare Committee R. Shyamala Devi. “So far we have identified about 18 such cases and all of them have been rehabilitated with their local guardians. We will bring them to shelter homes, only if they do not have any local guardians or if the guardians refuse to take care of them. But so far, most of them have been rehabilitated with their grandparents,” she said. According to the members of the CWC, some of the cases were very pathetic, but the government’s programme should give them a good life now and in the future.  Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia The State government’s initiative includes Rs. 10 lakh ex gratia in the form of fixed deposit to the children, who lost their parents due to COVID-19. “The scheme is applicable to children below 18 years and those who are from Below Poverty Line (BPL) families. Till children attain the age of 25 years, the interest on the FD can be used for their sustenance and after the FD can be redeemed for their further endeavours,” said Ms. Shyamala Rani. According to District Child Protection Officer Allu Satyanarayana, a system is in place for selecting the children. Apart from being from the BPL segment and white ration card holders, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) reports and reports from ASHA workers, ward/ village and anganwadi volunteers are also considered. These apart, any citizen can get back to us informing a case and we shall take it forward from there, said Ms. Shyamala Rani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/18-children-orphaned-by-covid-in-district/article34743056.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||80 deaths, 10,373 cases in State||The State reported 80 new deaths due to COVID and 10,373 new infections in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The death toll increased to 11,376  with a death rate of 0.65% and the cumulative infection tally reached 17,49,363. The recovery rate slightly increased to 92.03% as the number of recoveries crossed the 16-lakh mark and reached  16,09,879. In the past day, 15,958 patients recovered in the state leaving 1,28,108 cases active. The daily positivity rate of 88,441 samples tested in the past day was 11.73% and that of the 1.97 crore samples tested so far was 8.88%. Chittoor reported 12 new deaths while the remaining districts saw deaths in single digit. Anantapur, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported nine new deaths each while Kurnool, Nellore and West Godavari reported six new deaths each. East Godavari, Guntur and Visakhapatnam reported five new deaths each and Krishna reported four deaths. Prakasam reported three and Kadapa reported only one new death. The death tolls of Krishna and East Godvari districts crossed 1,000. They stand next to Chittoor whose toll crossed one thousand long ago and reached 1,364 with a death rate of 0.68%. East Godavari's death toll reached 1,001 and the Krishna toll reached 1,000. While East Godavari's death rate was the lowest at 0.42%, Krishna continues to have the highest death rate of 1.09%. It was the only district with more than 1% death rate in the State. Kadapa has the lowest death toll of 562. After several weeks all the districts reported less than two thousand new infections. East Godavari reported 1,880 infections in the past day and was followed by Chittoor (1,728), West Godavari (1,078), Anantapur (1,002), Visakhapatnam (693), Guntur (691), Prakasam (659), Krishna (511), Kurnool (505), Kadapa (475), Nellore (459), Srikakulam (383) and Vizianagaram (309).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/80-deaths-10373-cases-in-state/article34743032.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. reaches out to PHC doctor battling COVID-19||The State government has announced that it will bear the cost of treatment, amounting to Rs. 1.50 crore, of N. Bhaskara Rao, a medical officer in the primary health centre at Karamchedu in Prakasam district, who is battling for life following COVID-19 complications at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad. An official release said that Dr. Bhaskara Rao and his wife Bhagya Lakshmi, an assistant professor in Guntur Medical College, had tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to the Government General Hospital in Guntur on April 30. They were administered Remdesivir injection. Dr. Bhaskara Rao was shifted to Aayush Hospital in Vijayawada on May 3 as his condition worsened. On May 10, he was shifted to Yashoda Hospital in Hyderabad, where he was on ventilator support. Later, he was shifted to Care Hospitals at Gachibowli in Hyderabad, where he was advised to undergo Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) and lung transplantation, which would cost him about Rs. 1.50 crore. On come to know about his condition from Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to ensure that Dr. Bhaskara Rao was given good treatment at government’s expense. A.P. Doctors’ Association general secretary Pidakala Syamsundar thanked the Chief Minister for his gesture which, he said, gave a reassurance to the government doctors that they would be taken care of. People’s doctor  The Hindu had published the plight of Dr. Bhaskara Rao in the edition dated June 4, 2021. Know as a people’s doctor, the villagers of Karamchedu and a few neighbouring villages had mobilised Rs. 20 lakh for his treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-reaches-out-to-phc-doctor-battling-covid-19/article34743043.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AICTE Chairman bats for blended learning post COVID-19 era||All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) Chairman Prof. Anil D. Sahasrabudhe has stressed the need for the adoption of blended learning in the post-COVID era as all the stakeholders of educational institutions in the country have put technology to the best use in the past year due to the pandemic. Prof. Anil Sahasrabudhe was delivering the University Distinguished Lecture (virtual mode) in a programme on ‘Higher Education in India post COVID-19’, organised by SRM University, Andhra Pradesh. University vice-chancellor Prof. Vajja Sambasiva Rao, Pro vice-chancellor Prof. D. Narayana Rao and several others from across the States participated in the virtual conference. He said that online learning evolved since 2008-09. But following COVID-19 outbreak suddenly all the campuses were required to go online and institutions that were already using online mode were able to navigate smoothly while others got accustomed gradually. “Today, we see all classes starting from nursery to higher education being held online,” he said. Students and teachers faced certain challenges which could be overcome over a period of time. “Mooc was a one-way system where faculty was required to take a class in a studio without an audience. Even then they got nervous and we had to cajole them. Now, every faculty member is able to take classes online and it’s a phenomenal transformation," he said. About 10% of the villages in India still had broadband issues and many students couldn’t afford devices for online education and the government had to address it, he said. “It is vital to come back to offline mode but at the same time, we shouldn’t dump online mode and the technology that enabled it. We should have a blend of online and classroom education to be prepared for the future,” Prof. Anil Sahasrabudhe said. Special Chief Secretary (Higher Education) Satish Chandra said that COVID-19 had badly affected educational institutions in the State. “There are many issues to be addressed before we look for desired results. Capacity building among teachers is one important aspect to ensure lectures are presented effectively. It is a challenge to ensure that a student sits through the lecture and not all have access to devices and a broadband connection,” he said. A dashboard to monitor online education system was necessary to implement it in a large scale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aicte-chief-for-blended-learning-post-covid-19/article34742518.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. moves to improve oxygen availability in State||Having faced an acute shortage of medical oxygen during the recent peak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government launched the AP Industrial Gases and Medical Oxygen Manufacturing Policy 2021-22 recently in order to increase the availability of the life-saving gas keeping in view both the present and future requirements. Official sources said that the immediate target was to augment the oxygen manufacturing capacity from the existing 364 tonnes to 700 tonnes in one year. To encourage industries to manufacture more oxygen, the government had announced a 30% subsidy (up to Rs. 30 lakh per tonne) on capital expenditure as well as power subsidy of up to Rs. 2 per unit. Certain other incentives had been promised in respect of industries setting up oxygen plants on a war-footing. The policy aimed at establishment of at least 50 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants both on a captive basis (in hospitals) and at other places. The demand for medical oxygen grew exponentially to between 600 and 700 tonnes against the current capacity of 364 tonnes. The rest of the demand was being met through supplies from Odisha, West Bengal and Karnataka. The government has already received letters of intent from companies such as Nova Air (Sri City), Air Liquid (Kadapa), Praxair (Chittoor), and Inox Air Products (Vijayawada / Guntur). Further, six sick PSA units have been refurbished for producing oxygen. The policy supports all the technologies such as PSA, liquid oxygen, and helium mixed oxygen (Heliox).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-moves-to-improve-oxygen-availability-in-state/article34743045.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students urged to protect environment||National Green Tribunal Chairman Adarsh Kumar Goel on Saturday urged the younger generation to work towards protection and restoration of the ecosystem. Speaking after inaugurating the World Environment Day celebrations, organised by the VIT-AP School of Law (VSL), in virtual mode, Justice Goel pointed to the United Nation’s this year’s theme of “Restoration of Ecosystem and Reimagine, Recreate, Restore” and said students must contribute their mite in conservation of greenery. He said judges of the Supreme Court, belonging to AP, including Justice O. Chinappa Reddy, Justice Jagannath Rao and Justice Jeevan Reddy had contributed a great deal in to the principles of environmental law. He said the Precautionary Principles, Polluter Pay Principles and even the establishment of the National Green Tribunal were primary contributions of the judges. Recalling some of the landmark judgments, Justice Goel said they had contributed towards protection of ecosystem. Making an observation that there was a wide gap between the court verdicts and their implementation, he said every individual must strive to adhere to the basic principles of environment protection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-urged-to-protect-environment/article34742524.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VR Siddhartha students placed in Accenture||As many as 71 final year students of Velagapudi Ramakrishna Siddhartha Engineering College have been placed in Accenture company through a virtual placement drive held in April and May this year. Principal A.V. Ratna Prasad, in a statement on Saturday said 846 students from the 2017-2021 batch had been placed in multi-national companies and the highest salary package offered so far was Rs. 19.5 lakh per annum by Amazon. TCS was the top recruiter with 285 job offers. Siddhartha Academy secretary P. Laxman Rao congratulated the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vr-siddhartha-students-placed-in-accenture/article34742525.ece
06 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women leaders for united fight against State govt.||Women leaders representing opposition parties on Saturday gave a call for a united struggle against the YSRCP government, which had “failed to provide protection to the fair sex,” resulting in more than 600 cases of atrocities against women in the State in the last two years. Speaking at an all-party women’s meeting organised by the TDP’s Telugu Mahila wing, the leaders attributed “the sorry state of affairs” to the government’s “inefficiency.” They demanded that the government release a White Paper on how many culprits booked under the Disha Act were actually sent to the gallows. They alleged that many in the government were extending support to perpetrators of crimes against women. They said though the State had a woman Home Minister, she was reduced to a “puppet” in the hands of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. They resolved to file a ‘breach of trust’ case under Section 406 against the Chief Minister for his “U-turn on the Amaravati issue” after coming to power, in stark contrast to his election promise that he would not change the capital of the State. They demanded grant of a special pension to women who lost their husbands to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-leaders-for-united-fight-against-state-govt/article34743041.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested on charge of murdering three-year-old girl||The city police arrested one person on the charge of murdering the three-year-old girl B Sindhu Sri of Marikavalasa Colony in the city. The arrested was identified as B. Jagadish (28), a resident of Marikavalasa, and alleged paramour of the girl’s mother B. Varalakshmi. The police said that the accused felt that the toddler was an obstacle for their relationship. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi said that one B. Ramesh was married to B. Varalakshmi in year 2016 and they had a girl. Due to differences, the couple have been living separately, and Varalakshmi has been taking care of the baby. On June 2, Varalakshmi called Mr. Ramesh and informed that Sindhu had died due to illness and her body was buried in the Marikavalasa cemetery. Suspecting foul play, Mr. Ramesh lodged a complaint with the PM Palem police on the death. The police have exhumed the body for post-mortem. “We have examined 19 witnesses in the case and also recreated the crime scene,” the DCP said. Mr. Rastogi said that Jagadish, who also was separated from his wife and children, allegedly had extra-marital affair with Varalakshmi. He reportedly confessed that he got acquainted with Varalakshmi, as she was also having disputes with her husband. The duo along with the baby started to live together in a rented house at Marikavalasa. Varalakshmi reportedly used to spend more time with her baby, which Jagadish felt was an obstacle for their relationship. On June 1, Varalakshmi had gone out to seek loans from a few persons, as they were having financial issues. However, her attempts turned futile. When she informed the same to Jagadish, the accused got vexed and out of frustration, he assaulted the girl on the chest and ribs. The girl fainted and later succumbed to the injuries. Based on the evidence of the witnesses and the confession of the accused, the earlier Section of 174 Cr.P.C was altered to 302, 201 IPC and Jagdish was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-arrested-on-charge-of-murdering-three-year-old-girl/article34743054.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police, hospital employee trade charges over curfew violation||Mild tension prevailed at Rama Talkies area after an employee from a private hospital at Ram Nagar alleged harassment by police personnel from Dwaraka police station, on Saturday. She alleged that the police intentionally generated e-challan while she was returning home from duty, despite showing the permission letter from the hospital and also tried to shift her to police station, after she questioned them. According to Ms. Lakshmi Aparna, who works as a typist in a hospital, the police had stopped her friend A. Rajkumar while he was coming to pick her up and imposed fine despite he showing permission letter from the hospital. However, police said that Mr. Rajkumar was challaned for roaming without ID and failing to produce a reason for being out at around 5.45 p.m. “The woman subsequently came along with boy at 6.15 p.m. and picked up a quarrel with the picket staff. She also used abusive language and obstructed their duties,” the police said. A case under Sections 353,332,188 of the Disaster Management Act is being booked on the two for reportedly obstructing the duties of the police staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-hospital-employee-trade-charges-over-curfew-violation/article34743055.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five more deaths, 693 new infections in district||The Visakhapatnam district reported 693 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,41,654. On a positive note, 1,612 persons undergoing treatment for the virus were discharged during the same time period. The death toll has increased to 939 after five more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has come down under 10,000 after more than a month. The number reached a peak of 21,000 during the third week of May and then started to decline gradually. As on Saturday evening, the number of active cases stands at 9,532. The number of discharges/recoveries has also increased to 1,31,183.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-more-deaths-693-new-infections-in-district/article34743052.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Planting of saplings marks World Environment Day||Staff of Eastern Naval Command (ENC) and all naval units located in Visakhapatnam and outlying units under the ENC observed World Environment Day with the theme ‘Ecosystem Restoration’ here on Saturday. The events spread across various stations witnessed proactive participation by all naval personnel, their families and children adhering to COVID-19 protocols. Officials from Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone (VSEZ) took up planting of saplings along the service roads, located in VSEZ here on Saturday. Zonal Development Commissioner, VSEZ, A Rama Mohan Reddy, started the campaign by planting saplings on VSEZ premises. Officials from Gangavaram Port Limited launched a week-long green belt development initiative at the port premises with a theme ‘Ecosystem Restoration.’ Executive Director G.J. Rao, CEO Sambasiva Rao and others attended. The Waltair railway division has organised an awareness rally and massive plantation programme in the railway localities, colonies and station areas . Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (infra) Akshai Saxena and others took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/planting-of-saplings-marks-world-environment-day/article34743053.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rajabapaiah takes charge as APEPDCL CMD||With the transfer of S. Nagalakshmi, Chairperson and Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited, Visakhapatnam, as Collector and District Magistrate, Ananthapur district, K. Rajabapaiah, Director (Projects) of the discom, has been given full additional charge for the post , until further orders, on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rajabapaiah-takes-charge-as-apepdcl-cmd/article34743058.ece
06 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andhra Medical College to start super-speciality course in pulmonary medicine||Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam, is going to have one more super-speciality course in the medical discipline, DM Pulmonary Medicine, from this year. The Essentiality Certificate was issued by the Health Secretary and Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences was issued the consent of affiliation. On Saturday, AMC Principal P.V. Sudhakar handed over the certificate and university affiliation copies to K.V.V.Vijaya Kumar, Professor and HoD Respiratory Medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-medical-college-to-start-super-speciality-course-in-pulmonary-medicine/article34743057.ece
06 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government urged to reopen Nellimarla jute factory||Several parties, including YSRCP, CPI, Jana Sena Party and several trade unions, have urged the government to take steps for reopening the Nellimarla jute factory immediately. The management announced a lock-down a week ago owing to drop in production and demand for jute products in the national market. The lock-down shocked nearly 2,000 workers of Nellimarla and other parts of the district. YSR Congress Party MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu urged District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal to take initiative to hold a meeting between management and workers. CPI district joint secretary and AITUC district secretary Bugata Ashok alleged that the management had not followed the labour laws while announcing lock-down. Jana Sena Party senior leader Ravikumar Midatana alleged that the government had not taken concrete steps for revival of jute industries in the districts in spite of several representations. “With the closure of jute and other industries, more than 25,000 workers lost their livelihood. The government should make managements clear the dues of the workers. Jute mills located in Nellimarla and other places should be reopened immediately to protect the interests of the workers,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-urged-to-reopen-nellimarla-jute-factory/article34743050.ece
06 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||House sites will be sanctioned within 90 days: MLA||YSR Congress Party MLA from Parvatipuram Alajangi Jogarao on Saturday directed officials to ensure house sites within 90 days for poor people whoever applies for them. He laid the foundation stone for the construction of Jagananna Colony in Lakshminarayanapuram village of Parvatipuram mandal. He said that 132 houses would come up in the well-developed layout and the colony would fulfil the dream of poor people to have their own houses. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is keen on ensuring basic civic infrastructure in Jagananna Colonies. Certainly Lakshmipuram Colony would be a model one,” said Mr. Jogarao. “Many people who missed the opportunity can also apply for house sites. The officials will sanction them within 90 days after verifying their eligibility,” he added. Some beneficiaries who wanted to construct houses on their own with the sanctioned Rs. 1.8 lakh each urged the legislator to provide steel and cement at affordable rates. He promised that he would bring the issue to the notice of the government to avoid additional financial burden on the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/house-sites-will-be-sanctioned-within-90-days-mla/article34743051.ece
06 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Driving licences given to tribal youth||Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari on Saturday distributed driving licenses to 40 youngsters of tribal families living in Kotia villages near Saluru town. At a function organised in P. Konavalasa village by police and transport department, she said that driving licenses would ensure livelihood for youngsters who wanted to buy their own vehicles with the financial assistance extended by the government. She said that the movement of vehicles to remote areas would ensure livelihood for youngsters and transport facility for tribal people.  Essentials distributed In another programme organised in Padmapuram village of Pachipenta mandal, she distributed essential commodities to families affected by COVID-19. She urged the villagers to follow COVID-19 safety norms since the dreaded disease had not spared even remote areas of the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/driving-licences-given-to-tribal-youth/article34743049.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A ‘positive’ fallout||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-positive-fallout/article34743047.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stocking up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stocking-up/article34743061.ece
06 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Demand for strengthening Godavari flood bank grows||With the monsoon season just around the corner, the demand for expansion of the existing flood bank (karakatta) along the banks of the Godavari in Bhadrachalam town to provide comprehensive flood protection to all low-lying areas in and around the temple town has gained momentum. The renewed demand for fortifying the flood protection mechanism in the temple town stemmed from apprehensions raised in certain quarters over “possible” backwater effects of the Polavaram project under construction in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. There have been persistent demands from people of low-lying areas of Bhadrachalam town for strengthening the flood bank to prevent recurring flooding of areas like Kotha Colony, and Subashnagar Colony. In 1986, the water level in the Godavari peaked to its highest level of 75.6 feet at Bhadrachalam, unleashing flood fury. In February this year, local cadre of the CPI(M) conducted a padayatra in Bhadrachalam to highlight the issues facing Bhadrachalam. Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah on Thursday submitted a memorandum to Collector D Anudeep, who reviewed the flood management plan and monsoon preparedness. He urged the authorities to deploy six launches at vantage points and ensure proper maintenance of the sluice gates of the existing karakatta. Pre-monsoon maintenance works of sluice gates have been expedited, sources in the Irrigation department said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-strengthening-godavari-flood-bank-grows/article34742937.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination for foreign-bound students begins||The State government’s free COVID-19 vaccination drive for students set to travel abroad began at the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Naryaanaguda, on Saturday. Around 7,000 students have already registered, and around 280 were administered the first dose of vaccine on the first day of the drive. Only Covishield is being given to the students, and the time interval between two doses has been reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks. Some students had raised concerns that since they had to travel abroad in a few weeks, they would not be available for the second dose if the gap of 12-14 weeks was to be followed. IPM director K. Shankar said that the State government sought and received permission from the Centre for reduction of the time interval for students. A special code was generated for IPM to allow administering of the second dose after four weeks. Vaccination certificates will be generated through CoWin. The State Health department has uploaded an e-link to register for the drive on ‘health.telangana.gov.in’, which went live on Friday. Upon clicking on ‘Vaccination for students going abroad’, potential beneficiaries are directed to another site where they have to provide their mobile numbers and then enter an OTP. Dr Shankar said that after registration, a potential beneficiary would receive a message with date and time slot for the vaccination. From Monday, around 700 students would be given the jab every day. Students have to carry their original passport. Besides, they need to show either the visa stamp, or admission letter from the recognised overseas university that they intend to study at. A poster listing out the requirements has been pasted at the institute. All beneficairies have to book a slot again for the second dose. Though officials had anticipated a large number of students to register for the vaccine, they were surprised at the response — 7,000 registrations — within a short span. Every year, thousands of students from the State fly to the United States of America, United Kingdom and Australia among other countries to pursue higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-for-foreign-bound-students-begins/article34742906.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed up land transfer, says CS||The State government has asked the District Collectors to hand over the land to Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) for establishing food processing zones, new medical and nursing colleges. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held a video conference with District Collectors and other officials concerned from Hyderabad on Saturday on the construction of integrated collectorate complexes and handover of lands to new medical and nursing colleges and food processing zones being planned by the government. Asking the officials to complete the integrated collectorate complexes in 12 districts within a week and keep them ready for inauguration, the Chief Secretary asked the District Collectors to complete the buildings in the remaining districts at the earliest. The Chief Secretary directed the District Collectors to initiate the process for handing over lands to TSIIC for taking up special food processing zones and also told them to complete the formalities to hand over the lands identified for new medical and nursing colleges sanctioned to seven districts recently. Grievances He also reviewed the progress of disposal of pending mutations, applications filed under grievances on land matters and prohibited properties in Dharani and instructed the authorities to complete all pending issues by June 9 so that eligible farmers got the benefit of Rythu Bandhu (investment support scheme). He also wanted the officials to complete hearings of pending cases in special tribunals. Special Chief Secretary (Transport, R&B) Sunil Sharma, Principal Secretary (Industries & IT) Jayesh Ranjan, Commissioner and Inspector General (Registration & Stamps) V. Sheshadri, Secretaries S.A.M. Rizvi (Health), Ronald Rose (Finance), and Rahul Bojja (SC Development), Director (Prohibition & Excise) Sarfaraz Ahmad, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and several others attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/speed-up-land-transfer-says-cs/article34742928.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Illegal pet shops to face the music||Principal Secretary of Municipal Administration Arvind Kumar, on Saturday, issued directions to the Animal Husbandry department and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) to take action against pet shops in Hyderabad, which are not registered. While it is mandatory for pet shops to obtain registration under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Pet Shops) Rules, 2018, nearly 70 pet shops are operating within GHMC without obtaining a certificate of registration, Mr. Arvind Kumar noted in a social media post. As per the rules, no person should carry the business of sale or trade in pet animals without obtaining a certificate of registration from the State Animal Welfare Board under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. The rules have been framed to ensure general care of the animals, veterinary care, and other operational requirements for running the shops. The Telangana State Animal Welfare Board, constituted in 2019, has the Minister for Animal Husbandry as chairperson, and director, Animal Husbandry, as member-convenor. Anybody aiming to establish pet shop needs to approach the Board for registration, upon which a veterinarian will visit the shop space and inspect the conditions. After all the conditions are fulfilled, a certificate of registration will be issued. The certificate of registration is mandatory for issue of trade licence to pet shops, which means that all pet shops in the city lack trade licences too. A press statement informed that pet shop owners are required to submit the application in Form 1 and obtain the certificate of registration in Form II, both of which are available at the Telangana State Welfare Board office at office of the Director, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry Department at Shanthi Nagar, Masab Tank. Mr. Arvind Kumar issued instructions to the Commissioner, GHMC and Director, Animal Husbandry, to issue notices to all pet shops operating within GHMC limits, asking them to apply for registration as well as trade licence within four weeks. Non-compliance will result in closure of shops and action as per law, he warned. Similar action will be initiated against dog breeders as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Dog Breeding and Marketing) Rules, 2017, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/illegal-pet-shops-to-face-the-music/article34742914.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Good show amid pandemic||Overcoming the COVID-19 blues, the Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has made remarkable progress in terms of turnover, production and dispatches of coal and the overburden removal in May this year compared to the same month last year. The growth in turnover is 88%, coal production is 69%, dispatches is 127% and in overburden removal it is 21% during May this year compared to May last year. At a review meeting held here on Thursday with Director of the company and all Area General Managers, Chairman and Managing Director N. Sridhar complimented four areas for putting up commendable performance and asked the other areas to pace up. Repeat of the performance of May in the remaining months would help the company achieve the target of producing 70 million tonnes of coal in 2021-22 easily, he said. The official explained that the production during lockdown-hit May last year was 32.2 lakh tonnes, while it was 54.4 lakh tonnes this May. Similarly, coal dispatches this May were 57.9 lakh tonnes against 25.5 lakh tonnes in May last year and that of overburden removal was 35.43 million cubic metres this May against 29.32 million cubic metres in May last. Rise in turnover On turnover of the company during May, the officials said sales of Rs. 2,221 crore were posted this May against only Rs. 1,181 crore in May last. The turnover includes Rs. 1,904 crore from sale of coal and Rs. 317 crore from sale of energy this May against Rs. 889 crore and Rs. 292 crore, respectively, in May last. The turnover of the company in the first two months of the current fiscal was Rs. 4,267, about 75% higher than that of the same period during the last fiscal. He also hailed the performance of Yellandu and Srirampur areas and said Ramagundam-1&3, Mandamarri and Bellampally areas could do better. However, Ramagundam-2, Adriyala and Bhupalapally areas were required to boost their performance, Mr. Sridhar said. The CMD said first dose vaccination to employees would be completed by the month-end and the second dose would be administered by August-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/good-show-amid-pandemic/article34742925.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Memo on convict’s plea set aside||Setting aside Home Secretary’s memo rejecting a life convict’s representation for pre-mature release, Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court has directed the government to re-consider his representation. The judge said the Home Secretary should reconsider life convict S. K. Zakaria’s application within four weeks of receiving the order copy, in accordance with guidelines of a Government Order 30 issued last year. The Home Secretary should consider actual sentence vis-a-vis the total sentence completed by the life convict. The Home Secretary should also take into consideration the principles laid down by the Supreme Court and other High Courts in different judgments on similar matters. The official should consider the remand period and remission time. Failure to consider these factors would be viewed seriously, the judge said in his order. The top official should also pay attention to the directions issued by the apex court on ‘Contagion of COVID-19 virus in Prisons’ and that of Telangana High Court, the verdict said. Justice K. Lakshman noted that Supreme Court had held that remission policy as on the date of conviction of a life convict was applicable. In other cases, the apex court held that the factors of ‘antecedents’, ‘conduct of the lifers during incarceration’ and ‘likelihood to abstain from crime’ should be considered while taking a call on remission of life convicts. The Home Secretary had not considered any of the principles laid by the apex court, the judge observed. Zakaria was accused of murdering M.A. Khader, the then Deputy Secretary of Andra Pradesh State Wakf Board in 1992. The Fourth Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge at Hyderabad in 2003 sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. Zakaria’s son approached the HC in 2016 seeking a direction to government for premature release of his father as per the provision of GO MS No. 16. The HC directed the Home Secretary to dispose of Zakaria’s petition for premature release within a month. “There is no explanation, much less plausible explanation for abnormal delay in complying with the said order”, the judge said in the verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/memo-on-convicts-plea-set-aside/article34742932.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 36,000 to get jabbed at mega inoculation drive||A mega COVID-19 vaccination camp will be organised by Medicover Hospitals at Hitex exhibition grounds in Madhapur here on Sunday, in what will perhaps be the largest such in the country till date. At least 36,000 beneficiaries would be administered vaccine in a single day as part of this joint initiative by the hospital, Cyberabad police and the Society for Cyberabad Security Council. For this drive, registrations were done in advance and no spot registrations will be allowed. Around 45% of the 34,000 prospective beneficiaries who had registered until Saturday evening were young women. The hospital management is anticipating 40,000 to 50,000 registrations, and said that they have capacity to vaccinate 50,000 people in a day. The vaccine doses have been procured by the hospital group itself. All the beneficiaries would be administered only Covaxin. The cost of vaccination has been set at Rs. 1,400, including Rs. 140 for administering the jab. The hospital management said that they aim to vaccinate a beneficiary in a span of three minutes after he/she enters the hangar. The drive would be held from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. Safety measures The drive has garnered a lot of attention among people who circulated the hospital’s pamphlet on WhatsApp groups. People have also raised concerns about safety and hygiene since thousands of people would gather at one venue. Executive director of Medicover Group of Hospitals, Hari Krishna listed the safety measures, such as contact-free (physical) procedure except when the nurse gives the jab. The drive would be conducted at three huge hangars at the venue. Each hall would have 100 counters, which means a total of 300 counters. After registering on CoWin, one has to register on the hospital’s link (https://medicoveronline.com/vaccination/)and make payment of Rs. 1,400. One can also can log into the website and register on CoWin. After completing the registration, people would receive a vaccine pass which details the one hour time slot on Sunday during which they will be vaccinated. Upon reaching the venue, volunteers would direct beneficiaries to the hangars. At the entrance, people have to scan a QR code on the vaccination pass. “If they are not able to scan the code, they can tell us their vaccination reference ID. There will be 100 counters in each of the halls and 600 nurses on the whole. Our aim is to ensure that a beneficiary receives vaccine doses within three minutes after stepping into a hangar,” said Dr Hari Krishna, adding that they have taken permission of the State Health department to hold the drive. He said that emergency medical rooms, doctors, medicines and equipment required were in place to attend to people showing side-effects to the vaccine. The hospital management has urged people to visit the venue only during their vaccination time slot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-36000-to-get-jabbed-at-mega-inoculation-drive/article34742908.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID fears haunt SCCL staff||With less than 30% of its workforce vaccinated so far, the apprehension of contracting the infectious novel coronavirus is on the rise among the employees of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL), particularly those working in the underground mines, as a few dozens of regular and contract employees have been testing positive every day in the recent past. On June 1, those who tested positive in the Singareni mining areas include 42 regular employees, 36 contract staff and 64 dependants of workers and retired employees. “Of the nearly 44,000 workforce in the coal company, COVID vaccination has been done only in the case of 12,113 employees and 14,122 dependants/family members of employees till June 1,” a senior official of SCCL said. Reflecting the anxiety levels among the employees about slow vaccination in SCCL and the fear of getting infected, an employee of the coal company R. Vijender Reddy raised the concern on Wednesday and tagged Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao seeking his intervention for early vaccination of the coal company employees. “There are many COVID cases coming up in the Singareni underground mines every day. I have to go to work in fear. Please see to it that every worker working in Singareni is vaccinated quickly as we have children and elderly persons in our houses and we are scared about them,” Mr. Vijender Reddy tweeted. In a quick response, Mr. Rama Rao assured (tweeted): “Will discuss with Singareni management as early as possible”. Asked about the details of COVID-19 infection in the Singareni mining areas, the official explained that 6,308 regular employees, 2,075 contract staff and 7,180 dependants have test positive for the infectious virus till June 1. Of the 15,563 infections, 13,314 have recovered already including 5,580 regular and 1,715 contract staff. Another 6,019 dependants have also recovered from the infection already. “The active COVID cases in Singareni are 2,094 as of June 1 including 657 regular employees, 357 contract staff and 1,080 dependants,” official sources in Singareni said, stating that there also have been 155 deaths so far including 71 regular employees, 3 contract staff and 81 dependants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-fears-haunt-sccl-staff/article34742924.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Policies in place for educational growth’||The future of education comes with a blended environment and fortunately, the National Education Policy-2020 envisioned the change long ago and introduced a relevant policy to ensure educational growth of the country, opined Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairman of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Multidisciplinary Education and Research Universities (MERU), Academic Bank of Credits, National Academic Depository are some of the revolutionary changes that are going to benefit the next generations in the post-COVID days, he said. He was speaking at the 10th edition of the University Distinguished Lecture (UDL) Series, organised by SRM University, Andhra Pradesh. The series focussed on the problem of the current times, ‘Higher Education in India in Post-COVID-19’. Prof. Sahasrabudhe said platforms such as Swayam and National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) came into existence to digitally bring quality education to everyone. He reminded that digital education carries a boon that no one can ignore. “Digital education has the ability to reach students anywhere and everywhere provided they are equipped with gadgets and internet connectivity. Thus, the government of India has undertaken a nationwide project under Bharat Net, Unnat Bharat Abhiyan to connect every corner of India through the internet,” he explained. He also said the government has already established National Research Foundations to support mega research projects. Emphasising that studying in one’s native language is an essential requirement that NEP looks into, he asserted that proper administration, governance and autonomy were some of the deciding factors for the education sector in the coming days. The chairman also revealed AICTE’s initiatives towards the advancement of the education sector — Curriculum Revisions, Project-Based Experiential Learning, Faculty Training, Industry Internships, Students Internship Programmes — are inseparable aspects of the changing education sector. Satish Chandra, Special Chief Secretary, Higher Education, Andhra Pradesh, highlighted the challenges associated with online education and said future of education brings a blended environment with both online and offline teaching-learning options. He opined that LMS, online platforms, gadgets such as desktops, laptops or tablets are going to be a part of the new normal in education. D. Narayana Rao, Pro-Vice-Chancellor of SRM University-AP, set the context of the event, emphasising on how the unprecedented COVID-19 crisis has resulted in the temporary closure of about 1,000 universities and about 40,000 colleges in the country, severely disrupting the teaching-learning process and research activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/policies-in-place-for-educational-growth/article34742910.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State posts 2,070 new cases, 18 deaths||Continuing the trend of slow but steady drop in coronavirus infection, a total of 2,070 new positive cases and 18 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday. A record number of 1,38,182 samples were tested on Saturday and the reports of 1,418 samples were still awaited. A total of 3,762 infected persons were declared recovered during the day taking their cumulative total to 5,57,162. The cumulative total of infections and deaths have gone up to 5,89,734 and 3,364, respectively. The active COVID cases in the State stood at 29,208 as of Saturday evening, including 13,021 undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining staying in home and institutional isolation. Based on the active cases in a locality, there were 205 active micro containment zones in the State on Saturday, including 59 in Mahabubabad, 44 in Nalgonda, 12 in Warangal Rural, 11 in Siddipet and 10 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri districts. Such zones were in single digit in another 14 districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-posts-2070-new-cases-18-deaths/article34742904.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven-year-old boy drowns in under construction open drain||A seven-year-old boy drowned after he slipped and fell into an under construction open drain, with no retaining walls, near Anand Nagar, on Saturday. Anand Sai was said to have been playing in the area. Soon after the incident came to light, locals raised an alarm and a phalanx and a team from the Secunderabad Fire Station reached the spot, and launched a rescue effort, under way for approximately two-and-a-half hours. According to Station Officer, SFS, Mohan Rao, the Fire department received a call at 10.19 a.m. after which the team rushed and assisted the police. The department also called swimmers to join the rescue effort. “The area comes under the Cantonment Board. The nala had been dug as part of the ongoing civic work. It appears that the child wanted to take a closer look. And he seems to have slipped into the water. We tried to partially stop the flow of water using sand bags. We were able to retrieve the body after more than two hours,” Mr. Rao said. According to Bowenpally inspector K. Ravi Kumar, the victim’s father Anjaneyulu is an RTC bus driver. “A case under Section 304 – Part II was booked against the contractor, Ramu,” Mr. Kumar said, adding that the contractor was not taken into custody yet. An investigation is in progress. There were allegations that proper precautions and safety measures, including barricading, were not adhered to.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/seven-year-old-boy-drowns-in-under-construction-open-drain/article34742923.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KCR is my father-figure and I never faced humiliation’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has clarified that he is a committed and loyal soldier of the party and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, and that he had not faced any humiliation as claimed by rebel MLA Eatala Rajender. The Minister was responding to the claims of Mr. Rajender during his press conference to announce his resignation from the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and as legislator where the latter had claimed that there were several who were facing humiliation in the party including Mr. Harish Rao. In a statement, Mr. Rao rubbished the claims of Mr. Rajender and objected to his name being dragged into the controversy. Mr. Rajender leaving the party would make no difference and his efforts to create bad blood would also not fructify, he said. ‘Duty-bound’ Terming the Chief Minister as a father-figure to him, Mr. Harish Rao said that KCR was not only his party president but was also his guide and mentor. “I am duty-bound to follow the orders of the Chief Minister and will do so till the last breath. I have repeatedly said this on many occasions and like to clarify once again,” he said in the statement. Being a loyal soldier of the party since 2001, it was his responsibility to obey the party president and complete the task given to him. Mr. Harish Rao said Mr. Rajender had benefited more than the services he had rendered to the party and he may have his own reasons to leave the party but he should not drag others’ names to gain sympathy. This was a detestable attempt to paint an untruthful picture and lacked wisdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-is-my-father-figure-and-i-never-faced-humiliation/article34742933.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Vaccination to high-risk groups begins||Special drive for vaccination to high-exposure groups (HEGs) such as street vendors, those working in groceries/kirana shops and hair cutting saloons in urban local bodies (ULBs) across the State was launched in the State on Saturday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar visited Zilla Parishad High School at Shamshabad and inspected the vaccination special drive for the high- exposure groups. Speaking on the occasion, he said a total of 12 high-exposure groups were identified for taking up special drive for COVID-19 vaccination. The special drive for high-exposure categories was being taken up in all the municipalities and municipal corporations across the State. An app was also developed by the Municipal Administration department for registering these groups for vaccination during the special driver. He stated that only those who received a message on their mobile were allowed vaccination at the special camps and walk-in was not allowed. Mr. Somesh Kumar complimented the municipal officials for making elaborate arrangements for conducting the special drive. Vaccination of bankers At a meeting with representatives of banks held here on Saturday, the Chief Secretary said a special drive would be taken up next week for vaccinating bank employees, including the outsourced staff. He directed Public Health officials to coordinate with bankers to ensure that all bank employees including outsourced employees were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-to-high-risk-groups-begins/article34742926.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Steps for migrant labour||The Telangana government has decided to formulate a policy to extend welfare measures such as providing ration (food security) cards, healthcare benefits, education and skill development training to migrant workers’ families. At a meeting held here on Saturday, Labour Minister C. Malla Reddy and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar directed officials of the Labour department to collect data from all industries such as pharmaceutical and textile units, construction companies and rice mills for preparing an action plan. The Chief Secretary told the officials to coordinate with the departments concerned and appoint a nodal officer to take up a special drive to collect data within 10 days. Special Chief Secretary (Labour & Employment) I. Rani Kumudini, Principal Secretaries Jayesh Ranjan (IT & Industries), Aravind Kumar (MA&UD), and Secretary (Labour) Ahmed Naddem attended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/steps-for-migrant-labour/article34742930.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Grievance redress system demolished’||Former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir has accused the TRS government of dismantling the entire mechanism of public grievances and redress across the State. “In the absence of a permanent Peshi, all ministers and departments are functioning without an address. People have no clue as to where they can lodge a complaint or express grievances seeking their redress. This is entirely against the spirit of democracy and the Constitution,” Mr Shabbir Ali said in a media statement on Saturday. Mr Shabbir Ali alleged that some ministers, including K. T. Rama Rao, were giving the impression that they were resolving the problems through social media platform Twitter. “This impression is mostly fake and manipulated. Only select issues are attended to and the Minister is creating a fake impression as if he is resolving all the problems addressed to him,” he claimed. In reality, a majority of users who were sharing their problems were either being blocked by the Minister's office or they were simply not responding to their queries, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/grievance-redress-system-demolished/article34742934.ece
06 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Singareni power plant bags award||The 2×600 megawatt Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has bagged the “Best Power Plant Performer” award for Southern Zone given by Mission Energy Foundation. The award was announced at the concluding session of a nationwide webinar organised by the foundation on Friday. The plant bagged the award in the 500 MW and above units category for excelling both in operations and maintenance. The power plant got a national award for best fly ash utilisation in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/singareni-power-plant-bags-award/article34742931.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable killed in road accident||A constable was killed in a road accident at Moosarambagh on Saturday. G Praneeth Kumar, 27, was a systems operator at the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Police (North Zone). He was going to Moosarambagh from his residence on his bike to meet a friend. As he reached Swamy Vivekananda School, a two-wheeler hit his vehicle and he fell off his bike and died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/constable-killed-in-road-accident/article34742921.ece
06 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown cases||The Hyderabad City Police booked as many as 7,360 cases on Saturday in connection with alleged lockdown and other violations. A total of 5,528 lockdown violation cases were booked, and another 1,412 persons were booked for either not wearing masks, or wearing them improperly. Cases were also booked for not maintaining social distancing, and 77 cases for organising large gatherings. Police seized 4,829 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-cases/article34742922.ece
06 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Shelter home conducts tests||COVID-19 tests were conducted for all inmates of a shelter home for destitute and mentally-ill persons run by the Annam Seva Foundation here on Saturday. As many as 283 inmates and 20 volunteers of the shelter home underwent rapid antigen tests and all of them tested negative, Foundation founder Annam Srinivasa Rao said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/shelter-home-conducts-tests/article34742911.ece
06 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||A fire broke out at a furniture making unit in Bollaram on Saturday afternoon, in which most of the wood was reduced to ashes. Four fire engines were pressed into service and it took several hours to douse the flames. Luckily, there was no loss of life as all the employees were outside the factory. Police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article34742919.ece
06 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Masks, oxygen concentrator, PPE kits donated||Representatives of Buddha Light International Association (BLIA) have donated oxygen concentrators, PPE kits, masks and sanitisers worth Rs. 10 lakh to Siddipet administration. The material was handed over to Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at his residence on Saturday. Taiwan-based BLIA with its branch in Malaysia, associated organisations like Shunyati International and DXN donated the concentrators to the Minister. “Several patients are facing problem of oxygen at home after getting discharged. These concentrators are helpful for them. Some more concentrators will arrive in the next few days,” said Mr. Harish Rao. BLIA Siddipet representatives Magnesh, Manager Vamshidhar Reddy, DXN PRO Chandrakanth were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/masks-oxygen-concentrator-ppe-kits-donated/article34742912.ece
06 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Centre failed to evolve vaccination policy’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Saturday said the Central government had failed to evolve a policy for vaccination in the country. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating vaccination for high risk groups at Siddipet, Mr. Harish Rao said the Centre had failed to supply free vaccines to States and the vaccines were not available in international market. “There is a need to review vaccination policy and make changes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-failed-to-evolve-vaccination-policy/article34742936.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pandemic parenting in COVID carnage||Suneeta Verma, whose husband died of COVID, is focussed on making ends meets, so she can bring up her six-year-old daughter to do better than to work in other people’s houses for little money. Sneha Mitra* is looking for a counsellor for her four-year-old son. The family lost two elderly relatives whose laps he would fall into daily. He is expressing his grief in the way children his age would, with anger, distraction, and clinginess to his mother who also went into COVID quarantine. Jatin Singh is confronting his own mortality, and though he has put in place mechanisms to take the virus head on, he worries, wondering aloud whether to adopt a COVID orphan. For many, parenting in 2020 was about experiments with online classes, keeping kids occupied with board games so they wouldn’t become screen dependent, and explaining the gravity of the pandemic. Free downloadable books like Piperpotamus Learns About Coronavirus and Kids, Vaayu & Corona: Who Wins the Fights? helped. Some children experienced second hand stress, when parents faced layoffs from work or there was marital strife. In 2021, many children have lost loved ones, or gone through periods of isolation because of sick parents. “Last year, children experienced trauma as witnesses. This year, it’s the immediacy of facing up to a traumatic experience,” says Dr Amit Sen, who runs Children First, a child and adolescent mental health service in Delhi. He talks of his current experience in practice, where isolation or a parent’s hospitalisation has scared children. The emotional turmoil can go from children feeling dazed, not eating or sleeping well, despair, panic attacks, eventually leading to anxiety and depression, even self harm and substance abuse, especially if children don’t get support or understanding. Some who do, are better able to channelise their energy into taking on responsibility of reaching out to help. “During such times when families and communities support each other, it takes away some of the loneliness and desperation that children may feel,” he says. It’s like a group hug, sans the touch. Mr. Singh’s family has been relatively lucky – they have not seen death or suffering close up. And while he jokes that he has done nothing more than provide his 14-year-old son with food, water, clothing, Internet, he has also introduced to him concepts of giving to those less privileged. For parents with younger children, it has meant more age-specific communication. Gaurav Chintamani’s almost seven-year-old son Ishaan sang R.E.M.’s ‘Everybody Hurts’ for his tabla teacher, who lost his mother — the family was close to her. Mr Chintamani played guitar, and put out a message on social media, a joint offering for a friend-like-family, going through a difficult time. Initially, he was reluctant to share the news of death with his son, worried about him being scared. “But we’ve never treated him anything less than a full member of the family,” he says, adding that it was his wife Priya who broke the news. “With children, in my experience, it’s always better to be honest and break it down to something simple. Death doesn’t have to be complex,” she says. Because Ishaan was open to nature, she found it easy to draw analogies from the life cycle of flowers and leaves, staying open to questions, but avoiding news on TV or social media.  One-point parenting   “Parents have become the only point of reference for their children,” says Vandana Nangia, who counsels families with both neurotypical and children with special needs. She acknowledges the ‘strong emotional and psychological stresses’ of parents themselves, who are in a “chronic state of stress and hyperarousal”, and need to look after their own mental health. To offer a window outside of their own gated community in Gurugram, Shuchi Sinha encouraged her 12-year-old daughter to volunteer with an NGO to teach Class 3 and 4 students from a basti. In an uncertain future, daily life can be about listening, collaborating, and some amount of negotiating. Mostly, it is about the ability to share spaces, thoughts, even feelings with children.  *Name changed to   protect privacy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pandemic-parenting-in-covid-carnage/article34742895.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Metro to run at 50% capacity from tomorrow||Metro services will resume from June 7 with 50% seating capacity and half of the available trains will run on the network with a frequency of 5-15 minutes, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said on Saturday.  “On Monday, only half of the available trains will be inducted into service... full strength will resume in a graded manner by Wednesday and thereafter services will be available as per normal frequency which was available before the lockdown,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. The DMRC also advised passengers to set aside extra time for commuting due to restricted services and adherence to COVID-19 rules. Commuters will not be permitted to stand inside the coaches and will occupy alternate seats. Officials said each coach can accommodate around 50 people when operating at full capacity. Due to curbs, only 25 commuters will be permitted inside each coach. Officials said entry to stations will be regulated via identified gates, as was the practice before the latest lockdown was imposed.  Since resumption of services in September last year, following the nationwide lockdown, only select gates at each station are kept functional by the DMRC as a crowd-control measure. “The DMRC is also writing to authorities for maintenance of law and order outside metro stations to handle the extra rush,” Mr. Dayal added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-metro-to-run-at-50-capacity-from-tomorrow/article34742889.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Doorstep ration delivery stalled by Centre: CM||The Delhi government’s “revolutionary” doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled by the Central government just days before it was to be launched, read a statement released by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Saturday. ‘All suggestions’ It said the scheme was intended to benefit more than 72 lakh beneficiaries; the Delhi government had sent the file for final approval and immediate rollout of the scheme to L-G Anil Baijal on May 24 after accepting “all suggestions” on it received from the Centre. But, the CMO stated, the L-G had returned the file saying the scheme cannot be implemented in Delhi, citing what Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain termed “invalid reasons”.  The Centre had made just one observation on the nomenclature of the scheme stating that the name — Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana — could not be used since the ration was being distributed under the existing NFS Act, the CMO stated. In order to “prevent any controversy”, the Delhi Cabinet had decided to change the name. “L-G cited two invalid reasons to reject the implementation of Doorstep Delivery of Ration scheme, the decision politically motivated,” Mr. Hussain alleged. According to the CMO, the L-G raised two concerns — the scheme hasn’t been approved by the Central government and that there is an ongoing court case on the scheme. “No approval for launching such a scheme is required as per existing law. Nevertheless, we have written six letters to the Centre since 2018 apprising them of this revolutionary scheme at every stage,” Mr. Hussain said. “Moreover, based on the last communication received from the Centre on 19.02.2021, their concerns regarding scheme name have also been accepted by Delhi Cabinet. What further approval is required?” he demanded. ‘L-G didn’t reject’ Sources said it has been advised again, like earlier on March 20, 2018, that since the proposal seeks to change the method of distribution, it would mandatorily require the prior approval of the Government of India as per Section 12 (2) (h) of the National Food Security Act 2013. Additionally, it was brought to the notice that a Writ Petition WP (C) 2037/2021 in the said matter has been filed by the “Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh” in High Court challenging the proposed arrangement of doorstep delivery of ration by GNCTD wherein the Union of India is also a party. The said petition is scheduled to be heard on August 20, 2021. The sources added that the L-G has not rejected the proposal as is being portrayed. He has advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed with the aim of ensuring seamless benefits to people at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doorstep-ration-delivery-stalled-by-centre-cm/article34742893.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Officer’s death: ‘He was being harassed by SHO’||A day after a 31-year-old sub-inspector was allegedly found dead inside the police station, his family has alleged that the Station House Officer was harassing him. The officer, posted in East Delhi’s Pandav Nagar police station, was found dead on the terrace on Friday while on duty. He was from Agra. In a complaint submitted to District Deputy Commissioner of Police, the victimr’s brother alleged that the officer was troubled by the Station House Officer and had also submitted a transfer application. However, he was not relieved from duty there despite being transferred a year ago to Sarita Vihar police station. The family claimed that the victim had shared these problems with them. DCP (East) Priyanka Kashyap said, “We have received the complaint and are inquiring into it”.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/officers-death-he-was-being-harassed-by-sho/article34742890.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP seeks govt. aid for shopkeepers, others||The BJP on Saturday demanded that the Delhi government provide relief packages to traders, shopkeepers and those associated with the education sector in addition to total exemption on power and water bills. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said two months’ closure had hit these sectors as well as factory owners and labourers hard; staff of private schools should also get their dues from the government, he said. Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri sought the intervention of L-G in further liberalising the terms and conditions for opening of markets in the Capital from June 7. “The traders are unhappy with the odd-even formula announced by the Delhi government; Banquet halls and restaurants should also be allowed to operate with COVID-related protocols,” he said. Former LoP Vijender Guptademanded that the L-G launch a probe into quintals of dry ration meant for the poor allegedly rotting at government schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-seeks-govt-aid-for-shopkeepers-others/article34742896.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Case registered after rapper goes missing||The police have lodged a kidnapping case following the disappearance of a 22-year-old Delhi-based rapper after he posted a message on Instagram, the police said on Saturday. The rapper was being criticised online after an old video of him went viral on social media wherein he was heard passing remarks on Hindu religious texts. On May 2, he made a post on Instagram suggesting that he was going to end his life. His mother, a resident of Vasant Kunj, approached Mehrauli police station and said her son, a resident of Saidulajab, had gone missing on May 2. She added that he had posted a message on Instagram stating he is going to end his life. “Investigation is being done on priority,” said DCP (South) Atul Thakur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-registered-after-rapper-goes-missing/article34742891.ece
06 June 2021||Chandrapur,||Tigress under observation found dead in Tadoba||A tigress that was under observation was found dead in Mul range of Tadoba Tiger Reserve on Saturday, forest department officials said. She was found with injuries a few days ago and a team from Chandrapur along with a veterinarian had arrived to treat it. “She attacked Dr. Ravikant Khobragade while he was examining her. A post-mortem has suggested it may have died of hypovolemic shock resulting from internal hemorrhage caused by injuries,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tigress-under-observation-found-dead-in-tadoba/article34742678.ece
06 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 13,659 COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 13,659 new COVID-19 cases, its lowest single-day spike since March 10, taking its total case tally to 58,19,224. With 300 more deaths, the total toll has risen to 99,512, the State Health Department said. The State has reported less than 20,000 cases for the sixth consecutive day. On March 10, the State reported the same number of daily cases: 13,659. The death toll has been rising by over 700 on a daily basis for more than a fortnight with past fatalities, not recorded earlier, being added. Out of 300 deaths, 211 occurred in the last 48 hours and 89 in the last week. As many as 21,776 patients were discharged, pushing the tally of recoveries to 55,28,834. There are 1,88,027 active cases now.  863 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 863 new cases and 29 deaths, taking its tally to 7,09,857 and toll to 14,951. The wider Mumbai division, including satellite towns, reported 2,792 infections and 38 deaths, pushing the case load to 15,46,074 and the toll to 28,228. Nashik division reported 1,379 cases, and 38 deaths, of which 14 took place in Ahmednagar district, followed by 12 in Nashik city, and 10 in rural parts of Nashik. The Pune division registered 3,442 cases, 1,348 of them in Satara district. The division reported 54 deaths, of which 18 were in rural parts of Pune and 10 in Pune city. Another 17 deaths were reported in Satara district. Kolhapur division reported 3,586 cases, including 1,095 in Kolhapur district. The division reported 104 deaths. The State’s recovery rate has improved to 95.01%, while the case fatality rate now stands at 1.71%. As many as 2,40,088 people were tested on Saturday, taking the number of samples examined so far to 3,62,71,483.  With 300 more fatalities, the total death toll in Maharashtra has risen to 99,512 State Health Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-13659-covid-19-cases/article34742680.ece
06 June 2021||Mumbai,||Siltation affecting width of waterways in Mumbai: study||A study assessing satellite data over 30 years (1990 to 2019) on identifying critical impacts of coastal inundation along the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and the Konkan region has found siltation at the mouth, causing shrinking of width of creeks and waterways. It indicates that 107.6 sq km of waterways and agricultural land has been lost and naturally converted into mudflats or mangrove areas in MMR due to rapid changes in the coastal ecosystem. The report predicts excessive flooding in MMR if corrective measures are not taken. “The shrinking creek is not good for a city because the drainage capacity during monsoon will reduce significantly, leading to excessive flooding. Once it becomes shallow, the water carrying capacity of the creek will be reduced. As a result, during heavy rains and high tide water will enter the city spaces even with a subtle increase in sea level rise scenario,” said Deepak Apte, executive director of Srushti Conservation Foundation (SCF), a Pune-based non-profit organisation that undertook the study. The National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), under the Ministry of Earth Sciences, along with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, last year developed an Integrated Flood warning system, i-flows, for Mumbai for flood mitigation during monsoons and extreme events. “The expertise of NCCR could be utilised for drawing a comprehensive plan for conservation/restoration ecosystem using scientific study and to prevent the impact of sea-level rise, which is of serious concern for the island city of Mumbai and adjoining areas,” Dr. Apte said. SCF is building satellite datasets for 15-20 locations across the Maharashtra coastline over this year to bring out a comprehensive report. Incursion of saline water and emergence of mangroves on agricultural (paddy fields) landscapes, for example, in Karanja area of Uran has led to a 4.5-fold increase in mangrove area by formation of creek-lets and saltwater invasion across 60.6 sq km of cultivable area replaced by mangroves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/siltation-affecting-width-of-waterways-in-mumbai-study/article34742681.ece
06 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||A year after Cyclone Nisarga, Raigad on road to resilience||A year after Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Murud, the Raigad administration has disbursed relief to the affected people and is on the path of building resilient infrastructure in the district. “Due to the Nisarga experience, we have built two multi-purpose cyclone shelters (MPCS) at Borli and Dighi under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project. With the district being prone to such weather conditions, we will be building 26 more MPCS,” said District Collector Nidhi Choudhary. All 26 shelters will come up in zilla parishad schools, of which 22 will be rebuilt at a proposed cost of Rs. 109.48 crore, while four will be repaired at Rs. 8.06 crore to make them cyclone-resilient. The proposals have been sent to the State government. 924 spots identified The district administration has also identified 924 spots to install lightning arresters. “The State has sent the proposal to the Government of India. At an estimated cost of Rs. 8.31 crore, the lightning arresters will be installed on buildings and bus stops,” Ms. Choudhary said. The District Collector said the administration received Rs. 447 crore as relief, of which Rs. 348 crore had been distributed to the affected people. The remaining Rs. 99 crore has been handed over to the State government. “All relief pertaining to individuals has been disbursed. A part of the grants to repair schools, anganwadis, and government buildings has not yet been received from the State Disaster Response Fund,” Ms. Choudhary said. The State government’s proposal to set up a unit of the National Disaster Response Force at a plot in Mahad is awaiting the approval of the Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Dairying as the land belongs to it, Ms. Choudhary said. Meanwhile, 23 non-functional public distribution system godowns have been shortlisted to be turned into animal shelters. “Estimates are under way and will be submitted before June 10,” she said. The administration has identified 20 landslide-prone villages and a Rs. 41.36 crore proposal has been sent to the State government for building a retaining wall. Underground cabling Last year, the district submitted a proposal for underground cabling of coastal cities. However, the proposal is being modified to add lines to provide oxygen to hospitals. A proposal to build saline water embankments at 27 spots to prevent sea water from entering villages has also been submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-year-after-cyclone-nisarga-raigad-on-road-to-resilience/article34742679.ece
06 June 2021||Abuja,||Nigeria suspends Twitter ‘indefinitely’||Telecoms operators in Nigeria said on Saturday they had complied with a government directive to suspend access to Twitter indefinitely, two days after the U.S. social media giant deleted a tweet from President Muhammadu Buhari’s account for violating its rules. International human rights groups and diplomats have condemned the move, which followed previous attempts by the government of Africa’s most populous country to regulate social media. Twitter on Wednesday deleted a remark on the President’s account after he referred to the country’s civil war four decades ago in a warning about recent unrest. Mr. Buhari, 78, a former General, referred to “those misbehaving” in recent violence in the southeast, where officials blame separatists for attacks on police and election offices. “Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand,” the President had posted on Twitter. The Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed accused Twitter of double standards by ignoring violent messages from a separatist leader. “The Federal Government has suspended, indefinitely, the operations of... Twitter, in Nigeria,” government spokesman Segun Adeyemi said in a statement. ‘Deeply concerning’ The Association of Licensed Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) confirmed its members had received formal instructions to suspend access to Twitter. Amnesty International on Friday condemned the move, calling on Nigeria to “immediately reverse the unlawful suspension”. Twitter said that the move was “deeply concerning”. “We’re investigating and will provide updates when we know more,” it said. “VPN app” was the second most searched trend on Saturday on Google in Nigeria, as virtual private networks can enable Twitter users to bypass the ban. Twitter is popular in Nigeria, and has played a role in public discourse with hashtags #BringBackOurGirls, after Boko Haram kidnapped 276 schoolgirls, and #EndSARS, during anti-police brutality protests last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-suspends-twitter-indefinitely/article34742414.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘China’s internal security is Xi’s biggest concern’||China’s internal situation remains its biggest concern 32 years after the Tiananmen Square protests, says former Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale, the author of the book ‘The Making of a Protest: A Diplomat Looks Back’. In an interview, he says President Xi’s challenges are similar to the past, but circumstances are different. Edited excerpts:  Your book not only focuses on the growing unrest among students in 1989, but also on the divisions within the Chinese Communist Party that led to protests. Do those divisions still exist? One of the myths is the sense among many in India that China and the CCP is a monolith, with one leader, one chain of command, and 1.4 billion people following that leader. Any study of the CCP would show the severe factionalism within the party at different points in history. Mao Tse Tung, Deng Xiaoping and currently Xi Jinping are dominant figures, but even their times have seen factionalism and rivalry within the party. It is just that the Chinese system is closed. Do you see any similarities between today and the period during the Tiananmen protests? The one similarity is that both Deng and Mr. Xi share the same vision, that China must be led by the Communist Party, and that the authority and dominance of the party in political terms must not be allowed to be diluted. As a result of China’s growth, the West, which looked upon China as a sort of cash cow in 1990, now sees China as a bit of a carnivore, waiting to devour them. Because the fact is that China is not only the world’s second largest economy now, and in some ways, a true challenger to the West’s domination of technology, equipment, manufacturing, and so on. In 1990, China was much weaker, and, therefore, Deng spoke of lying low. Today, China’s economy is the second largest in the world, it is the world’s largest foreign investor, it has the world’s second or third most powerful armed force. Therefore, Mr. Xi’s policy is one where China is beginning to assert itself. Are the challenges Mr. Xi faces internally, in Xinjiang, Tibet, Hong Kong, of a different order from what Deng faced in 1989 with the protests? When it comes to the pacification of the minorities and of the borderlands, I think there is almost nothing to choose between Mao, Deng and Mr. Xi. However, I feel the response of the government to the protests in Hong Kong, the haste with which they are proceeding, the determination to completely crush any kind of dissent must be watched closely in India as it will also play out badly in Taiwan. The concern is whether the Chinese leadership has reached the view that a reunification of Taiwan with the Mainland by peaceful means may no longer be possible, and therefore they may have to contemplate some kind of military or forceful action. If that conclusion has already been reached in Beijing, then what they’re doing in Hong Kong makes perfect sense, because then they’re not looking to set up Hong Kong as an example for Taiwan, which is what Deng did with his one country, two systems experiment (for Hong Kong). Thirty-two years ago too, we were in the middle of a long stand-off at the LAC. In terms of dealing with India, how has China changed? China’s confidence today comes from what some might call a false confidence that China is fated to rise and rise, and the West is fated to fall and fall. However, this strong external confidence is still combined with an internal paranoia, especially about the sustainability of the CCP in China. Any country which doesn’t align with China is one which is potentially a threat to them, and increasingly it is in this category that India falls. In the short term, of course, what has been happening [at the LAC] is concerning for us. In the long term, one hopes China senses that it is not in its national interest to create an adversary of a country which is not only a neighbour, but also going to share a bigger stage with China in the future. But, I think that in the interim, we are in for a difficult ride.  (Full version of the podcast can be heard at http://bit.ly/VijayGokhaleInterview )   They think any country which doesn’t align with China is potentially a threat to them||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-internal-security-is-xis-biggest-concern/article34742413.ece
06 June 2021||Ouagadougou,||114 killed in Burkina Faso attacks||Suspected jihadists have massacred at least 114 civilians in Burkina Faso’s volatile north in the deadliest attacks since Islamist violence erupted in the west African country in 2015, officials said on Saturday. President Roch Marc Christian Kabore denounced an attack near the borders with Mali and Niger where jihadists linked to Al-Qaeda and Islamic State have been targeting civilians and soldiers. “We must remain united and solid against these obscurantist forces,” Mr. Kabore said, condemning a massacre that left at least 100 people dead in Solhan as “barbaric” and “despicable.” The worst attack occurred during the night of Friday to Saturday when “armed individuals staged an incursion” into Solhan, a security source said. “The toll, which is still provisional, is about about 100 dead, men and woman of different ages”, the source said with the government confirming the toll. Assailants struck around 2:00 am (0200 GMT) against a position of the Volunteers for the Defence of the Motherland (VDP), an anti-jihadist civilian defence force which backs the national Army, before attacking homes and carrying out “executions,” a local source said. The VDP was set up in December 2019 to help Burkina’s poorly-equipped military fight jihadists but it has suffered more than 200 fatalities, according to an AFP tally. The government said in a statement that “terrorists,” a term for jihadists, killed civilians of all ages and set fire to homes and the main market. “In addition to the heavy human toll, the worst recorded to date, homes and the market were set on fire,” another security source said, voicing concern that the “still temporary toll of a hundred dead may increase.” The government said that “the defence and security forces are at work to neutralise these terrorists and restore calm to populated areas.” The authorities have declared three days of national mourning, ending Monday night at 11:59 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/114-killed-in-burkina-faso-attacks/article34742417.ece
06 June 2021||Hong Kong,||China hits out at U.S., EU consulates in Hong Kong||China on Saturday berated the U.S. and EU consulates in Hong Kong for displaying candles to commemorate the June 4 Tiananmen crackdown, slamming it as a “clumsy political show’ to destabilise the city. Candles were seen lit in the windows of the U.S. consulate building, which is next to the residence of Hong Kong’s Beijing-appointed leader Carrie Lam, and the European Union’s office on Friday night. The missions also posted photographs of their Tiananmen memorials on social media. “Any attempt to exploit Hong Kong to carry out infiltration or sabotage activities against the mainland crosses the red line ... is absolutely intolerable,” a spokesperson for the Hong Kong office of China’s Foreign Ministry said. “We again urge the organs of relevant countries in Hong Kong to immediately ... stop meddling with Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs at large, and avoid playing with fire.” For three decades in Hong Kong, huge crowds, often tens of thousands strong, have held candlelight vigils on June 4 for those killed in 1989 when tanks and troops crushed pro-democracy protests in Beijing. However this year’s vigil was banned at a time when Hong Kong authorities are carrying out a sweeping clampdown on dissent following huge and often violent democracy protests two years ago. Flashes of defiance still flickered across the city Friday night as residents simultaneously turned their mobile phone lights or lit candles in multiple districts across the city to mark the date. There were online calls for people to turn off the lights at home and place candles in their windows in commemoration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-hits-out-at-us-eu-consulates-in-hong-kong/article34742418.ece
06 June 2021||Vienna,||Church slams Austrian government’s ‘Islam Map’||The Austrian Catholic church on Friday became the latest religious group to criticise a government-backed online map of hundreds of Muslim organisations which sparked violence against the Muslim minority. The map shows details of over 600 Muslim associations — from youth groups to mosques — including details on their location and photos of members. The controversial map was first presented by a government-funded group monitoring Muslim extremism and by Austria’s Integration Minister Susanne Raab, a member of Austrian People’s Party (OeVP), who called it a tool to “fight political Islam as a breeding ground for extremism”. Cardinal Christoph Schoenborn, the head of the Austrian Catholic church, wrote in an op-ed on Friday that it was “dangerous to give the impression that one of the religious community is under general suspicion”, and asked why one of the many religious communities was singled out. The Council of Europe’s Special Representative Daniel Hoeltgen urged the government to take down the map.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/church-slams-austrian-governments-islam-map/article34742419.ece
06 June 2021||San Francisco,||Facebook suspends Trump for two years||Facebook Inc on Friday suspended former U.S. President Donald Trump until at least January 2023 and announced changes to how it will treat world leaders who break the company’s rules on postings on its site. Facebook suspended Trump’s account the day after the Jan. 6 Capitol Hill riot, determining he had incited violence. That suspension will last at least two years from the date of the initial block and would only be lifted if the risk to public safety has receded, Facebook said. Trump criticized the decision as a form of censorship and an insult to his voters. This new timeline denies Republican Trump a major social media megaphone ahead of the November 2022 national midterm elections, when his party will be competing for Congressional seats. However, it means he may be able to return to Facebook well before the next presidential election in late 2024. Mr. Trump has been permanently banned by Twitter and remains suspended by YouTube after the riot. The former President has teased plans to launch his own platform but his team has given little detail. “Given the gravity of the circumstances that led to Mr. Trump’s suspension, we believe his actions constituted a severe violation of our rules which merit the highest penalty available under the new enforcement protocols,” Facebook’s head of global affairs Nick Clegg said in the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/facebook-suspends-trump-for-two-years/article34742421.ece
06 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. intel report on UFOs inconclusive: reports||The conclusion of a classified U.S. intelligence report on the existence of alien UFOs is inconclusive, U.S. media reported on Friday. U.S. military and intelligence found no evidence that seemingly highly advanced unidentified flying objects sighted by military pilots were alien spacecraft, the report concludes, according to The New York Times and other media briefed on it. But it also could not explain dozens of phenomena and incidents, some filmed by the pilots, and so could not rule out the existence of aliens. According to NYT , the report determined that most of some 120 incidents over the past 20 years had nothing to do with unknown or secret U.S. military or government technology. Nor were they related to objects like research balloons, which some postulated were behind the reports. But it then could not explain what, for example, U.S. Navy pilots saw when they recorded objects traveling at seeming hypersonic speeds, spinning and mysteriously disappearing. The report, The Washington Post said, “will offer no firm conclusions about what the objects... might be.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-intel-report-on-ufos-inconclusive-reports/article34742422.ece
06 June 2021||Kabul,||20 dead in Afghanistan air strike||An Afghan airstrike on Friday that targeted Taliban fighters inside an abandoned Army base in southern Helmand province killed at least 20 people, including some civilians, reports said. There were conflicting accounts about the site of the strike and the number of casualties, adding to concerns that as the U.S. military and NATO forces complete their pull out, Afghanistan would sink into more violence and turmoil. The military said its air force and troops struck the Taliban in the province's Nahr Saraj district as they were looting weapons and ammunition from the base. It said 20 Taliban fighters and a “few civilians” who were looting with the insurgents were killed. The Taliban said they overran the base late on Thursday. The insurgents said the death toll on Friday stood at 30, and that all were civilians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/20-dead-in-afghanistan-air-strike/article34742415.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Buffeted by ‘unhealthy’ tag, Nestle eyes defensive outreach||Buffeted by global reports that the majority of mainstream food and drink products from Nestle could not be considered healthy, the Indian unit of the Switzerland-based multinational is planning an outreach campaign in a bid to reassure and retain consumers. “Recent reports have questioned the healthfulness of Nestlé products, because of a global internal working document that was reported out of context,” a Nestle India spokesperson said, adding that the portfolio analysis only covered about half the global sales, since several prominent categories were not included. ‘Indulgent products’ “Looking at the global portfolio as a whole, less than 30% would not meet stringent external ‘healthfulness’ standards, mostly representing indulgent products, which are acceptable in moderation as part of healthy, balanced and enjoyable diet,” the spokesperson added. The Financial Times last month reported an internal company presentation at the Swiss food giant had acknowledged that more than 60% of its products do not meet the ‘recognised definition of health’. “We will be releasing print advertisements over the next few days reassuring consumers that we genuinely care about what matters to them, what concerns them and that we are there for them 24x7 if they have any questions or suggestions,” the spokesperson said, adding the advertisements would carry details of e-mail id and phone numbers that could be used to reach out to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/buffeted-by-unhealthy-tag-nestle-eyes-defensive-outreach/article34742533.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Mass vaccination will inspire confidence’||Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. (MHRIL), which operates under the Club Mahindra brand, is gearing up for growth, says its MD & CEO Kavinder Singh . Excerpts:  How did MHRIL cope with the downtrend? As the process of unlocking began in June last year, people started taking holidays as they wanted to travel. They were opting for trusted brands like us who would offer enhanced safety and hygiene features, preferring destinations at drivable distances in the safety of their vehicles. We focussed on enhancing customer safety; introducing new outdoor experiences; enhancing operational efficiencies; cost conservation and opening new resorts. We emerged stronger due to our unique and resilient Vacation Ownership business model which is significantly different from the traditional hospitality sector. About 80% of our resorts are at drivable distances from the cities and it helped. Despite COVID-19 related challenges, we have delivered a strong fourth-quarter performance We added nine resorts in FY21 to reach a total of 79. As of March 2020, our cash position has risen from Rs. 781 crore to Rs. 940 crore. What is your FY22 outlook? The resurgence in COVID-19 cases has impacted the tourism sector as occupancies have dipped in Q1 FY22. We will have to just wait and see how the travel situation unfolds. The travel and tourism sector is pinning its hopes on vaccine passports. We are hopeful that mass vaccination would inspire confidence, lead to ease of travel, and boost domestic and international tourism in the near future. Our growth plans continue to remain on track as we will keep adding destinations. We have earmarked Rs. 1,200-1,500 crore for creating new assets and enhancing the existing inventory over the next two years. We plan to add close to 1,500 rooms in the next 3-4 years and take our room count from 4,197 to over 5,500 through acquisitions, greenfield development in our own land banks, expansion at our existing resorts and by taking resorts on long-term lease. We will continue to focus on international markets. We are looking for new resorts in southeast Asia. What are the holiday trends that you foresee? Travellers have become more cautious and prefer to travel and stay with trusted brands. They are visiting destinations that are at driveable distances in the safety of their vehicles. There is a surge in domestic tourism and people are opting for offbeat, non-congested tourist destinations. Leisure destinations will lead the recovery. There is also a visible increase in the duration of an average stay by our members and guests. We have also seen members spending time outside the rooms and enjoying outdoor experiences. We also see a rise in trends like workcations and staycations as soon as the country begins to ease lockdown restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mass-vaccination-will-inspire-confidence/article34742529.ece
06 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Bank NPAs set to rise, deposit growth outpacing credit flow’||Gross non-performing asset (GNPA) ratios of scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) are expected to shoot up in the coming quarters, according to data compiled by BCT Digital. This is despite the regulatory interventions to provide relief to both borrowers and lenders in the wake of the pandemic. The GNPA for the banking system was at 7.5% in September 2020, an improvement from pre-pandemic levels. This is expected to shoot up to 13.5% in a base-case scenario and 14.8% in an extreme scenario by September 2021 as per RBI’s assessment in the latest Financial Stability Report (FSR), said Jaya Vaidhyanathan, CEO of BCT Digital, which helps banks manage risk. “For public sector banks, GNPAs are expected to zoom from 9.7% in September 2020 to 16.2% and 17.6% in the base case and extreme scenarios, respectively, by September 2021,” she added. As per data that BCT Digital has collated from the FSR, the September 2015 quarter saw year-on-year (YoY) credit growth of 9.4%. It declined to 8.8% in March 2016, the first quarter after the asset quality review was mandated. In March 2017, YoY credit growth slowed sharply to 4.4% while September 2019 saw 8.7% growth. Credit grew 5.9% and 5%, in March and September 2020, respectively. Deposit growth, however, has quickened. September 2015 saw YoY growth of 9.9% while March 2016 and March 2017 posted 8.1% and 11.1%, respectively. Growth was 10.2%, 8.6% and 10.3% in September 2019, March 2020 and September 2020.  Care Ratings recently said FY21 credit growth was the lowest in 4 years as lenders and borrowers have remained risk averse.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bank-npas-set-to-rise-deposit-growth-outpacing-credit-flow/article34742530.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IndiGo’s FY21 revenue plunges, loss widens||Budget-carrier IndiGo posted a loss of Rs. 5,806 crore for the financial year 2021 compared with a loss of Rs. 233 crore in FY20 following a 60% drop in revenue. For the quarter ended March, the airline incurred a loss of Rs. 1,147 crore. Total income dropped 26% to Rs. 6,361 crore in the fourth quarter. For the quarter, passenger-ticket revenue dropped 30% to Rs. 4,974 crore. Ancillary revenue decreased 17% to Rs. 890 crore compared with the year-earlier period. Revenue see-saws “This has been a very difficult year with our revenue slumping hard due to COVID-19, showing some signs of recovery during the period December to February and then slumping again with the second wave of COVID1-9,” said CEO Ronojoy Dutta. “While we have seen a sharp decline in revenue in March through May, we are encouraged by the modest revenue improvements starting last week of May and continuing through June,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indigos-fy21-revenue-plunges-loss-widens/article34742532.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab National Bank to pick up stake in bad bank||Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Saturday said it will pick up a stake in the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd. (NARCL) and has identified NPAs worth Rs. 8,000 crore to be transferred to the proposed bad bank for resolution.  “NARCL is being formed by all the banks whereupon some of the NPA advances will be transferred to that ARC for recovery,” MD S.S. Mallikarjuna Rao said.  In the first tranche, roughly Rs. 8,000 crore is identified to be transferred to NARCL, he said. On a recent order by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Kingfisher Airlines, Mr. Rao said the bank had not much outstanding and PNB will get its share based on the sales proceeds.  The bank said it was expecting an almost threefold jump in its net profit to Rs. 6,000 crore in the current financial year as the consolidation process was over.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/punjab-national-bank-to-pick-up-stake-in-bad-bank/article34742536.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paytm’s FY21 loss shrinks to Rs. 1,704 crore||Digital payments firm Paytm has reported narrowing of consolidated loss to Rs. 1,704 crore for 2020-21, according to the company’s annual report. It had posted Rs. 2,943.32 crore loss in FY20. A Paytm spokesperson said:”Despite a significant disruption in the business of our merchant partners due to the ongoing pandemic especially in the first half of the year, we have had a minimal impact on revenue, due to strong recovery in the second half of the year.” This is the second consecutive fiscal year when the firm has reported narrowing of loss. Total revenue of the company declined about 10% to Rs. 3,186 crore in FY21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/paytms-fy21-loss-shrinks-to-rs-1704-crore/article34742534.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BoB board agrees to loss set-off plan||State-run Bank of Baroda (BoB) has received board approval to set off accumulated loss of over Rs. 11,048 crore against the share premium account of the bank. The board of directors of the bank approved the proposal on June 5, BoB said. The bank is to set off its accumulated losses of Rs. 11,048.44 crore as of March 31 by utilising an equivalent amount standing to the credit of share premium account of bank as on the date of set off and take the same into account during FY22, it said. The setting off is subject to approval from shareholders and prior permission from the RBI. For FY21, the bank reported a 52% rise in net profit to Rs. 828.95 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bob-board-agrees-to-loss-set-off-plan/article34742537.ece
06 June 2021||Paris,||Perfect 10 as defending champion Swiatek moves into the last 16||Defending champion Iga Swiatek overcame an early break to defeat Estonia's Anett Kontaveit and reach the last 16 at Roland Garros on Saturday. The eighth-seeded Pole won 7-6(4), 6-0 to stretch her record of straight-sets victories here to 10 matches. Swiatek reeled off 11 of the last 13 games and will face Ukraine's Marta Kostyuk for a place in the quarterfinals. "She had a fast start and I was late getting going," said Swiatek, who had lost both her previous matches to Kontaveit. Sofia Kenin advanced to the fourth round for the third consecutive year by winning a seesaw match against Jessica Pegula 4-6, 6-1, 6-4. Kenin is the highest-seeded player left in the women's draw at No. 4, and she has shaken a slump with her return to Roland Garros, where she was the runner-up to Swiatek in October last year.  American Sloane Stephens, who is ranked 59th and is out of the top 50 for the first time since 2017, advanced by beating 18th-seeded Karolina Muchova 6-3, 7-5. Stephens, the runner-up in 2018, will next face Barbora Krejcikova, who upset No. 5 Elina Svitolina 6-3, 6-2. Novak Djokovic cruised into the fourth round for the 12th consecutive year with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-1 victory over Lithuania's 93rd-ranked Ricardas Berankis. The World No. 1 will take on Italian 19-year-old and Grand Slam debutant Lorenzo Musetti for a place in the quarterfinals. "He's young and plays with lots of spin and power. He has nothing to lose so I need to be ready for this challenge," Djokovic said of a first meeting with Musetti.Defending champion Rafael Nadal claimed his third win of 2021 over Britain's Cameron Norrie. Nadal, chasing a 14th Roland Garros title and record-setting 21st Grand Slam, won 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 and goes on to face Italian teenager Jannik Sinner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/perfect-10-as-defending-champion-swiatek-moves-into-the-last-16/article34742402.ece
06 June 2021||LONDON,||Burns battles it out; Southee’s six puts Kiwis in control||Rory Burns hit a gutsy century to help England recover from a collapse on the fourth day of the first Test against New Zealand at Lord’s on Saturday. England was in danger of following-on but Burns’ 132 meant it avoided the embarrassment, although a total of 275 was still 103 adrift of New Zealand’s score of 378 that featured debutant opener Devon Conway’s remarkable 200. The Kiwis were 34 for no loss at the time of going to the press. Veteran paceman Tim Southee led New Zealand’s attack with six for 43 in 25.1 overs to secure yet another place on the Lord’s honours board after his 10-wicket haul in 2013. The Black Caps would have been in an even stronger position had they not reprieved Burns on 77 and 88.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/burns-battles-it-out-southees-six-puts-kiwis-in-control/article34742395.ece
06 June 2021||Chennai,||Team MRF wins Rally Italia Sardegna||Paolo Andreucci and Rudy Briani of Team MRF Tyres clinched three out of four stages to win the Rally Italia Sardegna on Saturday. It was double celebration for Team MRF Tyres with Simone Campedelli and Gianfrancesco Maria Rappa finishing third. The result is the first victory for Team MRF Tyres in top-line national rallying in Europe after the Indian tyre manufacturer committed to European rallying in 2019. The Rally Italia Sardegna was the second round of the CIRT, or the Italian Rally Championship Gravel. Andreucci and Briani won by 31.8 seconds, ahead of Umberto Scandola and Guido D'Amore. Tamara Molinaro and Piercarlo Capolongo kept up the celebrations for Team MRF in their Citroen C3 Rally2. The duo finished seventh and achieved their goal of winning the Ladies Trophy for the second rally in succession and ended second in the U-25’s Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/team-mrf-wins-rally-italia-sardegna/article34742542.ece
06 June 2021||SAO PAULO,||Brazil downs Ecuador for fifth consecutive win||Amid a possible player revolt, Brazil defeated Ecuador 2-0 on Friday to win its fifth consecutive match in South American World Cup qualifying. Brazil now leads the round-robin tournament with 15 points, four ahead of second-placed Argentina. It appears all but certain that Brazil will qualify for one of the four direct South American spots for Qatar 2022. Gabriel Barbosa had a goal disallowed for offside in the first half before Richarlison opened the scoring in the 65th minute with a powerful shot from close range. Neymar assisted on the first goal and added the second from the spot in added time. The penalty was awarded after a video review, which also allowed Brazil’s No. 10 to take a second chance after being stopped by goalkeeper Alexander Dominguez.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-downs-ecuador-for-fifth-consecutive-win/article34742397.ece
06 June 2021||Southampton,||Staggered training allowed for Indians||Indian cricketers trained in a staggered manner on the third day of their quarantine here on Saturday after being allowed to run in the gymnasium and the main playing field at different time slots. Instagram video Senior batsman Cheteshwar Pujara uploaded a video of his running on his Instagram stories, indicating that the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) has got the requisite permission from the health authorities to allow the visiting teams an opportunity of staggered training. It is understood that with the Hilton hotel being part of the Hampshire Bowl property, the players were allowed to come out of their rooms on the third day even though they are still not supposed to meet each other. The men and the women could use the gymnasium separately for running and other physical training purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/staggered-training-allowed-for-indians/article34742399.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||National age-group event from June 10||Within 15 days of the International Chess Federation (FIDE) announcing the holding of World cadet and youth chess championship in August, the All India Chess Federation will commence its National age-group online chess championship from June 10 to July 3. The rapid format will follow 15 minutes, plus a 10-second increment per move, per player. Events will be held over 11 rounds, in five age-groups ranging from under-10 to under-18, separately for boys and girls. A total of Rs. 19 lakh will be disbursed as prize-fund. “This is a major logistical challenge for us,” said AICF secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan as he looked at the prospects of holding competitions involving “anywhere between 2000 to 3000 players.” “First of all, it was difficult for the players to get into the online module. Secondly, training of arbiters to officiate in this kind of tournament was very challenging. In addition, and very importantly, we had to find ways to eliminate the possibility of cheating in these online events,” said Chauhan. When FIDE announced the World cadet and youth championships on May 25, many AICF officials felt it was not possible to hold the State championships online, and thereafter the Nationals, to select the Indian team for the World championship. Many even suggested selecting the squad as per the players’ international rating. “But I was firm that we should find a way to provide competition to our players. After all, for more than a year, players across age-groups are desperate for competitions. So I asked AICF’s core technical team to find a way to hold online events on the same lines as the FIDE. And they have done a fantastic job.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-age-group-event-from-june-10/article34742539.ece
06 June 2021||Epsom (United Kingdom),||Pain turns into Derby joy for Kirby||Adam Kirby’s despair at being jocked off John Leeper ended in joy as he won the Epsom Derby on Adayar, giving trainer Charlie Appleby his second win in the blue riband of flat racing on Saturday. Appleby had three runners in the race but it was the outsider of the three, Adayar, who came home clear of Mojo Star. Favourite Bolshoi Ballet had every chance but faded to finish out of the placings, while John Leeper never got into contention under Frankie Dettori. “Obviously there are ups and downs in racing,” said Kirby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pain-turns-into-derby-joy-for-kirby/article34742583.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||T20 WC set to be moved out of India||The marquee T20 World Cup in October-November is set to be shifted to the UAE and Oman with the BCCI having internally informed the ICC to go ahead with its preparation due to the COVID-19 situation in India. While the UAE was always the first back-up option, Oman’s capital Muscat has been added as the fourth venue, apart from Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah, for the tournament that will start in the last week of October. A senior board official said that Muscat has been zeroed in specifically for the preliminary rounds of the 16-team competition, which will allow the three UAE grounds to get sufficient time to freshen up after 31 IPL games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/t20-wc-set-to-be-moved-out-of-india/article34742392.ece
06 June 2021||Bengaluru,||No trials to pick squad: KAA||Due to the pandemic, the Karnataka Athletics Association (KAA) will not conduct selection trials to choose the State squad for the 60th National inter-State senior athletics meet, to be held at Patiala later this month. The KAA has instead invited interested athletes to send their entry applications to karathletic@gmail.com before June 10. The State team will be picked based on the performances in the last two years. For details, call A. Rajavelu, KAA secretary, at 94484 38276.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-trials-to-pick-squad-kaa/article34742540.ece
06 June 2021||COLOMBO,||SL players turn down reduced pay contracts||Sri Lanka's cricket players on Saturday refused to sign new pay contracts, but said they would be available for the tour of England later this month.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sl-players-turn-down-reduced-pay-contracts/article34742391.ece
06 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Milkha stable, still on oxygen support||Legendary Indian sprinter Milkha Singh, who is battling COVID-19 in the ICU of PGIMER here, is stable and his condition is "better than yesterday", the hospital said on Saturday. The 91-year-old, who is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors, is still on oxygen support.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-stable-still-on-oxygen-support/article34742400.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 08:37 IST,||Sudoku — June 6, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-6-2021/article34743087.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||How Houdini escaped lockdown||Many magicians work on perfecting the disappearing act. But in the case of Amaan Mahtani, it is his family that does the disappearing act, when he has a trick to practise on them... for the 10th time in a day. The 11-year-old magic enthusiast spends at least four hours every weekend and an hour-and-a- half on weekdays, perfecting his craft. A fan of magic ever since his grandfather showed him the disappearing thumb trick at the age of six, Amaan says he managed to seriously pursue magic when the lockdown last year made everything go virtual, and outdoor play time shrunk drastically. “I took a magic course on Udemy, and constantly keep learning from YouTube channels such as MLT Magic Tricks, EvanEraTV and SpideyHypnosis,” he says. Amaan’s repertoire now includes 30 tricks, including mentalism. “I came up with a few myself after a lot of trial and error,” he says. As we speak over a video call, he makes sponge balls disappear and reappear out of thin air. Gradually, his friends too became invested in the hobby. “I give them a few pointers but never part with secrets of the trade,” he laughs, adjusting his bow tie — Amaan’s always dressed for the part, with dreams of making it to America’s Got Talent some day. Thanks to free classes on YouTube channels, many have been drawn into the fascinating world of magic. International entertainers such as Penn and Teller are available on MasterClass teaching their skills for a small fee. “Knowing a few fun tricks can make one stand out at parties and other gatherings. It’s also a great ice-breaker,” says Chennai-based magician Arun Loganathan who has been teaching the craft for the last few years. Since 2020,he started taking virtual classes for students of all age groups — seven to 70 — from within the country as well as Switzerland, the U.S. and Papua New Guinea. This means a lot of late nights and early mornings for Arun. “I have woken up at 3.30 a.m. to teach a student in Philadelphia,” he says. “The demand has gone up by 65% in one year,” says Arun adding that people are comfortable with online classes as they are more accessible and customised. His students are a mix of novices and those that learn off YouTube, who then approach him to learn advanced magic or the finesse and flourishes that go with the act. It is interesting to note that people do not mind spending hefty sums on acquiring a skill that may just be for recreational purposes; some of Arun’s international clients pay up to a lakh for 30 days. Magicians are normally known to bamboozle their audience but Arun sometimes feels the tables turn when his young students already know the trick he is teaching and come up with different techniques to solve it. Thanks to Arun’s experience of over two decades in the field, he finds ways to keep challenging them. While kids form 60% of the student base, magician Nikhil Raj from Bengaluru notices that his sessions for adults are mostly booked by corporates. “I conduct a 50-minute session for them which includes mentalism, illusions, conjuring and hypnotism,” says 25-year-old Nikhil, whose dad was also a magician. Although Nikhil has been conducting workshops for many years, the last year has been especially busy with over 500 children taking online classes. Sometimes parents learn along with their kids, at times it is the grandparents who learn to entertain their grandchildren... the clientèle is diverse. After completing their course, many of them also put up virtual shows for their families and friends. Nikhil says that his workshops also weave in personality development and communication skills. “Magic workshops are a lot more than just learning tricks. It prepares you to face any situation that might arise during a show. There could be hecklers... You need to deal with them in a calm manner and make them your fan,” says magician Akshaya over a call from Pune. Trained by her father, the 25 year-old has been performing on stage since she was three. She did her last show this year in Goa, in the month of April, and was all set to perform at a wedding in New York later this year, when the second wave of COVID-19 disrupted all plans. “COVID-19 is the reason I started teaching online last year in September, otherwise I would have never done it,” says Akshaya, who has conducted over 40 classes in the last eight months. Though she believes that magic should be experienced live, she says, “Virtual has its own charm and advantages. A lot of things can be done virtually that may not have been possible in a live show. But I can’t disclose what they are,” she laughs mysteriously. Flair of the craft Learning magic requires a lot of patience, hard work and constant practice. Not all students have the discipline to persevere. Those that stay are the ones with undying curiosity and dogged determination. “There is a saying, ‘You don’t get into magic, magic gets into you!,” says Akshaya. “There is a joy when people look in wonder and ask ‘how did you do it’,” says Amaan, who often practises in front of the mirror — not because he is vain — to make sure he can see himself performing from all angles. “You have to make sure that you don’t give away anything from any angle,” he adds. Akshaya records her practice sessions to make sure every movement is going according to plan. Sleight of hand is important. ‘You can learn the basics but you have to train your hands too’, is the common refrain. While practitioners of this art form are often associated with vibrant costumes, over the top equipment and material, Arun, Nikhil and Akshaya are being practical and keeping it simple for now. “Because of the lockdown not everyone can access materials and kits, so it is best to use household items like pens, coins, cardboard...,” says Nikhil. “Ultimately, what matters is the finesse with which one performs a trick.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-houdini-escaped-lockdown/article34742655.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Don’t let sleeping dogs lie||While every dog has its day, for over a year now, six-year-old Roger has not. The German Shepherd who loves long walks, used to sniff out interesting corners and quizzically cock his ears as he watched birds build nests. He now spends most of the pandemic watching clouds flit past from the apartment window. He has gained weight and is mostly bored — his new-found past-time is endlessly licking his paws. “A number of dogs exhibit Obsessive Compulsive Behaviour such as incessant licking of paws, resulting in inflammation and wounds. They also develop an obsession with food due to the lack of anything else to keep them occupied,” says Chennai-based veterinarian Dr. Priyadarshini Govind. An alumna of Madras Veterinary College, Dr. Priyadarshini also holds a postgraduate diploma in Behavioural Medicine from the University of Sydney and specialises in treating companion animals and pet birds. Unlike the wild sheep in Wales that ran riot on the roads during the pandemic and the leopards roaming backyards in Bengal, pets have been housebound like their owners. Weight gain from lack of exercise has been a condition most veterinarians are seeing. “I haven’t heard of any government restrictions to people walking their dogs, but pet parents have generally become lazy or probably are just too self-preserving due to the pandemic,” says Dr. Priyadarshini. She adds: “Even in normal circumstances, some canine parents walks their dogs only under duress. The pandemic has become an excuse to not walk them at all. Dogs are intelligent animals and need a lot of activity to engage their mind and body to prevent unwanted behavioural patterns. While dogs enjoy the company of their humans, it is still important that they be kept occupied.” While the problems are not breed-specific and affect both indie and foreign dogs, the pandemic has had a very different effect on cats. “Cats are a fairly independent species who while they love their human companions value their time alone. They don’t constantly seek approval from their caregivers. With families staying in and people working from home it has resulted in stress-related disorders among cats such as feline lower urinary tract disease and excessive grooming.” But given the stringent lockdown how can this be prevented? “For dogs, even an outing outside your gate or a run in the terrace helps. Also, over-use of strong disinfectants that result in skin-related contact dermatitis and foot issues should be avoided. Dogs and cats are genetically sensitive to disinfectants that are safe for humans. There are a number of pet-friendly options. We do know that the Coronavirus is airborne but there is no need for us to assume our animals are going to be bringing in infection because they go out for walks.” On the number of people buying pets to stave off loneliness, Dr. Priyadarshini says, “It’s not a great idea. People bought puppies for thousands from breeders but they weren’t open to adopting a stray rescue or even a rescued pet of a person who had succumbed to the virus. You should be able to continue giving your pet the time and care even when things return to normal. Unless you are ready to do that it’s best not to get one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/dont-let-sleeping-dogs-lie/article34742656.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Indefatigable||Jaswinder Kaur, 42, clad in a typical Punjabi-style salwar-kameez, has come to mark her presence on the daily attendance register. May 20 has dawned with an overcast morning and she is at a pucca morcha (permanent protest site) set up by farmers against the Centre’s controversial new farm laws at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza in Punjab’s Patiala district. This has been her drill for the past six months. The threat from the resurgent pandemic has not dampened her spirits. She is in “chardi kala (high spirits),” she says. Three days earlier, Jaswinder returned to her village, Daun Kalan in Patiala, after spending six days at different protest sites, including Singhu and Tikri on the Delhi-Haryana border and Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. She says she participates in all events related to the farmers’ struggle, be it a protest rally, picketing at toll plazas, blocking roads or railway tracks, opposing political leaders who support the contentious laws, or visiting protest sites on the Delhi border. “I returned from the Delhi border on May 17 along with a group of 250 women from my village. This was my 11th trip to Delhi in the past six months. I’ll keep going to the Delhi border till the black farm laws are withdrawn. All of us — men, women and children — have prepared ourselves to struggle even if it goes on till 2024, when the next Parliamentary elections are due or even beyond,” says Jaswinder, as she joins the group shouting slogans against the farm laws and the BJP government. Tens of thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over six months now, demanding a repeal of the three laws enacted by the Centre last year. The government claims the laws will end farmers’ woes, but the farmers are far from convinced. Permanent protest sites It is that time of the year when the wheat harvest is almost over. And farmers are preparing their fields for paddy. But the air in the country’s grain bowl is rife with resistance. In Punjab, farmers have been stationed at permanent protest sites at toll plazas since last October. They have not allowed the authorities to collect any charges from commuters. Likewise, at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza, while the men continuously camp on-site, the women participing in the dharna ensure that the fire in the daily langar (community kitchen) keeps burning. Surinder Kaur, 65, says she has lost faith in the government. “Farmers have been betrayed. I’ll keep fighting even if it costs me my life. We will together make them listen to us. If the government is under any illusion that the agitation will lose its momentum, then I must tell them that Punjabis, especially Punjabi women, are capable of fighting for their rights with all our strength,” she says. She pauses, then shouts “ Sadda haq aithe rakh (It’s our right, give it here)”. The anguish against the government and the new laws is most palpable in Punjab, which has emerged as the battleground of the resistance. Even after losing her son recently, Jaswant Kaur, 65, stands firmly with the protesters. “My son went to Singhu to participate in the agitation. He died on March 18, two days after his return from the protest site. I am devastated by his death, but I’ll continue to fight as it will be a tribute to his sacrifice. I am ready to march to Delhi and participate in rallies there; whatever our leaders decide I am willing to obey,” says Jaswant, who owns two acres of land and whose other two sons are daily-wage workers. Narender Kaur, 60, a cancer survivor, asserts that she will fight the government with the same zeal that she defeated cancer with, and that it’s time for her to “crush the ego of the Centre”. “I fought cancer with all my might. I am not afraid of COVID-19, in fact none of us are. We are all united in our fight and will continue the agitation till the laws are repealed,” she says. “Autocratic” Centre At the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza, Surinder Pal Singh has been participating in the pucca morcha for nearly eight months now and is irked by the “autocratic” attitude of the Centre. The gatherings at the toll plazas have thinned a bit since the agitation begun last year, but Surinder explains why. “The first reason,” says Surinder, “is COVID-19; as cases have started to rise, we have been taking precautions to keep everyone safe. We are following the guidelines of local administration. We have requested people in villages to come to the protest site in small numbers and sign the attendance register, spend a little time and then leave,” he says. Second, he says, the farmers were busy harvesting their wheat crop. Now that harvest is done, several batches are returning to Delhi’s borders. “We are fighting on two fronts: one against COVID-19 and the other against the government,” says Surinder. “Safety and struggle, both will carry on. The momentum of the agitation will never go down because people from different sections of society are supporting it. Everyone abides by the directions from Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM),” he says. SKM is an umbrella body of farmer unions, and it is spearheading the protest. Disturbed that no discussions were held with farmer bodies before the laws were enacted, Jagwant Singh, 68, who retired from the Army as a Naik, questions the government’s intention behind its decision. “The government claims that the farmers are happy. I want to ask, why are they agitating then? Now, in the garb of COVID-19, the government is attempting to weaken our struggle. They should understand that the struggle is not just a dharna (sit-in), it’s a morcha (a front). Fronts are set up by soldiers, and they don’t retreat until the battle is won,” says Jagwant, who has travelled to Delhi protest sites on at least three occasions. Farmer leader Gurmeet Singh Dittupur, of the Krantikari Kisan Union, says the agitation will surely be successful because it has now become a mass movement. “The agitation is being led by people and not by leaders. Every section of society is supporting our struggle, everyone has understood the government’s intention, which is to corporatise agriculture. It is because of the agitation that the implementation of the laws had to be stopped.” Farmers and others from the villages of Punjab are returning to the protest sites near Delhi in small groups. They stay for a week or more, then return, yielding place to a new batch. The protest follows a disciplined process of continuous rotation of numbers. “The key to our success is the people’s support and the peaceful nature of the movement,” says Gurmeet. Fighting for the future While the frontline is Delhi’s borders, the women, youth and children in Punjab are strongly holding on and passing the baton. Women from Dhareri Jattan toll plaza head to their village, Daun Kalan, in the afternoon, but their job is is far from done. “I usually get up at four in the morning and after I finish the household work, I head for the toll plaza with other women from the village to participate in the dharna . When we return, we get together in the evening. We divide our work — collecting funds, grains, vegetables, milk and other items from the village — and then prepare the food to be served at the protest site,” says Rajender Kaur. Rajender also works in her field, taking care of her crop — “which is what this entire struggle is about,” as she says. Rajender’s son Jaskaran, who studies in Class XII, says that whenever his parents are at the protest, he takes care of the house. “They are fighting for my future, so I ought to stand firmly by their side,” he says. As groups of farmers move towards the capital, Zohra Singh, 50, is on a solo trip on foot to the Singhu protest site. With a green turban wrapped around his head and a flag in his hand, Zohra says he started his journey from his village Dharamkot in Moga district on May 17, and it will take four or five days to reach the Singhu protest site. “The government says the agitation is losing steam, but I want people to know that the agitation is neither over nor is it losing momentum.” Zohra has visited the protest sites near Delhi five times on tractor-trolleys and buses, “but this time I planned to walk.” On the Amritsar-Delhi National Highway, at the Shambhu border between Punjab and Haryana, a group of farmers heading to Singhu have gathered by the roadside for a break. They are part of a batch of farmers who started a ‘vehicle march’ from Tarn Taran district under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), an outfit at the forefront of the agitation. “We started our march on tractor-trolleys, cars, vans, and buses to Delhi from Tarn Taran in the morning. We are a batch of around 185 vehicles with close to 1,700 people,” says Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra, a senior leader of KMSC. “This is the country’s second freedom movement,” says Sukhwinder. “It is going to be tough but we are confident. We will see it through to the end.”   ‘This is the country’s second freedom movement. It is going to be tough but we are confident. We will see it through to the end,’ says Sukhwinder Singh Sabhra||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indefatigable/article34742341.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Mummy returns||Not so long ago, the world witnessed an extraordinary coming alive of Egypt’s Pharaonic past in the streets of Cairo, when 22 mummies were moved from the Egyptian Museum to the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization. The fanfare was absolute. Hundreds of men and women dressed in ancient fashion paraded the route. The dead, encased in their environment-controlled specially designed vehicles, received a 21-gun salute, befitting their royal status, as they arrived at their new ‘palace’ and were welcomed by President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. The event was streamed across the globe. One might ask what the idea is behind such a global spectacle. The answer is that Egypt today stands at the cusp of history, where it needs to redefine itself as a nation. Historian Eric Hobsbawm says that an element of social engineering goes into the making of nations; and in most cases, it is not nations and nationalisms that make the state but the state that makes nations and nationalisms. But what has driven Egypt to this point, where it has to invoke the Pharaohs to redefine itself? The Nile Basin and Northern African lands have the longest known history in the world, contiguous with great empires and smaller dynasties. The region then became part of the larger Greco-Roman universe and an important centre of Christianity. From the 7th century onwards, a number of Muslim dynasties rose and fell here, followed by the Ottoman conquest in 1517. During this period, Egypt emerged as a significant seat of Islamic learning. Al-Azhar University, which opened in 972 CE, is the second oldest continuously operating university in the world. The majority of the WANA (West Asia and North Africa) population was gradually Islamised during this period. In modern times, Egypt has retained its sovereignty under different kingdoms, except twice when it was colonised by the French (1798 and 1801) and the British (1882-1922) empires. The last Kingdom of Egypt was toppled in the Egyptian Revolution of 1952, giving way to the Republican era. A strong voice Under Gamal Abdel Nasser, Egypt became a strong voice. It played an important role in the geopolitics of the Arab world, particularly with respect to the Arab-Israeli conflict. Nasser was also instrumental in the establishment of the Non-Aligned Movement. His 18-year reign was followed by 11 years of Anwar Sadat, who buried the hatchet with Israel by signing the Camp David Accord in 1978. Sadat began the process of the liberalisation of the economy but was assassinated in 1981 by Islamic extremists. Hosni Mubarak became president after Sadat, and governed for 29 years, getting himself re-elected through referendum. Egypt underwent widespread economic changes during this time, but Mubarak was an autocrat and rights and freedoms were curtailed, with widespread corruption, arbitrary arrests, poverty and unemployment. A number of Arab states were under similar conditions. In 2011, the people in many of these countries took to the streets in a historical uprising, which came to be known as  the Arab Spring. In 2012, Mohamed Morsi of the Muslim Brotherhood became president of Egypt, but was rejected within a year. Then, in 2014, three years after the revolution, Egypt got a stable government. Egypt has been a religious and cultural centre for centuries. In modern times too, its film and music industries have been pioneers in the Arab world, but its prominence is gradually waning. Having come out of decades of authoritarian rule, the country needs a new self-understanding. In its quest for a national identity now, Egypt has turned to its ancient past. Since the discovery of mummies a little over 100 years ago, Ancient Egypt captured the popular imagination. Tourism is a large contributor to the country’s GDP as well as a major source of employment. Currently, there is a global trend of looking back at the past — real or imagined — to build a nationalist narrative, but national identity can be flexible and adapted to changing scenarios. Hobsbawm said that attempts to establish objective criteria for nationhood have failed because they try to fit historically novel, emerging, changing, and far from universal, entities into a framework of permanence and universality. In Egypt too, employing the ancient past to define its present is not straightforward. Tombs of importance The relationship between Islam and ancient Egypt is complicated. Pharaohs feature in the Koran , representing all the vices of the material world. It has become a terminology for excessive rulers. Almost all the presidents of Egypt have been called Pharaohs at some point. There are other aspects as well. Tombs are sacrosanct in Islam and many believe that the dead must be allowed to rest undisturbed rather than exhibited in a museum. A more orthodox view likens mummies to idols that must be destroyed. What we saw then on the streets of Cairo was an attempt at redefining the nation-state of Egypt. The event and the comments by the president and his wife, stating that the parade signifies the greatness of the people and is a symbol of Egypt’s rich history and diversity, are indicative. However, national identity formation is terribly hard and requires more than an event and mere words. Writer Amro Ali tweeted that “Egypt will condemn the cruelty of the pharaohs from the pulpit of the mosques and churches, then rush out to the streets to celebrate the greatness of the pharaohs,” adding “Contemporary Egypt in its quest for identity, modernity, and nation building has yet to reconcile the contradictions of employing pharaoh on both the religious and nationalist spectrum.” It is worthwhile to note that after the pharaohs and their gold have been torn away from their final resting place to be exhibited in museums, what remains are monuments like the pyramids, created from the blood and sweat of countless nameless people. These have withstood the test of time as the only remaining wonders of the ancient world. One hopes the new Egypt will usher in inclusiveness and prosperity for a long-suffering people whose legacy is essentially being used to define the present nation. The writer works as a policy analyst at the Centre for Budget and Governance Accountability. Twitter@VijaytaMahendru  The relationship between Islam and ancient Egypt is complicated. Pharaohs feature in theKoran, representing all the vices of the material world; a term for excessive rulers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-mummy-returns/article34742320.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The island belongs to us’||Forever thought to be a tranquil abode of corals, lagoons and a peaceful people, the Union Territory of Lakshadweep, in the Arabian Sea to the west of Kerala, made sudden headlines a few weeks ago. Widespread protests had erupted over a slew of new development regulations that were announced seemingly unilaterally by Lakshadweep’s new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel. A campaign for the recall of the ‘insensitive’ administrator has now gained national momentum, with the island chain’s elected representatives, including its Panchayat members, and the sole Member of Parliament, P.P. Mohammed Faizal, seeking a restoration of democracy. Excerpts from an interview with Faizal: Why did the new ‘development proposals’ rattle the calm political environs of Lakshadweep? There were ongoing development projects in Lakshadweep well before Mr. Patel arrived. For example, when we needed specialist doctors during my first term as MP, we sought the help of the National Health Mission to contract doctors for a specified period in Lakshadweep. Agatti island had the service of some specialists but we wanted to extend it across Kavaratti, Androth, Amini and Minicoy islands. A monthly grant of Rs. 2 lakh was offered and the experience criterion was relaxed, but the response was tepid. So we changed tack and called for tenders from hospitals to delegate doctors for one year. It worked and we got 35 specialists available round-the-clock. Hospital infrastructure and facilities were upgraded in tandem. These contracts were set to expire when Mr. Patel arrived and without bothering to consult anyone, he ordered a return to the old, unviable system, which has reduced the number of specialists and their 24x7 availability. And how many days has Mr. Patel spent on the islands in the past six months to understand the ground realities? Hardly 15 days! Secondly, all islanders evacuated to Kochi on medical grounds used to be covered under a comprehensive medical insurance scheme specific to Lakshadweep. Mr. Patel replaced it with Ayushman Bharat, which restricts the benefit to just BPL families. Worse, very few hospitals in Kochi are empanelled under Ayushman Bharat. The result is that treatment expenses are on the islanders now. Work on a 100-bed hospital in Kavaratti, whose foundation was laid by President Ramnath Kovind, was 30% complete when the district collector halted it, citing the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (LDAR) and claimed at a press conference in Kochi that the administration would build a new hospital. Hundreds of workers have been retrenched. The people are put to untold hardship amidst a raging pandemic. All draft notifications were in English and published on the Internet with just 20 days for people to respond. What was the tearing hurry? The people’s representatives learnt about the proposals just like the commoner. While they speak volumes about federalism, where’s the federal system here? So, there were no consultations while these reforms were drafted? We have a two-tier panchayat system and a district planning committee in which chairpersons of village panchayats, the MP, the district panchayat president, members and officers are members. The drafts weren’t discussed anywhere. Mr. Patel will go back when his tenure ends, but the island belongs to us and we live here. Democracy demands that reforms are discussed with us. But the argument is that the legislations are still in draft form… The draft notification for the Goonda Act (Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation) came in December and I’m not sure if it incorporated comments by the people before it was forwarded to the ministry. The Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation [that bans beef on the Muslim-majority islands]; the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation [which clips the wings of democratically elected representatives] have all been sent. Only the LDAR is probably left. But hasn’t it been in the works for some time now? The contention is that the Island Development Agency was formed for ‘holistic development’ in keeping with the Integrated Island Management Plan (IIMP). I am a member of the advisory committee chaired by the Union Home Minister, which evaluates the overall development of the islands and of Centre-sponsored schemes. The committee hasn’t discussed any of these regulations. As for the IIMP, it has been accepted and notified by the government, on the basis of which local entrepreneurs submitted several proposals that have been pending with the department of tourism for several years now. Why is the District Collector, who heads the tourism department, not granting permission to local entrepreneurs? Lakshadweep is a place where VVIPs roam about without any security. The Collector has maligned the island, saying AK-47s have been seized, drug running has been unearthed. The archipelago is surrounded by international waters, where these seizures were made. Till date, not a single islander has been connected with these incidents. Are you suggesting an ulterior motive behind the moves? When the people of Kiltan protested the District Collector’s irresponsible statement, they were arrested for violating curfew. There was also an attempt to foist sedition charges on them. There’s a concerted move to justify the Goonda Act. Their intent is to implement LDAR, but see how the discussion was diverted to banning beef and introducing liquor on the islands. If LDAR, which has several downright foolish sections, is discussed, one would ask why Lakshadweep, whose largest island has a surface area of just 4.9 sq. km., needs a highway or a quarry. Do you suspect that someone is eyeing the land on the uninhabited islands That’s the crux of the matter — land. The islanders have for decades cultivated on Pandaram land, and there was an effort to notify and regularise all transactions in relation to Pandaram land till December 2019. It was notified in the gazette and the framing of the rules for awarding occupancy was in the final stages when Mr. Patel came and questioned why people should have land on uninhabited islands. The creation of LDAR is targeted at the agricultural land, low-lying and underdeveloped, held by the islanders on uninhabited islands. These areas can be easily taken over in the name of tourism development. This is a way to grab land officially, and then lease it out. This is legalised land grab. Are the islanders ecologically aware? The islands are made of coral, which takes centuries to grow. The comparison with the Maldives is faulty because it has numerous uninhabited islands. Lakshadweep is tiny and densely populated and any development should be in tune with the IIMP. If you do it mindlessly, the island ecosystem will collapse and it’s our home, not Patel’s. A vast number of islanders have over time become aware of the fragility of its ecology. Sea cucumber is abundantly seen off these islands and their excretion feeds the corals. The islanders now know that if exploited extensively, this food chain breaks, threatening the existence of the corals. With legislations still in draft form, it is alleged that panchayats are being denuded of powers. They have thrust a dagger into democracy by divesting the panchayats of control over five major departments like agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry, which directly contribute to people’s lives and welfare. We have written to the President and the Prime Minister. We are going to fight in the court too. We are now awaiting the Centre’s response. We will not succumb to any pressure and are ready to face the consequences.  Comparison with the Maldives is faulty because Lakshadweep has numerous uninhabited islands. It is tiny and densely populated||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-island-belongs-to-us/article34742317.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Djinn without tonic||Djinns are made of smokeless fire. This explanation comes from Kaneez the midwife at the beginning of A.A. Jafri’s debut novel, Of Smokeless Fire . Kaneez is assisting at the birth of Mansour ul Haq, the much-awaited son of Noor ul Haq, a wealthy, secular liberal and his pious, orthodox and rigidly observant wife, Farhat. Farhat has miscarried 11 earlier pregnancies: Kaneez feels that this baby’s safe passage has some sinister portent. However, Mansour’s alleged djinn-ness doesn’t really impact the story till the very end. The narrative, set in Pakistan from the 1950s onward, follows two groups of characters representing two generations and reflecting evolving Pakistani realities. Journey through a timeline The role of the first group seems to be to embody the Partition generation. It comprises Mansour’s father, Noor, a successful barrister, and his three great companions — an academic, a diplomat and a journalist — close friends since their student days in Aligarh. In 1947 they had migrated to the new nation of Pakistan, filled with idealism and hope for its democratic and prosperous future. Later, they would get together regularly over whisky and large meals to discuss poetry, philosophy and — with increasing bitterness — Pakistan’s politics. The reader is thus taken through a series of historical events centred on Pakistan — military coups, changes to the Constitution, wars with India, the secessionist movement in East Pakistan, the persecution of Ahmadis, Islamisation — which feels like a journey through a timeline. For some reason, Jafri does not ever refer to Pakistan’s leaders by their names: so Jinnah is always the Great Leader, Z.A. Bhutto is the People’s Leader, Yahya Khan is named Rangeelay Shah, and General Zia is known as General Behroopia. The book isn’t an allegory and so it remains a puzzle why Jafri uses this device. If Noor and his friends are products of Partition, the group round his son, Mansour, represents Pakistan’s post-Partition generation. It consists of Mansour; Mehrun, the daughter of Kaneez the midwife; Joseph, the house-cleaner’s son; and Mansour’s cousin Khaleel, a small-time bully and thug. Things aren’t easy for Mansour. His parents fight bitterly and he is torn between his father’s near militant rationalism and his mother’s equally strong insistence on faith. Joseph, Mehrun and, to a lesser extent, Khaleel, struggle under poverty and oppressive parents. Meanwhile, Noor’s cohort starts falling apart: one friend is lynched for being Ahmadi, the journalist becomes a government apologist, the diplomat finds religion and transforms into a bigoted but very successful preacher. Extended checklist The next generation, however, prospers. Mansour goes to the U.S. for a Ph.D in economics; Joseph also makes good rapidly, if rather unbelievably, in the U.S.; Mehrun achieves the high-flying life she had longed for. Even the unsavoury Khaleel becomes close to some fundamentalists and diversifies into petty blackmailing. In the end, the djinn element, irrelevant for most of the story, returns for a neatly contrived finish. Like many debut novels, Of Smokeless Fire ranges over an extended checklist of many themes — Pakistani politics, the rise of orthodoxy, class relationships, caste oppression, superstition, to name a few — all jostling for attention. The characters remain somewhat undeveloped, though long explanations regarding their motives and feelings punctuate the text at frequent intervals. Crisis of soul Noor is the most realised character and we are repeatedly told his central dilemma is that he hates what Pakistan has become — the corruption, religiosity, anti-liberalism — but can’t leave it. He feels like an exile in his own land. But if this is the theme — and it’s certainly an interesting one with resonance on our side of the border too — it’s not developed properly. Instead, frequent references to Noor’s alcohol intake are proffered to indicate his frustration and despair. Moreover, the two groups presumably represent different strands of Pakistani identity. If this is so, then the reasons behind their very different responses to present realities, which would have been though-provoking, are not touched upon. The crisis of soul in Pakistan has been tackled extensively in existing Pakistani fiction — for instance, Mohsin Hamid portrayed the self -destructiveness of the Lahore elite in Moth Smoke ; Kamila Shamsie the toxic nature of intra-family relationships in Salt and Saffron ; while class relationships dominated Daniyal Mueenuddin’s In Other Rooms, Other Wonders . One of the interesting developments in the subcontinent’s contemporary English literary scene is that Pakistani fiction tends to upfront political themes while an emerging trend in India is to move away to other, less overtly political areas. The reasons would be fascinating to explore, but it is sufficient here to say that there is a plethora of writing, some of it highly accomplished, illuminating Pakistani politics through fiction — a long list which includes books by Mohsin Hamid, Muhammad Hanif, Fatima Bhutto, Sabyn Javeri. Sarvat Hasin has even explored the djinn theme in You Can’t Go Home Again , as a metaphor for a certain kind of social and political malaise. A.A. Jafri’s Of Smokeless Fire is an earnest, well-intentioned addition to this portfolio. The writer is former Deputy Publisher at Penguin Random House India and author ofDelhi Metropolitan: The Making of an Unlikely City.  Of Smokeless Fire A.A. Jafri Penguin Viking  Rs. 499    Noor is the most realised character and his central dilemma is that he hates what Pakistan has become — the corruption, religiosity, anti-liberalism — but can’t leave it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/djinn-without-tonic/article34742351.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Seven days and nights||On March 24, 2020, millions of migrant workers across the country were reminded that it is impossible for the poor to live on their own terms. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of an unprecedented national lockdown at a four-hour notice to contain the spread of COVID-19, left people unaware and stranded in their cities of work, away from home. Soon, they were without food, shelter and jobs and no immediate arrangements from the government were in place either to take care of the enormous workforce. Perilous journey The acute uncertainty made the migrants, backbone of the economy, look for a chance to survive. The sudden shutdown of all businesses robbed them of their livelihood and turned their struggle into one against starvation. It was the fight to live and be with their families that pushed lakhs of men, women and children on the roads even as the government made it mandatory for people to stay indoors. They undertook perilous journeys, no matter what the distance was and the risks it entailed. A shameful parade of heart wrenching stories unfolded on the country’s State and National Highways — these were stories of accidents and anguish, hunger and deaths, exhaustion and escapades. Few were told while many more remained untold. In 1232 km: The Long Journey Home, journalist-cum-film maker Vinod Kapri, documents one such nightmarish experience of seven labourers who bicycled from Loni in Ghaziabad near Delhi to Madhepur in Bihar, covering a distance of 1200-plus kilometres in seven days and nights. Kapri set out to make a documentary film on the biggest exodus in India after Partition. But a book about the physical and psychological trauma of Ritesh, Ram Babu, Ashish, Krishna, Sonu, Mukesh and Sandeep evolved on its own because Kapri became a part of the story as a witness to one of the toughest journeys of internal migrants. N. Ram aptly quotes from T.S.Eliot’s The Hollow Men in the foreword to reflect on the sorry state of the governments that failed to deliver on their promises of reducing the problems of the poor. Instead of providing them with life-saving necessities during the lockdown, for 10 weeks the powers that be let the highways turn into a desolate world of the deprived and the defeated; a world of the people, who have been victims of social indifference and senseless suffering for decades due to distorted development. The new form of mass civil disobedience had to be recorded for posterity, writes Kapri. The world needed to see the sufferings unleashed on the migrants, who were unaware of their ingenuity and brilliance and strengthened by their struggles. Staring at hardship The book is filled with true incidents that are both distressing and inspirational. The bruises and betrayal the migrant workers faced tug at the heart with a message: that hard times don’t just break a person; they also can make a person, like the seven protagonists who stood tall in solidarity each time when the police beat them down; or they endangered their lives with a detour into forests, fields and rivers in order to circumvent sealed borders; or continued to pedal ahead on empty stomachs because turning back would have meant death. The book’s power lies in its account of the ordinariness of a common man’s life, hit by loss of income. It asks a simple question: How do we save the phone numbers of those who make our living easy — the man who irons our clothes, the security guard of our apartment block, the vegetable vendor, the carpenter or the plumber? Do we know their names or care where and how they live? Dhobi bhaiya, akhbaarwallah, subziwali , is how we mock at their existence that is often devalued and degraded. During the pandemic they came to us feeling stuck and lost. When a 30-second video by 22-year-old Ritesh, on empty canisters to show the plight of 30 labourers from Bihar going without food, went viral, Kapri arranged for help. But on April 27 he came to know the group had left for their village on second-hand cycles. He called to enquire how would they manage food en route or seek help if somebody fell ill or if their cycles got punctured but realised that the virus of hunger, poverty and mistrust was deadlier than the coronavirus. With associate Manav Yadav, he followed Ritesh and six others in his car to record their journey, with rules laid for the documentary — that nothing would be created or staged for the camera, there would be no interference from his side unless an emergency, the ground reality would be filmed as a 10-minute spot recording every two hours. Kindness on the road Poignant instances became pages in the non-fiction: When the labourers cried to their families on phone; tried to cross the Ganga with cycles on their shoulders to avoid police check-posts; searched for leftover food in the bins; were shooed away by locals from coming near the village well fearing infection; unemployed youths tried to rob them off their cycles at gun point; and they were locked up in quarantine centres without food for 24 hours in their home-State. There were heartwarming instances too: When the workers got two full meals and air-conditioned comfort for the night on May Day, or when good samaritans repaired their cycles or truck drivers offered free lifts. Kapri saw the migrants bear the brunt of police brutality and humiliation with resilience and re-energising themselves with unexpected help from kind strangers. The pangs of misery were defeated by outstretched hope and that is why these stories will be remembered for long.  1232 km: The Long Journey Home  Vinod Kapri  HarperCollins  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/seven-days-and-nights/article34742366.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The new law of nature||Illayaraja, in his 40s, is a fisherman in Tamil Nadu’s Pulicat town. Three generations of his family have subsisted on fishing for a living. But Illayaraja hopes for a different life for his two children. “I hope they find better jobs elsewhere and move out of this seashore town,” he says. The fishing village barely has any families left, most having migrated to cities in search of better livelihoods. “Fishing is becoming untenable here. Today we are surrounded by factories and power plants,” says Illayaraja, who had joined the protest against the Adani-L&T Kattupalli Port proposed here. The controversial project is expected to erode the northern part of the coast at an alarming rate of 16 metres per year, and will impact birdlife and marine diversity. The construction site is just 2.1 km away from Pulicat Wildlife Sanctuary, even though the law bars ports within 10 km of a sanctuary. “We already have high tides because of the development in the area and are restricted by big boats and ships,” says Illayaraja. The irony is that the Union government has listed Pulicat as one of 14 ‘priority wetlands’ in Tamil Nadu and an ‘important coastal and marine biodiversity area’. Urgent action As you read this, a team at J. Sagar Associates in Bengaluru is working on the draft of a new, single environment management act, which is all set to back this project and several others such as hydroelectric projects in Uttarakhand and Jammu’s Ujh multipurpose project, all of which have the potential to destroy the ecologically sensitive areas they are set in. Amit Kapur, Joint Managing Partner, J. Sagar Associates, is under a “strict confidentiality obligation” and unable to share details, but what we know so far is that this new umbrella law is set to replace three existing Acts — Air Act 1981, Water Act 1974, and the Environment (Protection) Act 1986. The roots of this new Act can be traced to the 2014 Subramanian Committee that was appointed by the Union environment ministry to revise environment laws. As for the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of the Pulicat Lake, the State forest department submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for a 0 km ESZ in 2019. The expert appraisal committee on ESZ rejected the proposal. “If the new provisions are notified, the Pulicat Lake region will be affected. The new provisions dilute environmental protection and open up areas for development and ease of doing business,” says Pooja Kumar of the Coastal Resource Centre. A March 15 Facebook post on the Chennai Climate Action Group’s page highlights how, for the second time in a month, Kattupalli Kuppam fisherfolk demanded the fulfilment of the promise of permanent jobs in Adani-L&T Ports. ‘Angered by the government’s refusal to enforce the commitment, even as the threat of losing their fishing livelihood [because] of Adani’s demand for a No Fishing Zone around Kattupalli Port, a section of the fisherfolk are blocking the entrance to the L&T and Adani Kattupalli ports, even as several boats have set off to block the seaside entrance to the port,’ it reads. The appraisal of the Kattupalli Port project by the MoEFCC to grant terms of reference for the environmental impact assessment (EIA) and the Tamil Nadu government’s move to reduce the ESZ are both moving along independent paths, says Kumar. “It is suspected that the reduction of the ESZ will directly benefit the process of setting up the Kattupalli Port.”  Hard not to question The company has submitted the draft EIA report for a public hearing that has not yet taken place due to COVID-19, and the new date is yet to be announced. It is hard not to question the timing of yet another environmental law amidst a crippling pandemic. “The problem is when COVID-19 becomes an excuse to do away with public consultation and discussion that are an essential part of parliamentary democracy. It is ironic when the government considers not having public consultation as an act in public interest,” says environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta. While the government did not directly state that the Subramanian Committee Report will be implemented, in reality, it has set in motion many of its most problematic recommendations, says Dutta. The simplified procedure for felling trees under Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980; the exemption from EIA for building and construction projects; exemptions for expanding coal mines; and the absence of public hearing are all part of the Subramanian Committee Report. “Environmental laws are today enacted with neither the environment nor the public in mind, but keeping in mind the interest of those who want to exploit the environment. The emission norms for power plants, for instance, have been framed keeping the interest of the emitters in mind and not those who inhale the polluted air,” says Dutta. Need to engage India’s EIA process appears to ensure that a project gets approval in the shortest timeframe without basic studies. In the case of Mopa airport in Goa, after four years of litigation before the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court, the latter directed the Expert Appraisal Committee of the MoEFCC to re-examine the project. Dutta says the re-examination was done in a single meeting held on one day and the committee approved the project again. Drafting environmental laws has rarely been a transparent, participative process, says Shibani Ghosh, environmental lawyer and Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, adding that this is true for the legislative process in India in general. “Demands for reform of environmental regulation generally, and of specific regulatory instruments (such as the EIA notification) have been raised so many times over the years. Several studies and reports have been published by government and non-government actors. The courts have commented and made recommendations as well,” she says. “It is important for the government to engage with all stakeholders in a meaningful way right from when the proposal is on the drawing board. Tweaking a few provisions in response to public comments (if public consultation is undertaken, that is) is just not enough.”  Draftingenvironmentallaws has rarely been a transparent, participative process, says Shibani Ghosh, Fellow, Centre for Policy Research, adding that this is true for the legislative process in India in general||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-new-law-of-nature/article34742378.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||PIO gives Board exam||G ENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:  a) Following a high-level review meeting chaired by our Supreme Leader, all the subjects have been compressed and fitted into three core subjects due to the COVID-19 situation. b) As a special measure applicable only this year, candidates can pass the Board exam just by clearing this specially crafted question paper. c) All questions are compulsory. d) There is no negative marking. But any positive marking depends on you. e)Every Public Information Officer (PIO) appearing for this exam is required to write his/ her Aadhaar number, PAN, national health ID number, voter ID number, passport number, driving licence number, citizenship number, and credit card number in the designated space provided in the answer booklet.  Section A — English   Twinkle, twinkle little star   How I wonder what you are   Up above the world so high   Like a diamond in the sky   Q1 : What is the poet wondering about in line 2?  A : The information sought is not readily available. The same will be provided soon after the receipt of the same.  Q2 : What is the poetic device used by the poet in line 3 — simile or metaphor?  A : The information sought has been received in a fiduciary relationship with the poet, and therefore exempted from disclosure under section 8(1) (j) of the RTI Act.  Q3 : How many lines are there in this poem?  A : The information sought would require counting, which could disproportionately divert the mental resources of the government.  Q4 . In Shakespeare’s play Macbeth , what weapon did Macbeth use to kill King Duncan?  A : The disclosure of this information would impede the process of investigation into the murder of King Duncan, and is therefore exempted under Section 8 (1) (h) of the RTI Act.  Section B — Biology   Q5 . What role does an individual organism play as per Charles Darwin’s theory of natural selection?  A : Since the information sought relates to personal information of an individual organism, the disclosure of which has no relationship to any public activity or interest, and would further cause unwarranted invasion of the privacy of Shri Charles Darwin, disclosure of the same is exempted under Section 8 (1) (j) of the RTI Act.  Q6 . How is it that a mature embryo sac in a flowering plant can possess 7 cells but 8 nuclei?  A . Disclosure of this information would cause a breach of privilege of the flowers of the flowering plant and is therefore exempt under Section 8 (1) (c) of the RTI Act.  Q7 . Draw a diagram of the female reproductive system and label the parts.  A . The disclosure of the information sought is against Indian culture and also, given that any and all reproductive activity by Indians is conducted strictly through the holy tear drops of pure peacocks, this query is rejected under Section 8 (1) (p) of the RTI Act.  Q8 . We knew you’d say that. Actually, the ‘reproductive system’ referred to in Q7 is not of Indians per se , but of the American cockroach ( Periplaneta Americana ). Share the damn diagram.  A . Since the information sought pertains to a private individual of American nationality, it is exempted from disclosure under Section 8 (1) (a) of the RTI Act as it might prejudicially affect India’s relations with a foreign state (America).  Section C — General Knowledge   Q9. Why did the chicken cross the road?  A. Since the information sought pertains to  cabinet papers, including records of intellectual deliberations on this matter by the Council of Ministers, Secretaries, Under Secretaries and Uber-Secretaries, its disclosure is exempted under Section 8 (1) (i) of the RTI Act.  Q10 . Vaccines save lives. If you had to protect 1.4 billion Indians from the threat of a deadly virus, what would you do and why? 1. Delay the procurement of vaccines 2. Export millions of vaccines before all Indians are vaccinated 3. Conduct super-spreader events 4. All of the above  A . Disclosure of this information is prohibited under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, and since this is a motivated query of ill-intent, an exemplary cost of Rs. 15 lakh is imposed on this question paper’s authors, who shall debit the amount directly into the Central Vista budget.  Q11. What is India’s true COVID-19 death toll?  A . The information sought falls under Section 8 (1) (w) of the RTI Act which exempts from disclosure stuff that you don’t really want to know.  Q12 . Is the coronavirus allergic to cow dung?  A . Kindly explain in writing why criminal proceedings should not be initiated against you under Section 124A (Sedition) of the IPC which prescribes imprisonment for “whoever, by words, either spoken, written, or in a printed question paper, excites, or attempts to excite, disaffection towards the natural products of bos indicus (boss of India).”  Q13 . What is the capital of India?  A . Thedisclosure of this information would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific and economic interests of the state and is naturally exempted under Section 8 (1) (a) of the RTI Act.  The disclosure of this information would impede the process of investigation into the murder of King Duncan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pio-gives-board-exam/article34742374.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Uncle Sam and the philosopher’s stone||Sanjena Sathian’s debut novel Gold Diggers is a melting pot that mixes alchemy, ambition, and the American dream. There’s a splash of magical realism and a pinch of the good old heist plot. The result is quite a well-researched tale that traverses several paths — from dusty old Bombay to a California shaped by the Gold Rush. Harvard-sized expectations But at its core, Gold Diggers is a familiar story of belonging, about a generation of Indian-American children grappling with a feeling of otherness in a country they can’t call home just yet. It’s about how they juggle that with Harvard-sized expectations from their parents, who want the children to justify their choice to cross the oceans, leaving behind all they knew. You hear several characters echo the same question: what does it mean to be both Indian and American? It’s the early 2000s and Neeraj ‘Neil’ Narayan is a teenager from an Atlanta suburb, living with his parents and elder sister. In a sea of high-achieving Indian immigrant kids, Neil is average. He mostly wants to do what his mother terms “nonsense” — party and get drunk. “I consisted of little but my parents’ ambitions for who I was to become,” Neil says. Across the street is Anita Dayal, Neil’s childhood friend-turned-crush. “Our parents, the four brown adults in a largely white subdivision, collaborated to create a simulacrum of India in a reliably red Georgia county,” Neil observes. But Anita, unlike Neil, is fiercely ambitious. Her eyes are set on catapulting herself into one of the Ivy Leagues, winning Miss Teen India USA en route, following a course charted by her parents. Sathian meticulously documents how the two Indian families and several others nearby grow together in every toxic way, from comparing the looks and academic achievements of their children to gossiping about the marital status of other Indians. But her skill lies in how she infuses this seemingly normal tale of everyday life with something as extraordinary as alchemy. The story is slingshot to the realm of magic realism when Neil finds out the secret behind Anita’s recent successes: her mother brews a magic concoction by melting gold jewellery pilfered from other, more successful Indian homes. Drinking it transfers the talent and ambition from the gold’s owner to the drinker, helping her win everything from maths quizzes to beauty pageants. Ways of being brown Neil joins the party, regularly downing the “lemonade”, and he soon finds himself triumphing in his pursuits too. All is well till he takes it a bit too far, resulting in a terrible tragedy. Ten years later, Neil and Anita, now living in the Bay Area, California, are dealing with disappointments, even as everyone around them seems to be flourishing. Neil has gone from being an awkward teenager to a drug-addicted graduate student. Anita has dropped out of college. But the pursuit of gold continues, albeit in different ways. Sathian’s characters are flawed humans. Neil is a floundering manchild with seemingly no redeeming quality. But your heart goes out to him. “I wished everyone would give up on me,” Neil says. “Their gazes were too forceful, their hopes for me too enormous.” Sathian expertly intertwines historical fiction with the multiple narratives and time-jumps. The only peg that keeps Neil tethered, even as life around him unravels, is his pursuit of the story of the ‘Bombayan gold digger’ from the Californian Gold Rush. He believes this tale can offer him a much-needed connection to this country. “Maybe there were other ways of being brown on offer” if only he could prove that he had “roots in American soil, if our collective past was more textured than I’d been led to believe.” The underlying pain buried in Gold Diggers might not resonate with those who do not know what it means to be perpetual outsiders in another country. But most would know the burden of ambition, both fulfilled and incomplete. Most would know the feeling of adolescent insecurity spilling over to adulthood. To them, Gold Diggers would be an immensely satisfying tale.  Gold Diggers  Sanjena Sathian  HarperCollins India  Rs. 599    Sathian’s characters are flawed humans. Neil is a floundering manchild with seemingly no redeeming quality. But your heart goes out to him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/uncle-sam-and-the-philosophers-stone/article34742348.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Be idle, be happy||With most of us stuck at home, the many elves who keep the short-term course and webinar mills running have been very busy. Switch on your computer and they hit you from every direction. They offer courses in app dev, Hebrew, painting à la Van Gogh, dog-nail clipping and more, and that too at slashed rates. Such wondrous courses and webinars are guaranteed to keep you busy forever. Thou shalt not remain idle. Thou shalt be industrious and ‘upskill’ thyself, proclaims the great voice from deep inside the machine. And a 10-year-long school education in moral science forces you to meekly accept it. This life, full of care, is doomed to be without the privilege to sit and stare. Perpetual hurry In this perpetual hurry and scurry that we call ‘life’, is there space for those of us who want to do nothing? Can we aim at the kind of life Karel Čapek extolled in his essay, ‘In Praise of Idleness’: “To be like a stone without weight. To be like water without reflection. Like a cloud without motion... like a human without thoughts”? Bertrand Russell, who borrowed Čapek’s title for his essay (in essence, subliminally strengthening his case), talks of how the notion of ‘duty’ has been drilled into us in order to ensure that we always stay on the treadmill and delude ourselves into thinking that duty trumps everything. It means, keep working constantly... so that certain others can enjoy their leisure! Work, which he terms “moving matter about”, while being necessary to a limited extent is not “one of the ends of human life”, Russell asserts. Even that hallowed phrase, ‘dignity of labour’, is a sham. It has been carefully constructed to keep the minions scurrying about while the creamy layer people gaze out at the blue sky and sigh in pleasure at the beautiful day. Russell says that four hours of work a day should be sufficient to keep us in fine fettle. Speaking in the 1930s, he said that technology had evolved enough to grant us leisure. And yet here we are, almost a century later, still on the eternal treadmill. Let us state clearly that idling is honourable. And it is achievable. Onward with the case for it. Binding the free In ‘An Apology for Idlers,’ Robert Louis Stevenson, writing decades before Russell, says that idleness has “as good a right to state its position as industry itself”. His model young person, whom he briefly sketches in the essay, offers a stout defence of his conduct when pulled up for lolling around the countryside. He says he is busy learning a lesson in “Peace, or Contentment”. Perhaps anticipating the high value that capitalism would attach to the wealthy, Stevenson also says: “Many make a large fortune, who remain underbred and pathetically stupid to the last.” While we have known for a long time that a fancy degree and a swelling bank balance cannot buy you happiness, we know now that they cannot even get you a hospital bed or an oxygen cylinder. So why labour unnecessarily? To stand and stare, devoid of thoughts — at blue skies, starry nights, even heartless concrete — is worth fighting for. We all need to cast away our attachment to work and ask, as Charles Lamb did: “Who first invented work, and bound the free/ And holyday-rejoicing spirit down/ To the ever-haunting importunity/ Of business in the green fields, and the town —/ To plough, loom, anvil, spade — and oh! most sad,/ To that dry drudgery at the desk’s dead wood?” Let us stop being productive for a while and enjoy life to the lees. The Bengaluru-based writer works in publishing.  In this perpetual hurry and scurry that we call ‘life’, is there space for those of us who want to do nothing?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/be-idle-be-happy/article34742345.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||In search of a good death||In these virus-induced deadly moments of gloom and doom, death has taken centre stage in most private and public conversations. For once, a “good death” is what people aspire for their loved ones with end-stage COVID-19 complications. In these hours of morbidity all around, thinking about good life may not be altogether a misplaced thought. After all, a good life has been everybody’s cherished dream. In this context, I am curiously reminded how my elderly relatives would often return my respectful bow with blessings to “live a hundred years”. Even some friends, surprised by my unexpected call, do exclaim to this day, “You’ll live a hundred years!” A wish for “100 years” has been employed for toasts among diverse cultures and societies. If nothing, the feel-good wish triggers an optimism towards living a long life. And, why would anybody play it down? In fact, nobody ever did. Instead those who first thought of it must have been hopeful of achieving the three-digit mark for humans. It is, however, another matter that for most of our long history as a species, our average life expectancy was capped at about 35. Perhaps the inspiration of jumping it three times over may have come from the life of some mythical characters like the invincible Bhishma, who lived long enough to witness four or five generations. In recent times, the island of Okinawa in Japan has the highest number of people over the age of 100, but the average life expectancy is still quite far from catching up. Yet, there is a case for rejoicing as Steven Johnson explains in his recent book Extra Life: A Short History of Living Longer that between the Spanish flu of 1918 and the COVID-19 pandemic, global life expectancy doubled to around 72. Humans have gained thousands of extra days to live. Far from finding people jumping with joy on gaining those extra days, the number of people feeling stressed and miserable have actually been on the rise. Ironically, the same elders who bless me with “100 years” often wish for themselves an early exit from life. Why? Because all around, they find that the extra years gained are mostly spent living with pain, disease and dementia. For them, more years to life mean an expansion of morbidity at a higher cost. Past her seventies, my paternal aunt would plead for a respectable exit from life each time I met her. While I dissuaded her from thinking so, she was clear in her mind that a profit-driven healthcare system and a hole-riddled social safety net would do no good to her for the rest of her life. With a hip bone fracture to contend with and an alarming blood sugar level to negotiate daily, the extra nine years she gained were indeed of misery, pain and social neglect. Given that death is the most basic fact of life, there are a growing number of social networks in medically advanced countries which advise and help people to take a rational call to exit life. There is little doubt that unless the science of gerontology succeeds in squeezing ageing into an increasingly short period of life, life expectancy gains will prove a huge loss in the long term. The pandemic has shockingly demonstrated that as much as a good life, people desire a good death too. sudhirendarsharma@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-search-of-a-good-death/article34742334.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Why India, Pakistan relations are fraught and interrupted||There are various layers of hostility in this candid book written by Abdul Basit, Pakistan’s High Commissioner to India between 2014 and 2017. Hostility between India and Pakistan is, of course, a running theme of the book, but Basit also describes in rich detail the “hostility” within the top echelons of the Pakistani foreign office. Basit’s posting to India itself was marred by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s decision to appoint him Foreign Secretary while serving in Germany as ambassador but this was undone, according to him, by the many rivalries in the Islamabad foreign office. Interestingly, Basit admits that he had “never served anywhere in South Asia” before getting the Delhi job. (The man initially tapped for the India job was Syed Ibne Abbas, who served as Political Counsellor in Pakistan’s mission, may have proven a better fit for India-Pakistan relations). Many a Pakistani and Indian diplomat who became High Commissioner has done at least one posting in the “hostile” country. Difference of opinion Basit, in the main, says that due to differences of opinion, personality and approach, he was excluded by his foreign office from key decisions, but still managed to save the day for Pakistan by keeping the public focus on the Kashmir issue. Referring to the suspense on whether or not Sharif would attend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s swearing in on May 26, 2014, in New Delhi, Basit says that confirmation of the Pakistani leader’s visit came in the form of a text message he received from Sajjan Jindal, an Indian entrepreneur and close friend of Sharif. The former diplomat also suggests that the sudden visit of Modi to Lahore on Christmas Day 2015 to attend Sharif’s grand-daughter’s wedding was “definitely the handiwork of Jindal”.     Basit, talking about conflicting messages coming out of Islamabad in 2016, writes: “Pakistan then had three foreign ministers; Prime Minister Sharif who himself retained the portfolio of foreign minister; Advisor Sartaj Aziz and Special Assistant Tariq Fatemi. When such was the situation, how could sanity prevail?”  Letter of reprimand Given that Basit’s meeting with Hurriyat leaders led to a rupture in dialogue between India and Pakistan, he refers to discussions early in 2015 in Islamabad and says “some in government” (the army brass) wanted him to return to Delhi to meet Hurriyat leaders and then come for Indian Foreign Secretary S. Jaishankar’s visit to Pakistan. Basit also reveals he received a letter of reprimand in April 2016 from Islamabad for some comments he had made about “talks” between India and Pakistan at the Foreign Correspondents Club in Delhi. Having interacted with several Pakistani High Commissioners, this reviewer believes that public silence is an underrated virtue for Pakistani and Indian diplomats. On this front, Basit seems to have upset not just his Indians hosts, but also his own side. He also reveals that resumption of “back-channel diplomacy” was specifically mentioned in the agreement between India and Pakistan after the two Prime Ministers met in Ufa, Russia, in July 2015, but never made public. Basit finds “merit” in the suggestion that Pakistan should revoke the “shackles of bilateralism” on Kashmir by junking the 1972 Simla Agreement. He also suggests: “Their [Kashmiris] struggle has to be reinvigorated on both political and military fronts.” Given the active abetment of Pakistan’s army-intelligence establishment in fomenting terror in Kashmir and other parts of India, such a statement from a former Pakistani diplomat is a dead giveaway. It sits well with those holding among the most hawkish views on India in the Pakistani establishment. Such views also detract from the task of establishing moderate approaches in dealing with differences between Pakistan and India.  Hostility – A Diplomat’s Diary on India-Pakistan Relations Abdul Basit HarperCollins  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/why-india-pakistan-relations-are-fraught-and-interrupted/article34742359.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Hue and cry||Dear Agony Akka,  My native is Patna and I am having State government job in department of education since two years. I have saved money to buy a scooter. Nobody in my family is having one and I will be first one to get. But second wave has come, so we are waiting for few more weeks before purchase. I went with wife to showroom and we selected one nice green colour scooter because both of us are liking that colour only. But now I am having doubts. Culture Minister is saying too much green means anti-national. I have already done the booking. Wife has also bought one matching sari for first ride. Should I cancel and rebook? Should I continue?  — Confused and Nervous   Dear CAN, Can you buy a green scooter?Yes, you can. May you buy a green scooter? Yes, you may. Should you buy a green scooter? Unh-uh. Such a situation is called dharam sankat — it was always happening to the characters in the wonderful TV serials Mahabharata and Ramayana . I used to watch each and every episode without fail. Unfortunately, flash of light will not come from heaven and reveal the path for you like in serial. Now, I am only flash of light for people like you with queries. Luckily, I am in a good position to answer because green is my favourite colour. Also red, black, yellow, and magenta but green is very favourite. Like how in multi-starrer movies many heroes are there, like that. But problem is bigger — we don’t know which exact green is offending our Culture Minister. Olive green, parrot green, lime, emerald, pistachio, moss green, mint green, which will indicate anti-national culture and which will indicate agriculture, that is the question. Whether we should eschew all greens altogether from our palette? That is a very good and possible solution. What to do with national flag then? Like Parliament House and Central Vista, we can redesign it, no problem. There are many colours in universe, we need not be fixated on green. It only gives a chance to Delhi CM and paddy fields to reveal their true colours. But rainbow also has green. Can you imagine it? Who would have thought that Nehru would have slyly infiltrated the atmosphere and embedded green colour in rainbow also? From then itself he was nursing appeasement tendencies in his bosom and it grew and grew until one day we woke up and found the offensive green colour everywhere, from molai keerai to mint cooler and, of course, in Kejriwal background, as the Culture Minister astutely noticed. Today, like famous dialogue from Hollywood film, we are forced to say, ‘Hueston, we have a problem’. And the only solution appears to be a complete design overhaul of heaven, earth and nether world so that we can eliminate all offending elements such as green colour, puncture shops, protesting farmers, Kangana tweets etc, etc — deep household cleaning as they say. If only we had suitable Urban Clap service for this also all our problems would be solved. I am sure one or two IIT-IIM graduates are reading this and already planning app or unicorn or reindeer. Like this only all my life I help other people to become millionaires while I go on living simple life of sacrifice. You please be smart and graduate quickly from scooter to car to Antilia. When scooter arrives, paint white stripes on it. It will still match wife’s sari and there won’t be predominance of green to offend Culture Minister. It is good to dye for the country.  — AA   agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hue-and-cry/article34742380.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On June 6, 1822, Canadian Alexis St. Martin was accidentally shot in the stomach with a musket. This left a hole through his side permanently, with a fistula aperture directly into the stomach. U.S. Army surgeon William Beaumont used this unique opportunity to study a poorly understood process. He would tie a food item to a string, lower it into the hole and take it out at timed intervals to study it. What process do we know better thanks to this freak accident? 2 On June 6, 1882, Henry W. Seely patented his invention. This consisted of a stainless steel plate that used resistive heating from an electric current, with a thermostat that switched off the current to maintain a steady temperature. It weighed 6.8 kg and took a long time to heat up. What device did Seely patent that is now available in different sizes and can reach working temperature in seconds? 3 On June 6, 1933, excited patrons in Camden, New Jersey drove into Crescent Boulevard, paid 25 cents per person and became the first people in history to be part of this revolutionary idea. The concept was the brainchild of Richard Hollingshead, whose mother kept complaining that she didn’t like the seats in the local movie theatre. What concept did Hollingshead debut that has now made a resurgence during the pandemic? 4 On June 6, 1942, Lt Cdr Adeline Gray became the first person to successfully use a particular device made of nylon. When she was a kid, she had a habit of jumping from the hayloft using an umbrella, and eventually at the age of 19 she became the first licensed woman in the world to perform this activity. What did Adeline Gray love using that we usually consider a life-saving device? 5 Born on June 6, 1956, this Swedish gentleman was the first player to earn a million dollars as prize money in one season. His streak of winning five consecutive titles on one of the most prestigious courts stood as a record till 2007 when a Swiss player finally matched the feat. Who was this player who, when he retired aged 26, had won 609 matches with a win ratio percentage of 82.74? 6 On June 6, 1962, three musicians decided to record a song together for the first time. Their producer, George Martin, introduced them to a drummer who was born in Madras, and the four recorded the song ‘Besame Mucho’. This drummer, despite being the Best in the band, was later replaced by another person who went on to become a Star. Which band is this? 7 On June 6, 1983, the 13th James Bond Film, Octopussy , starring Roger Moore, premiered in London. The first character to be cast was Vijay, who was Bond’s MI6 ally in India. The character is played by someone who is better known in another field. Onscreen, he drives an auto in an iconic chase sequence and uses a tennis racquet to fend off his attackers. Who played Vijay? 8 On June 6, 1984, this popular video game was first released in the Soviet Union by Alexey Pajitnov. The game usually involves a single player manipulating pieces known as ‘tetrominoes’ on a field. Although it has simple rules, it is known for theoretical complexity as the game progresses. In 1988, the Russian folk tune ‘Korobeiniki’ was added to the game, and became iconic by itself. What game is this that Pajitnov named after the number four and his favourite racquet sport? 9 On June 6, 1999, these two gentlemen bagged their maiden Grand Slam doubles crown, defeating Goran Ivanišević and Jeff Tarango in the final of the French Open. This made them the first Indian pair to achieve this historic win, and they went on to become the first pair to reach four successive Grand Slam finals in one year since 1952. With a total of 16 titles to their name, who are these two players? 10 In 2004, the Government of India declared that languages that met certain requirements could be accorded the status of ‘classical language’. The requirements included a recorded history over 1500-2000 years and a body of ancient literature considered a valuable heritage by generations of speakers. On June 6, the two houses of Parliament, in a joint sitting with President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam presiding, awarded the status for the first time to a Dravidian language whose earliest records can be traced back to 300 BC. Which language was this? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34742382.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Now you hear it...||In the sensory deprivation that is one lockdown after another, I’ve found some senses to take on new meaning. My sources of sanity these days have been the voices of people I love, both near and afar. I have returned to days-before-I-became-cool, preferring to call people rather than text. I leave voice messages and I exult in staring at my phone as it tells me that my interlocutor is ‘recording’. You might imagine me to be an avid consumer of the new kid on the block, Clubhouse, the app that lets you drop in on and participate in many online conversations. I tried. Despite the plethora of rooms on tap, the only one that held my attention was hosted by the poet and translator Mustansir Dalvi and the theatre actor and storyteller Danish Hussain. The two read aloud the poetry of Faiz Ahmad Faiz, followed by Dalvi’s English translations, and the timbre of their voices recalled for me some other time of parlour intimacies and easy sharing of food and bonhomie. Despite my cynicism about all the talk of love, revolution and nation, I found myself enthralled. Is it possible, though, to speak about voices without speaking of what the voice speaks about? In A Voice and Nothing More , the philosopher Mladen Dolar argues that the voice both stands between and connects body and language, nature and culture, noise and meaningful articulation. Dolar opens his book with the story of an Italian commander asking his soldiers to attack the enemy. The soldiers stay still, in full comprehension, and yet mesmerised into inaction by his beautiful voice. Anthropology often considers voice to connote either aesthetics or meaning, but for Dolar, it is more suited to the realm of the uncanny, that strange zone where we know not what pulls us to something, a je ne sais quoi of modern life with its fleeting magic and strange kinships. Vocal prejudice Such romanticisation, however, runs the risk of animating faith in some fundamental link between voice and identity. Long years ago, watching an online video of a Baul singer on a train offering a heart-breaking rendition of Arun Chakraborty’s ‘Lal paharir deshe ja’ , I was convinced that the bearer of the voice had discovered the meaning of life. I have often mistaken a deep baritone to signify depth of thought, and faintness of tongue as the umistakable clue to a barren inner life. Only very late did I begin to suspect that my understanding of beautiful voices may be suffering under the prejudices of gender, caste, class and race. Here, it would be wise to pay heed to anthropologists who remind us that voice is not a universal category. Its standards, aesthetics and disciplinary modes vary across culture and time. It is also a category that we learn. Over the course of our lives, we wield voice to perform identities, in the plural. We take pleasure and bear pain in mimicry and performance, coaxing the voice into cadences greatly recognisable but also greatly surprising. We absorb social structure through speaking and listening. Is it a surprise, then, that we set so much store by the imagined links between voice and identity? For if we didn’t believe this, we’d have to give up on our own identities as elaborate hoaxes. Tricky thing And yet, there is many a slip between voice and lip. Look, for example, at anthropologist Lotte Hoek’s stellar ethnographic work on relatively unknown and invisible Bangladeshi female dubbing artists being asked to provide more “sexpression” for the hyper-visible heroines on screen. Expand on this to consider the general category of voice artists, where the voice is literally what stands between nature and culture. The voice emanates from a body different from the one it’s appended to. And in the case of radio artists, the voice floats unmoored, attached to an imagined body. Is it better, then, to think of the voice as a trickster? Now you hear it, now you don’t. For only then can we account for those voices that we consider neither aesthetic nor meaningful. Only then can we expand our capacities to listen to the voices of the wild, the mad, the miserable, the incarcerated, the wilful, the disappearing and the ghostly. As Dolar argues, the voice is indeed an uncanny subject, something we have heard before and will again, and something that reveals things we know but prefer not to acknowledge.  Mladen Dolar opens his book with the story of an Italian commander asking his soldiers to attack the enemy. The soldiers stay still, in full comprehension, and yet mesmerised into inaction by his beautiful voice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/now-you-hear-it/article34742390.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Louie’s bad timing||Another Saturday night duplicate at the club and Hard Luck Louie had to decide how to play four spades on this deal. Louie had a slow loser in both diamonds and clubs, so he had to hold his trump losers to one. The best chance for that was to lead the suit from dummy, so Louie won the opening diamond lead with dummy’s king and led a trump. East won with his ace perforce and led the queen of diamonds. West ruffed Louie’s ace and exited with his last spade. Things looked bleak, but Louie had one more chance. He won the trump in hand, then cashed the ace and king of hearts and ruffed a heart. Louie cashed the ace and king of clubs in dummy. He was hoping to exit with dummy’s last club and throw West in so that West would have to yield a ruff-sluff. West was on the ball, however, and he played his queen of clubs under the king. East was then able to win the third club and cash a diamond for down one. Bad luck! Lucky Larry had the same problem a few rounds later. East was known to have at least five diamonds, so West’s lead had to be a singleton unless it was from precisely four-three doubleton. Taking precautions, Larry won the diamond lead in his hand and crossed to dummy with the king of hearts. A low spade lost to the ace, but when East continued with the queen of diamonds, West could not ruff one of Larry’s honours. Four spades, bid and made!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/louies-bad-timing/article34742385.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Roots of a division||Anyone seeking a deeper understanding of India’s partition will find former ambassador Bhaswati Mukherjee’s book, Bengal and its Partition , insightful. The writer traces the genesis of partition to events in Bengal dating back to the 1757 Battle of Plassey which the East India Company won by deceit. The spoils and plunder of that battle and the systematic economic exploitation of Bengal cast an ominous shadow on the rest of India, eventually triggering the revolt of 1857. The ironclad grip that the Empire established under a well-orchestrated ‘divide and rule’ policy was designed to make ‘the Jewel in the Crown of the Empire’ serve the larger cause of sustaining its global imperialism. State of famine The writer elaborates how Britain’s exploitative economic policies resulted in impoverishment of Bengal and the rest of the country; the Permanent Settlement of Cornwallis introduced in 1793 reduced within no time about 20 million farmers to landless labourers as most abandoned their land holdings unable to pay high taxes. Instead, some preferred to be daily wagers and some others turned indentured labourers, which the author stresses is another form of slavery that the British remains unapologetic for to this day. Food stocks were frequently diverted abroad to feed British soldiers fighting losing battles for the Empire in decline. Culmination of these policies led to Bengal being in a state of perpetual famine. The Great Bengal Famine of 1943-44 starved about 3.5 million to death. The resilient spirit of Bengalis found sustenance in the renaissance and reformation movements of the 19th century to which the Bengali intelligentsia significantly contributed. Feelings of patriotism and nationalism gave a definitive direction to the freedom movement. However, the rise of sectarian Islamic movements, owing to acute poverty, created conditions for divisive communalism, which the writer laments destroyed the syncretic culture of Bengal that for centuries had amalgamated both Hindu and Islamic beliefs and faiths. Segmented depiction The author explains how the casual interpretation of Indian history by the British eventually influenced the two-nation theory. The publication of James Mill’s The History of British India in 1817 divided Indian history on religious lines into three parts — Hindu, Muslim and British periods. This segmented depiction of Indian history created mental blocks in the collective consciousness of the people. It is indeed revealing that Jinnah was initially not serious about partition, but was only seeking to enhance his bargaining clout in the political calculus. The appointment of H.S. Suhrawardy as Chief Minister of Bengal in 1946 in a Hindu majority state was a deliberate ploy by the British to widen the communal divide. The call for ‘Direct Action Day’ by the Muslim League on August 16, 1946 led to thousands being killed and many more wounded akin to a civil war, not a riot. This pogrom was deliberately aimed at moulding public opinion for creation of a separate Muslim Bengal with Calcutta as its capital. These developments had wider ramifications for India. Mukherjee strongly feels that the partition of Bengal could have been avoided if only the leaders of the Indian Congress opposed the Communal Award of 1932 that created separate electorates on the basis of religion and caste. She argues that the partition of Bengal and the rest of the country on the basis of religion was a historical blunder. Much later, the creation of Bangladesh on the basis of language and cultural identity, not on religion, vindicated her assertion.  The reviewer is a serving Indian Foreign Service officer.  Bengal and its Partition: An Untold Story Bhaswati Mukherjee Rupa  Rs. 595||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/roots-of-a-division/article34742363.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Bureaucrat target||After allegedly skipping a meeting with the prime minister, West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was summoned to Delhi. Instead, he retired, and was appointed advisor to the Bengal government. The Centre issued a show-cause notice that could lead to a criminal case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bureaucrat-target/article34742322.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Pressed out||Naomi Osaka, the World No. 2 in women’s tennis, withdrew from the French Open. She had announced that she wouldn’t attend press conferences during the tournament, citing mental health issues, and was fined $15,000 and threatened with expulsion for skipping the conference after her first-round win. This sparked public debate, with several players, including Serena Williams, expressing sympathy for Osaka, while others said media obligations were part of the job.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pressed-out/article34742324.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Bibi besieged||Opposition leaders in Israel reached a deal that could lead to the ouster of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, pending a vote in the Knesset. A coalition government would see the premiership rotate between ultranationalist Naftali Bennett (above) and centrist Yair Lapid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/bibi-besieged/article34742326.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Rule of three||Spurred on by fears of an ageing population, China instituted a three-child policy. Recently released census data had shown the country’s population growth slipping to its lowest rate since the 1950s. Experts remained sceptical that raising the limit from two would have any effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/rule-of-three/article34742328.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Zara Hossain Is Here||Sabina Khan  Scholastic Press Rs. 781 Seventeen-year-old Pakistani immigrant Zara Hossain leads a typical life in Texas, dealing with Islamophobia, lying low. But when things spiral out of control, with Zara’s house vandalised with racist graffiti and a crime committed, she must choose between fighting to live on in Texas and losing it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/zara-hossain-is-here/article34742343.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Ariadne||Jennifer Saint  Flatiron Books Rs. 460 (Kindle price) Ariadne, Princess of Crete, sees in Theseus, Prince of Athens, an escape route. Defying the gods, betraying her family and country for the sake of love, Ariadne helps Theseus kill her brother, the Minotaur. But will Ariadne’s decision ensure a happy ending?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/ariadne/article34742353.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Lycanthropy and Other Chronic Illnesses||Kristen O’Neal  Quirk Books $15.58 A diagnosis of chronic Lyme disease sends Priya back home from Stanford. She survives with the help of her pen pal, Brigid, who disappears. Once Priya tracks her down, she has to deal with the fact that Brigid has lycanthropy, and has turned into a werewolf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lycanthropy-and-other-chronic-illnesses/article34742355.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Project Hail Mary||Andy Weir  Ballantine Books Rs. 664.05 (Kindle price) Ryland Grace is the sole survivor in a desperate space mission. If he fails, the earth will perish. He wakes up in the spaceship to find himself millions of miles from home, with nothing but his dead crewmates for company. Now it’s up to him to solve an impossible scientific mystery and save earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/project-hail-mary/article34742357.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The Fourth Lion: A Festschrift for Gopalkrishna Gandhi||Edited by Venu Madhav Govindu & Srinath Raghavan  Aleph Rs. 699 Gopalkrishna Gandhi has been an administrator, diplomat, author, and public intellectual for over four decades. This collection has 26 essays dedicated to him and contributed by individuals from various walks of life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-fourth-lion-a-festschrift-for-gopalkrishna-gandhi/article34742361.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Power of Love||Athanasius Yohan I  Penguin Random House Rs. 299 This collection of short stories are tales from the author’s encounters with people where small acts of kindness and goodwill have made significant changes in people’s lives. A perfect read for anyone who yearns to experience the beauty of life and love.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/power-of-love/article34742368.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Noise: A Flaw in Human Judgment||Daniel Kahneman, Cass R. Sunstein, Olivier Sibony  HarperCollins Rs. 699 In this book, three writers show the detrimental effects of noise in fields including medicine, law, economic forecasting and forensic science. With a few simple remedies, people can reduce both noise and bias, and make far better decisions, they argue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/noise-a-flaw-in-human-judgment/article34742370.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||No Land’s People: The Untold Story of Assam’s NRC Crisis||Abhishek Saha  HarperCollins Rs. 599 The preparation of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam was an unprecedented exercise that sought to establish Indian citizenship of the State’s 33 million residents. The final list, published on August 31, 2019, left out around 1.9 million applicants.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-lands-people-the-untold-story-of-assams-nrc-crisis/article34742372.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||The need to stay prepared for multiple waves and variants||Even as the second wave in India seems to have already peaked, many States still report high test positivity rates suggesting more cases remain to be detected. The slow down in daily cases has been mainly due to strict lockdowns in many States. With the alpha (B.1.1.7) and delta (B.1.617.2) variants widely present across the country, and the possibility of new variants with higher transmissive ability getting imported or emerging in India cannot be ruled out, the possibility of a third wave appears to be real.   In an email to The Hindu, Dr. Bhramar Mukherjee, Professor of Biostatistics and Epidemiology at the School of Public Health, University of Michigan, and Dr. Giridhara Babu, Professor of Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Bengaluru discuss when a third wave is likely to begin in India, how to identify one and the measures required to achieve vaccine equity to reduce the daily cases and deaths in the third wave.  With the second wave appearing to have peaked in India. At what stage can it be said that the second wave has been contained?     Bhramar Mukherjee: The seven-day test positivity rate (TPR) is at about 7%, effective reproduction rate is at 0.68, so I think as a nation, one can say that the wave is in decline. But with 1,30,000 cases and 2,500–3,000 deaths every day, I cannot say it is contained. There are large States still registering a significant number of cases with TPR of over 15% such as Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha. Then there are smaller States with high TPR such as Goa, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Meghalaya and the north east cluster.  Giridhara Babu: It is projected that the daily case count will decrease beneath 50,000 around June 13. Assuming that we will maintain over a million tests each day, we might see daily test positivity at the national level to come below 5% during June 13–20. Both alpha (B.1.1.7) and delta (B.1.617.2) variants were the main drivers of the second wave in India. Will India experience a third wave and worryingly more waves in the future?     BM: This is probably not the last wave and these are not the last set of variants. We have to stay prepared for the future. What happens when we see another uptick or outbreak is to a great extent in our hands. We know how to fight this virus. Even with the second wave, if we had acted in mid-March, thousands of lives could have been saved. My point of view is that we need to stay prepared for the nth wave and the zth variant. We have to stay prepared for outbreaks for the foreseeable future. With accelerated vaccination, we can fight back and turn a peak into a bump.  GB: There is no doubt that there will be another wave around November–December. Any outbreak of infectious disease will occur when the build-up of susceptible persons reaches beyond a critical point. Super-spreader events will only facilitate reaching this point earlier. In addition, variants such as delta can spread faster than alpha. Therefore, it is only a matter of time. What indicators should be looked for to call it as the beginning of a third wave?   GB: As we emerge from the second wave, seven-day average growth rates of cases and deaths should be regularly monitored. In order to have objective monitoring, the testing levels have to be stepped up, and the syndromic approach of surveillance has to be strengthened and reviewed in all the states. Whenever we observe the occurrence of cases clearly in excess of the previous weeks, we should be on high vigil to detect clusters and investigate them both for epidemiological and genomic investigations. Other indicators to help in the process are test positivity rate (doubled in a week subject to no changes but high testing levels) hospitalisation rates (doubled in the corresponding seven consecutive days). The centre should provide guidelines indicating when we can call a new outbreak as the next wave. The following four prerequisite criteria are necessary to declare the third wave. First, the second wave should have been contained, which means that the reproduction number is below 1 for two weeks. Second, the low rate of infection has to be sustained for at least one month. Third, see if cases are increasing steadily for over two–three weeks, and finally, check if cases are increasing steadily after crossing the basic effective reproduction number (RT) of 1.5. The government is projecting 10 million vaccinations per day by mid-July. Over 28 million have been already infected naturally though the actual numbers will be many times more. So what is the minimum percentage of the population that needs to be vaccinated to prevent a third wave?   BM: We need to keep India’s age pyramid in mind. Forty percent of the Indian population is in 0–18 years for whom we do not have any vaccines available yet. If we can get Pfizer vaccine for those aged 12–18 years and for pregnant women, and Covaxin gets approved for kids that will be a big help to the immunisation strategy. Data also shows (a recent paper in Nature Medicine ) that in people with past COVID-19 infection, one dose can produce similar antibody levels as in an infection-free person with two doses. If a large fraction of India is infected, then one dose of vaccine post infection will likely give good protection. I also hope we can get some one-shot vaccines. This could go a long way for India where vaccine adherence is an issue along with a large population.  GB: The 1.3 billion plus people in India constitute the source population at risk of infection. We have a long way to go. Ideally, more than 70% of people should be protected with the vaccine in order to have lower peaks of the waves. I would not consider infected as a component of this estimation, as evidence suggests that even those who are infected should be vaccinated. What vaccine strategy is needed to protect the vulnerable people in the 18–44 age group, particularly the urban poor and those living in rural areas?     BM: For urban poor and rural areas, we need mobile vaccination, door-to-door campaigns, seeking buy-in from religious and community leaders, and vaccine clinics in front of places of religious gathering. Employers encouraging and providing vaccination to employees, even supporting and ensuring vaccination of all household help in urban metros goes a long way. People with comorbidities and special health conditions should have a priority.  GB: Any person with comorbidity should be part of the vulnerable population, irrespective of the age group. In addition, the parents, those who work in occupations with high people contact, school teachers etc., should be prioritised for two doses. Every eligible person should get at least one dose by December. Over-reliance on the CoWin platform for the 18–44 age group is causing vaccine inequity even in cities. Can COVID vaccination be carried out without relying on CoWin in the rural areas to reduce vaccine inequity?     GB: The digital divide is a significant barrier created by the Government, which worsens the existing health inequities. India is a global leader in conducting vaccination campaigns. These are done by a bottom-up approach for micro-planning to include all the eligible beneficiaries without missing a single person. Also, mobilisation campaigns are important to alleviate the concerns related to vaccination and ensure that people visit the vaccination sites in time. Since a surge in cases was first seen in big cities in both the first and second wave, will it be prudent to increase vaccine coverage in big cities to reduce the possibility of a third wave? Will such an approach lead to vaccine inequity between cities and between urban and rural areas?     BM: First of all, the second wave has penetrated rural areas. The rural–urban vaccine inequity will happen even if you try to prevent it, so the governments have to take vaccines to rural areas. We have a strong immunisation framework using community health workers in rural areas. So we have to activate all our powers to get through this.  GB: That’s not the correct characterisation. The lower reported numbers from rural areas reflect the poorer testing and sparse population density in rural areas. There are also no hospitals in rural areas. If anything, it is important to ensure that people in the rural areas are well covered in the vaccination programme. India has so far not undertaken any large-scale, real-world study to understand the effectiveness of the two vaccines against the alpha and delta variants. How concerning is this?     BM: Why do we have vaccine data against new variants from the U.K. but not India? India should be providing data on effectiveness of the Covishield vaccine against the delta variant, but all we have is based on U.K. studies. How is the government assessing vaccine effectiveness studies? Are they employing test negative designs? How many breakthrough infections have happened with one dose? How many fatalities, hospitalisations? These are key information that the world needs to know from India. We have to do careful studies of vaccine versus variant interface and understand the immune escape properties of emerging variants. We have to design studies to make sure if we need another booster dose of the vaccine, we get one before vaccine induced immunity wanes. There are still big unknowns and uncertainties in this pandemic that we need to first recognise and then prepare for.  There is no doubt that there will be another wave around November–December. Any outbreak of infectious disease will occur when the build-up of susceptible persons reaches beyond a critical point. Super-spreader events will only facilitate reaching this point earlier. Giridhara Babu||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-need-to-stay-prepared-for-multiple-waves-and-variants/article34742485.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Emergence of order from chaos in turbulent systems and Bose-Einstein condensation||An important phenomenon studied in aerospace engineering is the emergence of order from chaos in turbulent systems that leads to detrimental large amplitude fluctuations. Examples of this include aeroelastic flutter as observed in the wings of aircraft and thermoacoustic instabilities in rocket combustors, both of which can lead to the breaking down of the system. For this reason, it is important to be able to predict and understand such happenings and avoid them. At R.I. Sujith’s lab in the Department of Aerospace Engineering of IIT Madras, this phenomenon has been studied for years. As he succinctly explains: Thermoacoustic instability, which comprises self-sustained large amplitude periodic oscillations, can overwhelm the thermal protection system in combustion chambers, cause damage to structural parts such as turbine blades, or even affect the guidance and control system of rockets and lead to mission failures. Apollo rocket failure An oft-quoted example of this is the failure during testing of the F-1 engine in the Apollo rocket. Initially, every time they tested the rocket, the engine would get into this instability and explode. They later introduced baffles that disrupted the interactions between the flames and that between the flames and the combustion chamber giving the engine the desired stability. In a combination of theory and experiment, Prof. Sujith and his student Shruti Tandon have come up with an understanding of the emergence of order in chaotic systems by drawing an analogy with a phenomenon widely studied in quantum statistical physics – Bose-Einstein condensation (BEC). In BEC, Bosons, which are elementary particles having spins that take integer values, such as 0, 1 or 2, condense to the lowest energy level when temperature is taken to very low values. The group has shown an analogous condensation taking place in the case of order emerging from chaos in turbulent systems. To understand this, take the concept of phase space – an dynamic imaginary space where a particle is represented by its position and momentum at every instant of time. The acoustic dynamics of the combustor is represented as a trajectory moving in this imaginary space. Orbit condensation During chaotic movement, there are several possible orbits, and so even as the trajectory moves towards one orbit, it is attracted to a different orbit, and therefore does not stick to any one orbit. However, as the parameter is tuned and the system makes a transition towards order, the number of orbits is reduced and therefore, the trajectory gets caught in a few stable orbits. The researchers label this process a type of “condensation.” “In the current work we have provided a novel perspective to study the transformation of the phase space structure with transition from chaos to order using analogy with Bose-Einstein Condensation,” says Ms Tandon, a dual degree student in the department. “The next step would be to use statistics of Bosons, namely, tools from statistical mechanics that are used to study Boson particles and Bose-Einstein condensation, to quantify the transformations in the topology of the phase space,” she adds. The paper that draws out the analogy is published in the journal Chaos. “Using measures from cycle networks and using analogy with BEC we were able to develop ‘early warning indicators’ that identify the onset of intermittency and hence forewarn the occurrence of thermoacoustic instability in the combustor,” says Prof Sujith, who is the D. Srinivasan Chair Professor in the department. Strategies to mitigate “In future, we would like to also analyse the spatio-temporal data from the perspective of BEC transition; thus, develop strategies to prevent the condensation transition and thus mitigate such instabilities,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/emergence-of-order-from-chaos-in-turbulent-systems-and-bose-einstein-condensation/article34742480.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Study points to pileup of biomedical waste||Over two lakh kilograms of biomedical waste was generated each day last month by hospitals in India dealing with COVID-19 patients, a new report revealed. The report titled, “State of India's Environment 2021,” released by the Centre for Science and Environment, said 2,03,000 kg of COVID-19 biomedical waste was produced daily in May this year and it was roughly 33% of India's non-COVID biomedical waste. It said the COVID-19 biomedical waste generated per day in May was 46% more than in April when 1.39 lakh kg of such waste was produced daily. In March, the daily figure was 75,000 kg, according to the report. April and May witnessed a deadly second wave of coronavirus cases that swept through the country stretching the healthcare infrastructure to its limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/study-points-to-pileup-of-biomedical-waste/article34742477.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||Nosy elephants||Do elephants breathe and drink using their trunks? Elephants have two nostrils in their trunks. They can also suck up water at a speed of three litres per second into their trunk and then blow it into the mouth. New research ( Journal of The Royal Society Interface ) has now found that elephants can dilate their nostrils to create more space in their trunks, allowing them to suck up to nine litres of water. First author Andrew Schulz, said in a release that the trunks act like suitcases, capable of expanding when necessary. The team studied elephants eating various foods, to decode the suction mechanism. They used an ultrasonic probe to measure the trunk walls and see how the inner muscles worked. By contracting those muscles, the animal dilates its nostrils up to 30%. The team suggests elephants can inhale at speeds comparable to Japan's bullet trains. Lead author David Hu explained that an elephant uses its trunk like a Swiss Army Knife: It can detect scents and grab things, other times blowing objects away like a leaf blower or sniffs them in like a vacuum. The researchers note that by investigating the mechanics and physics behind trunk muscle movements – a combination of suction and grasping – they could build better robots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/nosy-elephants/article34742478.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||How to recover from a spinal cord injury||A violent fall, a vehicular accident, or a sports injury can sometimes damage the spinal cord and brain leading to paralysis and other life-threatening health problems. The nerve fibres that carry important information are unable to regrow, leading to irreversible damage. Using novel bioinformatics frameworks and screening platforms, researchers have now identified a new gene combination that can help enhance the growth of nerve fibres after an injury. It is well known that mammals including humans show a high capacity for brain and spinal cord regeneration but only during young ages. The researchers set out to decode why and how young neurons respond so well to injury. They studied a class of genes called transcription factors. They identified a particular combination of genes KLF6/Nr5a2 that when expressed lead to enhanced growth of nerve fibres following injury. The results were published last month in Nature Communications.  Ishwariya Venkatesh, the first and co-corresponding author of the paper explains: “If you think about growth after an injury, it is very similar to developmental growth that happens during the early embryonic stages. Inside the neuron, when you want an axon or nerve fiber to grow, there are networks of genes that work together. Between embryonic day 18 to about a week after birth, these genes are still on because they're helping the axons grow. So, if an injury occurs during this period, the genes quickly deploy these networks to repair. But a week after birth, these genes are no longer active because active developmental axon growth has ended and they are no longer needed.” She was a Research Assistant Professor at Marquette University when the paper was published. Rebooting networks “So, if we are able to turn back these gene networks in response to an injury, then we have a chance for high regenerative success. We're trying to artificially reboot those gene programs and trying to coax an older neuron to switch back to a younger, growth-competent state. And we do that by manipulating transcription factors that simultaneously regulate the expression of hundreds of growth-relevant genes because we can't go in and tweak the expression of individual genes,” she adds. When asked if there is any evolutionary basis for these genes losing their program when we are adults she explains: “There could be a couple of reasons. One is we gave up or traded the ability to regenerate because even if these axons do regenerate, the chances of them reintegrating into a functional circuit in a complex system like the mammalian system is trickier. I also speculate that the longer the distance the axons have to grow, the more guidance errors can happen, and they can synapse onto the wrong targets leading to unintended behavioral outcomes.” The team adds that these findings can open up avenues to discover additional groups of transcription factors with stronger reprogramming abilities to ultimately allow us to fully revert an older neuron into a younger growth-competent state following injury. These findings also hold promise as a novel molecular strategy for the treatment of human spinal cord injuries in the future. “We are continuing with pre-clinical tests of Klf6/Nr5a2, for example confirming the genes are still effective when delivered in the chronic injury state, many months after the initial damage. This information is critical for individuals now living with spinal injury,” adds Murray G. Blackmore, Associate Professor at Marquette University and co-corresponding author in an email to The Hindu.   Researchers have identified a new gene combination that can help enhance the growth of nerve fibres after an injury.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/how-to-recover-from-a-spinal-cord-injury/article34742474.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccines and the indemnity clause||The story so far: The Union government is in talks with foreign manufacturers of COVID-19 vaccines on their demand for indemnity from liability as a condition for selling their vaccines to the country. Pfizer, which supplies the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA vaccine, is said to have requested that the government indemnify it from any claim that may arise from vaccine users in the future based on any adverse effects after getting the jab. No decision has been made yet on the request. However, it has already given rise to a similar demand from domestic vaccine-maker Serum Institute of India (SII), which says all players should be treated the same way.  What is indemnity and why is it sought? Indemnity is a form of contract. The law on drugs in India does not have a provision for indemnity related to the grant of approval for any new drug or vaccine in the country. If at all any indemnity is to be granted to any company for a particular drug or vaccine, it can only be in the form of an indemnity bond executed on behalf of the government of India, or a clause or set of clauses in any contract that the government may sign with the supplier. There appears to be no precedent for any company getting such indemnity in India for any drug. Section 124 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, defines a contract of indemnity as one by which one party promises to save the other from any loss caused to the latter. Once the government of India grants such indemnity to the vaccine manufacturer or importer, it would mean that if a particular vaccine is perceived to have caused death or any lasting damage to a recipient, any claim of compensation arising from it will have to be met by the government, and not by the company. In the event of a court ordering payment, the company will be in a position to recover the amount from the government.  Is the demand for or grant of indemnity a standard practice? Indemnity is essentially a contractual matter between the supplier and recipient, and therefore, a good deal of confidentiality is attached to such agreements. Pfizer is believed to have obtained such indemnity from several countries, including the United Kingdom, from which it has received supply orders. However, it has declined to discuss the issue in public. Normally, it is the company applying for approval of a new drug or vaccine that submits itself to various conditions, processes and regulations. Approvals in most countries come with stringent conditions regarding conformity to national guidelines, quality standards, safety assessments and requirements regarding various phases of clinical trials. For imported drugs, a local clinical trial may not be required if it has been approved and marketed in countries specified by the Central Licensing Authority and if no major adverse events have been reported. However, given the peculiar global situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the severe shortage of vaccines faced by countries such as India, which urgently needs to inoculate hundreds of millions of people, some vaccine suppliers may be in a position to set conditions.  What have the overseas companies got so far? The Drugs Controller-General of India has already taken a big step towards fast-tracking the import of vaccines by dispensing with the need for local trials. Earlier, the Centre had decided that foreign-produced vaccines that had been granted emergency approval for restricted use by regulators in the U.S., the U.K., the European Union and Japan, or those included in the WHO’s Emergency Use Listing, would be granted Emergency Use Authorisation in India. The condition was that there would be a post-approval parallel bridging trial. However, this condition was waived a few days ago and no bridging trial is now necessary. The significance of this exemption is that both the delay attached to such trials and the risk of adverse events to participants have been avoided. The New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, set down stringent regulations for grant of approval as well as for trials. The Rules provide for payment of compensation by the sponsor of the trial or its representative to any participant who dies or suffers disability as a result of such trials. Exemption from these trials has reduced the risk to overseas manufacturers. However, companies probably fear that they would still be liable under the ordinary law of tort, arising from future claims by anyone adversely affected after receiving the shot.  What does India gain by giving indemnity? In the absence of indemnity, overseas manufacturers may load the risk onto the price of the vaccines, making each dose more expensive. By indemnifying the companies in respect of these vaccines, the government of India may be able to negotiate lower prices and higher volumes. It may help accelerate India’s national vaccination drive. On the flip side, the government may be forced to make it a level playing field for local manufacturers, too, by extending indemnity to them, and thereby inviting upon itself the entire risk associated with more than a billion vaccine shots.    By indemnifying companies in respect of vaccines, the government of India may be able to negotiate lower prices and higher volumes. It may help accelerate the country’s national vaccination programme||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-vaccines-and-the-indemnity-clause/article34742411.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. delays tariffs against digital services tax||The story so far: During the past week, the United States announced and then immediately suspended a 25% tariff on $2 billion of imports from six countries, including India, as a retaliatory measure against each of these countries’ imposition of a digital services tax impacting the giant tech corporations of Silicon Valley, including the likes of Alphabet, Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Microsoft. The purported logic of suspending the tariff for up to 180 days after announcing it is to allow time for ongoing international tax negotiations to continue, and, in the words of U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Katherine Tai, seek “a multilateral solution … while maintaining the option of imposing tariffs under Section 301 if warranted in the future”. Other than India, the countries slapped with this tariff proposal are Austria, Italy, Spain, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. What is the basis of the U.S.’s action? The essence of the argument made by the USTR office is that a “Section 301” investigation initiated by the Trump administration in June 2020 found digital services taxes imposed by each of these countries to be discriminatory against U.S. tech firms. The Biden administration was likely aware that the deadline for authorising tariff action based on these investigations would have lapsed this week, thus necessitating the approval of the 25% tariff. The immediate suspension of the tariff is likely in part a recognition of the fact that the six countries potentially impacted are limping through a feeble post-COVID-19 recovery and opening a new trade war front could be damaging not only to them, but also to the broader global economy. The combination of depressed economic activity owing to the effects of the pandemic and tectonic shifts in global supply chains engendered by the Trump administration’s trade war with China has already left many economies in a weakened condition.  Why is Section 301 significant? Under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, the USTR enjoys a range of responsibilities and authority to investigate and take action to enforce U.S. national interests under trade agreements and respond to certain foreign trade practices. Until recently, this facility was used by multiple administrations to build cases and pursue dispute settlements at the World Trade Organization (WTO). Under former President Donald Trump, however, this authority was used to promote what his administration considered to be “free, fair and reciprocal” trade, specifically to close the gap or balance of trade between the U.S. and foreign governments in cases where the latter had deployed trade practices that allegedly disadvantaged or discriminated against U.S. firms. To a great extent, the Trump administration trained its Section 301 guns on China, leading to an escalating tariff war that ultimately engulfed the final years of its tenure. Now, the Biden administration appears to be unwilling to walk back Trump-era 301 investigations in their entirety; rather, it appears to be seeking a middle path of waving the stick of the USTR while allowing some space for continued tax negotiations with the nations concerned.  How will it affect India? The Finance Bill, 2021, introduced an amendment imposing a 2% digital service tax on trade and services by non-resident e-commerce operators with a turnover of over Rs. 2 crore. According to reports, early estimates by the USTR suggest this tax could yield approximately $55 million annually. Negotiations with Washington that may result in the scaling back of this tax would imply that a part of this revenue would be lost to the exchequer, depending on the final rate agreed. On the other hand, close to $118 million of India’s exports to the U.S. would be subject to the tariff proposed by the USTR, impacting 26 categories of goods, including basmati rice, cigarette paper, cultured pearls, semi-precious stones, certain gold and silver jewellery items and specific types of furniture products. India will have to consider its options carefully at this juncture. On the one hand, it would seek to avoid getting into any escalating matrix of retaliatory taxation with the U.S., as that would damage its growth prospects at a crucial point in its laborious recovery. However, it will also not be able to simply abandon its articulated intent to tax global tech firms, which have generally enjoyed low-tax operations across numerous jurisdictions.   India should seek to avoid getting into any escalating matrix of retaliatory taxation with the U.S., but it will also not be able to abandon its intent to tax global tech firms, which enjoy low-tax operations||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/us-delays-tariffs-against-digital-services-tax/article34742409.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||CM meets experts to gear up for possible third wave||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the Delhi government had made several preparations well in advance for a possible third wave of COVID. Mr. Kejriwal on Friday chaired a meeting each with the Expert and the Preparations Committees where several decisions to mitigate the impact of the third wave were made. “Experts are saying that a third wave is bound to emerge, but nobody has any information on when such a wave will arrive and how dangerous it could be. It is our duty to be prepared,” Mr. Kejriwal told a digital briefing. “This time, the COVID peak saw a maximum of 28,000 cases in a single day, which was around April 22 or 23. Based on this figure, we estimated how high the next peak might be. After our discussions, it was concluded that we should prepare for a peak of 37,000 cases per day,” he said, adding that this does not mean that if the peak goes beyond this figure, the government would not be prepared. At the meeting, all calculations were being made regarding hospital beds, ICU beds and medical resources for children. A separate paediatric task force has been formed to look into the number of oxygen and ICU beds to be reserved for children, the Chief Minister announced. “For children, different types of equipment will be required like different masks, different oxygen masks. The pediatric task force formed yesterday [Friday] will give its recommendations separately,” he said. Mr. Kejriwal said that during the second wave, “a huge shortage of oxygen” had emerged and to avoid this, preparations are being made and a storage capacity of 420 tonnes of oxygen is being readied. “We have had talks with Indraprastha Gas Limited and they have been asked to prepare a 1.5 tonne oxygen production plant. They said the plant would be ready in 18 months,” he said. The government in the next one or two months, the city will have 25 oxygen tankers, 64 small oxygen plants and oxygen concentrators. A team of doctors and experts has been set up to examine and inform that whether a particular medicine in high demand was actually beneficial in treating COVID patients. A list of all “important medicines” too had been made and a buffer stock would be created for these. Genome sequencing labs are also being created in LNJP hospital and ILBS so that the government could identify COVID variants in Delhi and ask experts what precautions to take against them. “I want to assure you that your government is working 24 hours to mitigate the situation. I hope that the third wave does not come and we will try to vaccinate our people before that, but if the wave comes, then the people should not face any difficulty,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-meets-experts-to-gear-up-for-possible-third-wave/article34742677.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon to reach Odisha, Jharkhand by June 15: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to advance into Odisha, Jharkhand, parts of West Bengal and Bihar, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday, hinting at its good progress in the next 10 days. The IMD said the southwest monsoon has further advanced into more parts of central Arabian Sea, entire coastal Karnataka, Goa, some parts of Maharashtra, most parts north interior Karnataka, some parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, more parts of Tamil Nadu and central Bay of Bengal, and some parts of northeast Bay of Bengal. However, a lull is expected in the rainfall activity on June 7-8, Rajendra Jenamani of the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the IMD, said. “But a low pressure area is expected to form in the Bay of Bengal by June 11. This will help in the progress of the monsoon and it is likely to advance into Odisha, Jharkhand, parts of West Bengal and Bihar,” he said. Normal rainfall The IMD has also made a forecast of a normal rainfall in June. It said no heatwave conditions are likely in the country over the next five days. The IMD said maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded at many places over west Rajasthan and at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Saurashtra and Kutch in Gujarat and Odisha. The highest maximum temperature of 43.2 deg. C was recorded at Banda in east Uttar Pradesh on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/monsoon-to-reach-odisha-jharkhand-by-june-15-imd/article34742666.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||First human infection of the H10N3 bird flu||The story so far: China has confirmed the first instance of human infection from H10N3, a rare strain of a virus that normally infects poultry. On Tuesday, the National Health Commission of Beijing reported that a 41-year-old man in the eastern Jiangsu province had been infected with the rare strain but no details were given as to how hecaught it. What do we know so far about H10N3? Chinese authorities said the 41-year-old man was the first human case of an infection with the strain. They said the person was hospitalised on April 28 and was diagnosed with the strain after a month. The Beijing-based National Health Commission said the strain has low pathogenesis — the ability to cause disease — among birds, implying that the virus did not spread easily among poultry and was likely to be restricted to limited populations. “As long as avian influenza viruses circulate in poultry, sporadic infection of avian influenza in humans is not surprising, which is a vivid reminder that the threat of an influenza pandemic is persistent,” Reuters quoted the World Health Organization (WHO) as saying. What is avian influenza? H5N1 is the most common virus causing bird flu, or avian influenza. Though largely restricted to birds, and often fatal to them, it can cross over to other animals, as well as humans. According to the WHO, the H5N1 was first discovered in humans in 1997 and has killed almost 60% of those infected. Though it is not known to transmit easily among humans, the risk remains. There are several subtypes of the avian influenza virus. Since 2003, these avian and other influenza viruses have spread from Asia to Europe and Africa. In 2013, human infections with the influenza A(H7N9) virus were reported in China. An outbreak of the H7N9 strain killed around 300 people in 2016 and 2017. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says, “All known subtypes of influenza A viruses can infect birds, except subtypes H17N10 and H18N11, which have only been found in bats. Only two influenza A virus subtypes (i.e., H1N1, and H3N2) are currently in general circulation among people. Some subtypes are found in other infected animal species. For example, H7N7 and H3N8 virus infections can cause illness in horses, and H3N8 virus infection cause illness in horses and dogs.” So far, the H10N3 appears mild and not very transmissible, and hence, its categorisation status remains unclear. What are the typical symptoms of an avian influenza infection? According to the WHO, avian, swine and other zoonotic influenza virus infections in humans may cause disease with symptoms like mild upper respiratory tract infection (fever and cough), early sputum production and rapid progression to severe pneumonia, sepsis with shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and even death. Conjunctivitis, gastrointestinal symptoms, encephalitis and encephalopathy have also been reported in varying degrees depending on the subtype. Why are bird flu viruses a cause of concern? Speculation about the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 has heightened worries about animal- and bird-borne viruses. The emergence of new strains, particularly among domesticated animals and birds, is a story of evolution and inevitability, and sporadic reports of new viruses infecting humans abound. An outbreak of the H5N8 virus in birds led to hundreds of thousands of poultry being culled in various European countries. In February, Russia reported that seven poultry workers in a plant were infected by the H5N8 strain. All of them recovered. India, too, faced an outbreak of the virus in flocks of poultry in January and undertook culling.  According to WHO, as long as avian influenza viruses circulate in poultry, sporadic infection of avian influenza in humans is not surprising, which is why the threat of an influenza pandemic persists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/first-human-infection-of-the-h10n3-bird-flu/article34742405.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||To deal with next surge, govt. taking lessons from last peak||The peak of the second COVID wave — based on which the Delhi government is preparing for the next wave — officially claimed nearly 12,000 lives but led to 16,000 funerals in the Capital in just over a month. As per the COVID death figures provided by the government and funeral data by the civic bodies, it has emerged that there continued to be a difference of 4,000 cases between the two. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the peak had seen a maximum of 28,000 COVID cases in a single day. This figure — of 28,395 new cases to be precise — was recorded on April 20 when the government recorded 277 deaths and the city witnessed 410 funerals. This peak of single-day cases has now informed the Delhi government’s decision to conclude that it should prepare for a peak of 37,000 daily cases during the potential third wave of infection. Figures recorded by the Delhi government and the Municipal Corporations after this peak reveal the extent of the damage inflicted on the city by COVID’s second wave. Through a 42-day period, which ended last month, the government recorded over 11 deaths every hour culminating in a daily average of 282 COVID deaths per day; the municipal corporations noted the last rites of over 378 COVID-afflicted patients each day — or more than 15 funerals an hour. After reaching peak After attaining its peak on April 20, COVID claimed 11,870 lives, according to the Delhi government and led to 15,905 funerals by May 31. While the highest number of single-day deaths conceded by the government — 448 — was recorded on May 3, at 717, the number of funerals in the city had already peaked four days prior to this. According to records, the number of COVID funerals continued to be significantly higher than the number of COVID deaths recorded by the government for the most part of the 42-day interval before both almost became aligned on May 16 when the government recorded 262 deaths and the civic bodies’ 274 funerals. Reversal in trend Beginning May 17, the trend was reversed — more deaths were acknowledged by the government on a daily basis compared to funerals taking place at city crematoria and burial ground — which a government source attributed to the addition of deaths from previous days after being verified as COVID deaths. On May 17, for instance, 340 deaths were recorded by the government against 254 last rites by the civic bodies, 265 against 225 on May 18, 235 against 202 on May 19, 233 against 222 on May 20. By the end of the month, both dropped to double digits: 78 deaths were recorded against 68 funerals on May 30 and 86 against 50 on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/to-deal-with-next-surge-govt-taking-lessons-from-last-peak/article34742675.ece
06 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Makeshift COVID centres in Gurugram set for long haul||Set up a fortnight ago, amid the raging pandemic crisis, the temporary field hospital and the two makeshift COVID care centres in the Millennium City, with a combined strength of 600 beds, run thin on occupancy as the wave of the deadly virus subsides, but these facilities now gear up for a possible third wave and may remain in place till next year. M3M Foundation trustee Payal Kanodia told The Hindu that the 400-bed COVID care facility set up by the philanthropic arm of the M3M Group with support from other organisations was now being readied for a possible third wave that is widely anticipated to affect children. “Of the 400 beds, we now aim to convert 150-200 beds for paediatric treatment alone and plan to engage more paediatricians to prepare for the third wave. Though we have treated a couple of children, aged 12-15 years for COVID, we are in talks with the district authorities and “Doctors For You”, an NGO, to convert this facility partially into a paediatric one,” said Dr. Kanodia. Scaled up facility A joint initiative of the Haryana government and the M3M Foundation, this free-of-cost facility is managed by the Indian Air Force and “Doctors for You”, a Mumbai-based humanitarian organisation with an international presence. While the centre was started with 150 beds, the facility was scaled up through additional 250 beds. The centre also has a provision of food and medical facilities, including oxygen, wherever required, for patients. A mobile medical unit and round-the-clock helpline is also available for shifting any patient from the care centre to the hospital. The centre, situation at M3M Urbana in Sector-67, also works as a step-down facility for nearby hospitals and admits less-critical patients based on their health status through a referral procedure to make beds available in these hospitals for more critical patients. Dr. Kanodia said the facility only took “mild” and “moderate” patients, but had treated a few patients with co-morbidity as well. “We had committed the district administration to run the facility for six months, but might continue for another year keeping in view the situation,” she said. Similarly, a 100-bed temporary field hospital set up at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector-38 in collaboration with Vedanta Group, Give India and “Doctors for You” has only 15% occupancy. “We have 100 beds, including 20 ICU beds, but the occupancy remains low because of the sharp decline in cases. The doctors at the facility are provided by the Civil Hospital and ‘Doctors For You’,” said Lokender Singh, senior security manager of Vedanta Group. Oxygen supply Another 100-bed COVID care centre has been set up at Government College in Sector-14 in collaboration with Hero MotoCorp. While the centre runs under the supervision of Civil Surgeon, the disposal of bio-medical waste and sanitation remains the responsibility of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram. The district administration ensures oxygen supply at the centre, but the Hero MotoCorp group, too, has arranged 100 oxygen concentrators. “It’s a heartening sign to see a rapid decline in COVID cases in Gurugram. We are staying fully prepared to face any subsequent waves of the pandemic in the coming months, and in keeping with this objective, we have plans to keep all the three COVID care centres in Gurugram running till these are required. These are fully equipped facilities and will help us address any healthcare issues in the coming months. All our stakeholders and partners such as Hero MotoCorp and M3M are fully aligned on this,” said Gurugram Deputy Commissioner Yash Garg||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/makeshift-covid-centres-in-gurugram-set-for-long-haul/article34742665.ece
06 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan starts giving crop loans||The Rajasthan government has started disbursing crop loans during the COVID-19 pandemic to the farmers who had availed of the loan waiver in 2018 and 2019 after turning defaulters. The decision is set to benefit over 7.50 lakh farmers who were being denied fresh loans, as their overdue debt had earlier exceeded Rs. 5,000 each, despite there being no outstanding amount at present. Cooperative Minister Udai Lal Anjana said here on Saturday that the farmers were being connected with the short-term credit facility and given loans for this year’s kharif crop cycle. The central cooperative banks will give them loans of Rs. 25,000 each or up to their credit limit, whichever is less. The loan amount may be increased during the next crop cycles, Mr. Anjana said. A committee has been appointed for bringing the farmers within the purview of the short-term credit security. The Congress government had announced loan waiver for farmers, shortly after coming to power in December 2018, resulting in the burden of an estimated Rs. 18,000 crore on the exchequer. The agricultural loans of defaulters up to Rs. 2 lakh each with the banks were waived with a cut-off date, while there was no monetary ceiling for the cooperative loans. The previous BJP regime had waived farm loans up to Rs. 50,000 each obtained from the cooperative banks. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had later stated that the BJP government had paid only Rs. 2,000 crore to the farmers and left a burden of Rs. 6,000 crore on his government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-starts-giving-crop-loans/article34742667.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Facebook’s timely alert to police saves life||A call from Facebook’s U.S.’ office – 14,000 km away — and timely action of the Delhi police ensured that a 39-year-old man, trying to end his life, was saved. The police managed to locate and reach him in 55 minutes after the information was received. DCP (Cyber Unit) Anyesh Roy said that at 12.50 a.m. on Friday, he received a phone call from Facebook’s U.S.’ office informing him that they’ve come across a live video in which a man is trying to harm himself. They also sent an email with link to the video. “This alert was generated as part of the coordination framework established between CyPAD, the Nodal Cyber Unit of Delhi Police, and international social media platforms,” Mr. Roy said. In the video, Mr. Roy said, the man’s minor daughter could be heard pleading with him to open the door which was shut from inside and he could be seen slitting his wrists. The unit swung into action and analysed the profile. The live video had ended by then and the number attached to it was found to be switched off. Assistant sub-inspector Aditya Gautam, within minutes, then obtained the address attached to the number and located it to south-west Delhi’s Palam Village. “The information was given to Palam Village police station and Command Room. The information was further shared with Emergency Response Vehicle and PCR vans in the area,” Mr. Roy said. Nearest ERV in-charge sub-inspector Amit Kumar received the information at 1.30 a.m. and managed to locate the address in 10 minutes. Recalling the night, Mr. Kumar said that as soon as he entered, he found the man in a semi-conscious and inebriated state. His family was present in the house. “He was constantly saying he wanted to die. We somehow managed to take him to a nearby hospital where they gave him first-aid but said they couldn’t admit him. We then took him to AIIMS where he is undergoing treatment,” Mr. Kumar said, adding that he is stable. The police said the man runs a sweet shop in the area. He lost his wife in 2016 after which he has remained vulnerable. On Thursday night, he had an altercation with his neighbours which triggered him to take the step.   Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/facebooks-timely-alert-to-police-saves-life/article34742672.ece
06 June 2021||June 06 2021 00:00 IST,||A Chinese enclave in Sri Lanka?||The story so far: Last month, Sri Lanka passed the controversial Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill, which governs the China-backed Colombo Port City project worth $1.4 billion, amid wide opposition to the creation of a “Chinese enclave” in the island nation. Why is the project surrounded by controversies? The Colombo Port City has grabbed headlines in Sri Lanka in recent months even as the relentless third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic sweeps through the country. Almost an artificial island, the territory coming up on 2.69 square kilometres of land reclaimed from Colombo’s seafront has stirred controversy since its inception. Those backing it see in that patch of land their dream of an international financial hub — a “Singapore or Dubai” in the Indian Ocean. But sceptics claim that it could well become a “Chinese colony”, with the Bill, which is now an Act, providing the Port City and the powerful Commission that will run it substantial “immunity” from Sri Lankan laws, besides huge tax exemptions and other incentives for investors. Pitched as a “world-class city for South Asia”, the development is envisioned under five distinct “precincts” — the Financial District, the Central Park Living and the Island Living to come up as residential areas, The Marina, which is planned as a leisure destination, and the International Island, which would include educational institutions and convention centres. The Port City project is scheduled for completion by 2041. When was it launched? The project was launched in September 2014 by Chinese President Xi Jinping during a visit to the island nation under the Mahinda Rajapaksa administration’s second term. After President Mahinda Rajapaksa was ousted in January 2015, the successor “national unity” government of Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe went ahead with the project after briefly halting it. On returning to power in November 2019, the Rajapaksas vowed to expedite the project. The Sri Lankan government says the project will bring in around 83,000 jobs and $15 billion initially. What is the extent of China’s involvement? The project is financed chiefly through Chinese investment amounting to $1.4 billion, via CHEC Port City Colombo, a unit of the State-owned China Communications Construction Company (CCCC). In return, the company will receive 116 hectares (of the total 269 hectares) on a 99-year lease. The Colombo Port City — separate from but located adjacent to the Colombo Port, the country’s main harbour — is the third major port-related infrastructure project where China has a significant stake. China Merchants Port Holdings has an 85% stake in the Colombo International Container Terminals Ltd. (CICT) at the Colombo Port, under a 35-year ‘Build Operate and Transfer’ agreement with the Sri Lanka Port Authority. In 2017, the Sirisena-Wickremesinghe administration, unable to repay the Chinese loan with which it was saddled by the previous government, handed over the Hambantota Port in the Southern Province to China on a 99-year lease. Effectively, China has substantial control over two key infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka for a century. These projects are within the ambit of China’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative, in which it sees strategically located Sri Lanka as a trusted partner. In March this year, Mr. Xi told Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa that the two countries must “steadily push forward” in major projects and promote “high-quality collaboration in jointly building the Belt and Road”, Xinhua reported. What are the concerns? Since its launch, the Colombo Port City project has faced opposition from environmentalists and fisherfolk, who feared that the project would affect marine life and livelihoods. However, in the absence of wider political and societal support, their resistance did not dent successive governments’ resolve to pursue the project. The more recent opposition was specific to the Colombo Port City Economic Commission Bill. The resistance came from Opposition parties and civil society groups, including many who do not oppose the project per se, but rather its governance by “an all-powerful commission answerable to no one”. Significantly, a section of Buddhist monks, wielding much influence in Sri Lankan politics and the Sinhala society, also opposed the Bill and said that it eroded Sri Lanka’s sovereignty. During a heated parliamentary debate, Opposition MPs said the Bill paved the way for a “Cheelam” or “ChiLanka”, referring to China’s “control” over the Colombo Port City. Trade unions resisted too, contending that labour rights had no protection under the new physical and legal entity. For the first time, there was widespread resistance to a Chinese-backed project from within the Rajapaksas’ support base. As many as 19 petitions challenged the Bill in the Supreme Court, leading it to recommend a few amendments, which some Opposition legislators termed “cosmetic changes”. The government accepted these promptly to avert the constitutional requirement of a two-thirds majority in Parliament and/or a referendum of people. The amended Bill received a parliamentary majority.  Opposition parties and civil society groups, including many who do not oppose the project per se, protested against the new Act, saying it allows governance by ‘an all-powerful commission answerable to no one’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-chinese-enclave-in-sri-lanka/article34742407.ece
06 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Group renews demand for law against lynching||A pan-northeast legal group has refreshed its demand for enacting a law to deal specifically with cases of mob lynching. The Assam-based North East Legal Organization (NELO) renewed its year-old demand following the mob assault on a doctor at a COVID Care Centre in central Assam’s Hojai district on June 1. The police arrested 24 people, including a woman, for grievously injuring doctor Seuj Kumar Senapati, holding him responsible for the death of a COVID positive person who healthcare officials said died by the time he reached the centre. In a letter to Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday, NELO president Susmit Nripanka Krishnatraya and secretary-general Debajit Barman said a specific law could go a long way in checking mob lynching and mob attacks. “Even the IPC doesn’t specifically deal with mob lynching as an offence. A specific and strict penal statute shall definitely help the State in the intervention and prevention of such instances,” they said in the letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/group-renews-demand-for-law-against-lynching/article34742668.ece
06 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||First round of Covaxin dose suspended in Assam||The Health Department in Assam has suspended the first dose of Covaxin until sufficient stocks are available. The decision on Friday coincided with the relaxation of pandemic-induced curfew in the State by an hour and a directive to not allow home isolation for COVID-19 positive people with comorbidities. “We are expecting a batch of 50,000 Covaxin doses for the 18-44 age group in about a week. We have about 20,000 doses but we have given priority to those who have to get the second jab within 42 days,” State Health Minister Keshab Mahanta said. He added that Assam has about 3.2 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine for the 45-plus. He also said the government has fixed the maximum rate private hospitals can charge per day for COVID-19 treatment following complaints of overcharging and non-acceptance of payment other than in cash. Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma directed the Health Department not to allow home isolation to COVID-19 patients of any age group with comorbidities and refer them to institutional quarantine. A standard operating procedure is expected soon. Earlier, only people about 50 years were not allowed home isolation if they have comorbidities. “Institutional quarantine has become necessary for bringing down the positivity and mortality rate,” Dr. Sarma said. Late Friday evening, the State Disaster Management Authority issued a modified set of restrictions relaxing curfew hours in the urban and rural areas by an hour while extending the partial lockdown to June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/first-round-of-covaxin-dose-suspended-in-assam/article34742669.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Clear pending results, DUSU tells colleges||The Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) on Saturday wrote to colleges over evaluation of answer scripts. It asked principals and teachers to ensure that results of certain subjects from earlier semesters that are still pending, be declared. The students’ body also met officials of the DU Principals’ Association and presented a memorandum of demands. “Principals should take combined steps to form a policy that must be adopted at the university-level so that the component of attendance should not be added in the marking of assignment based evaluation,” read the memorandum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/clear-pending-results-dusu-tells-colleges/article34742670.ece
06 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Act against de-sealing of scrap units’||Following a plea against de-sealing of scrapping units operating illegally in the Mayapuri Industrial Area, the National Green Tribunal has asked the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and other authorities to take action against unauthorised activities. Taking note of an action-taken report by the DPCC, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A.K. Goel said, “We do not find any other direction is required at this stage except that further action may be continued by the DPCC and other authorities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/act-against-de-sealing-of-scrap-units/article34742671.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Positivity rate stays below 1% for sixth day||Delhi reported 414 new COVID-19 cases over the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 14,28,863 on Saturday. A total of 77,694 tests were done in a single day and the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 0.53%. This is the sixth consecutive day, that the figure is below 1%. The TPR had reached 36% on April 22 during the peak of the second wave. The city also reported 60 deaths over 24 hours, pushing the toll to 24,557. There are now 6,731 active cases in the Capital. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain met the family of deceased ‘corona warrior’ Deep Chand, and handed over financial aid of Rs. 1 crore. Later, he inspected works related to increasing the number beds at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital, Chacha Nehru Bal Chikitsaly complex and Dr. Hedgewar Aarogya Sansthan. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said it has now been almost two weeks since free vaccination of the 18-44 age group was stopped at government centres due to shortage, but “private hospitals continue to have huge supply and administer vaccines at expensive rates”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/positivity-rate-stays-below-1-for-sixth-day/article34742897.ece
06 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mayor instals mosquito-repellant cooler||North body Mayor Jai Prakash on Saturday inaugurated the installation of a mosquito-repellant air cooler as part of the civic body’s anti-vector borne disease campaign in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/mayor-instals-mosquito-repellant-cooler/article34742673.ece
