07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||More anti-bodies produced by Covishield than Covaxin: study||Two doses of Covishield vaccine produced more antibodies than Covaxin doses, but there were relatively fewer instances of ‘breakthrough infections’ after the latter, reports a study of healthcare workers (HCW) in India. The study is being peer-reviewed and has been submitted to a journal but appears as a preprint in MedrXiv, an online repository, and is among the few studies of the real-world effectiveness of vaccination in India. The study shows that none of the participants, who were all doctors and got both doses of vaccines, were ill and only about 6% tested positive at different points of the vaccination schedule. While both vaccines were protective, there were differences in the protection accorded by a single dose of the vaccines. Due to the shortage, it’s easier for people to get a single dose — given that the recommended gap has been extended to as many as 12 weeks for Covishield. For the study, 515 healthcare workers from 13 States and covering 22 cities were evaluated from January to May 2021. Their blood samples were also tested for the presence, quantity of anti-bodies produced and levels of the specific anti-bodies directed to the spike protein of the virus, widely held to be a proxy of protection. A single dose of Covishield elicited about 10 times the anti-bodies than Covaxin whereas a second dose narrowed the gap somewhat, with Covishield-triggered anti-bodies about six times that of Covaxin-stimulated ones, the study found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/more-anti-bodies-produced-by-covishield-than-covaxin-study/article34747251.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Since February pact, it’s all quiet on the Line of Control||There has been no exchange of fire nor infiltration attempts from across the Line of Control (LoC) for over 100 days since the commitment by India and Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire, two defence officials on the ground said. “There have been no infiltration attempts so far. No reported infiltration as well. However, the presence of terrorists at launch pads is reported. There has not been any reduction in the numbers,” a senior officer on the ground said. “The border population is the biggest beneficiary. It is a huge relief for the villagers as they are able to move freely as no firing is taking place,” the officer said. As per data from the Army, last year there were over 4,600 ceasefire violations (CFV) and 592 CFVs this year till the commitment came into effect on February 25. For comparison, till June 1, 2020, there were 1,531 CFVs. However, smuggling continues as there are several villages ahead of the LoC fence, the officer said. In these 100 days, there have been major seizures of narcotics and improvised explosive device materials, grenades and pistols, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/since-february-pact-its-all-quiet-on-the-line-of-control/article34747249.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Punjab, T.N. and Kerala top education index ranking||Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have all scored higher than 90% in the Education Ministry’s Performance Grading Index for 2019-20, which was released on Sunday. Gujarat dropped from second to eighth rank in the index, while Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are the only States which have seen actual regression in scores over this period. The index monitors the progress that the States and Union Territories have made in school education with regard to learning outcomes, access and equity, infrastructure and facilities, and governance and management processes. Huge jump Punjab recorded the highest score of almost 929 out of a possible 1,000, showing a huge jump from 769 last year. The State topped the charts in terms of equity, infrastructure and governance, and shared the top spot in the domain of access with Kerala. In fact, Punjab overtook the Union Territory of Chandigarh, which topped both previous editions of the index, but has now slid to second place with a score of 912. Tamil Nadu also overtook Kerala, with a score of 906, largely driven by improvements in the State’s educational governance and management, as well as in terms of infrastructure and facilities. Gujarat, which had the second highest score in the previous edition, dropped to eighth place. It regressed in the key domain of access, which measures enrolment of students in school and the ability to keep them from dropping out as well as mainstreaming out-of-school students. Its progress in other areas also did not keep pace with other States. Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh saw a glaring drop in their scores, pushing both States to an overall performance that was worse than in the previous edition. The new Union Territory of Ladakh was included separately for the first time in this edition, and had the lowest score of just 545.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/punjab-tn-and-kerala-top-education-index-ranking/article34747253.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Lending the products an iconic status||The State government has identified one product each from 13 districts under the ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) programme that aims at developing traditional industrial hubs at the district level. It is also preparing action plans to realise the export potential of the respective products. The district-wise products are: ready-made garments (Anantapur), pen Kalamkari (Chittoor), coir and coir products (East Godavari), red chillies (Guntur), barium and barytes (Kadapa), Kondapalli toys (Krishna), stone carving (Kurnool), wooden cutlery (Nellore), granite polishing (Prakasam), Ponduru cotton (Srikakulam), Etikoppaka toys (Visakhapatnam), mango jelly (Vizianagaram) and crochet lace (West Godavari). According to official sources, the products have been catalogued and steps are being taken to bridge the gaps in infrastructure, supply chain and skillsets. Emphasis will be laid on exploring the markets overseas, which is the purpose for the integration of the ODOP with the ‘districts as export hubs’ initiative being jointly implemented by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. Financial, logistical support The State government has partnered with leading e-commerce companies such as Amazon, Flipkart and Myntra, and some of the products are being received well by the customers. Besides, the government is lending financial and logistical support such as common facility centres for scaling up the manufacturing of the selected products. The products will be ultimately considered for geo-tagging which can give them a distinct advantage over other products in the global markets. The APEDB and other departments are striving to create the ecosystem required to make the products of exportable standard. The Ministry of Food Processing Industries has approved one food product each in the 13 districts under the ODOP scheme. The objective of the programme is to achieve the goal of ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-identifies-goods-for-one-district-one-product-scheme/article34747213.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||37K vaccinated in 12 hours in mega drive||The mega COVID-19 vaccination drive to give jabs to at least 37,000 people in 12 hours at one venue in Hyderabad passed off smoothly on Sunday. Organised by a corporate hospital, the event on the sprawling campus of a convention centre witnessed huge crowds and heavy traffic on the roads leading to it. Telangana’s Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao said that this is the largest vaccination drive in the world, conducted at one venue. The 37,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated by 7 p.m. Only Covaxin was given to the people at a cost of Rs. 1,400 including Rs. 140 for inoculation. Medicover Group of Hospitals in association with Cyberabad Police and The Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) held the drive from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m., where three huge hangars at Hitex Exhibition Grounds, Madhapur, were used to accommodate 300 vaccination counters. Executive Director of the hospitals, Hari Krishna said that around 45% of the 37,000 people who had registered until Saturday evening were young women. Dr Srinivasa and the hospital’s management stated that Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar planned the drive. While the drive was scheduled to start at 8 a.m., it had to be rolled out an hour earlier since people started to come from 6 a.m. to the venue. Bumper-to-bumper traffic was witnessed from Shilparamam to the parking space of Hitex exhibition grounds, which led to slow movement of vehicles in the early hours. However, the situation eased by afternoon. While getting through the traffic was a challenge, beneficiaries of the vaccine said that they received the vaccine within 5 minutes of stepping into the hangar. One of the beneficiaries, M Charan said that he received the vaccine in less than five minutes. People were assigned one-hour time slots, which distributed the beneficiaries’ load over the 13 hours of scheduled time. Safety measures The main concern was safety since thousands were set to reach the venue. While there was constant flow of hundreds of people into the three hangars, gatherings of large number of people were not witnessed except in the post-vaccination area where chairs were placed maintaining physical distance. Mr Hari Krishna said that the entire procedure after a person steps out of the vehicle was contact-free procedure except when the nurse gives the jab. Each hangar had 100 counters, an emergency medical attention room, doctors, nurses. So a total of 300 counters were put in place which helped in clearing the crowd. Upon reaching the venue, volunteers from the SCSC and a few colleges directed the beneficiaries to the hangars. At the entrance of the hangars, people scanned QR code on the vaccination pass. After stepping into a hangar, they were directed to rows of counters where people were given the jab. “The process was smooth. If such drives are replicated in four corners of the city, it would be of help to people as they don’t have to travel long distances. Elderly people cannot sit in any vehicle for a long time,” said Rajashekar Reddy (30), who drove for one-and-half-hours from Ghatkesar to Madhapur to get the vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/37k-vaccinated-in-12-hours-in-mega-drive/article34747673.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Stalin appoints Jeyaranjan as Vice-Chairperson of SDPC||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Sunday appointed economist J. Jeyaranjan as the Vice-Chairperson of the State Development Policy Council (SDPC). Professor R. Srinivasan of the Department of Econometrics, University of Madras, has been named as the full-time member. Professor M. Vijayabaskar, Professor Sulthan Ahmed Ismail, retired IAS officer Deenabandu, industrialist Mallika Srinivasan, vascular surgeon J. Amalorpavanathan, Siddha physician G. Sivaraman, Bharatanatyam artiste Narthaki Nataraj and MLA T.R.B. Rajaa are the part-time members. Mr. Jeyaranjan, who has a doctorate from the Madras Institute of Development Studies (MIDS), is a strong supporter of welfare schemes implemented by the DMK governments over the years. His is among the prominent voices in the Dravidian school of thought in development economics. Mr. Srinivasan is Dean, Research, University of Madras. He was part of the State Planning Commission between 2006 and 2011. Mr. Vijayabaskar, now at MIDS, has been focusing on political economy, industrialisation and labour processes. Mr. Ismail is an ecologist known for his work as the head of the Department of Biotechnology at The New College, Chennai, and was formerly the Director of the Ecoscience Research Foundation. When he was an IAS officer, Mr. Deenabandu worked on housing facilities and educational aid for Sri Lankan refugees in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/stalin-appoints-jeyaranjan-as-vice-chairperson-of-sdpc/article34747340.ece
07 June 2021||MYSURU,||New Mysuru DC and civic chief take charge||Less than 24 hours after IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag were transferred late on Saturday following a public spat, their replacements, Bagadi Gautham and Lakshmikanth Reddy, took charge as the Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru and the Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) respectively. Ms. Nag, who had announced her resignation alleging “harassment” from Ms. Sindhuri, handed over the charge to Mr. Reddy on Sunday and said that she was withdrawing her resignation. “I gave my resignation only because one person was ruining the system. I will now withdraw it and join duty in RDPR (as director for e-governance) in Bengaluru from Monday,” she said. Ms. Sindhuri, who has been transferred as Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, was conspicuous by her absence. Earlier in the day, Ms. Sindhuri went to Bengaluru and called on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa at his residence. Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru that Ms. Sindhuri had been told that there was no question of reconsidering the transfer. He said that she has been asked to report for work in Bengaluru. Officials said the outgoing DC had completed the formalities for handing over charge to her successor. Additional Deputy Commissioner B.S. Manjunath was present when Mr. Gautham took charge. In a message on the WhatsApp group of print journalists, Ms. Sindhuri said: “My last post as DC Mysuru. Thank You Mysuru for the opportunity. I did my best under the prevailing circumstances”. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Gautham said he would try to provide a “transparent, clean, people-friendly, responsive, and efficient administration to the best of our abilities while upholding the prestige of the government”. He promised to work towards taking citizens, people’s representatives, officials, civil society, and the media into confidence on the work taken by the district administration while promising to accord priority to fight COVID-19. He said he will continue with the ongoing work and will bring minor changes, if necessary, keeping the public interest in mind. To a question, Mr. Gautham said he held discussions with officials, including the former DC and MCC Commissioner, before taking charge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-officials-take-charge-in-mysuru/article34747219.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmers’ convoy from Haryana heads to protest site in Delhi||A large number of farmers in a convoy of hundreds of vehicles from Haryana’s Ambala on Sunday reached the Singhu border outside Delhi, which has been the site of protests by the farmers’ unions. The unions said more farmers from Haryana were expected to join the protest sites in the next few days. Led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni, the convoy, mostly comprising cars with black flags, set off from Ambala through Karnal and Panipat on the Delhi-Amabala highway. BKU’s spokesperson Rakesh Bains claimed that around 3,500 vehicles were part of the convoy. He added that another convoy from Haryana’s Panipat would join the site on June 10. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), in a press statement, claimed that a large number of protesters continued to pour into various sites at the Singhu border, the Tikri border, Ghazipur and other locations. “While the spin doctors of BJP continue to try to create an image of dwindling numbers at the protest sites, the government should know that quite the opposite is the case, and all protest sites are witnessing a huge surge of protesters joining the sites,” said the press statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-convoy-from-haryana-heads-to-protest-site-in-delhi/article34747247.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||New cases dip below 10,000; 90 dead in 24 hrs.||The State reported less than 10,000 new COVID-19 infections for the second time in the past week. As many as 8,976 new infections and 90 deaths were reported in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The daily positivity rate has been coming down gradually in the past five days. The death toll reached 11,466 and the cumulative tally increased to 17,58,339. The recovery rate increased to 92.33% with a total of 16,23,447 recoveries, including 13,568 in the past day. The number of active cases came down to 1,23,426 and the death rate remains at 0.65%. The daily positivity rate of 83,690 samples tested was 10.73% and that of 1.97 crore samples tested so far was 8.88%. Chittoor reported 12 deaths in the past day followed by West Godavari nine and Anantapur, Guntur, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram eight each. Seven patients died in Prakasam, six each in East Godavari, Kurnool and Nellore, five each in Krishna and Visakhapatnam and two in Kadapa. Nearly 60% of the new infections were reported in five districts: East Godavari (1,669), Chittoor (1,232), Anantapur (995), Krishna (726) and Visakhapatnam (700). The new cases in other districts were: West Godavari (611), Guntur (578), Kadapa (523), Prakasam (506), Nellore (396), Srikakulam (381), Kurnool (361) and Vizianagaram (298). They were followed by Anantapur (995), Krishna (726), Visakhapatnam (700), West Godavari (611), Guntur (578), Kadapa (523), Prakasam (506), Nellore (396), Srikakulam (381), Kurnool (361) and Vizianagaram (298).  District-wise tally Meanwhile, Chittoor’s cumulative case count crossed two lakh and the last one lakh cases were reported in the past 50 days. During the second wave so far, Chittoor reported 1.13 lakh infections. The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,38,702), Chittoor (2,00,368), Guntur (1,53,970), West Godavari (1,46,799), Anantapur (1,44,660), Visakhapatnam (1,41,842), Nellore (1,21,214), Kurnool (1,17,822), Srikakulam (1,11,894), Prakasam (1,11,178), Kadapa (98,089), Krishna (92,880) and Vizianagaram (76,026).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-cases-dip-below-10000-90-dead-in-24-hrs/article34747240.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘New rules only to check misuse of social media’||Amid Twitter and WhatsApp pushing back against the government’s new rules for social media platforms, IT and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the rules only benefit the over 100 crore users of such platforms by giving them a means to address their grievances. “...These are basically the rights of the users against misuse [of social media platforms]. Any robust democracy, which allows freedom of speech and expression, must also allow a forum for redressal of complaints,” Mr. Prasad said. The Minister again stressed that these platforms will have to abide by the laws in India. “Social media users can criticise Narendra Modi, they can criticise government policy, and ask questions... the way social media has empowered ordinary Indians is a matter of great assurance... But a private company sitting in America should refrain from lecturing us on democracy when you are denying your users the right to an effective redressal forum,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-rules-only-to-check-misuse-of-social-media/article34747255.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet meeting to be held on Tuesday||A Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, will decide the course of action on the latest spell of lockdown in the State, which will expire the next day. The meeting will also discuss the spread of COVID-19, healthcare, irrigation, payment of Rythu Bandhu amounts to accounts of farmers, availability of fertilizers and pesticides, agricultural operations and financial position of the government due to lockdown, a release said. The release added that the opening of diagnostic labs at 19 district headquarters hospitals on Monday has been postponed to Wednesday. They will be inaugurated by Ministers at a fixed time in all centres. In districts not represented by Ministers, VIPs appointed by the government will complete the formalities. The Cabinet will finalise the venues for Ministers. Action plan The meeting will also go into the action plan of various department to further curb COVID-19, which is already on the decline in the State. The preparedness of Health department to effectively face the threat of the third wave of COVID-19 will be reviewed. The progress of ongoing irrigation projects and water availability to crops are the other issues to come up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-meeting-to-be-held-on-tuesday/article34747678.ece
07 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Gram Panchayat president arrested for murder||The Kundapur Police on Sunday arrested Pranesh Yadiyal, president of Yadamogga Gram Panchayat, on the charge of murdering Uday Ganiga (45) in the village on Saturday. The Shankaranarayana Police said that Yadiyal ran his car over Ganiga when he was waiting by the roadside in the village on Saturday evening. Yadiyal and a few others in the car then assaulted an injured Ganiga with wooden logs. When villagers rushed to the spot, Yadiyal and his accomplices fled after abandoning the car. Ganiga died of injuries, before he could be taken to a hospital in Kundapur. The police said that a search is on for Yadiyal’s associates, including Balachandra Bhat. The police said that Ganiga was embroiled in a feud with Yadiyal as the latter had unnecessarily delayed granting no objection certificate to him for digging a borewell. Ganiga had also written about corrupt practices in the panchayat on social media platforms. Yadiyal and Bhat recently had had a heated exchange of words with Ganiga. The police said that the two had also threatened to kill Ganiga. On Saturday evening, Ganiga left his house on his motorcycle after he received a call from a person who asked him to meet him on the main road. Soon after, Ganiga was run over by Yadiyal. The police said that preliminary inspection of the crime site showed that it was not an accident. On a complaint from Ganiga’s wife, Jyothi, the Shankaranarayana Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gram-panchayat-president-arrested-for-murder/article34747375.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||50% of metro life back on track from today||The second phase of the “unlock” process will begin in the Capital on Monday morning with malls and markets, which have been shut since the lockdown was enforced on April 19, opening on an odd-even basis. The Delhi Metro services will restart with 50% capacity and trains will run at an interval of 5-15 minutes. Private offices will operate with 50% staff while those working in essential services can work at 100% capacity. All neighbourhood shops have been allowed to function, including liquor vends. Shops selling essential goods, including educational books and stationery items, fan shops in malls and market complexes, are permitted to open on all days without any time restrictions. Shops dealing with non-essential goods or services will operate from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-of-metro-life-back-on-track-from-today/article34747647.ece
07 June 2021||Thane,||Unlock plan: Navi Mumbai, Thane in category 2||A notification issued on Sunday put Thane and Navi Mumbai civic areas in category 2 of Maharashtra government’s five-level plan to ease COVID-19-induced restrictions from Monday based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. The notification, issued by Thane District Collector Rajesh Narvekar, placed Kalyan-Dombivli municipal limits in category 3. The Thane Collector’s notification said specific instructions pertaining to each area would be announced by the respective civic authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/unlock-plan-navi-mumbai-thane-in-category-2/article34747742.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Maharashtra is in talks to get Sputnik doses’||With vaccination for the 18-44 age group proceeding extremely slowly in Maharashtra owing to a severe vaccine paucity, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said a large stock of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine will be available in the State from July.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-is-in-talks-to-get-sputnik-doses/article34747242.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||India records highest daily deaths in world||India recorded 99,117 new COVID-19 cases and 2,401 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,89,07,560 cases and 3,49,186 deaths. It also continued to record the highest daily deaths in the world.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-records-highest-daily-deaths-in-world/article34747243.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Online group digs into virus leak theory||When it was proposed about a year ago, talk of an original lab-leaked virus was dismissed as a conspiracy theory. A year later, that theory is back in the reckoning, teased out of its conspiratorial hues and summoned into the limelight.Page 11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/online-group-digs-into-virus-leak-theory/article34747244.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Why did govt. reduce oxygen beds: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday questioned the Centre’s decision to reduce oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds between September last year and January this year despite experts predicting an “inevitable” second wave.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/why-did-govt-reduce-oxygen-beds-priyanka/article34747741.ece
07 June 2021||Belagavi,||No change in leadership: Pralhad Joshi||The BJP has no plans of replacing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi has said in Hubballi. “Mr. Yediyurappa is doing very well, despite his age. There will be no change in leadership in the State,” the Union Minister clarified, while talking to journalists at his house on Sunday. Reacting to Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement that he will step down if the party asked him to, Mr. Joshi said that the Chief Minister’s statement should not be construed wrongly. “He [Mr. Yediyurappa] has only said that he will obey the party’s instructions. He has not said that he will resign and go home,’’ Mr. Joshi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-change-in-leadership-pralhad-joshi/article34747373.ece
07 June 2021||Hassan,||Man opens fire at friend||A man opened fire at his friend following a heated argument in a WhatsApp group chat at Ibbidu in Belur taluk on Saturday. Kantaraju of Ibbidu, who suffered a bullet injury in his foot, is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Hassan. He has filed a complaint with Belur Police accusing Ravi and Shashi, also from the same village, of the crime. Both Ravi and Kantaraju were running a bakery in Andhra Pradesh. They returned to their native place following the COVID-19 lockdown recently. They became part of a WhatsApp group that involved many people in the village. During the chats in the group, Ravi and Kantakumar had heated arguments on some personal issue. Following this, Ravi allegedly challenged Kantakumar to meet him in person at C Hosahalli on Saturday evening. When Kantakumar went to the spot, accepting the challenge, Ravi arrived with his friend Shashi and shot at him [Kantaraju] with his country rifle. Belur Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/man-opens-fire-at-friend/article34747374.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 mark in State||Petrol price in Karnataka for the first time breached the Rs. 100 mark on Sunday. Petrol price that has been on the rise over the last one month crossed the Rs. 100 mark in Sirsi and Ballari. While it was Rs. 100.28 in Sirsi, it was Rs. 100.08 in Ballari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-state/article34747298.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Suburban rail proposes a seamless commute||If all goes as planned, suburban rail commuters will be able to use Namma Metro and BMTC buses with ease. (K-RIDE) wants to integrate the proposed suburban rail stations with metro and existing railway stations as well as BMTC bus stops at 10 locations on the four planned corridors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suburban-rail-proposes-a-seamless-commute/article34747301.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Truck catches fire on KIA premises, 6 sustain burns||Six contract workers sustained burns when a truck caught fire on the KIA premises on Sunday. According to the police, the incident occurred at around 10 a.m. when the workers in the truck were painting a newly laid road near the cargo wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/truck-catches-fire-on-kia-premises-6-sustain-burns/article34747302.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||They are not gangsters: court on handcuffs plea||A Delhi court dismissed the plea by authorities to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, in “fetters and handcuffs”, saying they are not previous convicts or gangsters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/they-are-not-gangsters-court-on-handcuffs-plea/article34747649.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘If pizza can be delivered at home, why not ration’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow doorstep delivery of ration. “If pizza can be home-delivered then why should ration not be delivered to the houses of the poor,” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/if-pizza-can-be-delivered-at-home-why-not-ration/article34747650.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||At 381, Delhi sees lowest virus cases since March 15||The city on Sunday recorded 381 fresh COVID-19 cases and 34 more deaths, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The number of new infections was the lowest since March 15 and the death toll the lowest in nearly two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-381-delhi-sees-lowest-virus-cases-since-march-15/article34747651.ece
07 June 2021||BELAGAVI,||What is ailing BIMS||Some leaders have complained against Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, the Government Medical College set up in the city 16 years ago, saying that it was not treating COVID-19 patients properly. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi inspected the hospital last week and said that doctors and staff are being negligent of their duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/what-is-ailing-bims/article34747377.ece
07 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||BJP continues U.P. ‘stocktaking’||Amid reports of stocktaking within the BJP ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election next year, the party’s State in-charge, Radha Mohan Singh, called upon Governor Anandiben Patel here at her official residence on Sunday. While Mr. Singh described the visit as a courtesy call, the political significance of his trip to the U.P. capital was not lost on anyone amid speculation of changes coming up in the government and party. “It is a mere formality,” he said on the sudden visit. Mr. Singh said he had called upon Ms. Patel as he had been unable to meet her on past occasions. When asked by presspersons outside the Raj Bhavan if any reshuffle of the State Cabinet headed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was on the agenda, Mr. Singh said there was no such matter. ‘Most popular govt.’ “The government in U.P. and the organisation are working with a lot of strength. The strongest organisation and the most popular government in the country are operating in Uttar Pradesh,” Mr. Singh said. Mr. Singh’s praise for the Yogi Adityanath-led government comes after party general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh visited Lucknow and met party leaders and Ministers here as part of a stocktaking exercise and lauded the Chief Minister for managing the COVID-19 pandemic “quite effectively”. Mr. Singh also called upon the Speaker of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly, Hriday Narayan Dixit. The State unit of the party also seemed to back the Chief Minister. ‘Regular meetings’ Asked by presspersons about Mr. Singh’s visit, BJP U.P. president Swatantra Dev Singh said the BJP was a “ karyakarta -based [worker] party” and the leaders had regular tours and meetings. “Because this is not a party of a dynasty or a family... Here, karyakartas are screened and developed as someone who can provide leadership in the future and direction to the society and country,” he said. Mr. Singh also praised CM Adityanath as “hardworking”. “He is [working] seven days a week, 24 hours daily,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-continues-up-stocktaking/article34747176.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi hospital revokes ban on Malayalam||An order banning the nursing staff of the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (GIPMER), a Delhi government-run hospital, from speaking in Malayalam in the hospital has been revoked, said its medical director, Anil Agarwal, on Sunday. On Saturday, GIPMER warned the nursing staff of “serious action” if they did not converse in English or Hindi, as per an order issued by the hospital. “The circular which was issued by the Nursing Superintendent, G B Pant Hospital, without any instructions or knowledge of the hospital administration and the Delhi government stands withdrawn with immediate effect,” a new order read. “The order was issued without our knowledge and it has been revoked. The matter is being investigated and strict action will follow,” Dr. Agarwal said. Nurses at the hospital and unions had criticised the ban saying they always spoke to patients in Hindi. “A complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication in working places in GIPMER. Whereas maximum patients and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless causing a lot of inconvenience. So it is directed all nursing personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication otherwise serious action will be taken,” the initial order read. The Action Committee, Delhi Malayali Nurses, in a statement, said they were withdrawing their agitation. The Twitter campaign was also withdrawn.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hospital-revokes-ban-on-malayalam/article34747196.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||‘New IT rules only to tackle misuse of social media, offer redressal forum’||With Twitter and WhatsApp up in arms against the government’s new guidelines for social media platforms, Information Technology and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said these guidelines are to deal with the issue of misuse of such platforms. He stressed that these rules only give a redressal mechanism to users, with complaints to be handled between the users and the social media intermediary. The government, he said, is not involved. On the issue of tracing the originator of WhatsApp messages, the Minister said ordinary users of the platform have nothing to fear. “I am giving my word,” he said. Edited excerpts:  Some social media firms have raised concerns over the clause related to employees being jailed under the new Rules. As per Rule 4(A), social media platforms need to appoint a chief compliance officer who shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with the Act and the rules thereunder and shall be liable in any proceeding relating to third-party information where he/she fails to make sure that due diligence was followed by the intermediary. The failure to observe due diligence is a precondition for starting an action. The Rules add that no liability will be imposed upon the significant social media intermediary without being granted an opportunity to be heard. So, all safeguards are there. If intermediaries are already assuming that they will not follow due diligence, that is their fault. If they have the intention not to pursue due diligence, there will be consequences. Similarly, removal of content is also preceded by precondition. Intermediaries shall remove or disable access within 24 hours of receipt of complaints of contents that expose private areas of individuals, show such individuals in full or partial nudity or in sexual acts or is in the nature of impersonation including morphed images, etc. Such a complaint can be filed either by the individual or by any other person on his/her behalf ... What is in this? For removal of content via government orders, there is already a process under Section 69(A) of the IT Act. The issue is not of use, but misuse and abuse of these platforms, and whether the victims of abuse have a forum or not. And we [the government] are out of it. This is between the social media platforms and their users. The Rules came into effect on May 26. What action will be taken for non-compliance? What action I will take or the department will take is not to be debated in a public interview. Leave it to us. We will decide within the full confines of the governance process. Let me reiterate: they are supposed to follow the rules. These rules are for the good of their users only ... if any helpless victim is having an issue with misuse, they should go to America. When a distraught mother approaches me saying that her daughter’s ex-boyfriend is circulating intimate photographs of the girl, what should I do? Ask her to complain to America, as Twitter says? These laws have not come suddenly. These were work in progress for three or four years. There were two court orders, command of Parliament and demand of the civil society, followed by large-scale consultation. Will this issue impact India’s image, particularly in terms of doing business? No. Many companies have complied with the rules. This is not a question of the image of a country, these are the rights of the users against misuse. Any robust democracy which allows freedom of speech and expression must also allow a forum for redressal of complaints... The Rules are very clear. They have to appoint India-based employees — a grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and a nodal officer to coordinate with the government. Are we asking for the moon? Do they need a UPSC-type exam to make these appointments? As an interim measure, they can relocate one of their employees here. When Indian IT companies go to do business in America, do they follow the laws or not? Indian pharma companies go for manufacturing in America, do they follow the American laws or not? There will be no compromise on the digital sovereignty of India. The government and WhatsApp have been at loggerheads over the issue of originator of messages for over two years, and now they have gone to the court, citing privacy concerns. Ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear. I am giving my word. Messages between friends, doctor-patient, lawyer-clients, media-source, girlfriend-boyfriend … private messages will continue unhindered in the encrypted format. What we are seeking is when a message that is already in circulation has gone viral, is causing riots, mob lynching, terrorism, impinging upon security and safety of India, and showing a woman being raped or in nudity or child abuse ... only in these defined cases, security agencies can ask “please explain who started this” ... The content is already in the public domain. I want to touch upon what privacy is. The Supreme Court has said privacy principles have certain exemptions ... terrorists, a criminal or a corrupt person cannot have a right of privacy, otherwise no investigation can be done ... In my very considered view, privacy means the core of your existence ... your sexual preferences, your matrimonial relationship, relationship among family members, your private correspondence, your medical records, your property if you’re not a public servant. The right of a minor … These are the recognised nuances of privacy. And the problems of technology can be solved by technology. It is their [WhatsApp’s] responsibility… When during the Cambridge Analytica issue, the data of over 5 lakh Indians were leaked by them [Facebook], where was privacy? In their latest privacy policy, they are saying that users’ data will be shared with business associates. Where is the privacy there? Therefore, if the details are being sought which are in reasonable classification and in public interest, why are you debating about it? Are they not giving it in many foreign countries? WhatsApp has said they will wait till the personal data protection Bill comes with regards to their new privacy policy. What is the progress on that? The select committee has given their report ... COVID-19 permitting, in the next session I will like to push it. India has a great potential to become a data economy ... Let me proudly assert that our data protection law very clearly enjoins that no data can be taken from anyone without his consent voluntarily. The processor of data must use it only to the extent consented. Google has sought protection against the IT rules saying it is a search engine and not an intermediary. Let us not take shelter under technicalities. Is it not the moral obligation of the platform by whatever name it goes to respect the dignity of women whose naked, morphed images are circulated? Should there not be a mechanism [which will ensure] that we will not pick up any such content unless we are shown that there is an element of consent for public consent. It is a moral as well as social obligation of these social media firms.  All safeguards are there. If intermediaries are already assuming that they will not follow due diligence, that is their fault||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-it-rules-only-to-tackle-misuse-of-social-media-offer-redressal-forum/article34747182.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||NPR slips valid for long-term visas: MHA||Migrants belonging to six non-Muslim minority communities from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh, while applying for long-term visas (LTVs), can also produce National Population Register (NPR) enrolment slips as proof of the duration of their stay in India, according to a Union Home Ministry manual. The NPR number is part of an illustrative list of more than 10 documents that could be provided to apply for an LTV, which is a precursor to acquiring Indian citizenship either by naturalisation or registration under Section 5 and 6 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, for the six communities — Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Christians and Buddhists — from the three countries. The special provision of LTVs for Hindus and Sikhs from Pakistan and Afghanistan was first made in 2011. The NPR was first compiled in 2010 simultaneously with the decadal Census exercise and later updated in 2015. It already has a database of 119 crore residents. The NPR is a register of usual residents linked with location particulars down to the village level and is updated periodically “to incorporate the changes due to birth, death and migration”. The next phase of the NPR, expected to include contentious questions on date and place of birth of father and mother, last place of residence and mother tongue, was to be simultaneously updated with the 2021 House Listing and Housing Census that has been indefinitely postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to detailed guidelines issued by the Home Ministry on documents that can be produced to prove the date of entry of the minority community migrants currently in India, the “slip issued by the Census enumerators” during the survey for the preparation of the NPR prior to December 31, 2014, can be provided. Migrants who can apply for LTVs will have to produce any document issued by the governments of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan “clearly showing the religion of the applicant like school certificate etc. to establish that the applicant is from a minority community”, the guidelines said. As reported, the Home Ministry has been sensitising the States about the relevant provisions under the Citizenship Act, 1955, which could help the six communities who entered India on legal documents before 2014 and are here on LTVs, expedite their citizenship applications. Ministry officials assert that the awareness drive is not related to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA), which is intended to benefit undocumented migrants from the six groups who entered India before the 2014 cut-off date. The CAA is yet to implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/npr-slips-valid-for-long-term-visas-mha/article34747190.ece
07 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha’s forest produce gatherers hit hard||For the second year running, forest dwellers across Odisha have been deprived of the right price for the non-timber forest produce (NTFP) gathered by them. With the COVID-19 pandemic disrupting local economies across the country, the NTFP market in Odisha has also suffered due to the absence of adequate buyers this year. “Last year, when the COVID-19 pandemic surfaced, forest dwellers, especially tribals, could not get the price for their produce and even failed to dispose of NTFP stocks. After a year, the crisis has deepened further and hit them again,” said Chittaranjan Pani, an expert on the NTFP market. Around this time, tribals collect sal leaves, siali leaves, mohua flowers, mango kernel, karanja seeds, char seeds and tamarind. The hard cash earned by forest dwellers and tribals in the summer helps them survive the critical four monsoon months and use the money in agricultural activities. This year, the spread of COVID-19 infections was more profound in the rural and tribal hinterland. Unscrupulous traders took advantage of the fear prevailing in society and reduced the purchase price of NTFPs. Sources said NTFP gatherers sold their forest produce at lower prices, before government agencies intervened. Tribal activists also expressed anguish over the alleged apathetic approach of government agencies in ensuring the right price for NTFP. “Government agencies delayed procurement of NTFP,” Mr. Pani pointed out. He alleged that the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED) promoted Van Dhan Vikash Kendra, which was introduced to create a market for minor forest produce while ensuring minimum support price, but it could not perform to its potential.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odishas-forest-produce-gatherers-hit-hard/article34747198.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Opposition slams GIPMER directive||Opposition parties on Sunday slammed the order of the Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (GIPMER), barring the nursing staff from speaking in Malayalam, and described it as “discriminatory, racist and unconstitutional”. The hospital has withdrawn the order. “A small victory for decency and common sense over parochialism & bigotry!!” tweeted Shashi Tharoor, Congress leader and Lok Sabha member from Thiruvananthapuram, after the order was revoked. Earlier, top Congress leaders, including former party chief Rahul Gandhi, took to Twitter to criticise the order by the Delhi government-run institution that directed nurses only to speak in English and Hindi. “Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination!” tweeted Mr. Gandhi, who is a Lok Sabha member from Kerala. An insult: Priyanka To make a point, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra posted her tweet in Malayalam. Attaching a copy of the order, Ms. Vadra said, “This order is a violation of basic values of our country. It is racist, discriminatory and utterly wrong to the millions of nurses and health workers who have risked their lives to save us during this time of COVID pandemic.” “It is also an insult. We owe them a debt, gratitude and respect. It should be withdrawn and an apology should be tendered.” A functionary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) shot off a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, terming the order as “unconstitutional and atrocious”. “The ostensible excuse for this appalling order is that patients, the majority of whom do not know Malayalam, are inconvenienced by nurses conversing with each other in this language. This is a specious plea as Malayalam-speaking nurses communicate with non-Malayali patients in Hindi and English and not in Malayalam,” wrote K.M. Tiwari of the Delhi State Committee of the CPI(M). “So there are no grounds to say that patients are being inconvenienced. Conversing with each other in their mother tongue by Malayali nurses cannot be an excuse to penalise them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-slams-gipmer-directive/article34747201.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Test positivity rate drops below 5%||India recorded 99,117 new COVID-19 cases and 2,401 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,89,07,560 cases and 3,49,186 deaths. India continued to record the highest number of daily deaths in the world with 2,970 average daily fatalities on June 5. The two other countries with the highest daily death count after India were Brazil (1,639) and Mexico (758). Twenty-eight per cent of the world’s average daily deaths were recorded in India on June 5. Tamil Nadu reported 20,421 new infections, followed by Kerala (14,672) and Maharashtra (12,557). Maharashtra recorded 618 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (434) and Karnataka (320). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 20.36 lakh samples were tested on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday). India’s average daily test positivity rate continues to decline. It was 4.2% on June 5 compared to 9.4% recorded a week before. About 33.54 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which is nearly 3 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 3.18 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 26.43 lakh on June 5, which is more than the 23.39 lakh recorded a week before (May 29). About 19.7% of adults in India, 40.2% of those aged above 45 and 44.5% of people aged above 60, have been administered with at least one dose of a vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/test-positivity-rate-drops-below-5/article34747206.ece
07 June 2021||Pune,||BJP MP calls protest rally on June 16 for Maratha quota||Signalling an intensification in the Maratha quota agitation, BJP MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji, announced that the first Maratha morcha (rally) would commence from the Kolhapur district on June 16. The Rajya Sabha member, who had recently been on a State-wide tour to canvass support for the Maratha reservation issue after the Supreme Court last month scrapped the quota law, said if the community’s demands were not met through the agitation, he would also lead a ‘long march’ from Mumbai to Pune. “We have shown restraint for too long. While we have no wish to hold the public hostage, reservation is the Maratha community’s right. I appeal to leaders of all political parties to join in the agitation. If our demands are not met through agitations, then I will lead a long march from Mumbai to Pune,” he said at the Raigad Fort on the occasion of the 348th coronation anniversary of Shivaji. Earlier, Mr. Raje performed rituals and paid tributes to the Maratha warrior king. While lakhs of Shivbhakts (admirers of Shivaji) usually congregate at the fort for the occasion, the pandemic curbs meant only a handful were present. The BJP MP also said the Maratha community had, for too long, become a political plaything, which was being toyed with by the ruling and Opposition leaders. His announcement was greeted with approval from Maratha outfits such as the Sakal Maratha Samaj and the Chhava Sanghatana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-mp-calls-protest-rally-on-june-16-for-maratha-quota/article34747186.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi court turns down plea to produce activists in fetters||A Delhi court has dismissed a petition filed by authorities to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi, arrested in connection with the northeast Delhi riots last year, in “fetters and handcuffs”, noting that they are not previous convicts nor gangsters. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav, in an order dated June 5, said, “The applications appear to have been filed in a mechanical manner, without application of mind by the high echelon of the Delhi police and the prison authority.” “The Delhi Prison Rules are silent about the handcuffing and putting fetters upon the prisoners. The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the court said. Pursuant to notices issued by the court during previous hearings, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) on May 6 stated that “no such application, seeking to produce both the above named accused in ‘handcuffs in both hands from back side’ is filed by the undersigned before any court or before any other authority”. The DCP, 3rd BN, in its reply filed on April 26, stated that in the aftermath of an attempt to free undertrial prisoner (UTP) Kuldeep, alias Fajja, from custody at the GTB Hospital on March 25 by armed assailants, it was decided to request the courts for permission to handcuff high-risk or sensitive UTPs prone to escape. “As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of the Court,” the DCP, 3rd BN, had stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-court-turns-down-plea-to-produce-activists-in-fetters/article34747163.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. keen on implementing labour codes||The four labour codes are likely to see the light of day in a couple of months as the Centre is now keen on going ahead with the implementation of these laws, which, among others, will result in a reduction in the take-home pay of employees and a higher provident fund liability for the companies. Once the wages code comes into force, there will be significant changes in the way basic pay and the provident fund of employees are calculated. The Labour Ministry had envisaged implementing the four codes on industrial relations, wages, social security and occupational health safety and working conditions from April 1, 2021. These four labour codes will rationalise 44 Central labour laws. The Ministry had even finalised the rules under the four codes. But these could not be implemented because many States were not in a position to notify rules under these codes in their jurisdiction. Labour is on the Concurrent List of the Constitution and, therefore, both the Centre and the States have to notify rules under these four codes to make them the laws of the land in their respective jurisdictions. “Many major States have not finalised the rules under the four codes... The Central government cannot wait forever for the States to firm up the rules under these codes. Therefore, it is planning to implement these codes in a couple of months as some time would have to be given to establishments or firms to align with the new laws,” a source said. According to the source, some States had already circulated the draft rules. Under the new wages code, allowances are capped at 50%. This means half of the gross pay of an employee would be basic wages. Provident fund contribution is calculated as a percentage of the basic wage. After the implementation of the new codes, the take-home pay of employees would reduce, while the provident fund liability of employers would increase in many cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-keen-on-implementing-labour-codes/article34747167.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Experts underline key role of tech in modern agriculture||As part of the Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, hosted a webinar on the ‘Role of Technology in Agriculture Courses’. The webinar was moderated by Deepa H. Ramakrishnan, Senior Assistant, Editor-Reporting. Dr. M. Chinnadurai, Dean, SRM College of Agricultural Sciences, SRMIST, spoke of the evolution in agriculture, with output-increasing technologies leading to improvements in the field. “The yield of rice in 1960 was less than one tonne per hectare, as opposed to the current three tonnes. This is due to high-yielding variety rice and management techniques. Over the years, region-specific varieties have also evolved, as have fast-production technologies,” he explained. Dr. M. Sanjeevagandhi, Assistant Professor, SRM College of Agricultural Sciences, SRMIST, described different technologies used in agriculture like sensors to identify soil moisture, smart water systems and precision farming using geospatial technology. “Tech in agriculture is the need of the hour to secure food for a rapidly growing population, balance climate change issues, reduce workers’ workload, boost production quality and efficiency of farming products, optimise level of input application, storage, transport, and maximise profits,” he said. Dr. Subrat Panda, Chief Technology Officer, AgNext Technologies, explained how Artificial Intelligence (AI), sensors and IoT impact Agtech in a big way. “Today, we need cross-domain technology and research collaboration in agriculture. This can be done by introducing concepts of horizontal technologies such as AI, IoT, nano-tech and material sciences to agriculture students. Internship in agritech companies and research collaboration will also help them gain perspective,” he said The session, along with the Q&A session, can be viewed at http://bit.ly/SRMTHYT2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/experts-underline-key-role-of-tech-in-modern-agriculture/article34747169.ece
07 June 2021||Kolkata,||W.B. Governor summons Chief Secretary||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday took to social media and through a series of posts on Twitter said that “rampant post-poll retributive violence is continuing in the State”. The Governor also summoned the Chief Secretary (CS) to brief him on the situation on Monday. “Extremely alarming law & order scenario @MamataOfficial. Security environment is seriously compromised. In such a grim situation called upon Chief Secretary to brief me on the law-and-order situation on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence,” the Governor said on social media on Sunday morning. Later in the evening, Mr. Dhankhar appealed to “all sane minds in West Bengal to rise to the occasion and contribute towards restoring law and order”. “Your silence at this juncture may result in silencing for ever- leading to a situation of hopelessness and helplessness,” the Governor said on Twitter, tagging the Chief Minister. On the same day, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra came out with serious allegations against him. Ms. Moitra accused the Governor of nepotism and shared a list of six persons appointed at the Raj Bhavan, alleging that they were acquaintances or extended members of his family. “And Uncleji- while you’re at it- take the extended family you’ve settled in at WB Raj Bhavan with you,” said Ms. Moitra, sharing the names of those appointed at the Raj Bhavan in different capacities. The Trinamool Congress leader also added that West Bengal’s “grim situation” will improve if Mr. Dhankhar were to “move to Delhi and find another job”. Mr. Dhankhar has raised the issue of post-poll violence ever since the Trinamool Congress government was elected to head the State for the third time in May this year. He has visited Cooch Behar in north Bengal and Nandigram in south Bengal, and met people affected by post-poll violence. The TMC has reacted sharply to the Governor’s remarks, accusing him of functioning as “an extension of the Bharatiya Janata Party” and the “real leader of the Opposition”. Governor targets police The Governor also said a 25-year-old was killed at Bhatpara Municipality in North 24 Parganas in a bomb attack. “While Bengal is on fire, I see no signs of efforts@WBPoliceto douse it.” The Governor also went on to say that the West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police were “unfortunately engaged as extension of ruling dispensation to let loose vindictiveness on political opponents”. He also shared a strongly worded two-page message on social media. “State is in grip of unprecedented post-poll retributive at unimaginable scale with lakhs of people being displaced and property worth hundreds of crores vandalised,” he said.  Your [Chief Minister’s] silence at this juncture may result in silencing for ever Jagdeep Dhankhar West Bengal Governor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-governor-summons-chief-secretary/article34747188.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DLHI,||Why did govt. reduce oxygen, ICU beds, questions Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday questioned the Narendra Modi government’s decision to reduce oxygen, ICU and ventilator beds between September last year and January this year despite experts predicting an “inevitable” second wave of COVID-19. “From September 2020 to January 2021, the Modi government reduced: oxygen beds by 36%, ICU beds by 46%, ventilator beds by 28%. Why? When every expert in the country, the Parliamentary Committee on Health and their own sero-surveys warned them that additional beds would be needed for an inevitable second wave #ZimmedarKaun?” Ms. Vadra said in a video post on Twitter.    In a separate tweet, former party president Rahul Gandhi questioned the government’s priorities and said it was busy fighting for a blue tick — a reference to Twitter removing the verified sign from handles of some RSS leaders, only to later restore it— while citizens had to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant) for COVID-19 vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/why-did-govt-reduce-oxygen-icu-beds-questions-priyanka/article34747203.ece
07 June 2021||Srinagar,||5-year-old killed by leopard on the outskirts of Srinagar||Five-year-old Mir Adda chose a “Barbie dress”, wore a crown and was excitedly calling for family to cut her brother’s birthday cake minutes before a leopard took her away from the lawn of her house on the outskirts of Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, in a tragic case underlining human-animal conflict because of rapid forest destruction. A few minutes later, Adda’s heart-wrenching shrieks pierced the silent evening of June 3. The next day, her body parts were recovered from an adjacent nursery-turned-forest. The Mir house at Ompura, a locality in Budgam, became the centre of attention as mourners swarmed the residence to express their condolences to Adda’s family. “Adda had returned from her maternal family’s home as it was her brother Ali’s seventh birthday,” her maternal uncle, Aijaj Ahmed, said. She was laid to rest on Saturday. The Ompura area has a 20 acre nursery adjacent to it, which is maintained by the Social Forestry Department. “We have repeatedly raised the issue of the nursery and the presence of wild animals with the Forest Department over the last four years,” said Regional Wildlife Warden, Kashmir, Rashid Naqash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/5-year-old-killed-by-leopard-on-the-outskirts-of-srinagar/article34747422.ece
07 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Woman Dalit pradhan in U.P. ‘insulted’ by locals||A newly elected woman Dalit gram pradhan in the Mahoba area of Uttar Pradesh alleged that some people asked her to get off the chair, grabbed her hand inappropriately and used casteist slurs against her while she was attending a virtual meeting in the village panchayat bhavan with senior district officials. Following a police complaint lodged by her husband, an FIR was registered against four persons and six unidentified others on charges of assault with intent to outrage the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation and other relevant clauses of the Indian Penal Code. The accused were also slapped with several charges under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, including the crime of intentionally touching a woman belonging to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe when such act of touching is of a sexual nature and is without consent. “When someone grabs my hand and blurts out casteist abuses, I am bound to feel insulted,” the gram pradhan, 26, told The Hindu . On June 2, the pradhan was attending a video conference with senior district officials at the panchayat bhavan in her village. The four main accused reportedly belong to the Lodh community. The family belongs to the Jatav sub-caste of SC, the largest Dalit community in Uttar Pradesh. As per the FIR, one of the accused allegedly told her, “You are seated on a chair in front of us!”, and pulled her down from the chair. They also allegedly used casteist slurs and said “if you want to operate as a pradhan, then you have to do as we instruct you”, her husband, who was present at the meeting, said in the police complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-dalit-pradhan-in-up-insulted-by-locals/article34747184.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC grants bail to three in northeast Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to three men accused of murdering a person and injuring another while being part of an unlawful assembly that indulged in pelting stones during the communal violence that took place in northeast Delhi in 2020. Justice Mukta Gupta directed the three accused, Shabir Ali, Mehtab and Rais Ahmed, to be released on bail on the furnishing of a personal bond of Rs. 25,000 each, along with a surety of the like amount. The High Court noted that even though the trio were present as members of a mob at gali no. 1, Akhadewali gali , after 11 p.m., they were not part of the mob at gali no. 1 Brahmpuri at around 10.30 p.m., which indulged in pelting stones, causing injuries to one Nitin Kumar and the death of his father, Vinod Kumar. “The subsequent forming of an unlawful assembly at a different place, i.e., gali no.1 Akhadewali gali, will not implicate the petitioners as members of an unlawful assembly for causing the offences at gali no. 1 Brahmpuri gali ,” it said. “There is no prima facie material available with the prosecution from the statements of the eyewitnesses or the video clips of the mobile phones to show that the petitioners were part of the mob which caused unlawful activity at gali no .1, Brahmpuri, resulting in injuries to Nitin Kumar and the death of his father,” Justice Gupta said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-grants-bail-to-three-in-northeast-delhi-riots-case/article34747165.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||17 ‘mentally unsound’ Indians still in Pak. jails||Six years after Pakistan conveyed to India about 17 “mentally unsound” Indians languishing in its jails, efforts to confirm their identity have not yielded any result despite the Union Home Ministry putting up their photos on its official website and seeking assistance from the general public as well as States and Union Territories. They have completed their sentences, but they could not be repatriated to India due to the non-confirmation of their nationality, an official said. Among the 17 prisoners in Pakistan who were believed to be Indians, four were women named Gullu Jan, Ajmeera, Naqaya and Hasina by Pakistani authorities. The others were Sonu Singh, Surinder Mahto, Prahalad Singh, Silrof Salim, Birju, Raju, Bipla, Rupi Pal, Panwasi Lal, Raju Mahouli, Shyam Sunder, Ramesh and Raju Rai. Anyone who could identify the 17 persons should inform the Under Secretary (Foreigners) in the Home Ministry, the Home Department of State governments or the Union Territory (UT) administration concerned, or the respective Director-General of Police, Inspector-General of Police or Commissioner of Police, the Ministry said. “Photographs of 17 mentally unsound persons, believed to be Indian nationals, who are lodged in jails in Pakistan, are attached. These persons have not been able to disclose any other particulars about them, including the names of their parents or relatives, address in India, etc., due to their mentally unsound condition,” the Ministry notification said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/17-mentally-unsound-indians-still-in-pak-jails/article34747166.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Farmers’ convoy heads to protest site in Delhi||“While the spin doctors of BJP continue to try to create an image of dwindling numbers at the protest sites, the government should know that quite the opposite is the case, and all protest sites are witnessing a huge surge of protesters joining the sites,” said the press statement. Amid continued stalemate over withdrawal of cases against farmer leaders and their release in Harayana’s Fatehabad, the SKM has now given a call for four-hour sit-in agitation outside police stations across the State on June 7 (Monday). The farmers were arrested during a protest against Jannayak Janata Party MLA Devender Babli last week. Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, in a tweet, said the government’s “intransigence” and “arrogance” had led to the failure of talks in Fatehabad’s Tohana. “SKM calls for 4 hour dharna outside all police stations in Haryana tomorrow. Farmers from 4 districts to converge in Tohana,” said the tweet. Led by several SKM leaders, including Mr. Yadav, Gurnam Singh Charuni, Rakesh Tikait and Yudhvir Singh, hundreds of farmers have been camping at Sadar Police Station in Tohana since Saturday demanding the withdrawal of cases against farmer leaders and release of Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar. The agitating farmers, including women, have pitched tents outside the police station and the SKM leaders have announced that they would not budge from the station until the two arrested farmer leaders are released and cases are withdrawn. Several meetings have been held with the local administration, but there is no breakthrough.  Deputy Commissioner, Fatehabad, Narhari Bangar, said talks were still on with the farmers and the authorities were hopeful of an amicable solution soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmers-convoy-heads-to-protest-site-in-delhi/article34747170.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Since Feb., it’s all quiet on the Line of Control||“The guns are quiet, but we have not lowered our guard,” he said. In a conversation between the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) over the established hotline on February 22, both sides agreed on “strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the LoC and all other sectors” with effect from the midnight of February 24/25, a joint statement said. With summers setting in the high altitude areas, the next few months have to be carefully watched, said two officials. “This is just the start of the summer. So we have to take it day by day,” said one officer. “We will have to watch through the season. This season will be important to see if Pakistan walks the talk,” he added. Last week, Army Chief General Manoj Naravane was in Jammu and Kashmir to review the security situation on the ground. However, the Kashmir Valley has not seen such steep reduction in violence, noted several officials. The local recruitment in the Valley has seen only partial reduction with respect to last year. As per data, the local recruitment in 2019 was 119 and in 2020 it was 166. Till May 1 this year it stood at 38 compared to a corresponding figure of 49 last year. There are also regional developments which can impact the ground situation and are being closely watched, officials say. Later this month, at the plenary from June 21-25,the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) will take a decision on its grey listing of Pakistan for terror financing and money laundering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/since-feb-its-all-quiet-on-the-line-of-control/article34747171.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||More antibodies are produced by Covishield||“Contrarily, Covishield showed a good seropositivity rate and a 4-fold rise in median antibody titre even after a single dose,” the authors note. Overall, 97.8% of those who never had COVID and had two complete doses of Covishield had detectable levels of antibodies, or tested seropositive, compared to 79.3% with Covaxin. It is important to note that of the 515, only 90 got Covaxin. Covishield constitutes the overwhelming majority of vaccines administered in the country with nearly nine persons getting it for every one of Covaxin. Key target Though the spike protein remains the key target of most vaccines, ICMR and Bharat Biotech, the makers of Covaxin, have previously said that being a vaccine made out of an inactivated virus, it elicited a ‘broader immune’ response, meaning antibodies aimed at different parts of the coronavirus to neutralise it. T-cell immunity, that is reported to elicit a longer lasting protection wasn’t measured in the study. While real world efficacy data of Covaxin and India-centric data on Covishield isn’t public yet, recent studies have shown that most vaccines — including Covaxin and Covishield — have reduced response to some coronavirus variants such as B.1.617.2 or the Delta variant. Of the 30 HCWs who tested positive for the virus, three tested positive after the first dose and 27 after the second. Breakthrough infections — testing positive for the coronavirus two weeks after the second dose — were noted in 5.5% (22/399) cohorts in Covishield and 2.2% (2/93) of Covaxin recipients. Dr. A.K. Singh, of the GD Hospital and Diabetes Institute, Kolkata, and among the authors of the paper, said the greater number of infections after the second wave was probably due to the increased number of cases after April .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/more-antibodies-are-produced-by-covishield/article34747172.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Will train one lakh health volunteers, says BJP||At the conclusion of a two-day brainstorming session called by BJP president J.P. Nadda with general secretaries over the weekend, the party declared on Sunday that it would train one lakh health volunteers to operate certain medical equipment and perform other services that did not require a medical degree. With this, it hopes that the criticism of the party and the governments headed by it during the second wave of the pandemic could be blunted to a certain degree. The leaders also deliberated on the post-poll violence in West Bengal, and said all possible support would be given to the party workers there. After the meeting, Mr. Nadda, party general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh and the other general secretaries met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his official residence at 7 Lok Kalyan Marg. They also also discussed the brainstorming session. According to sources present there, Mr. Modi said despite the loss in West Bengal, the party had gained more support in the State. “He also stated that in Kerala, the party should work to gain support across communities,” the source added. The earlier meeting was held at Mr. Nadda’s residence and was attended by all the eight general secretaries, Mr. Santhosh and the presidents of its youth, farmers, women, Other Backward Classes (OBC), Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST) and minority wings. Giving details of the meeting, general secretary Bhupender Yadav said a report was presented to Mr. Nadda on the relief work carried out by the party amid the pandemic. “It was decided that the party will train one lakh health volunteers across the country, including imparting technical knowledge to operate ventilators and other essential medical devices,” he said. The ST wing was asked to focus on promoting the Centre’s Van Dhan Yojana for tribals. Similarly, the kisan morcha would facilitate the training of farmers at the Farmer Producers Organisations (FPOs) and the women’s wing would promote ‘Poshan Abhiyan’ among women, which aims to achieve a malnutrition-free India, Mr. Yadav said. Talking about the performance in the recent Assembly polls, Mr. Yadav said the party had strengthened its position in West Bengal and also got four seats in Tamil Nadu. On the post-poll violence in West Bengal, he said reports had been coming from the State on a regular basis and underlined that the party was firmly standing with the people of Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-train-one-lakh-health-volunteers-says-bjp/article34747174.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Punjab, T.N., Kerala top education index ranking||This is the third edition of the index and uses 70 indicators to measure progress. Of these, the 16 indicators related to learning outcomes remain unchanged through all three editions, as they are based on data from the 2017 National Achievement Survey, which tested students in Classes 3, 5, 8 and 10. The next NAS was scheduled to be held in 2020, but was postponed because of the pandemic. The remaining 54 parameters use Central databases, collating information from the school and district level, and have been updated for 2019-20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-tn-kerala-top-education-index-ranking/article34747178.ece
07 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Tensions return to Assam-Mizoram border||The police in Hailakandi district of southern Assam have increased vigil along the inter-State boundary after an alleged incursion by miscreants from Mizoram. The incident on June 4 came a week after armed men fired at an Assam MLA on the border with Nagaland. Hailakandi’s Superintendent of Police, Ramandeep Kaur, said the latest incursion was reported from two places. “They built a house at one place and burnt down two abandoned huts at the other,” she said, adding that the issue has been taken up at a higher level between the two States. “We have strengthened the BOPs [border outposts].” In November 2020, alleged miscreants from Mizoram blew up two government schools in the Cachar district. On May 27, miscreants from Nagaland reportedly fired upon Congress legislator Rupjyoti Kurmi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tensions-return-to-assam-mizoram-border/article34747183.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Liberation from curse||Kamsa, who wanted to kill Devaki, was convinced by Vasudeva’s words, and spared her life. Why did Kamsa pay attention to Vasudeva? That was Krishna’s leela. And even assuming he listened to him, a sensible person would have kept Devaki and Vasudeva apart from each other, thereby ensuring that they would have no children. But Kamsa did not. That too was Krishna’s leela, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Devaki’s first son was named Kirtiman and Vasudeva took the infant to Kamsa. Kamsa did not kill the baby. But Narada arrived, and addressed Kamsa. He said that the message given to him by the voice had spoken of the eighth child of Devaki. But which way was the count to begin? If one took the eighth child as the first, and counted in reverse, then the first child would become the eighth child. If this reverse counting was resorted to, then the child now before Kamsa would be the killer he had been warned of! Even otherwise, this child, if allowed to live, would only help the rest of Devaki’s children. Convinced by this argument, Kamsa killed the child Kirtiman. Why did Narada do something so wicked, we might ask. Actually, Narada was only doing the first six children of Devaki a favour! Hiranyakasipu had a cousin called Kalanemi, and the latter’s sons were all Narayana bhaktas, like Prahlada. Hiranyakasipu cursed them that they should be killed by Kalanemi. But Kalanemi refused to kill them. So they were born as sons of Devaki, and were killed by Kamsa, for it was Kalanemi who was born as Kamsa. With this killing, they were rid of Hiranyakasipu’s curse, and attained moksha. To attain moksha quickly is what such devoted souls would want. Narada’s words ensured their quick exit from this world, and could only have pleased such bhaktas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liberation-from-curse/article34747199.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Disinfection drive||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disinfection-drive/article34747192.ece
07 June 2021||Pune,||‘Maharashtra in talks to get Sputnik jab’||With Maharashtra’s third phase of COVID-19 vaccination for the 18-44 age group proceeding slowly owing to a severe paucity in vaccines, Health Minister Rajesh Tope has said a large stock of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine would be available in the State from next month. Mr. Tope urged the Central government to formulate a clear policy on vaccine imports. “While the Centre has expressed a strong possibility of a third wave, the Maharashtra government has made all requisite preparations to deal with such a crisis,” the Health Minister said. On the partial or complete unlocking that would start in several districts from Monday, Mr. Tope appealed to people to strictly adhere to norms and follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. “Despite the best efforts of the State to procure more vaccines from the Centre, the stock is not adequate. Therefore, we are focusing more on importing vaccines. The State government has already held discussions with Sputnik V vaccine distributors in this regard and a large stock of the vaccine will be available from July-August onwards,” Mr. Tope said. The Health Minister urged that even those who had been vaccinated must be careful and wear masks. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who held a series of online meetings with representatives of industry and film producers, cautioned on the need to maintain decorum during the unlock process. He said, “We have to ensure that while unlocking, we should not create a situation by becoming complacent so that the State is compelled to again impose a lockdown.” He said permissions would be given for film and TV shootings in Mumbai if the city’s daily case count was brought under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-in-talks-to-get-sputnik-jab/article34747204.ece
07 June 2021||Kolkata,||WB sets up committee on board exams||The West Bengal government on Sunday set up an expert committee to review the COVID-19 situation and to recommend whether to go ahead with the secondary and higher secondary exams or not in the State. “The government of West Bengal has formed an expert committee to review the situation and recommend whether to conduct/not to conduct the secondary and higher secondary exams. If yes, the mode of the conduction of exams. If not, the mode of evaluation criteria for the assessment,” a notification by the School Education Department read. Opinion sought The notification also invited opinion from the general public, guardians, parents, students by 2 p.m. on June 7. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that the secondary examination will be held in the second week of August and the higher secondary exams in the last week of July. The State government, however, decided to have an expert opinion after the Union government decided to cancel the Class XII CBSE examinations. About 12 lakh students are expected to write the secondary exams and eight lakh the higher secondary examination. The State registered a drop in daily COVID-19 infections with 7,002 new cases recorded in the past 24 hours. The number of deaths in the past 24 hours was 107. The percentage of positive cases out of samples tested remained at 11.09%. Worst-hit district North 24 Parganas district continues to record the highest number of infections and deaths in West Bengal. The densely populated district registered 1,434 fresh infections in the past 24 hours and 34 deaths. West Bengal is under strict pandemic restrictions till June 15 and all forms of public transport, including metro and local train services, have been suspended. Markets are allowed to operate only three hours a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wb-sets-up-panel-on-board-exams/article34747424.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi Police details modus operandi of fake call centre racket||Following a tip-off on March 25, a team from the Delhi police raided an office at Kirti Nagar in west Delhi, where an organised gang of cyber criminals posed as “Amazon tech supporters” to cheat U.S.-based victims. Fifteen persons were arrested following the raid, including 13 tele-callers and two senior executives supervising the activities. Meanwhile, one Bhanu Prakash Singh, who is allegedly the kingpin of the fake call centre racket, is yet to be arrested. Fearing arrest, Mr. Singh moved the Delhi High Court, seeking anticipatory bail on the grounds that the only evidence against him was disclosure statements by the co-accused persons. In response to Mr. Singh’s plea, the Delhi police submitted a status report revealing in great detail the  modus operandi of the gang. Modus operandi The racket begins with a VICI Dial software generated pre-recorded threatening robo-call claiming to be from Amazon, telling the recipient U.S. resident that suspicious transactions had taken place in their Amazon account. The unsuspecting victims were then deceitfully persuaded to connect with the tele-caller through Remote Access Software for resolving the issue. The victim’s computer or mobile remote access were connected to software like Quick Support, AnyDesk, etc., in a fictitious ploy of connecting the victim to a secure Amazon server. Then, the victim was made to purchase e-gift cards (via X-Box, Gpay etc.) through their Amazon account linked credit/debit cards claiming that to be a dummy transaction and part of verification process. The gang members would then persuade the victim to log in into their Internet banking for securing the refund amount from Amazon, resulting in the gang members taking information pertaining to the victim’s banking credentials, making them transfer the amount to temporary Zelle accounts and cryptocurrency wallets of the gang members. The members would then send e-mails to the victim that they had been successfully granted the refund amount, finally sending the victim to the store/ supermarket for purchasing the gift pack from brands like Target, Nike, Walmart, Google Play, Best Buy, etc. Once the victim could not be duped further, the calls were hung up. Since the gang members connected with the victim through spoofed VOIP (voice over internet protocol) numbers, the victim could neither call back nor were the numbers traced. The Delhi Police's counsel, who objected to Mr. Singh’s anticipatory bail plea, said that the magnitude of the cheated amount was huge, as presently the number of victims is unknown. “One of the U.S. resident victims who joined the probe stated that he had been cheated of $6,683.34 (Rs. 4.88 lakh approx),” the counsel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-police-details-modus-operandi-of-fake-call-centre-racket/article34747164.ece
07 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Two arrested in Bareilly gang rape case||The police in Bareilly on Sunday arrested two persons, shooting one of them in the leg, on charges of gang-raping a 19-year-old woman last week. The woman was allegedly gang-raped by six men on May 31 when she had stepped out with two friends, said the police. The victim reported the matter to the Izzatnagar police station on June 5. Senior Superintendent of Police, Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan said six persons were named in the FIR. Two accused, Vishal Patel, 22, and Anuj Patel, 23, were arrested, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-arrested-in-bareilly-gang-rape-case/article34747177.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Petrol crosses Rs. 95 a litre in Delhi, above Rs. 100 mark in six States||Petrol price on Sunday crossed Rs. 95 a litre in Delhi and diesel breached Rs. 86 per litre mark for the first time ever as fuel prices were hiked again. Petrol price was increased by 21 paise per litre and diesel 20 paise a litre, according to a price notification of State-owned fuel retailers. Petrol is now above Rs. 100 per litre mark in six States and Union Territories — Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh. In Delhi, petrol hit an all-time high of Rs. 95.09 a litre, while diesel was Rs. 86.01 per litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/petrol-crosses-rs-95-a-litre-in-delhi-above-rs-100-mark-in-six-states/article34747180.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||‘If high command says, I will resign’||In a first, amidst undying campaigns for leadership change, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Sunday spoke of resigning “if the Bharatiya Janata Party high command asked him to”, forcing the party to rally behind him on Sunday. While his supporters came out in open support, with senior Ministers criticising campaigns for leadership change amidst the pandemic, his detractors, including those campaigning to replace him, were forced to announce he was their leader in the State. Multiple sources in the party see his statement as a careful political strategy to put public speculations over leadership change to rest, by creating sympathy for himself among the public. Answering a media query on leadership change, Mr. Yediyurappa said: “I will be the Chief Minister of the State till I enjoy the confidence of the Delhi high command. The day they say we don’t need you, I will resign and rededicate myself for the development of the State. I am not in any confusion. They have given me an opportunity that I am working hard to make best use of. The rest is left to the high command”. Responding to another query on the lack of an alternative leadership in the party, he said he wouldn’t agree there was no alternative to him, but he would continue to be the Chief Minister as long as the high command wants him to be. Coming in the backdrop of the high command recently spurning efforts of a lobby to replace him amidst the pandemic and his son B.Y. Vijayendra’s meeting with national president J.P. Nadda, his statement created ripples in the State’s political circles. The Chief Minister’s supporters were quick to use it to attack his detractors asking them to “put an end to speculations over leadership change”. ‘Deeply pained’ Two senior Ministers, R. Ashok and Basavaraj Bommai, close to the Chief Minister, addressed the media and said “The Chief Minister was deeply pained over unending speculations over leadership change, even as he was working tirelessly in the field, despite his age, to fight COVID-19, as reflected in his shocking statement on resignation”. “The 2018 mandate was for Mr. Yediyurappa and the MLAs also joined us to form the government reposing their faith in him. He will finish the term as the high command has reposed its faith in him,” Mr. Bommai said. Soon, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, speculated to be a chief ministerial aspirant, dissident C.P. Yogeshwar, and national general secretary C.T. Ravi, who had been making veiled statements critical of the Chief Minister and suggesting leadership change, all issued statements denying reports of any move to replace the Chief Minister and praised him for his work during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/if-high-command-says-i-will-resign/article34747208.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID cases continue to drop in T.N.||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to fall in Tamil Nadu, with 20,421 fresh cases reported on Sunday. The tally of active cases stands at 2,44,289. So far, 22,37,233 people have tested positive. As many as 33,161 people were discharged after treatment. The total number of those discharged from health facilities went up to 19,65,939. The number of deaths due to the infection fell to 434, taking the toll to 27,005. Western districts such as Coimbatore, Erode, Salem and Tiruppur continued to report more infections. Coimbatore reported the most number of cases in the State, with 2,645 infections and 38 deaths. The district had 31,539 active cases. Erode recorded 1,694 cases, Salem 1,071 and Tiruppur 1,068. In Chennai, 1,644 fresh infections were reported and 4,446 people were discharged. The district also recorded 50 deaths. It has 21,404 people under treatment. So far, 5,16,628 people have been infected and 4,87,749 people have been discharged. According to the daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health, the number of deaths was in double digits in 15 districts. While 110 persons with no pre-existing ailments died, 324 died of co-morbid conditions. The youngest to lose their lives were two persons aged 21. Two persons aged 92 also died of the infection. A 21-year-old woman from Dindigul was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on May 26. She tested positive the same day and died of COVID-19 pneumonia on May 28. Another 21-year-old woman from Erode, suffering from an auto-immune disorder, tested positive on June 4. She was admitted the same day to a private hospital in Vellore with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for 10 days. She died of COVID-19 pneumonia within three hours of admission. Bed status The State has 37,475 beds vacant: 15,836 oxygen beds; 20,310 non-oxygen beds; and 1,329 beds in intensive care units. As on Sunday, 4,596 oxygen beds, 1,470 non-oxygen beds and 1,957 intensive care unit beds were occupied in Chennai. A total of 32,187 people were vaccinated on Sunday at 1,211 sessions. While 277 healthcare workers and 750 frontline workers were vaccinated, 16,574 people aged 18-44 were inoculated. As many as 3,603 senior citizens and 10,983 people aged 45-59 with co-morbidities were also vaccinated. So far, the State has held 3,25,251 sessions. As many as 8,34,582 healthcare workers; 10,52,999 frontline workers; 1,69,8671 people in the 18-44 age group; and 34,76,329 people in the 45-59 age group with co-morbid conditions have been vaccinated. With the vaccination of 26,44,076 senior citizens, the State has covered 97,06,657 people.  In Chennai, 1,644 fresh infections were reported. The district also recorded 50 deaths due to COVID-19||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-cases-continue-to-drop-in-tn/article34747369.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Post-COVID-19 care drive launched||Over 2.7 lakh patients, who have returned from hospitals or completed home isolation during the second wave of the pandemic in the city are set to get medical support and tele-medicine services from the Greater Chennai Corporation. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi directed officers to start post-COVID-19 follow-up care for such residents in all 15 zones of the city. Deputy Commissioner Alby John Varghese said the follow-up care would be done for three months. “Some people have complained about persisting issues. We are trying to address their concerns, which are remnants of the illness. If at all medical help is needed, that also needs to be arranged,” he said. A substantial proportion of patients continue to have symptoms long after they recover from the initial phases of the disease. Clinicians worldwide have dubbed these “long-haul COVID-19” or “long-term COVID-19.” The Corporation has started tracking the patients with “long-term COVID-19” who have not recovered completely over a period of 2-3 weeks. The civic body has deployed a team of 100 volunteers, who will be involved in the tele follow-up of individuals who have recovered from COVID-19. The callers will ask for symptoms and once a resident reports any, a consultation with the doctor of the tele-medicine team will be arranged. Residents who want psychosocial support will get counselling from a psychologist. Diet-related queries will be answered by dieticians. Residents will receive calls on post-COVID-19 follow-up from 9498015100/9498015200/9498015300/9498015400. Residents who have been experiencing post-COVID-19 symptoms are requested to reach the Corporation’s tele-medicine service through the GCC VIDMED app and through WhatsApp on 9498346510/11/12/13/14. Psychosocial support can be received on 044-46122300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/post-covid-19-care-drive-launched/article34747351.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite quota, medical admission tough for government school children||The call to analyse the impact on social justice due to the imposition of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to MBBS has once again put the spotlight on the uneven challenges aspiring medical students from different strata of society face. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has called for examining the legality and feasibility of alternatives to entrance exams in the State for the admission process. For students, the concern is how the admission process will evolve now that the State government has cancelled Class 12 exams, citing the COVID-19 pandemic. The Union Education Ministry is yet to declare whether NEET and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) will be held. Data for 15 years, including from the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, show that government school students find it challenging to enter medical colleges. Between 2006 and 2016, 340 government school students were admitted to government medical colleges. The best year for government schools was 2007 when 62 students were admitted. The worst year was 2013, when just 18 students made it. Similarly, in the decade 2007 to 2016, 74 students from government schools were admitted to aided/private medical colleges, with admission being in single digits each year, except in 2014, when 12 students were admitted. In 2017, the State got an exemption from admitting students through NEET in government medical colleges. For self-financing medical colleges though admission was through NEET, and only two government school students got admitted. In 2018-19 and in 2019-20, of the around 700 government school students who qualified through NEET, only nine were admitted to government medical colleges, The Hindu had reported earlier. Things drastically improved in 2020, when the State government came up with 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical seats. This enabled over 300 students to realise their dream of getting into medical colleges. This included 237 students in government medical colleges and 97 under government quota in self-financing medical colleges. General secretary of the Doctor’s Association for Social Equality G.R. Ravindranath goes one step further, pointing out that while students from CBSE schools had an edge earlier before NEET, after its introduction, students who were coached in residential private schools fared better. In the last two years, the Kilpauk Medical College Alumni Association has managed to fund a few seats in government medical colleges. The association has a motivated group of students from the first year who mentor aspiring medical students. “The 7.5% quota system helped ensure seats. Without that it will be challenging. KMC alumni will facilitate the government, whatever the process,” said Prasad Manne, secretary. Manickavel Arumugam, an independent analyst, believes that the issue of government school students “was well addressed” through the reservation. “Even if you go back to marks-based admission, we never had such a huge representation from government school students in medical admission. If you look at the data from 2006-2016, we had an average of less than 1% students from government schools,” he says. With an estimated 1,650 seats likely to be added this year from new government medical colleges, more students could benefit if a certain number of seats are reserved for government school students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/despite-quota-medical-admission-is-tough-for-govt-school-students/article34747353.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guest lecturers urge CM to regularise their services||Guest lecturers in government arts and science colleges have appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to regularise their temporary services. The teachers pointed out that in 2010, during the previous DMK government under M. Karunanidhi, guest lecturers had been promised in writing by the then Higher Education Secretary, K. Ganesan, that their services would be regularised. In the past decade, the government had increased their salary from Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 20,000 last year. Although the government announced in the Assembly in 2018 that the posting of guest lecturers would be streamlined, no action was taken. In 2021, when the government started the process, the code of conduct for the Assembly election came into force, and there was no relief despite legal hurdles having been cleared, the teachers have said. The Tamil Nadu Government College Guest Lecturers’ Welfare Association (shift I and II) said that of the over 1,140 guest lecturers, many had crossed 40 years of age since their appointment but they still struggled for job security. Since their salaries were classified by the government under the head of expenses, they were not eligible for bank loans. They urged the government to list the payment under the head of salaries. Women guest lecturers should be given maternity leave with at least three months’ salary. For those with ailments to avail themselves of treatment, the government must introduce a group insurance scheme, association president B. Senthil Kumar said. The government should also issue no-objection certificates to allow them to continue higher education, the association said.  Of the over 1,140 guest lecturers, many have crossed 40 years of age since appointment but still struggle for job security Tamil Nadu Government College Guest Lecturers’ Welfare Association (Shift I and II)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-lecturers-urge-cm-to-regularise-their-services/article34747364.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||26 IPS officers transferred in another reshuffle||In yet another round of major reshuffle, the government on Sunday transferred 26 IPS officers. R. Ponni, Superintendent of Police (SP), Central range, DVAC, has been transferred as SP, Idol Wing, Chennai. Sujith Kumar, Madurai SP, has been posted as SP, NIB-CID, Chennai. M. Durai, SP, who was on compulsory wait in the office of the DGP, has been posted as Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police, headquarters. G. Sampath Kumar, Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police 7th battalion, Pochampalli, has been transferred as AIG, Welfare, Chennai. S. Santhi, SP, Civil Supplies, CID, has been posted as SP, SHRC, Chennai. D. Mahesh Kumar, DC, Crime and Traffic, Tirunelveli city, has been posted as SP, Enforcement, Salem zone. Deepa Sathyan, SP, on compulsory wait in the office of the DGP, has been posted as SP, Railways, Chennai. P. Perumal, SP, Virudhunagar district, has been transferred as SP, Enforcement, Chennai. R. Sivakumar, SP, Ranipet, has been transferred as SP, Administration, Tamil Nadu Police Academy. K. Sugumaran, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Madurai city, has been posted as SP, Marine Enforcement Wing. D. Shanmugapriya, SP, Kancheepuram district, has been posted as SP, Cyber Crimes Division, Chennai. G. Subbulakshmi, SP, who was on compulsory wait, has been posted as SP, CIU, Prohibition offences, Chennai. D. Ashok Kumar, SP, Marine Enforcement Wing, has been posted as SP, IPR, Enforcement Cell, Chennai. R. Pandiarajan, SP, Nilgiris district, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Battalion, Pochampalli. M. Baskaran, DCP, Headquarters, Madurai city, has been posted as SP, Civil Supplies, Madurai zone. M. Kingshin, SP, Special Investigation Cell, DVAC, Chennai, has been posted as SP, II, Crime against Women and Children. K. Adheeverapandian, DCP, Headquarters, Chennai, has been posted as SP, Railways, Trichy. S. Radhakrishnan, SP, Villupuram district, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion, Avadi. P.K. Pethu Vijayan, SP, who was on compulsory wait, has been posted as SP, State Police Master Control Room, Chennai. K. Gunasekaran, SP, Enforcement, Salem zone, has been posted as SP, CSG, Nagapattinam. M. Chandrasekaran, DCP, Salem city, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion, Vellore. A. Thangavelu, SP, SHRC, Chennai, has been posted as SP, EOW-II, Chennai. K. Palanikumar, SP, Railways, has been posted as SP, Commercial Crime Investigation Wing, Chennai. K. Stalin, SP, State Master Control Room, Chennai, has been posted as SP, Civil Supplies CID, Chennai. T.P. Suresh Kumar, SP - II, Crime against Women and Children, Chennai, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion, Poonamallee, Chennai. T. Senthil Kumar, Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion, Vellore, has been transferred to New Delhi and will head the Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-ips-officers-transferred-in-another-round-of-major-reshuffle/article34747359.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘650 doctors died during second wave’||As many as 650 doctors lost their lives during the ongoing second wave of COVID-19 in the country, J.A. Jayalal, national president of the Indian Medical Association, said on Sunday. Addressing an online workshop for doctors on “Deciphering and dealing with deaths - facts and insights,” he said many of them were young and extremely bright professionals. He said India lost 753 doctors during first wave. Recollecting the recent attack on a doctor in Assam, Dr. Jayalal said the medical fraternity was vulnerable to such attacks in the absence of adequate mechanisms to ensure their safety. He said the pandemic had exposed the lack of dignity in deaths in India, with many bodies floating in the Ganga and people having to cremate bodies on roadsides. He said this had resulted in the National Human Rights Commission issuing an advisory to State and Union governments. A number of doctors from across the country shared their expertise on different aspects of dealing with deaths in hospitals. Sudha Seshayyan, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, spoke on voluntary full-body donations. She highlighted the need for clearer guidelines and clarity on registration for donation, intimation and transport after the donor dies and honouring those donated. Ajay K. Kriplani, director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, stressed the importance of effective and continuous communication with relatives on patients’ health. Abhay Dalvi, president, Association of Surgeons in India, said there were government circulars stating that cases could be registered against doctors for the deaths of patients only after a medical committee finds ground for such legal action. “However, the police immediately register a case based on complaints,” he said. Pawanindra Lal, executive director, National Board of Examination, stressed the need for introducing courses for medical students on empathy and effective communication at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. Satyanarayan Sabat, ADGP, Lucknow, spoke on the importance of regular liaison and communication between hospitals and local police stations for effective handling of medico-legal cases and to avoid law and order problems. Nilima Kadambi, chairperson, Doctors for Doctors (D4D) initiative, IMA, and M. Kanagavel, member, D4D initiative, IMA, coordinated the discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/650-doctors-died-during-second-wave/article34747362.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers expect Class 11 marks to be partly considered for Class 12 results||While the State government’s decision to cancel the Class 12 board examinations on account of COVID-19 has been welcomed by stakeholders, it remains to be seen how the students will be assessed. Private schools that did not have issues related to accessibility conducted online classes all through the year, as also virtual assessments. However, for smaller schools in rural areas, the only examinations that took place for the Class 12 students this year were between January and April, when campuses were reopened for a short while. “The Class 11 board examinations were the last common examinations that these students took up. Barring one subject each, students of the science and commerce groups had completed all other examinations in 2020,” said A. Ramu, of the Directly Recruited Post Graduate Teachers’ Association. He said 50% of the Class 11 marks could be considered, and weightage could also be given to the revision examinations that the students took up this year, besides their Class 10 performance. Students also completed their practical examinations in all subjects in April, and the scores are available. In the 2019-20 academic year, when these students were in Class 11, they took up quarterly, half-yearly and pre-board exams before their board exams. “Since the Class 10 board exam papers are not based on the groups that students choose in Class 11 and 12, we do not expect those scores to be taken into consideration in a big way,” said G.J. Manohar, senior principal, MCC Higher Secondary School. “In addition to the Class 11 marks, their Class 12 practical exam marks as well as an internal assessment component may be considered.” For several students, the cancellation of the examinations put an end to uncertainty. At MCC School, a survey done before the announcement revealed that only 30% of the students wanted the board examinations conducted. “Naturally, a majority of the students are happy with this decision,” Mr. Manohar said. Teachers Associations welcomed the decision, and said the health of students is very important. The Tamil Nadu Teachers Association and the Tamil Nadu Vocational Teachers Kazhagam urged the government to ensure that NEET is also cancelled. The CBSE has constituted a 12-member panel to decide on the assessment of the Class 12 students. The panel will submit a report in 10 days. “The State government may take a decision on our evaluation criteria after seeing what the CBSE will follow, so that there is not much of a disparity in how the students are graded,” said K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-expect-class-11-marks-to-be-partly-considered-for-class-12-results/article34747371.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. coast on alert after ship sinks||Intelligence agencies have sounded an alert on the possibility of hazardous chemical debris getting washed ashore along Tamil Nadu coast in the next few days following the sinking of Singapore-flagged vessel mv X-Press Pearl off the Sri Lankan coast on June 2. In what is described as the worst marine ecological disaster, the vessel anchored 9.5 nautical miles off Colombo Port in Sri Lankan waters caught fire on May 20, with a huge consignment of chemicals, including nitric acid, loaded in 1,486 containers on board. The ship was holding 325 tonnes of fuel in its tanks. Top police sources said the spillage of oil had triggered fears of serious environmental concerns. Immediately after the fire was reported, the Indian Coast Guard and Sri Lankan Navy, as part of Operation Sagar Aaraksha, jointly launched fire-fighting and pollution control response. While the fire was put out on June 2, the ship sank in the outer anchorage and reached the sea bottom after an unsuccessful attempt by the authorities to tow the vessel to deeper seas. The alert pointed to the possibility of hazardous chemical debris and oil waste being washed ashore between Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, the sources said. Senior police officials in coastal districts were told to take steps to avert any disaster and coordinate with agencies concerned, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-coast-on-alert-after-ship-sinks/article34747358.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman advocate booked for abusing traffic policemen at Chetpet signal||Personnel from the Chetpet police station have registered cases against a woman, who identified herself as an advocate, under six sections of the Indian Penal Code for abusing traffic policemen for allegedly stopping her daughter’s car in Chetpet for violating lockdown norms. The video of her shouting at policemen on duty went viral on message sharing platforms. According to the complainant, Rajith Kumar, a head constable at the Chetpet traffic police station, and his colleagues Prabhakaran, Anand and Vimalraj were on duty at the Chetpet signal from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Sunday. Around 7.45 a.m., they intercepted a car as part of the lockdown vehicle checks. The driver identified herself as Preethi Rajan, from Kilpauk, and she claimed that she was heading to the beach to purchase fish. “I advised her that during lockdown, the public should not venture out unnecessarily and asked if she had an e-registration, which she did not,” he said in the complaint. He added that they took her driver’s licence and booked a case and handed over the e-challan to her. “She then called someone and a woman, later identified as Tanuja Kanthulla, arrived in a high-end car. She abused the policemen and also threw away the copy of the e-challan we gave to her daughter,” he stated in his complaint. In the video, Ms. Tanuja, who identified herself as an advocate, threatened to strip them of their uniforms and asked them to behave properly.  The police have appealed to the public to extend and ensure cooperation with the police in its efforts to control the spread of COVID-19. According to the police, personnel are given instructions to be polite and humane during vehicle checks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-advocate-booked-for-abusing-traffic-policemen-at-chetpet-signal/article34747348.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We will work to get official tag for Eighth Schedule languages: Stalin||The DMK government will strive to make all languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, including Tamil, as the Union government’s administrative and official languages, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said on Sunday. Mr. Stalin said that on June 6, 2004, UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi and the then Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh, accepted the demand for declaring Tamil as a classical language. The official notification was issued on October 12, 2004. Recalling former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s efforts at making Tamil a classical language, Mr. Stalin said several Tamil scholars had demanded the status for the ancient language. The 22 languages in the Eighth Schedule are Assamese, Bengali, Bodo, Dogri, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada, Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Malayalam, Manipuri, Marathi, Nepali, Odia, Punjabi, Sanskrit, Santhali, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-will-work-to-get-official-tag-for-eighth-schedule-languages-stalin/article34747367.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel all entrance exams, OPS urges PM||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to make a uniform policy decision to abolish not just the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions but all common entrance examinations for admission to professional courses. He appealed to the Prime Minister to allow the State governments to hold admissions based on marks in the Class 12 exams. In his letter, a copy of which was circulated to the media, Mr. Panneerselvam pointed out that the syllabus prescribed for NEET did not provide a level-playing field for students pursuing other syllabi. “Students from rural areas and those from lower socio-economic backgrounds are unable to compete with urban students in such common entrance examinations as they lack the requisite training from institutions and timely access to course material,” Mr. Panneerselvam said. NEET has put rural students from poor socio-economic backgrounds at a disadvantage due to the lack of geographical and financial access to requisite training institutions and material, he said. “Students from rural areas who are poor cannot afford the fees charged by the coaching centres, which impart training to face such competitive examination,” he said. Medical professionals are scarce in rural areas and this problem can be mitigated only if students from rural areas are admitted to medical courses in government medical colleges by abolishing NEET, he said. The introduction of NEET had made the admission process difficult for students from marginalised communities in Tamil Nadu, he said. Mr. Panneerselvam recalled the positions taken by the then Chief Minister and his party supremo Jayalalithaa against NEET and cited two resolutions passed in the Legislative Assembly against the exam in 2017. The AIADMK leader thanked the Prime Minister for sanctioning 11 medical colleges in Tamil in a year and cancelling the Class 12 exams for CBSE students in view of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-all-entrance-exams-ops-urges-pm/article34747356.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pharmacies told to notify details of customers with COVID-19 symptoms||The Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) has instructed all pharmacies to notify details of persons buying drugs, like paracetamol or azithromycin, for having symptoms similar to COVID-19 or other influenza-like illnesses (ILI). In an order issued on Sunday, Corporation Commissioner Gangandeep Singh Bedi said it had come to the knowledge of the Corporation that many pharmacies were selling such drugs but were not notifying the authorities with the information required for the effective handling of the pandemic. “The GCC has to contact all such patients with COVID-19-like symptoms but have not been tested,” the order said. As per the powers vested under sections of the Disaster Management Act and the Tamil Nadu COVID-19 Regulations, he said all pharmacies had been asked to notify such details with immediate effect. The pharmacies must share the name, address, mobile number, symptoms and the drugs sold to such symptomatic persons on a daily basis to the email id gccpvtpharmacyreports@chennaicorporation.gov.in The Commissioner also nominated 15 entomologists from the Corporation for coordination with pharmacies. Those who do not comply would be liable for punishment under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pharmacies-told-to-notify-details-of-customers-with-covid-19-symptoms/article34747342.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. plans to repair roads by October||The Greater Chennai Corporation will resume repaving of over 2,500 roads once the curbs under the COVID-19 lockdown are lifted. The repairs to the damaged interior and bus route roads were stopped during the Assembly election. It was supposed to begin after the results were declared. But the second wave of the pandemic and the enforcement of an intense lockdown held up the work in the 15 zones. The roads were damaged when underground power cables, metro water pipelines and optic fibre cables were laid. A senior official said the relaying began before the election, but the start of the second wave of the pandemic in April and the subsequent lockdown forced the contractors to stop the work. More than 2,500 interior roads and 120 bus route roads would be relaid before October, the official said. Though the government has lifted some restrictions, the work could not be resumed as the workers had gone home and the ready mix concrete units — which do not come under essential services — have been shut. A majority of the interior roads to be repaved are in Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-plans-to-repair-roads-by-october/article34747345.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Metro phase II project may start soon||After years of planning, the Chennai Metro phase II project may finally start next week between Poonamallee and Porur, and the stretch will be the first to be opened after four years. According to the officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), they awarded the Rs. 1,147 crore contract to the Hindustan Construction Company (HCC) and KEC International Limited (KEC) joint venture last month to build the stretch, which covers a distance of 7.9 km. They had barricaded some stretches of the road before starting work, officials said. It will be built entirely as an elevated stretch with Chennai Bypass Crossing, Ramachandra Hospital, Iyyapanthangal Bus Depot, Katupakkam, Kumanan Chavadi, Karayan Chavadi, Mullai Thottam, Poonamallee Bus Terminus and Poonamallee Bypass as the stations on the route. “We will do a small pooja next week and then start with test piling work. Piling is the first work in the elevated stretch and once this begins, the pier work will follow. Piling work may take up to a year or longer,” an official said. There are also issues, like traffic regulations and utility cables, which have to be resolved before starting full-fledged construction. Four-year plan While the construction of the stretch may take about three years, integration of signalling and telecommunications systems will take a few more months. The plan was to open it in four years after trials and testing, officials said. Meanwhile, CMRL has awarded a contract to Larsen & Toubro for the 7.9 km stretch linking Porur to Power House. Officials said the ground work for this stretch too could start this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-on-metro-phase-ii-project-may-start-soon/article34747349.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM reviews treatment of COVID-affected lions||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited the Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur on Sunday to take stock of the incidence of COVID-19 infection among Asiatic lions at the zoo. He reviewed the medical intervention being administered by the in-house veterinarians under the guidance of the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS). A COVID-19 outbreak was reported among the Asiatic lions at the zoo on June 3. A few animals were found symptomatic and one of them, nine-year-old lioness Neela, died due to the disease. Soon after the outbreak, treatment was started with help from veterinarians at TANUVAS. Samples from the 11 lions were sent to the iCAR-NIHSAD lab (ICMR-approved), Bhopal, for tests, an official release said. The Chief Minister, who is also the Chairperson of the Zoo Authority of Tamil Nadu, instructed senior officials to take all measures to provide the best treatment to infected lions as per protocol. He also instructed them to ensure that proper vaccination was administered to all animal handlers and zoo officials. A total of seven samples (from three lions and four tigers) have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly for detailed analysis. The samples would be analysed through genetic sequencing at the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, to identify the strain that infected the lions. “This analysis is expected to throw better insights into the reasons and possibilities of COVID-19 contraction by animals,” a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reviews-treatment-of-covid-affected-lions/article34747347.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop web series, Seeman urges Amazon||Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman on Sunday urged Amazon Prime Video to stop streaming The Family Man 2 , which depicts “Tamil rebels collaborating with Pakistan’s ISI to kill the Indian Prime Minister.” In a letter to the company’s Head of India Originals Aparna Purohit, Mr. Seeman threatened to give a boycott call against Amazon if the web series was not stopped immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-web-series-seeman-urges-amazon/article34747360.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||30-year-old held under POCSO Act||The Guindy All-Women police personnel have arrested a 30-year-old man under the POCSO Act. The police said S. Sudhakar, of Kannagi Nagar, reportedly promised to marry a 17-year-old girl. He took her to his friend’s place in Tindivanam and sexually assaulted her. The police rescued the girl on Saturday and arrested Sudhakar. (Childline operates a toll free helpline — 1098 — for children in distress across the country.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/30-year-old-held-under-pocso-act/article34747341.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City Corpn. to redeploy COVID-19 staff||The Chennai Corporation plans to redeploy ambulance drivers, technicians, volunteers, doctors, nurses and other personnel following the decline in COVID-19 cases. It has shifted focus to vaccination, prevention of deaths at home, follow-up of post-COVID-19 patients and support for the disabled and senior citizens. Calls from residents to tele-counselling centres have come down to 50% of what they used to be because of the drop in the number of cases in the 15 zones, Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said. The Corporation also plans to redeploy doctors from tele-medicine services to vaccination. Senior officials suggested a reduction in the number of volunteers. But Mr. Bedi has asked them to wait for a further reduction in cases. “Fever survey workers and FOCUS volunteers are not being reduced. We have to see the effect after the lockdown is lifted. We have to further reduce the number,” he said. “Since the number of patients in home quarantine has come down, we are utilising the final-year MBBS students for home-triaging. Up to the age of 45, we are doing home-triaging. We are sending them to each of the 200 wards,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-corpn-to-redeploy-covid-19-staff/article34747372.ece
07 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New police officials posted||The State government on Sunday posted D. Mahesh Kumar, DC, Crime and Traffic, Tirunelveli city, as Superintendent of Police, Enforcement, Salem zone. He replaces K. Gunasekaran, SP, Enforcement, Salem Zone, who has been posted as SP, CSG, Nagapattinam. R. Pandiarajan, SP, Nilgiris District, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Battalion, Pochampalli. M. Chandrasekaran, DC, Law and Order, Salem City, has been posted as Commandant, Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion, Vellore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-police-officials-posted/article34747644.ece
07 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Madukkarai GH rises to the occasion||Before the COVID-19 pandemic saw its peak in Coimbatore district recently, the Madukkarai Government Hospital was functioning with 30 beds out of which only two had oxygen support. Over a period of two weeks, the hospital administration turned the taluk-level facility into COVID-19 treatment centre by increasing the number of beds to 60, all with oxygen support. “When COVID-19 cases were seeing an alarming rise, we approached Civil Supplies Minister R. Sakkarapani and sought permission to convert the GH into a COVID-19 treatment centre. With the guidance and support of District Collector S. Nagarajan, we could quickly convert the GH to a hospital with full oxygen beds. This could reduce the flow of patients from the region to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, ESI Hospital and other hospitals. A triage centre has also been set up,” said D. Kannan Maharaj, Chief Medical Officer, Madukkarai GH. Oxygen cylinders, supply lines and other equipment needed were sourced through the district administration, non-governmental organisations and from companies under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. Now the hospital has a back up of 50 oxygen concentrators that can be used in case of a shortage of medical oxygen. Ten doctors, including six super-specialists, and 20 nurses work in three shifts. There are two lab technicians and 10 sanitary workers. During the first wave of the pandemic, the hospital treated COVID-19 patients for a short period from August to December 2020. During the second wave, it treated more than 500 COVID-19 patients and no death was reported. It has to be noted that Madukkarai region had a test positivity rate of 35 % at one point, said Dr. Maharaj. He added that MDMK youth wing secretary V. Eswaran and DMK’s Kurichi Prabhakaran were among the leaders who sought for upgrading the hospital to a COVID-19 treatment centre for the convenience of patients from Madukkarai taluk. Mr. Eswaran, who donated an oxygen concentrator to the hospital, said the new arrangement would be a boon for patients from Madukkarai taluk. The hospital was receiving patients from places including Madukkarai, K.G. Chavadi, Chettipalayam, Malumichampatti, Kuniyamuthur, Podanur, Sundarapuram, Kurichi and Kovaipudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madukkarai-gh-rises-to-the-occasion/article34747409.ece
07 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Integrated bus stand work at Vellalore comes to a halt||The Rs. 168 crore integrated bus stand work that the Coimbatore Corporation started at Vellalore in January 2020 has come to a halt, thanks to various obstacles including the COVID-19 pandemic. The work came to a complete halt more than a fortnight ago after the workers left the construction site because of the increase in COVID-19 cases, said the Corporation sources. To be precise, after the State Government imposed fresh lockdown on May 10, work came to a halt. Since then, there had been no progress as the government kept extending lockdown while and tightening the restrictions. Now, the government had permitted construction activity provided workers were at the construction site but this was unlikely to change the status quo as far as the integrated bus stand project was concerned because the Corporation was yet to clear the due of the contract company that had taken up the project, mobilise funds and clear a legal tangle. Of the Rs. - 168 crore estimated for the bus stand, the Corporation was 50% and the rest was the government’s. When the Corporation approached the government, it was told to first spend its share. As for its share, the Corporation had planned to avail of loan from the Central government’s Housing and Urban Development Corporation but it could not because of the legal tangle, the sources said. The Corporation had planned to pledge the land where it was building the bus stand as collateral security for the loan but when it went into the land records it found that a part of the land was in the name of another government agency. Though the Corporation identified the issue sometime in January this year it had not been able to get the things sorted out until now. All those put together delayed the completion of the project, the sources added. With the change in government in the State, the high COVID-19 positive cases in the city drawing the civic body’s attention and its financial woes, it appeared that the Corporation would not be able to resolve the problems in the near future, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/integrated-bus-stand-work-at-vellalore-comes-to-a-halt/article34747640.ece
07 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Failure to publicise vegetable price list causes concern among residents||To help the city’s residents buy vegetables during the lockdown, the Coimbatore Corporation has deployed its vehicles and permitted private vehicles to deliver goods at residents’ doorsteps. But the civic body’s failure to share the price of vegetables appears to undo the efforts it has taken to help the public, because most buyers seem to be unaware of the price. On an average, the Corporation records sale of over 150 tonnes vegetables a day. The number of vehicles deployed to deliver vegetables and fruits is over 1,300 a day. The vehicles reach all the 100 wards as the number indicates that each ward sees over 10 vehicles. But the price at which the vendors should sell is not available with the public as the Corporation, it appears, has no mechanism to disseminate the information, rue the residents. “We, residents, see vehicles selling vegetables at our apartment gate. And, if the vehicles are not coming for a day or two, we know whom to contact. But there’s no information on the price we should buy,” complains C.R. Sreedar, a resident. At least by 7 a.m. everyday, the Corporation should share the information with the public. And, it is not a tough ask given the various channels available – FM radio stations, social media platforms, etc. Or the Corporation can upload the daily price list on its Facebook page or Twitter handle for the public, he adds. The Corporation should also focus on the quality of vegetables supplied as it is very poor and cannot be stored for more than a day, rues S. Bala Murali, another city resident. The failure to release the vegetable price list in advance seems to undo whatever the Corporation has done to supply essential commodities to the city’s residents, says consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon. The civic body should ensure that every vehicle – its own and permitted private ones – has the price list displayed and also the number of the control room that the Corporation has established to monitor supply of vegetables. He adds that the Corporation’s failure in disseminating information is not restricted to vegetables but also to vaccination. The civic body does not share in advance – at least a day earlier - how many vaccines it plans to administer in vaccination centres in schools. This lack of information has forced the public to go on a vaccine hunt, from one centre to another. Since May 29, the Corporation has received nearly 600 calls at the control room for vegetable supply. Of those, more than 560 were regarding deployment of vehicles and fewer than 10 were regarding pricing. Corporation officials say they will look into the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/failure-to-publicise-vegetable-price-list-causes-concern-among-residents/article34747407.ece
07 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK office-bearer assaults Corpn. engineers||DMK area secretary in-charge of P.N. Pudur, Baghyaraj, allegedly roughed up two Coimbatore Corporation engineers on Sunday morning after they asked him to maintain physical distance and wear mask. Video clips of the engineers’ encounter with Baghyaraj, which went viral, showed him standing in front of the party office in the area, arguing with the engineers, abusing them and later charging towards them. Sources familiar with the development said that after the engineers asked the DMK office- bearer to wear mask and adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, he entered into an argument and finally assaulted them. Acknowledging his party colleague’s excess, a DMK leader said it was quite unfortunate that Baghyaraj abused and also assaulted the engineers, who were on their way to an urban primary health centre in the area. The party had taken the issue to the notice of the Coimbatore urban west unit in-charge Krishnan. Compromise The Corporation sources said the engineers informed their superiors and were asked to not escalate the issue. When the problem reached the Saibaba Colony Police, both the parties reached a compromise with Baghyaraj apologising to the engineers for his behaviour. No complaint was lodged by either of the parties, the DMK leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-office-bearer-assaults-corpn-engineers/article34747394.ece
07 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Textile mills seek permission to operate||The South India Spinners Association has appealed to the State government to permit the textile mills to operate from Monday. Memorandum In a memorandum to the State government, the association said the State enforced complete lockdown since May 10. It has created a large number of oxygen beds and organising vaccination camps for workers. However, for nearly a month, the mills remain closed and have kept the workers on the premises. It has thrown open several difficulties for the mills apart from financial losses. The textile mills will follow all standard operating procedures, if permitted to operate. Hence, the State government should permit the mills to reopen, the association said. ‘Infection risk’ Meanwhile, Communist Party of India (Marxist) Tiruppur district secretary S. Muthukannan said the State government should not permit the exporting units to operate now with 10 % workforce. Permitting the units to operate increases the risk of more workers getting the disease. The number of cases in Tiruppur district increased when there was partial lockdown. Considering the health risk of the workers, the government should not permit the units to operate now, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-mills-seek-permission-to-operate/article34747398.ece
07 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Food packets distributed||E-routes Tours and Travels in association with NGO Dr. Kalam Welfare Association distributed over 25,000 free food packets to the needy during lockdown.Those in need of free lunch and dinner can contact 98943 99577. Tiruppur-based NGO Helping Hearts Foundation Trust distributed free food packets to differently abled and homeless persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-packets-distributed/article34747405.ece
07 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Army man killed in road accident laid to rest||The mortal remains of a Sepoy of Indian Army who was killed in a road accident in Kashmir recently was laid to rest at his native village near Pallakode here. S. Boopathy, a 27-year-old Sepoy of the Indian Army, has been with the force for six years. Boopathy was killed in a road accident at Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on June 4. His mortal remains was brought to his native village on Sunday and Venkatesh Kumar, Assistant Director, District Ex-Servicemen Welfare Department, received the body at the border. Boopathy’s mortal remains were laid to rest at his native village Kammalapatti here. District Collector S. Divyadarshini and other officials paid their respects. The Collector consoled the bereaved family. He is survived by his parents, Swaminathan and Chitra, and two siblings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/army-man-killed-in-road-accident-laid-to-rest/article34747354.ece
07 June 2021||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Forced to shell out money to dispose of bodies||Families of COVID-19 victims are forced to grease the palms of mortuary workers at the Government Hospital here and attenders at the graveyard in Pachur, say welfare organisations. As per the standard protocol specified by the Union Health Ministry, the body of a COVID-19 victim has to be placed in a plastic bag. The body bag can be wrapped with a mortuary sheet or sheet provided by the family members. But, the mortuary workers charge money for the body bag and the mortuary sheet in the range of Rs. 3,000. Attenders at the graveyard at Pachur demand Rs. 7,000 or more for cremating the body. The amount is purportedly for purchasing firewood for disposing off the body. ‘This is quite disturbing. The plight of poor families is unimaginable,’ V.R. Dhanaseelane, president, Karaikal District Citizens’ Welfare Association, said, adding senior officials do all they can to make sure that the sorry state of affairs do not get to the notice of higher-ups in Puducherry Government. The public expect the new government to set right the situation. The district administration should expedite the process of establishing an electric crematorium, he emphasised. Officials at the Government General Hospital, however, denied any knowledge of the approach of the mortuary workers. ‘There is no shortage of the packing materials. The issue has not been brought to my notice so far,’ Resident Medical Officer Madhan Babu said. The local body must make sure that the fallen branches of trees due to forceful winds recently are chopped and stocked in the graveyard for cremating the bodies, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forced-to-shell-out-money-to-dispose-of-bodies/article34747765.ece
07 June 2021||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Inadequate stock of vaccine in Karur||A large number of people had to return home disappointed on Sunday after they were turned away by the health authorities at the vaccination centres due to shortage of stock. As information on free vaccination drive percolated, a large number of people thronged the integrated court complex, Karur Municipality Pasupatheswarar Girls, Urban Primary Health Centre at Inam Karur and community hall at Thottakurichi to get themselves vaccinated. Out of five places, arrangements were made at the court complex exclusively for the staff members of courts and lawyers. However, people from different walks of life began lining up in the morning. They forced open the gate and gained entry into the court complex. On information, the police rushed to the spot and regulated the crowd. Since only limited stock was available for vaccination, the health authorities turned away most of the people by issuing tokens to them. Similar scenes were witnessed in other vaccination centres in the district, where the authorities had made arrangements to immunise people between 18 and 44 age group. Most of them also had to return without being vaccinated due to insufficient stock in these centres. The health authorities said that those for whom tokens had been given would be vaccinated in the next drive. Depending upon the supply, the date, time and other details would be announced in advance, officials said.  The health authorities issued tokens to many people and said that they would be vaccinated in the next drive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inadequate-stock-of-vaccine-in-karur/article34747770.ece
07 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai ready for next surge: Moorthy||Madurai district was well-equipped with medical infrastructure to handle even another possible surge in COVID-19 positive cases, said Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy here on Sunday. He addressed mediapersons, along with Collector Aneesh Sekar, after inaugurating 250 oxygen-supported beds at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and 200 beds with oxygen concentrators at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur. The Minister said that concerted efforts of officials of various government departments had helped in containing the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Earlier, there was a shortage of beds and oxygen support in hospitals. But now there were vacant beds in hospitals. The oxygen supply had also increased in the past few weeks. The district, which had recorded around 1,500 cases, had seen a fall in cases to less than 450, said Mr. Moorthy. Steps were being taken to bring in additional medical equipment and oxygen from other States to Madurai district. A total of 120 Mini COVID-19 Care Centres were set up in the villages across the district to bring down the number of positive cases in rural areas. Members of self-help groups were also engaged to undertake door-to-door screening of symptomatic persons, said the Minister. The State government had urged the Centre to supply additional COVID-19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-ready-for-next-surge-moorthy/article34747461.ece
07 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK, BJP flayed for disparaging statements||Condemning the AIADMK and the BJP for making disparaging statements on the performance of the newly-formed DMK government, the People’s Watch, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation, has said that democratic norms demanded that a new government’s performance can be judged only after 100 days. In a press release, its Executive Director Henri Tiphagne said that within just a month of its taking over reins, the criticism by the opposition parties showed that they were keen to play hate-politics. At a time when the new government was trying to combat the second phase of the pandemic, the opposition parties should play a pro-active role by offering suggestions and advice. From Tamil Nadu’s civil society’s perspective, they have the strong moral responsibility and right to appreciate all the laudable moves of the government. The M.K. Stalin government owes its victory not merely to its cadre strength but the strong civil society that slogged to stall efforts to carry out anti-people projects such as the eight-lane highway, neutrino, hydrocarbon and methane projects, besides the anti-Sterlite and anti-CAA protests. The truth cannot be dismissed that trade unions, women’s groups, indigenous communities, differently abled communities, those fighting for rights of the Tamils, human rights defenders were all involved in this effecting the Constitutional transfer of power and governance through the ballot. ‘Mere 30 days gone’ It would therefore be in the fitness of things to recognise and appreciate the commendable moves that the new government has undertaken within a span of a mere 30 days. “We deem it our moral responsibility to draw the attention of the opposition to some of the commendable work they have already done until now. From the time they have taken up reins, they have been combating the corona pandemic on a war-footing. The financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 to ration card holders deserved appreciation. Therefore, the opposition, instead of merely opposing the government, should point out the positive moves made within a month of assuming office, the release added.  The DMK slogged against anti-people projects such as the eight-lane highway, neutrino, hydrocarbon and methane projects People’s Watch||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-bjp-flayed-for-disparaging-statements/article34747459.ece
07 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not neglect iron deficiency in pregnant women: experts||Iron deficiency in pregnant women should not be neglected, speakers at a continuing medical education (CME) webinar organised by Madurai Obstetric and Gynaecological Society re said. The meet, attended by over 300 gynaecologists, discussed the causes of anaemia, early diagnosis and management. The resource persons also outlined the post-partum haemorrhage and the ways for medical and surgical management. They said that pregnant women should have adequate iron reserves as they would lose blood post delivery. By supplementing iron proteins, which were available in the form of tablets and injections, from the initial stages of pregnancy, the deficiency could be set right. The experts also discussed latest techniques for reducing maternal mortality. For instance, steps to be followed if the uterus was not contracting. A few medications help the uterus contract. The bleeding can be controlled by suction mechanisms and the blood vessels require sutures. MOGS president Jothi Sundaram presided. Faculty members Lalithambica, Jeyanthi, Savitri, Shantadevi and Rathna and Kalpana were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-neglect-iron-deficiency-in-pregnant-women-experts/article34747458.ece
07 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers start raising nurseries as water flows from Vaigai dam||Water released from Vaigai dam for irrigation of the first crop of the double-crop region has reached Kallandhiri in Madurai district. After a gap of several years, water for irrigation of the first crop was released in the first week of June. It will irrigate 45,041 acres of the ayacut of Periyar irrigation system. The water release will continue for 120 days. For the first 45 days, 900 cusecs of water will be released. Then, it will be released following a turn system. Paddy farmers in the double-crop region have started raising nurseries in full swing. A few farmers have already raised nurseries using water from their wells. R. Arul Prakasam, a farmer, said farmers were happy that water was released during the first week of June. He said most farmers were planning to raise paddy for a duration of 120 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-start-raising-nurseries-as-water-flows-from-vaigai-dam/article34747466.ece
07 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fish market to function from 12 midnight to 5 a.m.||Wholesale traders at fish markets and slaughterhouses can function between 12 midnight and 5 a.m. from June 7 to 14, following the relaxation of lockdown norms. A press release from Collector Aneesh Sekar said that only wholesale traders can set up their shops in the fish market as well as slaughterhouses. Retailers cannot set up their shops. The public cannot buy fish directly from the market. So small-time retailers and traders can deliver fish to residents at their doorstep. For this, the retailers have to obtain passes from Madurai Corporation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fish-market-to-function-from-12-midnight-to-5-am/article34747456.ece
07 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||50th Oxygen Express arrives from Odisha||The 50th Oxygen Express, with six tankers having 89.16 tonnes of liquefied medical oxygen from Rourkela in Odisha arrived at Koodal Nagar railway station here on Sunday. This is the fourth Oxygen Express being received here. Other oxygen expresses have delivered tankers at Vadipatti near here and Milavittan near Thoothukudi in the recent past. With this, Indian Railways has moved 3,404.85 tonnes of oxygen to Tamil Nadu, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50th-oxygen-express-arrives-from-odisha/article34747464.ece
07 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 131 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 2,534 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.78 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 935 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,169 mcft. The level in Papanasam dam stood at 134.50 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 888.19 cusecs and a discharge of 1,204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 87.70 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 155 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs. Rainfall recorded in different places in southern districts in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Sunday was (in mm): Sothuparai dam 67, Periyar dam 58.6, Veerapandi 35, Thekkadi 30.6, Idayapatti 25, Adavinainar dam 23, Vaigai dam 21.6, Andipatti 17.6, Kallandiri 13.4, Manjalar dam 11, Karuppanadhi dam 10, Shanmuganathi dam 8.7, Uthamapalayam 8, Melur 7.5, Chittampatti 6.4, Mettupatti 6, Tenkasi 5.6, Madurai 5, Sankarankoil and Sivagiri 4 each, Kalakkad 2.2, and Thaniamangalam, Gundar dam and Shencottah 2 each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34747463.ece
07 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Cases fall in Madurai, Virudhunagar districts||Madurai recorded 441 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, which increased the total number of positive cases in the district to 67,930. On Saturday, there were 468 fresh cases. Fourteen deaths were recorded on Sunday, with which the district’s overall death toll rose to 974. There were 12 fatalities reported on Saturday. A total of 1,569 persons were discharged from various hospitals and healthcare facilities. Virudhunagar recorded four deaths – the victims included a woman – on Sunday that took the district’s toll up to 458. On Saturday, the district had registered 13 fatalities. On Sunday, the district recorded 420 fresh cases as against 472 cases reported on Saturday. A total of 1,070 persons were discharged in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-fall-in-madurai-virudhunagar-districts/article34747454.ece
07 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles stolen||Unidentified persons broke into a Tasmac outlet near Rasipuram and made away with Rs. 50,000 worth bottles of liquor on Sunday. According to police, the outlet has remained closed since lockdown. Rasipuram police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-bottles-stolen/article34747641.ece
07 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP reaches a compromise with AINRC in Puducherry||The BJP has reached a compromise with the All-India N.R. Congress on Cabinet formation in the Union Territory of Puducherry. After back-to-back consultations that BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar had with N. Rangasamy on Friday and Saturday, the BJP has left it to the discretion of the Chief Minister to allot the post of Deputy Chief Minister and portfolios. Since Mr. Rangasamy entered office on May 7, the BJP had been pressing for the post of Deputy Chief Minister for its legislature party leader A. Namassivayam. It also submitted a wish-list of portfolios to the Chief Minister. “For the smooth functioning of the coalition government and the development of the Union Territory, both parties have to make some concessions. The Chief Minister will make the announcement on the post of Deputy Chief Minister and the allocation of portfolios. Our endeavour will be to ensure a good government,” Mr. Namassivayam said at a press conference on Sunday. BJP president V. Saminathan said the talks on Cabinet formation had concluded. “The Chief Minister will make the announcement... We did not create any crisis for him. The Ministers will assume charge very soon,” he said. In the talks with Mr. Chandrasekhar, an AINRC source told The Hindu , the Chief Minister had made it clear that he would not make any compromise on the post of Deputy Chief Minister or the allocation of portfolios. “He maintained all through the talks that he did not favour creating a new post to accommodate Mr. Namassivayam. Furthermore, he wanted the portfolio allocation to be his prerogative,” the source said. The source said the Chief Minister might consider allocating the Home portfolio to the BJP. The election to the post of Speaker and the swearing-in of Ministers is likely to take place next week, the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-reaches-a-compromise-with-ainrc-in-puducherry/article34747357.ece
07 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 640 new cases||Continuing a downward trend, the new COVID-19 cases declined to 640 in the Union Territory and the recovery rate touched 90% after several weeks, even while 15 deaths took the cumulative toll to 1,628 on Sunday. Puducherry recorded eight deaths, Karaikal five and Mahe two. The patients, including nine women, were in the 40-85 age range and seven had no co-morbidities. The region-wise cumulative toll was Puducherry 1,307, Karaikal 192, Yanam 98 and Mahe 31. The new cases, which were detected from 9,215 tests, were from Puducherry (470), Karaikal (136), Yanam (15) and Mahe (19). The test positivity rate was 6.95%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 90.93%. With 1,138 patients posting recoveries, the active cases stood at 8,270 — 1,236 in hospitals and 7,034 in home isolation. Meanwhile, 87 healthcare workers, 81 frontline staff and 4,204 members of the public took COVID-19 vaccines on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-640-new-cases/article34747361.ece
07 June 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Sale of Aavin products outside T.N. soon: Minister||Minister for Milk and Dairy Development S. M. Nasar on Sunday said that necessary steps were being taken to sell Aavin products to other States and abroad. Additional procurement of ‘Aavin’ milk was being done and its sale had also increased due to speedy efforts taken by the State government, he said. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the Aavin milk plant here, Mr. Nasar said 36 lakh litres of milk were being procured in the State earlier. Due to efforts made by the government four lakh litres of milk was being procured additionally, he said, adding that the sale of milk had also gone up by four lakh litres. The Minister said action would be taken in case of receipt of complaints of adulterated milk supplied by private firms. Even during the pandemic period, milk was being procured from farmers through Aavin and the same was being processed. Employees working in the Milk and Dairy Development Department were also declared as frontline workers and an incentive was being given to them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sale-of-aavin-products-outside-tn-soon-minister/article34747762.ece
07 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Hospital gets CCTV cameras linked to COVID-19 war room||In a first of its kind, the COVID-19 ward in Ramanathapuram Government Hospital has been fitted with CCTV cameras installed at 20 different locations and connected to the COVID-19 war room functioning at the Collectorate. Monitoring the movement of frontline workers, duty doctors and authorised people inside the ward by a dedicated team of officials round the clock enabled to redress the grievances of the inpatients swiftly. Whenever there were any issues raised, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that he took it up with the doctors and frontline workers at the isolation ward. By doing so, there was swift action and as a result, the patients were benefitted. This, he said, was possible due to the cooperation of the staff and the doctors.. Speaking to The Hindu , the Collector said on Sunday that during a recent review meeting, when there were complaints from the inpatients and some of their relatives, the issue was discussed with the GH authorities on tackling them. Going inside the isolation ward was not possible all the time by everybody due to restrictions. Hence, when the suggestion to have cameras came up, the officials examined the modalities and immediately fitted them in each floor with numbers. There are nine cameras in the COVID wards and another 11 in the maternity ward, where pregnant women inpatients with COVID-19 complications were in treatment. After there were complaints of delay in clearing the bodies of the deceased in the COVID-19 ward a month ago and a few other issues like food not being served on time, the presence of cameras came in handy, the officials said. There are 180 inpatients, including those with COVID-19 positive people and those suspected to have the virus, being observed by the doctors at the GH. At the Ramanathapuram Government Medical College and Hospital, there were 127 patients with oxygen support as on date. "We have around 600 beds with oxygen and medical supplies," Mr Dinesh added. Though the number of COVID-19 patients was declining in the district, Health Department officials said that with relaxation coming in from Monday, they would be faced with challenges in the coming days. The Collector had instructed the surveillance teams to be strict in enforcing the laws against violators, they added. As for the COVID-19 care centres were concerned, the officials said that they would install cameras for effective monitoring. "We will increase the fever clinics in the coming days," the health officials said and added that people with fever, cold or cough had been advised to get admitted to COVID-19 care centres than home quarantine. The Ramanathapuram district has reported 17,833 positive cases till June 5 and discharged 14,629 patients. There were 2,933 active cases, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospital-gets-cctv-cameras-linked-to-covid-19-war-room/article34747731.ece
07 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH increases oxygen bed strength||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has increased its oxygen bed strength and works are in progress to expand the triage centre with oxygen supported beds. The GMKMCH is the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment in the district and the hospital caters to patients from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Kalakuruchi besides Salem. Considering the increasing inflow of patients to the hospital, the bed strength for COVID-19 treatment was increased manifold to accommodate maximum number of patients. The hospital earlier had 635 beds for COVID-19 treatment and the number had been increased to 900 with over 600 beds with medical oxygen support. Long queue of ambulances was noticed at the hospital as patients were referred to the hospital from private facilities in critical state. During second wave, the bed strength at the hospital has been increased to 1,312 and 1,200 beds have medical oxygen support. The hospital is also planning to increase the oxygen bed strength further. According to authorities, the hospital has two medical oxygen tanks with storage capacity of 35kl and 13kl respectively. While oxygen support is ensured for 800 beds through pipeline from the plants, 182 beds are provided with oxygen cylinders and 228 beds with oxygen concentrators. The hospital also manages the 500-bed COVID-19 treatment centre on the Salem Steel Plant premises and triaging for both the facilities is being done at GMKMCH itself. The authorities said the hospital was setting up a new triage facility with 30 oxygen beds to prevent crowding at the existing centre and to prevent patients from waiting in ambulances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-gh-increases-oxygen-bed-strength/article34747402.ece
07 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Mobile swab collection teams formed in Salem city||The Salem Corporation has set up mobile swab collection teams to collect samples from persons with symptoms. The teams in autorickshaws visit the residents and collect swab samples for RT-PCR test. Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said each of the 60 wards in the Corporation had been allotted a mobile swab collection team. The samples would be tested at the laboratory in the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. According to health officials, each team will have two members, a technician and data entry operator. Upon noticing symptoms in residents, the field survey workers will immediately alert the mobile team which will visit the respective houses and collect samples. Mr. Ravichandran said the system was started to prevent delay in testing due to hesitancy or lockdown restrictions and ensure early testing among the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-swab-collection-teams-formed-in-salem-city/article34747399.ece
07 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. invites nurses for internship||The Salem Corporation has invited nurses, lab technicians and computer science graduates for internship in COVID-19 management. In a release, Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said the Corporation would be hiring for internship training 20 persons who had completed B.Sc.Nursing, Diploma in nursing and general nursing and midwifery, 40 persons who had completed auxillary nursing and midwifery as urban health nurses, 50 persons as laboratory technicians and 50 persons who had completed B.Sc or M.Sc in Computer Science for field survey as part of COVID-19 management. Nursing interns would be provided with a stipend of Rs. 14,000, Rs. 11,000 for urban health nurses, Rs. 9,000 for laboratory technicians and Rs. 8,000 per month for field survey workers. Interested persons, who had graduated within three years, could attend the walk-in interview at Kottai Multi-purpose hall on June 7 (Monday) at 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/salem-corpn-invites-nurses-for-internship/article34747400.ece
07 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Education dept. contributes Rs. 1.70 cr.||Teaching and non-teaching staff under the Deparment of Education here contributed Rs. 1.70 crore to the district’s COVID-19 relief fund. Chief Education Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy handed over the contribution to District Collector S. Karmegham in the presence of Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/education-dept-contributes-rs-170-cr/article34747403.ece
07 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘A great service in my life’||Ayub Khan (45), a DMK functionary in the district, is busy these days, not with party activities, but in performing the last rites of people who died of COVID-19. So far, he said, he had performed the last rites of 62 persons from the district, including 16, who died last year. At a time when there was a fear even among many relatives of the deceased, which forced the civic and health authorities to keep the bodies in mortuaries, the courage and patience shown by Mr. Khan have come in for appreciation. "The social media posts have come as a fillip and are motivating me," he noted. After learning about it, he said that his 19-year-old son Raja too joined him. Also, a bunch of youngsters, who enquired about it, also are into the service.  TMMK cadres in Thoothukudi district had recently launched an auto-ambulance for the benefit of COVID-19 patients. In Tirunelveli district also, the cadres had been helping in performing the last rites for the dead due to COVID-19 complications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-great-service-in-my-life/article34747732.ece
07 June 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two govt. doctors killed||Two doctors — Ramkumar (40) and Chidambara Raja (45) — reportedly died on the spot after the vehicle in which they were travelling hit a roadside tree here on Saturday. Police said that four people — Ramkumar, Chidambara Raja, Muthuganesh (29) of Krishnagiri, a doctor, and Karthikumar (32) a pharma company representative of Sankarankoil, were travelling in the car. They had attended a meeting and returned to Kadayam. It is said that Ramkumar was practising in Sankarankoil Government Hospital and Chidambara Raja was attached to Kuruvikulam Government Hospital. The car hit the tree at Thiraviam Nagar here. The other two passengers were rushed to Tenkasi Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-govt-doctors-killed/article34747733.ece
07 June 2021||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur GH gets zero-delay triage ward||Thanjavur Medical College Hospital has set up a zero-delay triage ward to ensure that COVID-19 patients who are rushed to the hospital do not face any delay in getting treatment. A 300-bed facility set up for this purpose is equipped with oxygen concentrators. While in the first wave of COVID-19 the hospital had allotted 600 beds to treat the viral infection, there are 1,000 beds this time around. The 300-bedded zero-delay triage facility, which was inaugurated a few days ago, would function in addition to that. The Thanjavur Medical College examination hall was converted into the zero-delay ward, with 300 beds, oxygen supply and other necessities arranged within a week on a war-footing, said S. Maruthudurai, Medical Superintendent. The zero-delay triage ward would help patients who require oxygen support but cannot access it due to lack of beds in hospitals in the district. A special team of doctors has been deputed to the ward. Explaining the work-flow, Dr. Maruthudurai said that a team of doctors would be on standby when an ambulance enters the hospital. Depending upon the patient's condition, they would either rush them to the zero-delay ward where their vitals would be checked, or assess the vitals in the ambulance itself, before taking the patient to the ward. “At the ward, the patient would be administered oxygen at up to 10 litres per minute, and doctors would monitor them till a vacancy opens up at the COVID-19 ward,” he said. Two ambulances and one battery car have been deployed for the purpose of transporting patients from the zero-delay ward to the COVID-19 wards.  At the zero-delay triage ward, the patient would be administered oxygen at up to 10 litres per minute S. Maruthudurai Medical Superintendent, Thanjavur Medical College Hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-gh-gets-zero-delay-triage-ward/article34747775.ece
07 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on influence of environment||Tree plantation and a webinar on the influence of environment on dairy industry formed part of the World Environment Day observation organised by the Veterinary College and Research Institute, Orathanadu. The tree plantation drive on the campus was launched by Dean T. Sivakumar. It was followed by a webinar in which veterinary college students participated. In his inaugural address, Dr. Sivakumar gave a presentation on the impact of environment on cattle. Marine Biologist and professor with Annamalai University M. Kalaiselvan stressed the importance of marine ecosystem and its restoration for the betterment of humankind. Highlighting the need to protect Nature, Augustus Samuel Dodd, Chief Executive Officer, Grace Kennet Foundation and Hospital, Madurai, gave a brief note on the dos and don’ts for protecting the environment. Around 200 students participated in the webinar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-on-influence-of-environment/article34747783.ece
07 June 2021||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals told to comply with G.O. on details of COVID-19 patients in Theni||Failure to communicate details of COVID-19 positive patients with the Deputy Director of Health would attract punishment under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, Theni Collector H. Krishnanunni said on Sunday. All private hospitals should comply with the government directive on a daily basis with immediate effect. Following instances of non-reporting or under reporting of the patients for CT chest scan being done in private hospitals and stand alone scan centres, the officials were instructed to monitor the activities. Details of patients with infection and suspected COVID-19 should be informed to the officials. However, it came to light that some scan centres and private hospitals advised the patients to remain in home isolation. This was illegal and the case of positive patients should be reported to the officials. Hence, the government had directed all the district heads to monitor the private hospitals and scan centres, officials said. At a review meeting held here, the Collector told the Health department officials to disseminate this information among the private hospitals and instruct them to share the details of patients on a daily basis by sending them to the DD Health office in a prescribed format, including name, age, sex, address, mobile and scan inference. By doing so, the government can tackle the pandemic effectively. By zeroing in on the locality and the patients, the spread can be contained. Early diagnosis may help the doctors to save the lives from turning fatal. Hence, the scan centres and private hospital managers were told to cooperate in fighting the COVID-19 war, Mr. Krishnanunni said and added that Deputy Director (Leprosy) Dr. Rubin and Dr. Shanmugapriya, district epidemiologist, would be the nodal officers. The scan centres and private hospitals shall mail the details tothn.dist.epi@gmail.comandthenidistricteoc@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-hospitals-told-to-comply-with-go-on-details-of-covid-19-patients-in-theni/article34747734.ece
07 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Get drugs for black fungus’||Thoothukudi MP K. Kanimozhi on Sunday urged the Union government to immediately provide medical supplies to patients diagnosed with black fungus. She said that like Tamil Nadu, many States were waiting for the drugs. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Kanimozhi said the drugs, according to Health Department officials, had to be imported. If there was any delay, the Central government should examine the possibility of making them indigenously. Many in-patients across the country were waiting for the drugs. In such circumstances, doctors and government hospitals should not be blamed. Doctors and frontline workers were giving their best. Risking their lives, they were working hard; the dip in the COVID-19 cases should be attributed to the hard work done by the frontline workers, she said. Ms. Kanimozhi visited the Government Medical College Hospital here to inspect the work on the installation of a lift, for which she released Rs. 50 lakh under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme. The work was in the final stages, officials said. An additional block of 200 oxygen beds was coming up at the nurses quarters, converted into a COVID-19 ward last year. Later, wearing a PPE kit, she entered the COVID-19 ward and interacted with patients. She enquired whether they were getting food and medical supplies on time, the doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/get-drugs-for-black-fungus/article34747366.ece
07 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Automatic coach washing plant to come up in Tiruchi||Tiruchi is one of the locations in the Southern Railway zone where an automatic coach washing plant is proposed to be established so as to save water used for cleaning passenger coaches. Railway officials here said the plant will be established inside the coaching complex situated close to the Tiruchi railway junction, where express and passenger trains are sent for primary maintenance before being put back into operation again. The coach washing plant, to be established by a private firm identified by the railway administration, would provide the plan and drawings. The divisional railway officials have suggested to the Southern Railway headquarters for an inspection to be done by the private firm at the coaching complex so as to have a clear idea of the place where the plant is to be established. The plant would be used solely for exterior cleaning of coaches once they enter the coaching complex. The officials said that one of the main advantages of the plant was that it would substantially reduce water consumption. It would also save time and manpower. Necessary watering arrangements for the automatic system, besides pump control room and other works connected with its establishment would be done at the coaching complex. Recycled water is planned to be utilised in a big way for cleaning the coaches. According to a Southern Railway press release, the cleaning will be very effective even as it can be done efficiently. The estimated annual savings of water was expected to be 1.28 crore kilolitres. The huge broad gauge coaching complex has three pit lines, four stabling lines and an engine turn around line. The coaching complex carries out primary maintenance of Chennai - Thanjavur - Chennai Uzhavan expresses; Tiruchi - Howrah - Tiruchi expresses; Tiruchi - Thiruvananthapuram - Tiruchi Intercity expresses; Mannargudi - Bhagat Ki Kothi - Mannargudi expresses; Tiruchi - Rameswaram- Tiruchi, and Tiruchi - Palakkad Town - Tiruchi trains. The coaching complex also carries out primary maintenance of Diesel Electric Multiple Unit (DEMU) trains being operated from Tiruchi to Karaikudi; Tiruchi - Karur and in Vriddhachalam - Salem sections. The other locations in the Southern Railway zone where the automatic coach washing plants are to come are Tambaram, Ernakulam, Kochuveli and Nagercoil besides at EMU car sheds at Avadi and Tambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/automatic-coach-washing-plant-to-come-up-in-tiruchi/article34747759.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts account for 64 deaths||Despite the decline in number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the central region, deaths reported per day continued to remain high. As many as 3,219 patients reported positive, while 64 patients succumbed to the infection on Sunday. Tiruchi district reported the highest number of deaths with 21 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Pudukottai and Thanjavur reported nine deaths each, while Karur and Tiruvarur reported seven each. Five deaths were recorded in Perambalur, while three each were reported in Ariyalur and Nagapattinam. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 875 patients reporting positive. Tiruchi district reported a significant decline in the number of positive cases with 590 cases being reported. This is the first time in the last month that the district reported less than 600 fresh cases. Nagapattinam reported 542 fresh cases, while similar declining trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 395 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam had 11 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had eight. Karur district reported a slight dip in cases with 301 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. Only nine ICU beds were available in the district on Saturday. Pudukottai reported 189 fresh cases, Ariyalur, 187 and Perambalur, 140. Bed vacancy in some of these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had only seven vacant ICU beds and Ariyalur, none. Perambalur had increased its bed capacity to 20 ICU beds on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/central-districts-account-for-64-deaths/article34747778.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Job scheme works hit as infections rise in villages||The lockdown has hit the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) works in the district. Though there was no restriction on providing employment to the workers of the scheme due to the lockdown, it is said that the size of groups at work sites had shrunk by half in the past two months, especially in May. The spread of COVID-19 virus in rural areas and the Rural Development Department shifting its focus in containing it had been attributed to the slump in rural job works. COVID-19 infections have been reported in nearly one-third of about 420 villages in the district. Nearly 100 villages have been notified as containment zones. Since the movement of people in containment areas is restricted, it is said that the workers of the rural job scheme had remain at home. The district has about three lakh workers registered under the MGNREGA scheme. According to official statistics, only about 1.5 lakh workers turn up for work in the past four weeks. The numbers keep fluctuating depending upon the active cases of COVID-19. It has forced the officials to bring down the size of groups at work sites in all 14 panchayat unions. The impact is more pronounced in Thiruverumbur, Manikandam, Andhanallur, Mannachanallur and Pullambadi unions. “Cases have been reported in many villages. Workers in affected villages prefer to forego daily works. We also do not encourage them to be roped in for employment for the time-being,” says Shankar, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency. He maintained that there was no reduction in labour budget for the workers. There might be some problems in providing employment to them during lockdown. However, the loss of workdays to the workers would be managed by giving employment to them in the near future. Officials had been asked to rope in as many workers as possible. Mr. Shankar said that there were some issues in enforcing social distancing protocol among the workers. Though many wore masks, they failed to follow other protocols. It has been observed that they mingled with one another while discharging works at the sites. However, officials have been asked to ensure social distancing strictly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/job-scheme-works-hit-as-infections-rise-in-villages/article34747767.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Freight loading goes up||The Tiruchi Railway Division has witnessed an increase in freight loading in the first two months of the current fiscal in comparison to the corresponding period of the previous financial year, notwithstanding the lockdown. The Division handled 1.743 million tonnes of freight during the last two months (April and May). This was 26.5 % more than the corresponding period of the previous fiscal when the Tiruchi Division handled 1.377 million tonnes. Correspondingly, the Division also saw a rise in freight revenue by 24 %. The revenue earned through freight loading was Rs. 84.78 crore in the first two months of the current fiscal, while it was Rs. 68. 5 crore during the corresponding period of the previous year. In addition to other commodities, Tiruchi division handled new traffic by loading two rakes of caustic soda from Chinna Babu Samudram falling under its limits. This new traffic fetched an additional loading of 4,412.8 tonnes in the month of May. Sustained efforts by the division enabled in loading 15 rakes of clinker from two major private cement plants - one functioning at Ariyalur and the other at Ichchangaadu. While one consignment went to Kharagpur in West Bengal, the other was transported to Thalayuthu near Tirunelveli. The other commodities loaded in the division in the current fiscal were coal, cement, food grains, iron ore and fertilisers, a release issued by the Tiruchi Railway Division here said, adding that the division continued to remain the highest in respect of freight loading in the Southern Railway zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/freight-loading-goes-up/article34747761.ece
07 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body begins tree plantation drive||Joining hands with the Forest Department, the Tiruchi Corporation on Sunday commenced a sapling planting drive here to commemorate birth anniversary of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru flagged off the drive by planting a sapling in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramaian and District Forest Officer Sujatha. Mr. Nehru said that 25,000 saplings would be raised in the city in the first phase. They would be planted along the sides of Royal Road, Lawsons Road, Anna Nagar link Road, Sivaprakasam Road, Sashthri Road, Karur Bypass Road and up to Chathiram Bus Stand. The saplings would be protected with iron guards so as to safeguard them from wandering animals. The corporation would water them regularly. He said that the drive would increase the green cover and beautify the city. The authorities should ensure proper maintenance of the saplings. Saplings would be planted in other parts of the city to the possible extent. Later, he initiated the planting of one lakh saplings at Pallapuram near Lalgudi under the Miyawaki concept, a Japanese-promoted urban forestry initiative. They will come up on eight acres of land. Twenty five types of species will be planted. The workers enlisted for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guaranty Act would be involved in the drive, said S. Vaidhyanathan, Revenue Divisional Manager, Lalgudi. The planting would be completed within five days. They would be watered under the drip irrigation method.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-begins-tree-plantation-drive/article34747772.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi gets oxygen buses||Two oxygen buses have been donated to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital by Smart Life Trust, in association with the Tiruchi- Thanjavur Diocese of the Church of South India. One of the buses was deployed on Sunday, and the other is to be delivered soon. The buses equipped with makeshift facilities to supply oxygen are the need of the hour for COVID-19 patients as they can feel safe until they get complete medical attention at the hospital. This facility would help patients who have to wait until they can get a bed at the GH. Speaking to The Hindu , Joseph Martin, president, Smart Life Trust, said that the Tiruchi- Thanjavur Diocese of the Church of South India, had made available two school buses to be used for this purpose. “We have converted the buses according to the needs of patients and have been able to hand it over to the GH,” he said. Each bus will have space for seats and one bed, with oxygen support for patients. “Unlike other oxygen buses, we have fitted oxygen cylinders instead of concentrators as each patient’s requirement may vary,” Mr. Martin said. Five cylinders of 7,000 litres of compressed oxygen, one for each patient has been set up in these buses. “During peak time, patient are required to wait for at least two hours to get a bed. The buses will be of help at that point of time,” he said. Earlier, the Tiruchi GH used to make patients wait at the out-patient department, where, in the absence of oxygen-supply, they had to struggle with breathing difficulties until they were allotted beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruchi-gets-oxygen-buses/article34747777.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two die after consuming poisonous seeds||A 40-year-old woman and her three children allegedly consumed poisonous seeds in their house at VOC Nagar in Thuvakudimalai on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Sunday which resulted in the death of two children. Family dispute between the woman Chitradevi and her husband Nandakumar (43), who runs a welding unit is said to be the cause. Police sources said a quarrel broke out between Nandakumar and Chitradevi, leading to the woman and her three children - aged 13, 16 and 18 years- consuming poisonous seeds to end their life. Chithradevi's 13-year-old son and 16-year-old daughter died later. The woman and her 18-year-old daughter are currently undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here. The Thuvakudi Police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State's health helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-die-after-consuming-poisonous-seeds/article34747764.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man smothered to death by wife||A 35-year-old man was smothered to death at his house with a pillow allegedly by his wife and the latter’s relative at Pookollai area in Tharanallur here on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as A. Sheikh Dawood who was dumb and deaf. The police have detained Sheikh Dawood's wife Rehmath Begum (30) and Abdul Azeez, with whom she allegedly had an extra-marital affair. Police said Rehmath Begum, who has two children, and Abdul Azeez allegedly used a pillow to smother Sheikh Dawood, a tailor, when he was asleep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-smothered-to-death-by-wife/article34747763.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New SP takes charge||Pa. Moorthy assumed charge as the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, here on Sunday. He replaces Superintendent of Police A. Myilvaganan who has been transferred. Prior to this, Mr. Moorthy was Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime and Traffic, Salem City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-takes-charge/article34747779.ece
07 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 96.82 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 576 cusecs and the discharge 749 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34747781.ece
07 June 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||MDMK’s gesture to the differently abled||The Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) distributed essential commodities to 2,000 differently abled and the poor here on Thursday. Durai Vaiko, son of MDMK general secretary Vaiko, distributed 16 variety essential commodities including rice, sugar, wheat flour, oil etc. to the beneficiaries. Tirunelveli city district secretary of MDMK K. M. A. Nizam, who was serving food, including chicken biryani, to the COVID-19 patients admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for two weeks when the pandemic broke out in March and April 2020, had made arrangements for distribution of the essential commodities to the poor. In Thoothukudi, Mr. Durai Vaiko handed over 50,000 masks for police to Superintendent of Police, S. Jayakumar on Friday and gave similar number of masks to Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli, N. Manivannan on Saturday for Tirunelveli district policemen in the presence of Mr. Nizam, Vasudevanallur MLA T. Sadan Thirumalaikumar and MDMK’s social media coordinator ‘Minnal’ Mohamed Ali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mdmks-gesture-to-the-differently-abled/article34747739.ece
07 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Butterfly park set up in Coonoor||Conservationists from across the Nilgiris came together on Saturday to establish a “butterfly park” with native grasses and shrubs in a reclaimed portion of a dumpyard in Coonoor. The initiative, spearheaded by local NGO, ‘Clean Coonoor’ aims at introducing native flora to around an acre of what was previously a landfill site. The planting was done to coincide with World Environment Day on Saturday. P.J. Vasanthan, Trustee of ‘Clean Coonoor’ said that the NGO, which runs the dumpyard with the assistance of the municipality, was already maintaining a pollinator-friendly ornamental garden at the site. “The garden will provide food for butterflies and other pollinators, while the new section will have flora where the butterflies can breed,” said Mr. Vasanthan. More than 200 plants were introduced to the site. The plants were supplied by Godwin Vasanth Bosco, a restoration ecologist and founder of ‘Upstream Ecology.’ The plants include Strobilanthes cuspidatus , a variety of native kurinji plants, Crotalaria verrucosa , which attracts butterflies, among others. The butterfly park will initially be spread around 20 cents but will expand to over an acre in the coming months, said Samantha Iyanna, Managing Trustee of Clean Coonoor. The Coonoor-based Wynter-Blyth Association, which documents butterfly species in the Western Ghats was also part of the initiative. Geetha Srinivasan, Convenor of INTACH, Nilgiris chapter, is also helping to fund the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/butterfly-park-set-up-in-coonoor/article34747643.ece
07 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Adivasis to be vaccinated by month-end||The government hopes to vaccinate all 21,435 adivasis in the Nilgiris against COVID-19 by the end of June, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said in Udhagamandalam. Mr. Subramanian told reporters on Sunday that 3,000 adivasis had already been vaccinated. The Minister said he visited the tribal hamlet of Chemmanatham in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, along with Forest Minister K. Ramachandran, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and the Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya. He said 18,000 vaccine doses would be brought to the district in the coming days to inoculate the adivasis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adivasis-to-be-vaccinated-by-month-end/article34747370.ece
07 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||14,550 kg of ration rice seized, two held||Civil Supplies – CID sleuths seized 14,550 kg of ration rice that was smuggled in two vehicles and arrested two persons near Allampatti here on Saturday. The police said 219 bags of rice, each weighing 50 kg, were found in a vehicle that was intercepted at Allampati junction at around 4 p.m., during a vehicle check by the CS-CID team led by Sub-Inspector of Police A. Ashok. The team later intercepted another vehicle that had 72 bags. The police said that a ricemill owner K. Kannan (45) of Allampatti and M. Azhagamoorthi (45) of Pandian Nagar, owner-cum-driver, were arrested. The sleuths were also on the lookout for saleswoman of ration shop Uma Mageshwari in connection with the seizure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14550-kg-of-ration-rice-seized-two-held/article34747737.ece
07 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Installation of oxygen generator under way||Even as medical oxygen supply has stabilised in the hospitals in Virudhunagar district, installation of one oxygen generator has come as a big relief to Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital. The generator, sponsored by National Highways Authority of India, can produce 1,000 litres of gaseous oxygen a minute. The cost of the plant is Rs. 94.4 lakh. “We have procured the plant with the help of Defence Research Development Organisation. We are also helping in its civil and electrical installation on the hospital premises,” said NHAI, Madurai Project Officer, Mathivanan. “The new plant will be commissioned very soon and will make us self-sufficient to meet the hospital’s oxygen requirements,” said Collector R. Kannan. Dean of Virudhunagar Government Medical College Hospital, J. Sangumani, said that the hospital has got 450 beds and has plans to increase the beds up to 600 in immediate future. “We have 380 oxygen-supported beds, and it would be increased by another 100 beds when the new plant becomes functional,” the Dean said. However, the hospital has got a 6KL liquefied oxygen tank on its main premises for the high-flow oxygen needs. “Though our need is only 20 cylinders a day, we also have got 98 cylinders as a backup facility,” the Dean said. The hospital, which has allocated 380 beds for COVID treatment, will be able to face the third wave of COVID, the Dean said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/installation-of-oxygen-generator-under-way/article34747736.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jeyaranjan appointed Vice-Chair of SDPC||He was instrumental in implementing drinking water and drainage projects across the State. A recipient of the Padma Shri in 2014, Ms. Srinivasan is the chairman and managing director of Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited (TAFE). Dr. Amalorpavanathan joined government service as a doctor at a primary health centre in 1986 and retired as the Head of the Department of Vascular Surgery at the Madras Medical College. He was the convener of the Cadaver Organ Transplantation Programme in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Sivaraman, who has a doctorate from Tamil University, Thanjavur, has been advocating the use of nutrients in millets. The first transgender woman in the country to be awarded the Padma Shri, Ms. Nataraj has a huge fan following for her dance techniques. Mr. Rajaa holds a doctorate in counselling psychology and management, and has been elected from the Mannargudi Assembly constituency. He has also been a Senate member of the University of Madras. The State Planning Commission was constituted in 1971 by the then Chief Minister, M. Karunanidhi, to help the government implement its policies effectively through more efficient utilisation of material, capital and human resources within and outside the State. In its Budget for 2017-18, the AIADMK government announced that the State Planning Commission would be replaced by the SDPC that would advise the government on policy coherence and formulation of programmes to guide the development of the State. It was officially named the SDPC in April 2020.  In its Budget for 2017-18, the then AIADMK government announced that the State Planning Commission would be replaced by SDPC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jeyaranjan-appointed-vice-chair-of-sdpc/article34747363.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,645 new cases, 38 deaths in Coimbatore district||A total of 2,645 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday, registering a slight decrease from Saturday. The Health Department said that 4,733 persons recovered from the disease in the district on Saturday. The district had 31,539 active cases of the disease on Sunday. The department said that 38 more persons died of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, following which the death toll increased to 1,506. Tiruppur district had 18,859 active cases of COVID-19 on Sunday which included the 1,068 persons, who tested positive on the day. A total of 967 persons from the district recovered from the disease on Sunday. The district’s death toll increased to 556 after eight more persons succumbed to the disease. Erode district reported 1,694 new cases, taking the tally to 66,274. While 2,078 persons were discharged, 15,492 continue to be under treatment. Ten persons died, raising the death toll to 435. As many as 1,071 COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Sunday. According to health officials, 885 cases were indigenous and 201 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. A total of 186 cases have returned from other districts like Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Tiruppur, Chennai, Erode, Kalakuruchi, Coimbatore, Villupuram and Krishnagiri. As per bulletin, 34 deaths were reported in Salem, including 12 women patients. In Namakkal, 608 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Six deaths were reported, including four women patients. In the Nilgiris, 510 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of cases in the district stands at 22,369. The number of deaths in the district increased from 114 to 116 on Sunday and 4,338 persons are under treatment. A total of 334 indigenous cases and five deaths were reported in Krishnagiri. In Dharmapuri, 341 indigenous cases were registered. Five deaths were reported, including two women patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2645-new-cases-38-deaths-in-coimbatore-district/article34747396.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||The state-of-the-art library planned for Madurai will be a boon to people in southern districts. When I did my research on distance education a few decades back, I used to travel from Tirunelveli to Chennai or Thiruvananthapuram to avail library facilities. It is fitting that Madurai hosts the facility as much of ancient Tamil literature was brought out by its Tamil sangam. The library, like AIIMS, must be built on the south side of the city to so as to serve many districts. Rajakumar Arulanandham,      Palayamkottai, the ‘Oxford of South India,’ still lacks high-profile facilities like Kendriya Vidyalaya, Navodaya and Sainik schools, Institute for Foreign Languages, etc. Central Library authorities conduct model exams for various competitive examinations. I request the Chief Minister to ensure that a vast and choice collection of books are available at the library for the young and the old. A.M.N. Pandian,      Tirunelveli Corporation plans to reconstruct the 100-year-old Netaji Bose Market in Tirunelveli Town under Smart Cities Mission on an outlay of Rs.10.98 crore. Due to the pandemic, the work could not be carried out. It will have parking space at the basement to accommodate 340 two-wheelers and a few cars. Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai with hundreds of shops has neither adequate parking space nor modern facilities. So, the Corporation can modernise this market also under Smart Cities Mission scheme. P. Victor Selvaraj,      The new Tirunelveli Police Commissioner has made a thought-provoking appeal to install CCTV cameras by one and all (‘Install CCTV cameras' vide The Hindu dated June 5). While it is mandatory for business establishments to install them on their premises, it is not so for individuals. But if these gadgets are brought under the government’s subsidised scheme, more individuals will come forward to install them. V. Ganesan,      Regarding the appeal by the new Commissioner of Police, residents’ welfare associations, especially in the extended areas of Tirunelveli, must take the initiative to install CCTV cameras on all streets to instil a fear in the minds of criminals before they indulge in any crime. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli   In the second wave of COVID-19, villages in Ramanathapuram were the worst-hit because of inadequate medical facilities. So I request the medical authorities to take steps to provide COVID-19 treatment in all primary health centres in the villages. V. Rajendran, Paramakudi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34747457.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The stretch of road between Silayur and Nesakulam hamlets on Pachamalai hills has been in a worn-out condition for long. Erosion of gravel and presence of pot holes make the stretch a nightmare for vehicle users. The width of the road that has become narrow due to overgrowth of vegetation on the sides is not sufficient for passage of buses and lorries. During night hours, the plight of vehicle users become worse. Drivers of buses operated by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation struggle to drive along the damaged stretch. The onus is on the authorities of Thuraiyur Panchayat Union to take remedial measures at the earliest. Saravanan Natesan Puthanampatti     Relaxation of lockdown is a necessity to save the livelihood of daily workers and for making available essentials. The impact of job losses is huge and the government’s assistance does not mitigate the hardships of the families of daily labourers. Due to difficulties in getting essentials, the patience of people, in general, is wearing thin. The state must desist from overdoing the lockdown approach. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam   The bold move of the Government to clamp complete lockdown for two weeks and the Chief Minister's appeal to the people to share the responsibility in the fight against COVID-19 seems to have paid good dividends. However, complete lockdown for an indefinite period can not be a permanent solution as it can wreak havoc on the economy and hurt the livelihood of many sections of people. The people have to realise their responsibility of obeying the rules of the government and comply fully with COVID-19 protocols to win over the pandemic. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram   In the absence of an SBI branch and a ATM at Budalur, a taluk headquarters, large number of pensioners residing in the this town and surroundings are required to travel to Tirukattupalli, Vallam and Thanjavur to operate their accounts. Considering the COVID-19 restrictions, installation of an ATM, either static or mobile, at a prominent place in Budalur will be of immense utility for senior citizens. M. Sheik Abdullah Budalur   There is a dire need for speed breakers at North Agaharam along the Mannaragudi Main Road in Thippirajapuram near Kumbakonam. The ever-busy road teems with cars, two-wheelers and heavy vehicles, and the absence of speed breakers exposes vehicle users to the risk of accidents. Three speed-breakers, with prominent sign-boards, are necessary to prevent rash driving This has been a long-time requirement of the public in Thippirajapuram. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article34747769.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Student Development Programme online, 10.30 a.m .  KG College of Arts and Science: Online programme on Young Entrepreneurs, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article34747397.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Saranathan College of Engineering: AICTE Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy- sponsored National Level Faculty Development Programme on 'Cognitive Radio, Antennas and Millimeter-wave Communication', G-Meet, 9.15 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-engagements/article34747782.ece
07 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||What is ailing Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences||Some leaders have complained against Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, the Government Medical College set up in the city 16 years ago, saying that it was not treating COVID-19 patients properly. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi inspected the hospital last week and said that doctors and staff are being negligent of their duties. He described the hospital as a cow shed with bodies kept along with patients in treatment. He accused the doctors and staff of causing the most number of deaths due to their negligence and said that officers in-charge of administration were not doing their job. Deputy Chief Minister and district in-charge Govind Karjol, meanwhile, said that he too received several complaints from the public about the hospital. He asked Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath to take strict action against erring doctors and staff. Following this, the State government sent BIMS Director Vinay Dastikopp on one month leave. The government also changed the responsibilities of a doctor in charge of the mortuary and transferred seven nurses. Officers, doctors and nurses working in the college and the attached hospital say that their problems are deeper and need systemic solutions. “We have submitted a memorandum containing details of our problems and demands to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa when he visited Belagavi on Friday,” according to BIMS Teachers Association Eeranna Palled. BIMS was among the seven government medical colleges started by the Dharam Singh government in 2005. Of them, some of the colleges have been developed by the government and others have been neglected, said an officer of the Medical Education Department. “None of the colleges had their own teaching hospital when they were started 16 years ago. All the colleges were started with temporary permission from the Medical Council of India, by attaching the district hospital with the college. Of them, only three have buildings. Work on two has started. But in Belagavi, despite the State government giving administrative approval for a hospital building, work is yet to start,’’ he said. The Belagavi District Hospital, called Civil Hospital, to differentiate it with the Military Hospital that is nearby, is in a building of vintage value. It was built by the British in 1859. The stone building is sturdy, but the roof leaks in some places. A few months ago, doctors spent a sleepless night shifting COVID-19 patients from one ward to another, after it started leaking when it rained. The other problem with the hospital is staffing. It has long standing vacancies of 76 expert doctors. “Our pleas to fill these vacancies have fallen on deaf ears,” said a senior doctor. The State government announced five years ago that the intake of students in the college will be increased to 150. This meant that the number of teachers should have increased from 740 to 1,150. The government increased admissions, but it did not increase the number of teachers. “How are we supposed to do justice to our job?” asked a teacher. Belagavi has got a raw deal in the evolution of the college into a post-graduate centre, said another professor. Post-graduate courses were started in four colleges — Gadag, Hassan, Mandya and Shivamogga. The Gadag college offers post-graduate courses in 16 departments while the Hassan college officers 14 post-graduate courses. There are post-graduate courses in Mandya and Shivamogga. But the colleges in Belagavi, Bidar and Kalaburagi are yet to start post-graduate courses in clinical courses. “This affects our health care efforts as post-graduate students are tasked with primary care and routine treatment methods in hospitals. Due to the lack of this manpower, senior doctors are supposed to manage the 1,040 in-patients and the over 7,000 out-patients who visit the hospital everyday. That is a huge burden on the 500 doctors in clinical departments. Moreover, the hospital does not have enough full-time nurses and other para-clinical staff. Most of them are on contract. With such problems, there are bound to be errors in treating a large number of patients. They are visible during health emergencies such as COVID-19. All the good work we have done goes unnoticed, sadly,” said an administrator.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/what-is-ailing-belagavi-institute-of-medical-sciences/article34747380.ece
07 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Essential kits distributed||Hubballi-based Swarnaa Group has taken up COVID welfare by donating essential kits to the needy, beds for hospitals, oxygen concentrators and other material. Group managing director V.S.V. Prasad handed over to APMC member A.B. Uppin 20 beds, bedspreads, pillows and blankets for patients of the COVID Care Centre in Saunshi village on Saturday. He also donated some concentrators. This was in response to a call from Mr. Uppin who sought help, said a release. On Friday, the group distributed over 300 essential kits to poor people on its business premises, “Swarnaa City Centre”. Residents of Mantoor slum area, CBT, Rajagopalachari Nagar and surrounding areas received them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/essential-kits-distributed/article34747383.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Is CM’s statement a counter-offensive?||The timing of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s statement that he would resign if the BJP high command asked him to, and its subtle messaging on the pandemic, seems to be part of a counter-offensive by the Chief Minister’s camp against his detractors, according to party sources. His statement clearly came with the confidence that he had the backing of the high command, as it had recently sent a clear message to dissidents that leadership change was not on the cards “for now”, at least till the country tides over the pandemic and rebuilds the economy, sources said. This was evident in how the party formed a committee to improve coordination between itself and the government and to iron out dissidence in the State. The committee, led by State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, has five general secretaries of the party and three Ministers, and will meet all dissidents to pacify them. The Chief Minister has also reportedly decided to meet all Ministers one-on-one to sort out their grievances. After the party high command devised an institutional mechanism to resolve the differences, the Chief Minister’s statement on his “resignation” had a different aim, sources said. Party strategists pointed to an “unmissable subtext” in the statement that Mr. Yediyurappa has been tirelessly working for the people during the pandemic and was not bothered about politics. R. Ashok and Basavaraj Bommai explicitly said so, attacking those campaigning for a leadership change. “The Chief Minister is, even today, busy meeting experts and officials to fight COVID-19 and preparing the State for a possible third wave,” Mr. Ashok said. The CM’s camp has adopted this line for several weeks now, attacking all politicking during the health crisis. “It seems to have resonated with the public, who are averse to any effort at destabilising the government during a crisis troubling them. Only mass leaders such as Mr. Yediyurappa can directly appeal to the public and galvanise support, legitimising their leadership, more than any support or the lack of it from legislators. Now everyone is forced to declare their support of him,” observed a senior Minister. A dare? Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee chief D.K. Shivakumar also said Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement suggested a careful political strategy. “Yediyurappa is a strong leader who won’t give up easily. His statement can be interpreted in multiple ways: it could be a dare, asking his detractors to touch him, or a suggestion that he is a party disciplinarian even as the BJP State unit has lost all discipline,” he said. The Chief Minister’s camp has reportedly given up taking a defensive stance to campaigns demanding a leadership change and has decided to go on the offensive. “There are plans to report to the high command several developments in the State. It will be done shortly,” Mr. Bommai said on Sunday. The camp has reportedly floated demands for a change of State unit president, alleging that Mr. Kateel has himself been indulging in factionalism. It has also been demanding disciplinary action against all dissidents making public statements and embarrassing the party and the government, mainly Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and C.P. Yogeshwar. “The party will serve show-cause notices on all those making such statements. The disciplinary committee will take action against them,” Mr. Ashok said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/is-cms-statement-a-counter-offensive/article34747330.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suburban rail proposes a seamless commute||If all goes as planned, suburban rail commuters will be able to use Namma Metro and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses with ease. The Rail Infrastructure Development Company (Karnataka) Ltd. (K-RIDE) wants to integrate the proposed suburban rail stations with metro and existing railway stations as well as BMTC bus stops at 10 locations on the four planned corridors. “Discussions are on with Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. and other authorities,” said a senior K-Ride official. The four corridors are KSR Bengaluru City to Devanahalli, Byappanahalli to Chikkabanavara, Kengeri to Whitefield, and Heelalige to Rajanakunte. The final feasibility report on the suburban rail project also talks about integrating metro stations at KSR Bengaluru, Cantonment (yet to come up), Kengeri, and others. For example, at KSR Bengaluru, K–RIDE proposes to build an elevated station with two side platforms and one island platform. It will be an interchange station as two suburban rail corridors — Bangalore City to Rajanakunte and Kengeri to Whitefield — intersect there. The report also talks about connecting the existing metro station and KSR Bengaluru City railway station.  The 148.17-km suburban rail network project continues to face many challenges, the most recent one being the second wave of COVID-19. Even preliminary work has taken a hit. K-RIDE had prioritised construction of Byappanahalli Terminal – Chikkabanavara and Heelalige – Rajanakunte corridors. “Much of the preliminary work on these two corridors has been affected because of the second wave of COVID-19. Work on the doubling of Byappanahalli – Hosur line was also impacted due to issues with transportation of material and shortage of workers,” said the official. Despite these hurdles, K-RIDE claims that all the four corridors will be completed within six years. Once operational, 9.84 lakh people will be able to use suburban train services every day, and officials estimate ridership will increase to 13.41 lakh by 2030. K-RIDE has issued tenders for selecting a consultant for a detailed design and drawings for viaduct, stations, depot, track and signalling, etc. Two more tenders have also been floated for assessment of market value for land identified and structure to be acquired for the project and shifting utilities. Extension of network The final feasibility report on the project states that depending on the patronage, the corridors may be extended to cities in the neighbouring districts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/suburban-rail-proposes-a-seamless-commute/article34747312.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sexuality minorities, especially transgenders, are barely surviving||Shruthi, who belongs to the third gender, would beg for a living. It’s been over a year since she earned anything. “There are only two professions that most people like me do — begging or sex work. With the onset of the pandemic and related restrictions, both are ruled out. We can barely afford to pay rent. We haven’t paid our electricity bill for three months. It’s too embarrassing to tell. Collection ey jeevana , but we aren’t even able to do that now,” she said, the dejection evident. Among the many categories of people for whom the pandemic has been more than just a rude shock, daily life for those belonging to sexuality minorities,especially transgenders, has been reduced to a battle for survival. With little or no support from family or friends, they are dependent on one another and some organisations working for their rights to get the bare minimum. Like Ms. Shruthi points out, she is diabetic and belongs to the risk category. She tries her best to not step out because she is sure she won’t be ableto take on COVID-19 if she is infected. “The few times we desperately ventured out to seek alms, no one wanted to see us. They would curse us. I don’t want to take the risk either. If not for the donations, it would be difficult to survive.” Uma, director of Jeeva, an organisation fighting for the rights of sexuality minorities, said the two livelihood options — begging and sex work — have been ruled out for transgenders. “For begging, shops too are reeling under losses and in no position to help. Sex work is anyway not possible. Similar-minded organisations are helping them with basic necessities.” Policy Ms. Uma said though Karnataka brought about a policy for transgenders in 2017, there has been no implementation whatsoever after its approval. Those who had all the necessary documents were getting Rs. 500 a month under the Mythri scheme. “But many migrate and documentation is difficult. Even those eligible were asked to link this document and stopped getting that money.” Though relief packages were announced for several categories, including one more such package last week, transgenders have not even been considered, she added. “But why are transgenders not considered? Are we not vote banks or humans?” she asked, adding that letters to the Chief Minister and Minister of Women and Child Development went unanswered. Those from the community point out how a majority do not even have family acceptance. “The first priority of the policy is conducting a survey. Even that has not been done. The BBMP keeps saying there is Rs. 1 crore funds for the community, but so far nothing has been done,” alleged Ms. Uma. The community has not escaped COVID-19 either, with deaths of members being reported from places such as Mysuru and Bagalkot. Sharing an example, Mr. Uma said a transperson who lives alone in Bengaluru recently tested positive. The BBMP call came and the person opted for home isolation as it was a mild case and the civic body promised to send the medical kit. That never arrived and upon checking, they said there was a shortage. One was finally arranged after mobilising social organisations and doctors. Those in rural areas are finding the going tough too. Bharathi Mahadevi Kamble is a jogappa in Belagavi’s Raibag. But it’s been over a year since she carried out her profession. “Due to the lockdown, even temples are closed. We are getting donations from organisations for basic ration. In the village, everyone’s doing badly. We haven’t got help of even rations or a rupee. No MLA, no panchayat member has asked how we are living. If we get COVID-19, then I don’t know what we will do because we barely get money for food,” she said.     (Concluded)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sexuality-minorities-especially-transgenders-are-barely-surviving/article34747305.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Where demand has outstripped supply||From a time when no amount of coaxing convinced people enough to take the jab, to a situation where demand outweighs supply, the vaccination story has come full circle. After a faltering start to the campaign to vaccinate the huge population in the 18 to 44 year age group, the process picked up in tremendous proportions amidst the second wave of COVID-19. This, despite the fact that only paid doses are available in private hospitals. Today, private hospitals say the response from this age group is largely positive. Corporate companies and resident communities are inviting them to set up vaccination camps. The irony, though, is that the availability of vaccines is not always a given. A look at the data of the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday showed that 1.51 crore people have been vaccinated in the State from January 16, 2021. Of these, 19.73 lakh are between 18 and 44 years. Of these, 3,012 have got the second dose. But Health Department officials admit there is a long way to go, given that the target for the age group is a massive 3.26 crore. These figures include frontline and healthcare workers. There is also no clarity on when the State will throw open vaccinations to everyone in the age group. At present, the government has opened up facilities for priority groups in this age group, while private hospitals are vaccinating those between 18 and 44 in addition to those above 45. Health Department officials say that private hospitals have been contributing significantly to push up the overall numbers. Private hospitals agree. Sunil N, senior marketing officer, Fortis Nagarabhavi, says due to the second wave, which caused an atmosphere of fear with higher infection rate and fatalities, appointments went up significantly. “Before the second wave, even when the vaccine cost was Rs. 250, people would not come. Now, we see around 300 per day, and 200-250 are in the 18-44 age group,” he says. However, there are no stocks available now of either Covaxin or Covishield. On-site vaccination is seeing a lot of demand, he adds. “Over the past 15-20 days, there has been tremendous demand for it. Now stocks are less, so fewer camps are happening. Earlier, we would have four teams on a single day conducting on-site camps. At present, it’s down to one or two with reduced stocks. Otherwise, we were vaccinating close to 250 to 300 people per camp,” Mr. Sunil said, adding that on-site vaccinations are charged a higher rate. Govindaiah Yatheesh, Unit Head-Apollo Speciality hospital, Jayanagar, said the increasing number of fatalities among youngsters also pushed people to get vaccinated. “Now, there is awareness. They have seen that people who have got vaccinated have not got a major illness,” he said. With the high level of mobility in this group, it is essential to vaccinate them. However, he acknowledges that vaccine shortage will continue for some time till the second dose is completed for a majority of the population covered in the earlier phase of vaccination.  Rising numbers  Total doses administered: 1,51,12,744  18-44 age group: First dose - 19,70,594, Second dose - 3,012   45 years and above: First dose - 89,01,844, Second dose - 21,69,086  Health Care Workers (HCW): First dose- 7,26,680, Second dose - 4,75,563  Front Line Workers (FLW): First dose - 6,47,718, Second dose - 2,18,247||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/where-demand-has-outstripped-supply/article34747320.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industries in State are scrambling to have their workforce vaccinated||A pharma major operating from Jigani recently took 250 of its employees across the border to Hosur in Tamil Nadu for vaccination. There have been several instances of industries ferrying their employees in vehicles to the other end of the city in search of COVID-19 vaccine. Despite pharma employees being considered frontline workers, it has not been easy for them on the vaccination front. It is far worse for non-pharma industries such as engineering and automobile, among others, whose workers are yet to be designated as frontline or priority. It has been a scramble for the scarce resource. High absenteeism As a result of vaccine shortage for those in the 18 to 44 age bracket, the industry is facing a high rate of absenteeism. Though conservative estimates put absenteeism in industries to be between 20% and 30%, some industries have been operating with just about 50% of the workforce. Last week, when an industry delegation met Chief Secretary P. Ravi Kumar, high on the agenda was vaccination for the industrial workforce and their families, which constitute less than 5% of the population. “Though industries are ready to pay, vaccination availability is a concern. Companies are keeping vehicles ready soas to rush their employees wherever vaccination can be found. Companies have earmarked their employees to check vaccine availability in the city,” said B.C. Prabhakar, president of Karnataka Employers’ Association. “Many workers being unable to return to Bengaluru from their villages/towns because of the lockdown has also added to the high absenteeism,” he added.  The COVID-19 fear has kept a large portion of the workforce away even as industries have faced cluster outbreaks over the past two months. While the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has reported the death of as many as 15 of its unit-level labour leaders, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has put the number at 20, all in the past month and a half. Meanwhile, several large industries have started vaccination camps for workmen and their families, spending a good amount on each worker. In one such instance, an aeronautical component manufacturer is spending Rs. 6,000 per worker and spouse for vaccination. “In contrast, there have been instances of managements asking the workers to share the vaccination expenditure. Workers are in panic and they have been absent for safety reasons. It is the duty of the government to ensure universal vaccination,” CITU State general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram said. Concurring with Mr. Sundaram, AITUC Bengaluru secretary M. Satyanand said that though large companies were undertaking vaccination drives voluntarily, the suppliers and ancillary companies were struggling. “They simply do not have the capability,” he said. PIL petition filed The AITUC has filed a PIL petition before the High Court of Karnataka seeking direction to the government to consider industrial workers as frontline workers, which would then enable them to get vaccinated. Labour unions and managements, which often disagree with each other, have found a common ground on vaccination. “The second wave seems to have brought labour on top of the agenda for companies. In times of labour shortage, vaccination is now seen as an incentive to attract workers back to factories,” Mr. Prabhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-in-state-are-scrambling-to-have-their-workforce-vaccinated/article34747334.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Only 33 private hospitals in city have vaccines’||Unable to procure vaccines from manufacturers, many private hospitals have temporarily stopped conducting vaccination drives even though the demand from citizens continues to rise. According to data provided by the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), only 33 of the over 500 private hospitals in Bengaluru have managed to procure vaccines. On May 1, private hospitals stopped receiving vaccines from the government and were asked to procure them directly from manufacturers. However, this is proving to be a challenge. The few large hospitals that have managed to procure stock said the quantity received is inadequate and demand outweighs supply. H.M. Prasanna, president, PHANA, said that almost all private hospitals have placed orders for vaccines, but are yet to get stock. “Only some are receiving vaccines and there is no rationale of how suppliers are choosing which orders to meet,” he said. If doses were available, private hospitals would have been able to vaccinate a significant chunk of the population by June end. Narayana Swamy, MD, Vagus Super Speciality Hospital, said they had stopped vaccinating people since May 1. “We have ordered 5,000 doses of Covishield and 5,000 doses of Covaxin. We are hoping that we will get our supply of Covishield next week and can restart vaccinations,” he said. Many hospitals that provided the first dose before May have been unable to give the second. Ajit Royan Benedict, medical director, Hosmat Hospitals, said that they had stopped vaccinating people since May 1. “Although we wrote to the Serum Institute of India last month requesting them to supply us with Covishield, we have still not got the consignment.” He added that they were able to vaccinate more than 5,000 people between February and April. “Even now we get a lot of requests, but no stock, we are forced to direct them to government health care institutions,” he said. For citizens, the search is equally frustrating. Ganesh S. who falls in the above 44 category, and received his first dose of Covishield earlier this year had to visit three hospitals in North Bengaluru for his second. “All the three hospitals said that they had stopped vaccinations and I had to go to a government hospital to get my second jab.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-33-private-hospitals-in-city-have-vaccines/article34747316.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police crack down on people illegally transporting liquor to Tamil Nadu||The lockdown in Tamil Nadu has triggered a thriving illegal liquor trade. In the three days from June 2, the police have arrested six people in three cases for allegedly purchasing alcohol in Bengaluru with the intention of selling it at a huge profit in the neighbouring State. The Electronics City police on Friday evening intercepted a goods vehicle heading to Tamil Nadu and seized 23 cartons of liquor concealed among fruit boxes. Around 198.8 litres of various brands of liquor worth Rs. 89,630 was seized. The accused, Velu Goundar, 27, who was driving the vehicle, allegedly confessed to purchasing the liquor from a bar at Doddanekkundi. “He lives in Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu, and was planning to sell the liquor in his home town for a profit,” said a police officer. According to senior police officials, this is not an isolated case. “Since the lockdown was imposed not just in Bengaluru but in other States as well, people from neighbouring districts are driving to the city, buying liquor and taking it back to their home towns where they sell it for a higher price. For instance, the sale of liquor has been restricted in the Tamli Nadu during the lockdown,” the police officer added. On June 3, the Begur police arrested three people for transporting liquor bottles worth Rs. 35,355 which they had concealed in their car. They came to Bengaluru from Tamil Nadu to buy alcohol. The previous day, the Begur police arrested three people for allegedly transporting 576 bottles of liquor in 12 boxes concealed in a goods van to Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-crack-down-on-people-illegally-transporting-liquor-to-tamil-nadu/article34747310.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MP’s office files plaint against impersonator||The office of Bengaluru South Member of Parliament Tejasvi Surya has filed a complaint with the Jayanagar police against an unidentified person for allegedly claiming to be the MP’s PA and selling Remdesivir injections to COVID-19 patients and their families. The complaint, Bhanu Prakash, from the MP’s office, in his statement to the police said the accused identified himself as Shivalingaiah. He contacted a relative of a COVID-19 patient who had been hospitalised, introduced himself at the MP’s PA and offered to sell five vials of Remdesvir for Rs. 10,000 each. The accused is not only impersonating to defame the MP but also cheating people, Mr. Prakash said in his complaint.The police are trying to track him down through the mobile phone he was using, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mps-office-files-plaint-against-impersonator/article34747313.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Registrations to resume||Registrations across the State will commence from Monday as the State government on Sunday lifted the restrictions on the functioning of sub-registrar offices. In an order issued here on Sunday, the government said that the offices of the district registrar and sub-registrar would be allowed to function with COVID-appropriate behaviour in place. The registration of properties, among many other registrations, in the State had come to a halt over a month ago as Karnataka witnessed a huge surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. It came with many data entry operators and sub-registrars contracting the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/registrations-to-resume/article34747331.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals want beds back, plan to write to government||With a decline in new COVID-19 cases in the city and the rush to hospitals reducing, private hospitals want the beds they had ceded to the government during the peak of the second wave released so that they can treat other patients. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) has decided to write to the Department of Health and Family Welfare for the release of the 50% government quota beds reserved for COVID-19 patients. H.M. Prasanna, president, PHANA, told The Hindu that after assessing the COVID-19 situation next week, they will take up the matter with the government. “If these beds are occupied, we get reimbursed from the government, if they remain vacant, we suffer a loss,” he said. The demand for general beds and High Dependency Unit (HDU) beds in hospitals has been on the decline over the past fortnight. However, the demand for ICU beds and ICU beds with ventilators continues to remain high. As of Saturday evening, of the 16,532 beds available in public hospitals, government quota in private hospitals and COVID-19 care centres, 12,014 beds are vacant. Last week, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) too acknowledged the rise in vacant beds. Civic officials said they would consult the Department of Health and Family Welfare and decide what to do with the vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-hospitals-want-beds-back-plan-to-write-to-government/article34747315.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Obesity can be sensed before child becomes overweight’||A recent paper by researchers from St. John’s Medical College and Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research has found that in India, metabolic indicators of obesity (abnormal blood sugar or blood lipids) are seen well before a child becomes obviously overweight by anthropometry. The paper, published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition in April, suggests that all children need to be evaluated by blood metabolic biomarkers, in addition to the standard anthropometry (height and weight) markers. While the biggest problem in India is perceived to be undernutrition, where children have weight and height well below the World Health Organisation reference for their age (undersize), a worry has begun to surface that there is also an increase in overweight children. The most recent survey available, the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS), done in 2016-2018 under the aegis of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in collaboration with UNICEF and the Population Council, shows that there are 35% stunted and 33% thin (underweight) children among those under five in India, but also about 5% overweight. “However, this double burden, as measured by body size (anthropometry), hides a major unseen problem. While we measure over and undernutrition with external signs that we can see, there is a hidden but very real risk called metabolic disease, or risk that occurs even before children become overweight, and even in thin children,” said Prof. Anura Kurpad of St. John’s Medical College. He and Prof. Harshpal Sachdev of Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science and Research in New Delhi are the corresponding authors of the paper. Blood sampling “Metabolic markers of obesity are measured by blood sampling, where an increase in blood sugar or blood lipids has damaging consequences for tissues through glycation (as in diabetes) or through the deposition of lipids in blood vessels. These are also referred to as cardio-metabolic risk factors, as they substantially increase the propensity to develop related non-communicable diseases (NCDs), including hypertension, heart attack, angina, stroke and diabetes,” said Prof. Sachdev. In the CNNS survey, both anthropometry and venous blood metabolic biomarkers of overnutrition were evaluated in about 20,000 children across India. The biomarkers were blood glucose, glycated hemoglobin, serum triglycerides, and serum cholesterol, which are standard risk biomarkers used in medicine to diagnose NCD like diabetes and hypercholesterolemia. Using these biomarkers, the proportion of children with at least one of the biomarkers with an abnormal value was 56% of all the children studied, the authors said. “The current magnitude of this phenomenon at the national level is alarming,” Prof. Kurpad asserted. The authors pointed out that anthropometric indicators are used to drive nutrition policy. “However, there are serious implications for how we feed children in safety nets like the ICDS and midday meal programmes. This is both in terms of quantity as well as quality of food,” theauthors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/obesity-can-be-sensed-before-child-becomes-overweight/article34747322.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||12,209 new COVID-19 cases, positivity rate drops to 7.71%||Karnataka on Sunday reported 12,209 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 26.95 lakh. Of these, 2,944 cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban alone. Currently, there are 2.54 lakh active cases in the State. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the positivity rate for the day dropped to 7.71 % while the case fatality rate stood at 2.62 %. A total of 320 deaths were reported on Sunday. With this, the death toll across the State rose to 31,580. Discharge figures As many as 25,659 patients were discharged, taking the total number of discharges to 24.09 lakh. As of 3.30 p.m. on Sunday, 57,519 people were vaccinated. To date, 1.51 crore people in Karnataka have been vaccinated. More than 1.58 lakh tests were conducted, the majority of which - 1,15,041- were RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/12209-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-drops-to-771/article34747318.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hospital ransacked, staff attacked||A construction labourer, along with his friends, attacked staff of a private hospital at Kaggadasapura and ransacked the premises after his demands for a female nurse were ignored and a male nurse was instead assigned to attend to his injuries. “The incident took place onWednesday evening and we are tracking down the accused,” said a police officer. The Byappanahalli police have registered a case against Hemanth Kumar and his associates Kiran Kumar, Vinod, and Chandrashekhar.Prasad M.B., the nurse in charge of the OT at Sri Lakshmi Hospital, told the police that Hemanth and Kiran had sustained injuries after they fell from a motorcycle. As they appeared to be inebriated and it was a medico-legal case, nursing supervisor Savithramma went to bandage their wounds. “The accused wanted some of the younger female nursesto attend to them and began hurling abuses at Ms. Savithramma,” said the police. When Mr. Prasad and the security guard approached them, they beat them up and called their associates over the phone to come to the hospital. Soon, four persons barged into the hospital, threatened the billing staff and ransacked the premises before fleeing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hospital-ransacked-staff-attacked/article34747309.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Truck catches fire on KIA premises, six sustain burns||Six contract workers sustained burns when a truck carrying thermoplastic road marking paint caught fire on the Kempegowda International Airport premises on Sunday. According to the police, the incident occurred at around 10 a.m. when the workers in the truck were painting a newly laid road near the cargo wing. “Fortunately, the incident occurred at the construction zone which is away from the passenger movement area,” said a police official. Personnel from the BIAL Aircraft Rescue & Firefighting Team and five fire tenders put out the fire within 30 minutes. Confirming the incident, a BIAL spokesperson said, “Six people, who were onboard the truck, suffered injuries and wereimmediately shifted to hospital.” According to the police, two of the victims sustained around 40% burns and are at Victoria Hospital. The remaining four men were treated as out-patients. The police suspect that the fire broke out owing to overheating of the highly inflammable material and paint. “A technical team is probing the exact cause, and we are waiting for the report,” said a police official.According to BIAL there was no impact on operations. “The authorities concerned are investigating the incident,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/truck-catches-fire-on-kia-premises-six-sustain-burns/article34747314.ece
07 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for cheating, revenue official questioned||Sakleshpur Police have arrested a man and interrogated an official of the Revenue Department on the charge of cheating and creating false records to show grant of land earmarked for people who parted with their property for the Hemavati River Project. The police arrested S.K. Pradeep Kumar, who runs a computer centre in Sakleshpur, on Friday. Later, on Saturday, the police interrogated Revenue Inspector of Yeslur hobli Manjunath. The former is said to have identified himself as a journalist and developed contacts with several officers in the taluk. The police took action following a complaint by Shantakumar, a resident of Bage village in Sakleshpur taluk. In his complaint, Shantakumar has said that Pradeep Kumar took Rs. 20 lakh from him in three instalments, promising a grant of eight acres of land. The accused, with the help of a government official, created documents showing grant of land, forging the signature of the officers concerned. Last year, following complaints of illegal grant of river project land, the Revenue Department ordered an inquiry into the issue by the Assistant Commissioner of Hassan sub-division. The officer found hundreds of cases involving fake documents and forged signatures. Shanthakumar, the complainant, approached the police after he realised that he had been cheated by Pradeep Kumar. The police arrested Pradeep Kumar and during interrogation, he reportedly revealed the role of Manjunath [Revenue Inspector] in the case. Assistant Commissioner of Sakleshpur Sub-Division Girish Nandan told The Hindu that the police interrogated the Revenue Inspector based on the statement made by the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-for-cheating-revenue-official-questioned/article34747384.ece
07 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||10 COVID-19 deaths||Hassan district reported 707 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 10 deaths due to the infection on Sunday. With that, the number of cases increased to 90,913 and toll rose to 1,071. Since March 22 this year, 605 people have died in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-covid-19-deaths/article34747385.ece
07 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Overwhelming response to special vaccination camp||Pavan, a resident of Bejai, tried several times since the start of vaccination for 18-44 age category in May second week to get himself vaccinated. Pavan is scheduled to leave for Canada in July to pursue his higher studies in hotel management and he needs to get his two doses of vaccine. “Fortunately, I received a call to attend a special vaccination camp and get my first dose,” he said. Pavan was among the 402 people who received their first dose at Canara Girls School here on Sunday. The district administration, in association with the Dakshina Kannada unit of Indian Red Cross Society, organised the special camp for vaccinating people bound for work abroad or study in foreign countries. A few days ago, Non Resident India representatives from Saudi Arabia, Qatar and other nations made a request for vaccination of expatriates during their virtual interaction with Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. The Indian Red Cross Society, Dakshina Kannada, sent out a form on the social media and 1,500 expatriates registered their names. “Today, we arranged to vaccinate 500 people who are travelling abroad for work or studies,” said Chairman of Disaster Management Committee of Indian Red Cross Society, Dakshina Kannada, Yatish Baikampady. Apart from 402 expatriates, 43 frontline volunteers were vaccinated on Sunday, he added. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Kishore Kumar said that expatriates come under the priority category and vaccines are being given to them free. Among those who took the vaccine included Sujith Kumar who has to report to work in a merchant navy firm in Abu Dhabi. “I failed to get vaccination slots on the Co-Win app,” he said. Tauseef hailing from B.C. Road, who works as a project engineer in a firm in Saudi Arabia, said that he has to return to work by August when his entry permit ends. Arshad and Aris from Belthangady, who work as sales executives in Saudi Arabia, were worried whether the Saudi Arabian Government will accept Covishield vaccine. “The certificate mentions the local name Covishield and not as Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. If the government does not recognise Covishield, we are required to undergo a week-long quarantine after landing in Saudi Arabia for which we have to shell out a minimum of Rs. 60,000,” Mr. Aris said. There were also questions from vaccine recipients whether the second dose will be provided early. The recipients said that the norm that prescribes 12-16 weeks duration between the first and the second dose is too long and will not help expatriates. Member of Parliament Nalin Kumar Kateel, who visited the camp, said that he will take it up with the Union government and seek relaxation in this norm for expatriates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/overwhelming-response-to-special-vaccination-camp/article34747390.ece
07 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Konkan Railway gets ready to face monsoon||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. (KRCL) that facilitates operation of trains on the West Coast between Thokur (near Mangaluru) and Kolad in Maharashtra has geared up to ensure safe passage of trains during the monsoon. Fighting the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, the corporation has undertaken all pre-monsoon civil works across its 740-km network to maintain track and passenger amenities. Special attention has been given to catchwater drain cleaning and inspection of cuttings. KRCL in a release here said that the large-scale geo-safety works executed in the past few years have significantly reduced incidences of boulder fall and soil slip affecting movement of trains. No major disruption in services has occurred in the last eight years due to boulder fall during monsoon. Personnel deployed The corporation has deployed 681 personnel for patrolling tracks and installations during the monsoon, while vulnerable locations will be under watch constantly. Besides imposing speed restrictions at locations vulnerable to landslip and boulder fall, BRN-mounted earthmovers are kept ready at nominated points. Reduced speeds KRCL has asked loco pilots to run trains at reduced speeds of 40 kmph during low visibility. Accident relief medical vans with operation theatres and emergency medical aid have been kept ready at Ratnagiri and Verna. An accident relief train is also kept ready at Verna, Goa. Emergency communication sockets are provided at almost every kilometre of the track to enable patrolmen as well as crew to contact station masters and control room. All main signal aspects are now equipped with LEDs for improved visibility. Self-recording rain gauges at nine stations, flood warning system on three bridges that frequently witness flash floods and anemometers at four locations to gauge wind speed are among the other safety measures taken by KRCL. Monsoon timetable wherein trains run at reduced speeds will be effective on the Konkan route between June 10 and October 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/konkan-railway-gets-ready-to-face-monsoon/article34747392.ece
07 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||NIT-K to introduce B.Tech course in AI||The Department of Information Technology, National Institute of Technology Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, will introduce a new 4-year B.Tech. course in Artificial Intelligence from 2021-22. The Academic Senate, Board of the institute and the Union Ministry of Education have approved the course. The admissions will be through JEE (Main) score. Karanam Uma Maheshwar Rao, Director, NIT-K, said in a release on Thursday that this degree would prepare students for industry or further study by offering specializations in different areas of AI like data science, human-centred computing, cyber-physical systems, and robotics. “Its curriculum will focus on the use of inputs such as video, speech, and big data to make decisions or enhance human capabilities,” he said. Prof. Rao added, “This specialization empowers students to build intelligent machines, software, or applications with state-of-the-art technology using machine learning, data analytics, and data visualization technologies.” Earlier, AI was a subset of Computer Science, but in recent years it has grown enough to qualify as a distinctive and a bigger unit. As a result, job opportunities for the undergraduates of B.Tech (AI) courses are different from conventional IT jobs. He added that the new course is in conformance with the National Education Policy 2020, which stresses the need to improve the skilled workforce involving mathematics, computer science, and data science, in conjunction with multidisciplinary abilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nit-k-to-introduce-btech-course-in-ai/article34747391.ece
07 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Animals in captivity give birth to young ones||Some animals, including a tigress, under captivity at Pilikula Biological Park in Mangaluru, have given birth to young ones during this lockdown. According to park director H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, a 10-year-old tigress Rani has given birth to three cubs. The cubs are healthy and are expected to open their eyes in another fortnight. The tigress delivered five cubs in 2019. The enclosures for the five tigers have been built at a cost of Rs. 15 lakh donated by Ramadas Kamath and his wife, from Abu Dhabi. With the recent addition of cubs, the number of tigers in the park has gone up to 13. Rani was brought here under an animal exchange programme from Bannerghatta Zoo. The Pikilua park gave a male tiger to Bannerghatta Biological Park in return. Mr. Bhandary said that a dhole, an endangered species, gave birth to seven cubs a few days ago. This particular dhole, brought from Visakhapatnam zoo, earlier gave birth to five cubs, while another dhole gave birth to 10 cubs. Now, there are 33 dholes in the park. The director said that a reticulated python, which is also an endangered species, laid 20 eggs recently. This python gavn birth to 17 young ones last year. The particular species is found in Nicobar Islands. According to Mr. Bhandary, King Cobra Nagamani has laid six eggs which are being incubated artificially. Now, the park has 19 King Cobras. He said that a White Rhea has laid eight eggs which are also being incubated artificially. The bird was brought here from the Thiruvananthapuram zoo. Mr. Bhandary said that once the lockdown is lifted, a pair of white tigers will be brought to the park from the Vandaloor zoo in Chennai. Some more animals will be brought from Hyderabad, Surat and Nandankanan zoos.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/animals-in-captivity-give-birth-to-young-ones/article34747388.ece
07 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MDMA worth Rs. 10 lakh seized, three arrested||The city police have arrested three persons hailing from Uppal in Manjeshwar of Kerala on the charge of drug peddling. The police seized 170g of MDMA worth Rs. 10 lakh from the accused on Thursday. The police have given the names of the accused as Mohammed Munaf, Mohammed Muzambil, and Ahmed Masooq. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar told reporters on Friday that the accused were allegedly bringing MDMA from Hassan in a car. The accused had procured MDMA from an African national. On a tip-off, a team of policemen led by Konaje Sub-Inspector of Police Sharanappa Bhandary apprehended the accused near Mangaluru University. Mr. Kumar said the arrested persons were into drug peddling and were active in Bengaluru, Mangaluru, and Kasaragod of Kerala. Mohammed Munaf was studying a degree course, while Masooq worked in a sports utility shop. Muzambil worked in a hotel. All the three were in Bengaluru and they had got in touch the African national in Bengaluru. The police are on the lookout for the African national, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mdma-worth-rs-10-lakh-seized-three-arrested/article34747393.ece
07 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rapid Oxygen Centre set up||The SWAG ERT and Sood Charity Foundation in association with the Karnataka Government Railway Police (GRP) on Thursday set up a Rapid Oxygen Centre at Mangaluru Central Railway Station here. The GRP Station at Mangaluru Central will also be a Rapid Oxygen Centre for critical and emergency cases henceforth. Amith Purohit from the ERT team of the foundation said that the centre will not only provide oxygen in emergencies to places in Dakshina Kannada but also Udupi and Malpe and places up to 80 km distance from Mangaluru. The centre has 10 each cylinders of 7,000 litres and 1,400 litres capacity. The GRP, which is already overseeing operation of such centres in Bengaluru, Hubballi and Ballari, will do it in Mangaluru too. Such centres will be set up in Hassan, Davangere and Mysuru shortly. One has to call Ph: 7069999961 to avail oneself of emergency oxygen services and the GRP personnel will arrange for oxygen on the basis of criticality. Empty cylinder has to be returned to the GRP. If needed, oxygen will be sent through vehicles, Mr. Purohit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rapid-oxygen-centre-set-up/article34747381.ece
07 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Pool at DC’s residence was a Nirmithi Kendra project, says Sindhuri||Rohini Sindhuri, who was transferred from Mysuru late on Saturday night and replaced by Bagadi Gauthamas the Deputy Commissioner, has clarified that the swimming pool constructed on the campus of Deputy Commissioner’s official residence was taken by Nirmithi Kendra as a demonstration of low-costtechnology. This was stated in a communiqué submitted to the Regional Commissioner of Mysuru, G.C. Prakash, who was directed by the State government to conduct an inquiry into the construction of the swimming pool at the official residence of the Deputy Commissioner. The issue has been mired in controversy ever since it was first raised by a former corporator and subsequently by Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, who had questioned the need for a swimming pool in the times of a pandemic and had gone ballistic on Ms. Sindhuri. The outgoing DC said Nirmithi Kendras are set up in each district to take up construction and building projects with the use of locally available materials by adopting low-cost, effective technology. They execute pilot projects to prove the efficacy of the technology before implementing it as a general programme. As per this mandate, swimming pools were planned at the district and taluk levels about five years ago and were assigned to Nirmithi Kendra, Mysuru, said Ms. Sindhuri. The execution of the pool at the Deputy Commissioner’s residence was done by the Nirmithi Kendra in January out of its own funds of Rs. 28.72 lakh in order to prove the cost effectiveness of the technology in a demo project, she explained. Since there was no space available on the Nirmithi Kendra campus, a very small plot of land was utilised on the campus of the Deputy Commissioner’s residence as a technology demonstrator, according to Ms. Sindhuri. The campus of the DC’s residence in Mysuru is spread over 5.15 acres and the pool is not connected to the heritage building. Hence, the allegation of violation of heritage norms is also false, she added. Pointing out that construction was also taken up at the election branch of the Mysuru City Corporation office, inside the Vasantha Mahal campus, Chamundi Meeting Hall on the campus of the Regional Commissioner’s office, and the PWD building at Jaladarshini, Ms. Sindhuri said none of this was in violation of any heritage norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pool-at-dcs-residence-was-a-nirmithi-kendra-project-says-sindhuri/article34747328.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Danger ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/danger-ahead/article34747308.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Will resign when I am not needed: BSY||“The 2018 mandate was for Mr. Yediyurappa and the MLAs also joined us to form the government reposing their faith in him. He will finish the term as the high command has reposed its faith in him,” Mr. Bommai said. Soon, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, speculated to be a CM aspirant, dissident C.P. Yogeshwar, and national general secretary C.T. Ravi, who had been making veiled statements critical of the CM and suggesting leadership change, all issued statements denying reports of any move to replace the Chief Minister and praised him for his work during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-resign-when-i-am-not-needed-bsy/article34747335.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||While it is common for bureaucrats to be trapped amid political mudslinging too often, it is rare for a politician to be caught in a situation arising out of bureaucratic crossfire. But that is what is happening in Mysuru. The dramatic developments in Mysuru last week that saw two senior civil servants slugging it out in public resulted in district in-charge Minister S.T. Somashekar(in picture)taking the flak. Not only was he pummelled in public by Opposition party leaders such as R. Dhruvanarayan, who attributed the incident to Mr. Somashekar’s failure to restrain the officials, he was also castigated by his own partymen in private. Even former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy said the government had failed to rein in the officials — a blame that had to be shouldered by the Minister. That Mr. Somashekar himself was faulted for the predicament stemmed from his off-the-cuff remark to the media that the situation was “beyond his control” and that the Chief Minister would handle it.   Arsikere MLA K.M. Shivalinge Gowda(in picture)of the JD(S), who is always known for speaking his mind in and outside the Legislative Assembly, recently courted controversy after he lost his cool in a videoconference meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The MLA expressed his anger against District Health Officer K.M. Sathish Kumar for not referring to the vacancy of doctors in primary health centres in his constituency. The emotionally charged MLA allegedly threatened to manhandle the officer. The MLA’s conduct received widespread criticism from the medical fraternity. Doctors staged protests demanding an apology from the MLA for his behaviour. The issue prompted the MLA to release a video statement clarifying that he had lost his temper as he was upset with the vacancies in the constituency at a time when a large number of people were infected with COVID-19. “The people of my constituency are angry as there are no doctors. I just said people would thrash me if I don’t get doctors appointed. If I was informed about the recruitment in advance, I would not have spoken like that at all,” he said. The issue was resolved later with the intervention of K. Gopalaiah, the Minister in charge of the district.   Appointing Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol(in picture)as the district in-charge Minister of Belagavi has not gone down well with senior Cabinet members from the district. An outsider taking up the mantle of the second biggest district in the State has caused disappointment among Ministers and leaders from Belagavi. During a discussion on the alleged negligence of doctors at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (BIMS), Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced the appointment of an administrator to the hospital. When he sought information about the hospital and the legality of the appointment of an administrator, all senior leaders sitting on the dais looked away, indicating that Mr. Karjol should provide the information. Mr. Karjol, who was looking at a file handed out by an officer, took a moment to notice the absolute silence at the meeting. He leaned from his chair towards the Chief Minister and whispered something in his ear. The meeting then went on. Exactly what he told Mr. Yediyurappa remains a mystery. However, a day later, on Saturday, Belagavi divisional commissioner was appointed as administrator to BIMS. R. Krishna Kumar Sathish G.T. Rishikesh Bahadur Desai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article34747326.ece
07 June 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||Will fast-track AC road reconstruction: Minister||The construction of the Alappuzha-Changanassery (AC) semi-elevated highway will be completed in a time-bound manner, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking after visiting the AC road to review the progress of the work on Sunday. Mr. Riyas said a high-level meeting would be convened in Thiruvananthapuram to discuss various matters related to the implementation of the project. “We are going ahead with the decision to chop 851 trees. Steps have already been taken to auction 787 trees. A decision on the remaining 64 trees is pending. Matters related to the Forest and other departments will be discussed at the high-level meeting,” the Minister said. The 24.14-km AC road is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 649.76 crore. The work was launched by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in October 2020. The project, which is expected to prevent flooding of the road during the monsoon season, will be completed in 30 months. As part of the project, 2.9 km of the road will be refurbished using bituminous macadam bituminous concrete (BMBC) method. Another 8.27 km will be strengthened by laying geotextiles. A length of 9 km of the road will be rebuild with geogrid and geotextiles-encased stone columns. Five flyovers will be constructed at places prone to severe flooding. The flyovers will come up between the Onnamkara bridge and Mankombu Junction, Mankombu Junction and Mankombu culvert, Jyothi Junction and Parasseril bridge, Ponga culvert and Pandarakulam, and near Mankombu Thekkekara. Besides, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across the AC canal will be reconstructed. Apart from these, construction of nine causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts, bus shelters, and road safety features are also planned. The two-lane road and flyovers with footpaths will have a width between 13 and 14 meters. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, MLAs H. Salam, Thomas K. Thomas, P.P. Chitharanjan, Job Michael, and others accompanied Mr. Riyas during the visit.  The 24.14-km AC road is being reconstructed as a semi-elevated highway at a cost of Rs. 649.76 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/will-fast-track-ac-road-reconstruction-minister/article34747751.ece
07 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Drama artiste passes away||T.S. Santhosh Kumar, Alappuzha district secretary of the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA), died on Sunday. He was 51. A native of Kattoor in Alappuzha, he was instrumental in establishing IPTA’s drama training centre at S.L. Puram in 1996. Mr. Kumar played an important role in starting IPTA Nattarangu, a folk band, which made a name for itself by performing at several stages in India and outside. He was involved in organising children’s theatre festivals, art and cultural programmes. Mr. Kumar had directed and acted in a number of plays. As art director, he had worked in several movies and dramas. Mr. Kumar was also a well-known folk singer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/drama-artiste-passes-away/article34747749.ece
07 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||State committed to giving free vaccination||The State government is committed to providing COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to the people in the State, Minister for Fisheries and Culture Saji Cherian has said. He was flagging off mobile vaccination centres at a function held here on Sunday. The Health Department has rolled out nine mobile units—one each for nine Assembly constituencies—to hasten the COVID-19 vaccination process in the district. District Medical Officer L. Anithakumari, National Health Mission District Programme Manager K.R. Radhakrishnan, and others were present at the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-committed-to-giving-free-vaccination/article34747752.ece
07 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Forward sections’ survey a non-starter||A socio-economic survey among forward communities in Kerala to assess the financial and social status of families remains a non-starter. Though the State government had given administrative sanction for the survey nearly a year ago, funds have not been released for the project. The survey becomes relevant in the backdrop of the State government notifying the 164 forward communities of Kerala last week. Incidentally, the term of the Commission for Economically Backward Classes among Forward Communities, which submitted the proposal for the survey, will expire in eight months. Welfare measures One of the mandates of the commission is to study the issues faced by the economically backward sections in the forward communities and recommend welfare measures for them. It is also expected to advise the government on planning steps for the socio-economic development of the forward communities and to evaluate the progress of their development in the State, pointed out sources. A segment of the population from the forward communities, which is below the age of 35 years, would benefit from the 10% economic reservation by securing employment and admission to educational institutions. At the same time, a large number of elders in these communities, who are facing several socio-economic issues, needs support. The issues this population faces need to be scientifically identified for formulating the recommendations, they said. One lakh persons The survey plans to cover at least one lakh persons of the communities. The proposal is to identify the five most economically backward families in the 19,000 wards of the local bodies in the State in a representational manner with the help of the civic representatives. A questionnaire with around 100 questions was also framed for the purpose. It would require Rs. 83.36 lakh for the survey, which includes the expense for training the volunteers to use the software developed for the project. Despite repeated reminders, funds had not been released, sources said. Responding to the developments, a senior government official said the file was forwarded to the Finance Department for clearance. The model code of conduct, which was in force, had also delayed the process, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forward-sections-survey-a-non-starter/article34747494.ece
07 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||WFH leaves women techies guilt-ridden||Are techies stressed out by the pressures of Work From Home (WFH) arrangement increasingly turning guilt-ridden on not being able to spend quality time with their families? A nearly month-long tele-counselling campaign organised for women techies by the women’s forum of Prathidwani, a combine of IT employees, points towards such a possibility. “Guilt was an overwhelming sentiment shared by a majority of women, especially over the perceived neglect of their children, as the separation of personal and professional lives become increasingly blurred. The popular perception of WFH being an easy arrangement makes it even more difficult for these women to convince others about their work pressures. My advice to them has been to say ‘no’ against work overload and to find personal time through better planning and scheduling,” said Anju Minesh, consultant psychologist. Radhika Ramachandran, a Kochi-based techie, suffered from that sense of guilt when her three-year-old son kept knocking on the closed door while she was at work. “Since I was home, he would not go to the maid either. He also insisted on me giving him time during his afternoon nap, which was tough amid the work. WFH entailed this added burden of not just doing the work but convincing your manager about it,” she said, even as she shared the frustrations of leading a reclusive life away from friends for over a year now. Dr. Minesh said the stress and the resultant frustrations of WFH seemed to be on a never-ending loop down the hierarchy. However, there were exceptions like Deepa Sasi who found WFH arrangement rather acceptable thanks to her ability to multitask. “Earlier, I could hardly spend time with my children, as it was almost their bedtime by the time I returned from office. Now, I can spend time with them and schedule my work late night mostly after putting them to bed. But that has completely disrupted the life cycle, and noon has become the default breakfast time,” she said. The constant chattering on social media groups of techies about the anxieties of WFH prompted Prathidhwani to organise the ‘Talk to Counsellor’ campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wfh-leaves-women-techies-guilt-ridden/article34747488.ece
07 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records a TPR of 17.45%||With 1,807 new COVID cases on Sunday, Ernakulam recorded a test positivity rate of 17.45%. A total of 10,355 tests were done. Of these, 5,023 were RT-PCR tests. Kottuvally recorded the highest number of cases with 151 people testing positive from the area. Edavanakkad recorded 85 new cases, Pallipuram 80, Thrikkakara 74, Okkal 63, Kalamassery and Vadakkekara 42 each, Kanjoor 41, and Elamkunnapuzha 39. Seven health workers have tested positive. The source of infection could not be traced in 14 cases, and 60 people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. Recoveries stood at 1,936, and a total of 56,088 people remain in quarantine. While 242 people were admitted to treatment centres on the day, 287 were discharged. As many as 20,257 people are recovering from the infection. Of them, 14,480 are recuperating at home, 1,448 are at private hospitals, 579 are at government hospitals, 440 are at FLTCs, 275 are at SLTCs, and 1,197 are at domiciliary care centres. A total of 427 patients are recovering in intensive care units. Vaccination Two special vaccination drives are under way in the district. Under a mission to vaccinate bedridden patients and persons with disabilities, over a thousand people in eight panchayats under the Muvattupuzha block panchayat, and in the Muvattupuzha municipality area, have been given one shot of the vaccine, said Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination and the Reproductive and Child Health Officer for the district. To extend this drive to other local bodies, registrations of beneficiaries are under way, he said. In Chellanam, around 4,000 people have taken the first shot, he said. The drive in Chellanam, for people over the age of 45, was launched a week ago, and is likely to progress for another ten days. Ernakulam has sufficient stock for around three days, Dr. Sivadas said. “Around 75,000 doses of the two vaccines, both allocated by State and Union governments, are available for now, and we are expecting additional stock in the next two days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ernakulam-records-a-tpr-of-1745/article34747480.ece
07 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Private bus operators lament raw deal in State Budget||The All Kerala Private Bus Operators’ Association and Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation have lamented the raw deal meted out to the private bus sector in Friday’s State budget. “The sector which operated approximately 12,500 buses is now in the ventilator for the past about 18 months due to the pandemic situation and skyrocketing fuel price. We hoped that the government would announce a package in the budget to save the sinking sector, which provided a means of income to around 10,000 bus owners and a lakh bus crew and other employees. Around 80% of people depended on buses for commute in Kerala (till the pandemic struck),” said T. Gopinathan, general secretary of the association. “Conspicuously, the private bus sector, which caters to the commuting needs of a bulk of these people has been ignored, while KSRTC which owns less than 5,000 buses and is neck deep in loss, was allotted a total of Rs. 1,406 crore in 2020 from the public exchequer. This shows that the government spends Rs. 7,700 each day for every KSRTC bus. The massive spending on KSRTC is with the full knowledge that there will be little returns from the debt-ridden PSU,” he added. “On the contrary, private buses, which operate without any monetary help from the government, gave back to the State Rs. 1.75 crore per day by way of vehicle tax and sales tax on diesel. Still the government is unwilling to step in with interim help to rescue the sector.” Lawrence Babu, general secretary of the federation, said that the allocation of Rs. 100 crore in the budget for CNG conversion of 3,000 buses is yet another government bounty that has been extended to the debt-ridden KSRTC. “At the same time, the long-pending demand from private bus operators to extend interest-free loan to retrofit CNG kit (the process costs around Rs. 5 lakh per bus) has fallen on deaf ears. Private buses number thrice that of KSRTC and ferry much more commuters. “Thus, bus operators must be extended interest-free loan to retrofit CNG kit, which costs around Rs. 5 lakh per bus. The government must also waive vehicle tax for a year, considering the fall in patronage for buses,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/private-bus-operators-lament-raw-deal-in-state-budget/article34747481.ece
07 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Number of COVID beds in taluk hospitals may be reduced||With a gradual reduction in the district’s active caseload, health officials are considering reducing the number of COVID beds at taluk hospitals. Stabilisation centres at these hospitals for COVID emergencies will continue functioning. A reduction in the COVID patient load at taluk hospitals will be accompanied by more admissions at the new treatment centres set up on the BPCL campus, the Adlux convention centre, and the Kochi corporation facility at the Samudrika Hall on Willingdon Island, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Tertiary care facilities will be focussed at the Medical College Hospital, the super speciality block at the Ernakulam General Hospital, and the Aluva district hospital. If the caseload falls further, the number of admissions at PVS Hospital can be reduced, Dr. Mathews said. The district was continuing with a targeted testing strategy that involves testing contacts of positive persons and symptomatic persons, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-of-covid-beds-in-taluk-hospitals-may-be-reduced/article34747489.ece
07 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Kufos seeks suggestions on Chellanam model village||Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (Kufos) has invited suggestions from the public on implementation of a major programme to turn the coastal village of Chellanam into a model fishing village as per State government plans. Suggestions are being invited from the general public, peoples’ representatives, government employees and people from other walks of life, said a communication from Kufos here on Sunday. Suggestions can be submitted at an online meeting being convened on Monday, June 7, from 10.30 a.m. Kufos Vice Chancellor Riji K. John and Coastal Area Development Corporation managing director Sheik Pareeth will participate in the online meeting. The online meeting can be accessed at https://meet.google.com/kdy-feip-zmm. Those interested in more details may contact Dr. Dinesh Kapippailly on phone 9446032977 The Kufos authorities had recently said that a preliminary report on the implementation of the model fishing village project would be ready in about four weeks. This would be followed by a more detailed report on the action plan in which the responsibilities of the university as well as other agencies would be identified. The announcement of the creation of a project report had been made at a consultative meeting on Chellanam inaugurated by Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian earlier this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kufos-seeks-suggestions-on-chellanam-model-village/article34747486.ece
07 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Steep drop in panic calls on withdrawal symptoms||The Excise Department’s helplines have largely fallen silent during the lockdown, a complete contrast to last year when they were ringing off the hook with calls of panic-stricken alcoholics suffering from withdrawal symptoms. The three zonal counselling centres of the department along with the State helpline had received 1,798 such calls between March 24 and August 31 last year, an average of nearly 350 calls a month. That number, however, has dropped to 125 since the second lockdown on March 8 though bars and liquor outlets were closed 10 days before. The Excise Department attributes this drastic drop to multiple reasons. “Since rumours of an imminent lockdown were rife even before, liquor outlets actually downed shutters towards the end of April, and drinkers probably stocked well this time unlike during the last lockdown, which was suddenly announced. Or else, supply is still intact either by way of local illicit brewing or liquor smuggled in from neighbouring States,” said T.A. Ashokkumar, Deputy Excise Commissioner, Ernakulam. While not discounting those reasons, Vinu Vijayan, a sociologist with the Excise Department, lines up more potential possibilities. “Tips we gave them last time have probably helped them cope better this time. Besides, consumption was far from normal even before this lockdown, as visits to bars and liquor outlets carried inherent risks. Thus, those with mild withdrawal symptoms last time may have given up drinking altogether, while those in the severe category may have moderated their consumption,” said Mr. Vijayan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steep-drop-in-panic-calls-on-withdrawal-symptoms/article34747721.ece
07 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam has 1,648 new cases||The district reported 1,648 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,317 recoveries on Sunday. The new patients include 1,643 contact cases and five health workers. The number of persons who tested positive in Kollam Corporation is 456. The district currently has 41,667 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,36,496. While 3,218 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 2,50,947 primary and 16,600 secondary contacts of the patients. Kollam currently has six COVID Second-Line Treatment Centres (SLTCs) and 10 COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) functioning in the district. Alappuzha The district reported 925 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded six COVID-19-related deaths. The fresh cases include 922 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of three others remains unknown. The test positivity for the day stood at 11.02%. Meanwhile, 2,041 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 15,068. Kottayam As many as 499 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 491 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 12.08%. With 66 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery with 38 cases. As many as 989 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 7,045 while 35,674 others remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 359 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but four contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases are yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day is 12.9%. With 19 cases, Koyipram reported the highest number of cases, followed by Adoor municipality with 18 cases. The disease, meanwhile, has claimed four more lives in the district. With 718 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 6,278 active cases.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta)   Alappuzha has reported 925 COVID-19 cases and six deaths||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-has-1648-new-cases/article34747747.ece
07 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Centre urged to start recruitment in Railways||K. Somaprasad, MP, has written to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal requesting his immediate intervention in Railway Board’s recent decision to freeze recruitment for various posts. Observing that the decision will adversely affect the interest of SC/ST and OBC communities, the MP has requested the Minister to initiate recruitment procedures at the earliest. “According to Railway Board authorities, more than 4 lakh vacancies are there in 16 railway zones across the country now. No recruitments were made in Indian Railways in the recent years. It’s a fact that 50% of the total vacancies are coming under statutory reservation category for SC/ST and OBC. Here it’s around more than 2 lakh posts, which is not a negligible number,” he says. Mr. Somaprasad in his letter points out that the decision will subvert natural justice. He also requests the Minister to withdraw the decision to curtail 13,450 posts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/centre-urged-to-start-recruitment-in-railways/article34747753.ece
07 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online training for fodder grass cultivation||Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting an online training in fodder grass cultivation. The training session will be held on June 8 from 11 a.m. Those who want to attend the programme should register their names by June 7. For more details and registration, contact 04762698550, 8075028868, 9947775978.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-training-for-fodder-grass-cultivation/article34747754.ece
07 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Excise destroys cannabis saplings||Excise special squad on Sunday destroyed a couple of cannabis saplings planted by miscreants on the roadside near Kandachira. According to officials, the saplings were planted by some youngsters, reportedly drug addicts, as part of observing World Environment Day. Though the team also inspected the area under the bypass bridge in Mangad following a tip off, they couldn’t find any plants. But the officials found proof of cannabis cultivation and a case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/excise-destroys-cannabis-saplings/article34747755.ece
07 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam to bring in new system for vaccine distribution||In an effort to avoid long queues and large congregations outside the vaccination centres in the district, the Kottayam district administration is all set to bring in a new arrangement for vaccine distribution. The system, according to officials, takes a cue from a similar mechanism put in place at the vaccination centre in Baker Memorial School on a pilot basis. It stipulates scheduling the exact time of appointment for receiving the vaccine and providing a token number instead of allotting a two-hour-long time slot. As per this, the persons in the age category of 18-44 years who register for vaccines on the websites of www.cowin.gov.in or www. covid19.kerala.gov.in will be sent a text message intimating about the centre of distribution along with the time slot. This will be followed by another message scheduling their appointment along with a token number. The scheduling of appointments will be carried out by the District Vaccination Control Room using a special application. According to M. Anjana, District Collector, the new system, to be extended to the vaccination centre at the MD Seminary School, Kottayam, will be rolled out across all centres in a phased manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-to-bring-in-new-system-for-vaccine-distribution/article34747746.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Shortage of vaccine hits drive in Kozhikode’s tribal settlements||The shortage of COVID-19 vaccine and the difficulties in scheduling it for priority segments have badly affected the immunisation drive for Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities in Kozhikode district. People above the age of 60 are the worst hit, with only 84 out of the 846 senior citizens receiving both doses of the vaccine so far. Though the total number of ST beneficiaries above the age of 18 in the district is 8,139, the number of fully vaccinated persons is only 234 as of June 2. As many as 5,797 persons in the projected list of beneficiaries are yet to get their first shot. COVID protocol Sources with the Scheduled Tribes Development Department said the delay in getting the required stock of vaccines would affect the safety of tribespeople, who were often found reluctant to follow physical distancing rules and other safety protocol in their settlements. So far, 606 persons had contracted the virus in Kozhikode, and four of them died due to COVID-19. Many are still undergoing treatment in various first-line treatment centres. Poor awareness among tribal communities about the effect of vaccines are also posing a hurdle for health workers and ST Department officials involved in the special drive. There is also fear among some tribespeople to receive the vaccine. “Many have been found hiding or fleeing from the spot on seeing the vaccination teams. There is a lot of struggle to reach them for inoculation purposes,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shortage-of-vaccine-hits-drive-in-kozhikodes-tribal-settlements/article34747470.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police intensify vehicle checks, patrol||The number of police checking points has been increased in Kozhikode city as part of tighter curbs till June 9 to check COVID-19 test positivity rate. Accordingly, intensive checking was held on Sunday in the city, and only genuine self-declaration claims by passengers were approved. Apart from national and State highway checkpoints, police personnel conducted surprise inspections covering bylanes and junctions in the city outskirts. Monitoring of inter-district travel was intensified on district borders to discourage non-emergency trips. With the support of home guards, additional barricades were put up in several locations to impound suspected vehicles. The authenticity of stickers affixed on private vehicles for preferential treatment was also verified. An officer attached to the mobile patrol squad said meat shops and takeaway counters were found emerging as “problem spots” with unhealthy rush in the absence of police surveillance. “Considering public safety, we have deployed motorbike squads to keep an eye on such locations,” he added. Action against traders A home guard from Mavoor said the reluctance on the part of some traders to down shutters after permitted hours was also causing trouble. “Though the police booked several such merchants to discourage the trend, a few were found defying orders in the name of essential service,” the officer said. The police are also vigilant in the wake of suspected attempts to smuggle liquor and drugs misusing inter-State truck services meant for shipping essential commodities. They said all suspected goods carriers would be intercepted with the support of the highway patrol squad for thorough inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-intensify-vehicle-checks-patrol/article34747472.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daily TPR falls below 10% in Kozhikode||The Health Department on Sunday confirmed 960 more COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district with a majority of patients contracting the virus through local transmission. The test positivity rate (TPR) dropped below 10% and stood at 9.55% amidst the intensified fight against the pandemic. Of the new patients, 950 acquired the infection through local transmission. The source remained unknown in the remaining 10 cases. Recoveries There were 1,806 patients who recovered from the infection on Sunday. According to the latest figures released by the District Medical Office, there are 15,148 patients currently undergoing COVID-19 treatment. Observation The Health Department on Sunday added 2,407 more persons to the list of people under observation in Kozhikode district as part of preventive measures in place against COVID-19. With this, the total number of persons under observation reached 46,124. On Sunday, 10,193 fresh samples were collected and sent for lab tests. Protocol violation The Kozhikode City police on Sunday registered 325 cases for violation of COVID-19 protocol in Kozhikode district. As many as 189 persons were booked for not wearing masks. The remaining cases pertained to violation of physical distancing norms and reluctance to close shops at the specified time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/daily-tpr-falls-below-10-in-kozhikode/article34747473.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. to fast-track development of ports||Signalling a paradigm shift in executing big ticket projects, the second Pinarayi Vijayan government is all set to fast-track the development of the main ports in the State. In an interview to The Hindu , Minister for Ports and Museums Ahammad Devarkovil indicated that the government was keenly focusing on the multi-crore Vizhinjam International Transshipment Deepwater Multipurpose Seaport as well as the Malabar Seaport at Azhikkal in Kannur. Already several rounds of discussions have been held with representatives of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd. to complete the international transshipment project at Vizhinjam within two years. Also, Ahmedabad-based Howe Engineering Projects India Private Limited had been tasked to prepare the Detailed Project Report for the development of Malabar Seaport at Azhikkal. The estimated project is Rs. 3,698 crore. “The government hopes to start the inaugural works within three months and complete the project in three years,” Mr. Devarkovil said. At Beypore He said the focus of the government was primarily on commencing container shipping service at Azhikkal, Beypore, Kollam and Vizhinjam minor port, off Thiruvananthapuram within six months. Likewise, he said, steps would be taken to build a new wharf at Beypore as well as commence the operation of big vessels from the port. “The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, has conducted a preliminary study and land has been acquired for this purpose. Now a DPR will be prepared to go ahead with the project. Modalities will be worked out for a tourism shipping service between Kerala and Lakshadweep,” the Minister said. Tourism projects To prop up the tourism sector, Mr. Devarkovil said that the department had plans to begin the Beypore-Kochi-Thiruvananthapuram passenger ship service possibly in June-July. The Vadakara-Beypore coastal tourism destination project was also in the budding stage. A similar plan was also conceived to develop coastal tourism in Kasaragod, he said. Regarding the development of museums, he said each district would have an institution, including an art gallery, dedicated to preserving its historical and cultural heritage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-to-fast-track-development-of-ports/article34747491.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two held for brewing illegal liquor||The police on Sunday arrested two persons on charge of brewing illicit liquor at their house near Pattarpalam in Kozhikode district. V.M. Shaiju and his brother V.M. Madhu were nabbed by a police team from Atholi station. Nearly 350 litres of wash allegedly kept for distilling was seized. Held with MDMA A special squad of the Excise Department on Sunday nabbed a youth with 50 grams of smuggled MDMA, a costly psychoactive drug, from Thamarassery. P. Faisal, the suspect in the incident, was taken into custody during a flash vehicle check. Officials said the seized drug had a market value of Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held-for-brewing-illegal-liquor/article34747475.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Domestic workers hit hard by COVID-19, lockdown||With the fear of COVID-19 spreading quicker than the infection itself, many employers have asked their housemaids or domestic workers to stay away till the pandemic subsides. Many such workers have lost their jobs since the outbreak of COVID-19. “I do not have much savings. The wages from the houses where I worked at was our only means of income. Now I cannot go anywhere and hence do not have any earnings,” said Prema, a housemaid in Kunduparamba, who worked in five houses before the first lockdown was imposed. Ramla, another domestic worker, has several loans to repay. When the going got tough, she contemplated suicide. That was when a social worker intervened to get her employed in a house. “But most housemaids are not as lucky. I know many who survive only because of free rations,” she said. The lack of transportation facilities during the lockdown has also affected domestic workers who are unable to travel to the houses they work at. They also lose their earnings when they have to go into quarantine when some of their employers get infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-workers-hit-hard-by-covid-19-lockdown/article34747468.ece
07 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Gadget challenge to help poor students||A ‘gadget challenge’ will be launched in Kozhikode district soon to support financially backward students who find it difficult to purchase smartphones or laptops for attending online classes. A decision in this regard was taken at a district-level online meeting chaired by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao. The move is likely to benefit over 5,000 students. It will be in addition to the proposed Vidyasree laptop project implemented with the support of the Kudumbashree Mission and Kerala State Financial Enterprises, which aims to distribute over 6,000 laptops to students. The district administration also decided to convene a meeting of cable and mobile service providers to seek their support to address connectivity issues in rural areas. Common study centres for students who are unable to attend online classes will be functional. There are 766 such centres across the district, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gadget-challenge-to-help-poor-students/article34747474.ece
07 June 2021||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Electrification of 10 rail routes by this year||Electrification of 44 Route Km (rkm) Kollam-Punalur and 124 rkm Palakkad-Pollachi-Palani rail corridors will be completed along with 673 rkm targeted by Southern Railway during 2021-22. This is part of the ambitious goal to switch over to ‘Green Railways’ by electrifying the balance broad gauge routes by December 2023 to achieve 100% electrification of broad gauge routes. The other broad gauge stretches to be completed are Madurai-Manamadurai (45 rkm), Nagapattinam-Velankanni (10 rkm), Salem-Talaivasal (73 rkm), Pollachi-Podanur (38 rkm), Thalaivasal-Vridhachalam (66 rkm), Tiruchchirappalli-Pudukottai-Karaikudi (90 rkm), Karaikudi-Manamadurai-Virudunagar (124 rkm) and Manamadurai-Ramanathapuram (62 rkm). Rs. 14,500-cr. savings Rail electrification will facilitate elimination of diesel traction resulting in significant reduction in Railways’ carbon footprint and environmental pollution. In addition, 100% electrification by 2023 will result in annual savings of Rs. 14,500 crore for Railways. In the 5,080 rkm of Southern Railway, 3,529 rkm, about 70%, has been electrified till March 2021. As envisaged in the National Rail Plan & Vision 2024, Southern Railway has also geared up to complete electrification of all the broad gauge routes under it by December 2023. As much as 187 rkm of electrified lines was commissioned in 2020-21. As of May 2021, 71% of the broad gauge network has been electrified. Around Rs. 21,000 crore is expected to be incurred for completion of the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/electrification-of-10-rail-routes-by-this-year/article34747505.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANATHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 31.68-cr. for social security schemes||An amount of Rs. 31.68 crore has been sanctioned for various schemes undertaken by the Kerala Social Security Mission, Social Justice Minister R. Bindu has said. The allocation was made towards schemes such as Cancer Suraksha, Thalolam, Vayomithram, Samashwasam, Sruthitharangam and Mithayi meant to support the treatment expenses of people suffering from various illness. These included Rs. 5 crore allocated for the Samashwasam scheme meant for kidney patients belonging to BPL families who undergo dialysis, kidney and liver-transplanted patients whose annual income is below Rs. 1 lakh, and patients suffering hemophilia and sickle cell anemia. Other allocations include Rs. 8 crore for the Sruthitharangam scheme aimed at providing free cochlear implantation surgery for children aged up to five years, and Rs. 2 crore for the Thalolam scheme aimed at providing free treatment for children up to 18 years who suffer from kidney diseases, cardiovascular diseases, celebral palsy, brittle bone disease, orthopedic deformities and other neuro-developmental disabilities, congenital anomalies and accident cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-3168-cr-for-social-security-schemes/article34747448.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,126 new cases in capital, 2,304 recover||The capital district has reason to cheer with its COVID-19 test positivity rate falling to 15.09% on Sunday. A total of 2,126 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 when 14,081 people were subjected to COVID-19 testing during the last 24 hours. The active caseload stood at 13,537 when 2,304 recovered from the illness. Among the fresh cases, the source of infection remained unknown in 134 cases. Eighteen health workers were among those who were diagnosed with the infection. The district authorities have currently placed 63,680 people in quarantine. These include 4,283 people who were ordered to go into quarantine during the last 24 hours. The death toll rose by 52 when deaths reported between May 18 and June 5 were attributed to the disease, sources said. A total of 2,071 people have died due to the disease in the district thus far. Case fatality at 0.8 The case fatality ratio neared 0.8, the highest in the State. A containment zone has been declared in Malakkal ward in Kilimanoor grama panchayat, while the Barton Hill area in the Kunnukuzhy ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has been designated a micro-containment zone. District Collector Navjot Khosa said the existing containment zones in Pachamkulam ward in Attingal Municipality; and Kulappara and Adayamon wards in Pazhayakunnumel grama panchayat have been withdrawn. DCC to be set up The Time kids’ school in Karakulam has been taken over for setting up a COVID-19 Domiciliary Care Centre (DCC) , Ms Navjot Khosa said. The Nedumangad Block Panchayat secretary has been entrusted with the responsibility of making available the necessary facilities at the school. Ambulance service will also be ensured at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2126-new-cases-in-capital-2304-recover/article34747449.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Greens oppose tree felling at institute||Tree Walk, a citizens’ collective that aims at protecting greenery in the city, has asked the government to stay all development activities at the Poojappura Panchakarma Ayurveda Institute (PPI) till a ‘detailed assessment of the environmental and social impact of the socio-ecologically diverse green space’ is carried out. The move comes amidst attempts to re-start construction activities by clearing trees and medicinal plants from the botanical garden for a para-surgical wing and geriatric pay ward for the PPI. Poet’s protest Incidentally, the late poet Sugathakumari had campaigned against the project in November 2019. “Let them find another space for the building. Let this space be retained as a protected medicinal garden,” she had written to the Health Minister. In January this year, Tree Walk launched a letter campaign to the Health Minister to re-examine the proposal for construction activities. A Tree Walk team, including geographers, ecologists, environmental scientists, botanists and social scientists carried out a detailed study of the location in March. Report submitted Based on the study, Tree Walk submitted a report to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, coinciding with World Environment Day, that stresses the need to rejuvenate the green space. According to Tree Walk, the royal family of erstwhile Travancore had allocated 12 acres and 29 cents for a medicinal garden. Following the construction of the PPI and the establishment of the garden, trees were cleared to build a men’s hostel, women’s hostel, Panchakarma Hospital and associated structures. The garden and institute are under the Directorate of Medical Education. A detailed mapping found that the gently sloping land supports a diverse number of flora. The land designated for construction houses the maximum diversity – the medicinal garden. 95 species listed The ground around the building blocks is paved with tiles. Rain drops that would have percolated to the ground flow down the slopes wash away the surface soil. The Tree Walk team has listed 95 species of herbs and trees on the premises. The botanical garden has 14 Ashoka trees ( Saraca asoca ) classified as ‘vulnerable’ in the IUCN red list. Many tree species here belong to the ‘rare,’ ‘endangered’ or ‘endemic’ categories. Anitha S., coordinator, Tree Walk, said they had received intimation from the Chief Minister’s Office that the request had been forwarded to Principal Secretary, Forest and Wildlife and Director, Urban Affairs Department for taking action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greens-oppose-tree-felling-at-institute/article34747446.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nurses’ bodies to be brought home||The NoRKA Roots, under the Department of Non-Resident Keralites, has taken steps to bring back home the bodies of two Keralite nurses who died in a road accident in Saudi Arabia on Friday. NoRKA Roots CEO Harikrishnan K. Namboothiri said paperwork had been speeded up after consultations with the Indian Embassy in Riyadh and the Indian Consulate in Jeddah. Ashwaty Vijayan, 31, from Thannimood in Thiruvananthapuram, and her colleague Shincy Philip, 28, from Vayala in Kottayam were killed when the car in which they were travelling collided with another vehicle at Najran on Friday. Two of their colleagues, Rinzy and Sneha, and Ajith, who drove the car, were injured in the accident. All four nurses were employees of the King Khalid Hospital. ‘Steps expedited’ Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Indian Consulate had expedited steps to send the bodies to India. The Consul General had discussed the procedures with the officials of Saudi Arabia’s Foreign Affairs Department. The nurses’ associations and activists based in Najran have been making efforts, including reaching out to political leaders in Kerala, to bring home the nurses’ bodies, which are now kept in the mortuary of the Najran General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nurses-bodies-to-be-brought-home/article34747499.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccine worries for pregnant women||As COVID-19 continues to take the lives of more pregnant women and put many in a critically ill stage in ICUs in the State, obstetricians and gynaecologists are pushing for the vaccination of pregnant women. There is no evidence to suggest that vaccines in the country are unsafe for pregnant women, but it is the lack of data that prevents authorities from making a formal recommendation of these for pregnant women. But the news that Pfizer vaccines would be made available in India soon has raised hopes for mothers-to-be.  “Around 90,000 pregnant women in the U.S. have been vaccinated, mainly with Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, and there have been no safety concerns. Based on this data, the U.K.’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) suggested that pregnant women in the U.K. be offered Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna vaccines. We request the government to offer Pfizer vaccine to pregnant women as soon as it is available in India,” says senior consultant obstetrician V.P. Paily. The Kerala Federation of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (KFOG) has written to the State and Centre that Pfizer vaccine should be offered to pregnant women first. Between March and May, Kerala lost 31 pregnant women to COVID-19, while several others are critically ill. For every maternal death, there are several under-reported near-miss cases. The clinical presentation of COVID and the prognosis for pregnant women have been vastly different since April, when the virus mutant Delta (B.1.617.2) began sweeping across the State in the second wave, doctors say. “During the first wave, though we had more deliveries by pregnant women with COVID, there was no mortality. But since April, we have had nearly 30 COVID-infected pregnant women requiring critical care. We lost five of them,” says K. J. Jacob, Head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Rise in premature births COVID-19 has also led to an increase in prematurity, stillbirths and Caesarean section deliveries, says S. Ajith, Head of ObGyn department at Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur. COVID also seems to induce high levels of anxiety and depression among pregnant women, which could be risky. One crucial aspect is the delay or reluctance in recognising symptoms such as mild cough or fatigue to be that of COVID. Such symptoms should not be dismissed during pregnancy, Dr. Ajith says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccine-worries-for-pregnant-women/article34747503.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kattakada completes energy audit of schools||Kattakada has become the first Assembly constituency in the State to complete an energy audit of all government schools. Next up is an energy audit of all houses and government offices. The energy audit in government schools in the constituency was conducted with the support of the Energy Management Centre (EMC). Report of the audit conducted in 53 schools across six panchayats in the constituency has been prepared. The energy audit project has been formulated by I.B. Satheesh, MLA, to transform Kattakada into an environment-friendly constituency. Conserving water In 2018, an energy audit of four select schools in the constituency had been completed as a follow-up to the feted Jalasamruddhi project to increase the water table and conserve water there. The ordinary lights and fans in these schools had been replaced by LED lights and fans that consumed less energy. This was followed by an energy audit in all government schools, conducted with the support of all teaching and non-teaching staff in schools. Discussions on the importance of energy conservation were conducted to create awareness among students, teachers, and officials. Detailed investigation and analysis of energy consumption and possibilities for energy conservation were all part of the audit. The audit covered schools in Kattakada, Malayinkeezhu, Maranalloor, Pallichal, Vilavoorkal, and Vilappil panchayats. The audit found that implementing various energy efficiency improvement programmes at a cost of Rs. 1.74 crore in the 53 schools will save Rs. 59.26 lakh a year. This equalled 8.78 lakh units of electricity. The completion of the programmes will help reduce the carbon footprint by 728.43 tonnes. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty who released the energy audit report on World Environment Day on Saturday termed the project a model. The day also marked the launch by the Minister of the energy audit in all government institutions in the constituency, again with the support of the EMC. The third phase of the project will see an energy audit in all houses with the participation of the people. An amount of Rs. 3 crore had been earmarked in the last Budget for setting up solar panels in public institutions. As a first step, the solar panels will be set up in schools with the support of the General Education Department and the Kerala State Electricity Board. Miyawaki forests The inauguration of creation of 100 Miyawaki forests across the six panchayats in the constituency was also held. Mr. Satheesh inaugurated the afforestation programme at Aruvikkara in Maranalloor panchayat.  The audit found that implementing various energy efficiency improvement programmes at a cost of Rs. 1.74 crore in the 53 schools will save Rs. 59.26 lakh a year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kattakada-completes-energy-audit-of-schools/article34747442.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSTA to provide digital equipment to students||With digital divide continuing to be a matter of concern in the new academic year, the Kerala School Teachers’ Association (KSTA) has launched a project to ensure facilities for education in students’ homes. ‘Veedu oru vidyalayam’ is aimed at getting across the message that teachers are with students for ensuring access to digital classes. 20,000 students A total of 20,000 students will be provided with digital equipment and study material for uninterrupted learning. The project will focus on coastal, hilly, and tribal areas of the State. Digital equipment, facilities for practicals, equipment for mathematics, library books, mobile recharge facilities, cable/Internet availability, textbooks and other support will be made available to students. Preliminary estimates have put the number of students without facilities for digital classes in the State at 49,000. The KSTA said it was geared up for arranging adequate academic resources and ensuring teacher empowerment to provide additional support to students through online classes, apart from the ongoing digital classes. ‘Veedu oru vidyalayam’ will help students stay on the path of learning. 4,000 equipments Last year, at the start of digital classes through Victers channel, the KSTA had distributed 4,000 TVs, laptops, and mobile phones among students and arranged necessary facilities at the study centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksta-to-provide-digital-equipment-to-students/article34747443.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Survey to identify 5 lakh poor families||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) has appointed a committee to prepare guidelines for a survey to identify five lakh of the poorest families in the State, as part of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government’s programme to alleviate acute poverty. The programme was one of the major announcements made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after taking charge in the LDF’s second term. He had announced that the government aimed at bringing all families above the poverty line (APL) within the next five years. The main aim of the programme is to identify destitute families and bring them above the poverty line through various projects at the grassroots level. Committee formed As part of the project, the LSG Department has now appointed a committee comprising the Additional Chief Secretary, LSGD, and the Principal Secretary (Urban) to prepare the guidelines for the ground-level survey of poor families. All the local bodies will conduct surveys to identify the beneficiary families from their areas, based on these guidelines. A survey of a similar scale was conducted soon after the LDF government took charge in the previous term, as part of the Livelihood Inclusion and Finance Empowerment (LIFE) housing project. Kudumbashree was then tasked with identifying the homeless families in the State. The beneficiaries of that survey were then categorised based on risk factors including homelessness, landlessness, and destitution. Though an exact picture of the interventions that will be made at the local level as part of the poverty alleviation scheme is not clear yet, it could work as a complementary to the ongoing projects, including LIFE. According to the NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index 2020-21 released last week, Kerala, along with Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh, are ahead of the other States in meeting various goals, including elimination of poverty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/survey-to-identify-5-lakh-poor-families/article34747496.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||227 deaths in State||The State on Sunday reported 14,672 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,02,792 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) is 14.27%, and does not seem to have shown a significant reduction in the past several days. The active case pool dipped further to 1,60,653 patients, with 21,429 patients reported to have recovered. As many as 227 deaths, the highest so far, were added to the official list taking the cumulative fatalities to 9,946. Hospitalisations and ICU occupancy are declining slowly but steadily. On Sunday, 2,446 persons were hospitalised with COVID. The total number of patients in hospitals now stands at 35,231. Total ICU admissions declined to 3,376 and those requiring ventilator support to 1,333.  District-wise Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 2,126, Ernakulam 1,807, Malappuram 1,687, Kollam 1,648, Palakkad 1,494, Thrissur 1,417, Kozhikode 960, Alappuzha 925, Kannur 640, Kottayam 499, Idukki 489, Kasaragod 423, Pathanamthitta 359 and Wayanad 198.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/227-deaths-in-state/article34747502.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paddy procurement expedited: Minister||The Food and Civil Supplies Department has expedited paddy procurement in the State to prevent hardships for the farming community. In a statement, Food and Civil Supplies Minister G.R. Anil said 7.07 metric tonnes of paddy have been procured from 2.23 lakh farmers as of yet this season. While Rs. 1,519.06 crore has been disbursed so far, there are dues amounting to Rs. 424.67 crore left to be distributed among 47,168 paddy farmers. Steps have been adopted to disburse the amount at the earliest, he said. Farmers have been provided the facility to register in the supplycopaddy.in portal for paddy procurement. The procurement is being undertaken from individual farmers possessing up to 5 acres of land and groups having 25 acres of paddy field. Mills were being provided Rs. 214 a quintal including Rs. 12 meant for loading and unloading to process paddy. The mill owners are supposed to provide 64.5kg of rice for every 100kg of paddy procured from farmers,the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-procurement-expedited-minister/article34747447.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plea to include State in CDP||Agriculture Minister P. Prasad has urged the Centre to include Kerala in the Horticulture Cluster Development Programme (CDP) which has been launched to promote the export of horticultural produce. Mr. Prasad has written to Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar outlining the possibilities and opportunities that Kerala has in this sector. Kerala wants the Centre to include banana, pineapple and spices including pepper and cardamom in the scheme. Horticulture crops have an important place in the Kerala economy. The State is already exporting banana abroad. The Kerala brand Nendran banana, which is now being exported to Europe, has huge potential. The Vazhakulam pineapple has received GI tag. Mr. Tomar had launched the Horticulture CDP on May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-to-include-state-in-cdp/article34747444.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Academy flays Centre’s move||The Kerala Cartoon Academy has protested against attempts by the ‘Union government to restrict the freedom of cartoonists’ The academy also condemned the Centre’s directive to Twitter to take action against cartoonist Manjul’s account. The academy pointed out that the action of the Central government was a disgrace to a country which has had a legacy of producing famous cartoonists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academy-flays-centres-move/article34747493.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Digital classes for higher secondary students||Classes for higher secondary school (HSS) students will be available from Monday as part of the First Bell 2.0 digital classes being presented by KITE Victers. The classes from Monday to Friday will be re-broadcast in the same order next week. The classes for Plus Two students will be from 8.30 a.m. to 10 a.m and from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. Though a total of five Plus Two classes in different combinations are available daily, each student will have a maximum of three classes only. Mobile app The KITE Victers mobile application can be downloaded from Google Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-classes-for-higher-secondary-students/article34747497.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to run special services for teachers||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate special bus services from all depots from Monday for teachers and employees attending the SSLC and Plus Two valuation camps. Transport Minister Antony Raju said instructions had been given to all the depot officers to operate special services. Call: KSRTC control room 0471-2463799, mobile 9447071021 or Whatsapp 8129562972.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-to-run-special-services-for-teachers/article34747495.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Food kit for April extended till June 8||Distribution of ration quota for the month of May, including the food kit for April and the PMGYK benefits, have been extended till June 8. The distribution of food kits for May will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/food-kit-for-april-extended-till-june-8/article34747498.ece
07 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||1,417 more test positive in Thrissur||The district reported 1,417 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. As many as 1,472 patients have recovered from the infection. The daily test positivity rate was 14.24%. Of the new cases reported, 1,411 persons, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 196 patients are above the age of 60 and 105 are below the age of 10. A total of 5,614 people are under home care. As many as 9,954 samples were collected for tests on Sunday. There are 10,083 active cases in Thrissur, and 77 people from the district are undergoing treatment in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1417-more-test-positive-in-thrissur/article34747478.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kochi Metro Rail to spare space near stations to mop up revenue||Aimed at mobilising alternative revenue from commercial development of open spaces in select metro stations, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), which is staring at a widening gap between revenue and expenditure, has invited Expression of Interest (EoI) to lease out 2.40 acres to private players, to develop infra on public-private partnership mode. The metro agency has invited EoI to develop commercial spaces and share revenue from them at Aluva and Edappally stations and the upcoming station at Vadakkekotta in Thripunithura. “The revenue will be shared between KMRL and the private partner, while KMRL will in addition get an annual licence fee. The response to the EoI will be known in a few days, following which Request for Proposal (RfP) will be floated in a month. The period of long-term lease has been set at 50 years now. The exact tenure and conditions will be specified in the RfP, based on the response to the EoI,” metro sources said. Location-specific models Commercial spaces could be let out for office complex or used as retail, entertainment space, and food court. Location-specific models will be adopted. For instance, ground and first floor spaces are ideal for retail, the sources said. KMRL will specify parameters for construction on open spaces that will be leased out, so that the construction is in sync with adjacent metro stations. The metro agency will rent out approximately 60,000 sq.ft. retail space and 50,000 sq.ft. office space at metro stations which witness substantial footfall, it is learnt. The agency is also readying plans to mop up alternative revenue from sponsors of median-beautification work beneath the metro corridor, from advertisements within and outside stations and trains, in a bid to lessen the ever-widening revenue-expenditure gap. Bliss City The proposal to garner income from the proposed Rs. 3,000-crore Bliss City in government land at Kakkanad has been temporarily held up, since KMRL has not got possession of the entire 17.43 acres. A PPP model has been envisaged here to build a modern wellness and wholesome entertainment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-metro-rail-to-spare-space-near-stations-to-mop-up-revenue/article34747483.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting a makeover||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-a-makeover/article34747485.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nature’s gifts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natures-gifts/article34747723.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Urgent steps to open tunnel at Kuthiran: Minister||Urgent interventions will be made to complete work on the twin tunnels at Kuthiran to enable traffic through them, Public Works Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. He was speaking to reporters after visiting Kuthiran on Sunday to review the progress of work. The Chief Minister will convene a special meeting on June 8 to discuss the matter. Immediate steps will be taken to open at least one tunnel after holding talks with the construction firm, he said. “The government has taken the issue very seriously. There are drawbacks in the construction work,” the Minister noted. Meanwhile, work on widening the Old Kuthiran Road is progressing. Revenue Minister K. Rajan, Higher Education Minister R. Bindu, and District Collector S. Shanavas were in the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/urgent-steps-to-be-taken-to-open-kuthiran-tunnel/article34747477.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Immediate care||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/immediate-care/article34747757.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Obstacle course||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/obstacle-course/article34747729.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Homeward bound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homeward-bound/article34747727.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Geared up, battling on||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/geared-up-battling-on/article34747720.ece
07 June 2021||Adoni,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown in Adoni||Two children, Boya Veerendra (8) and Boya Anil (7), drowned in a farm pond at Kadithota in Adoni mandal on Sunday. Police said while the parents of the children were sowing cotton seeds in the nearby field, the children playing near the pond slipped into it and drowned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-children-drown-in-adoni/article34747258.ece
07 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-dist. library head dead||The former chairman of Anantapur District Library, Rasheed Ahmed, died of COVID-19 on Sunday after battling for life at a private hospital for 20 days. MLA Ananta Venkatarami Reddy consoled the family members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-dist-library-head-dead/article34747259.ece
07 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka flag colours, icon on bikini spark row||After a row over the Canadian wing of e-commerce firm Amazon allegedly selling bikinis with the Karnataka State icon and Kannada flag colours, Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali has threatened legal action against the company. “Kannada language and culture both have thousands of years of history. Multinational companies that are totally unaware of the greatness of Kannada culture are insulting it. I strongly condemn any act of such slurring of our culture image,” the Minister said in a statement. “As Kannada and Culture Minister, I find it my duty to take legal action in these cases,” he added. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy asked why companies were irresponsible when it came to language and emotions. “It was first Google and now Amazon. Kannadigas have taught Amazon a lesson. Amazon should apologise for its act,” he said. The bikini is said to have been removed by Amazon from its Canada site, following the uproar. There was no immediate comment from Amazon.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-flag-colours-icon-on-bikini-spark-row/article34747214.ece
07 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Early onset of monsoon kindles farmers’ hope for good kharif||Farmers of the partially rain-shadow district of Chittoor are a happy lot with good rainfall this month. After a gap of half a decade, the arrival of southwest monsoon to Chittoor is being considered on time as the 63 of the total 66 mandals of the district recorded 2,137 mm rainfall on Sunday. The monsoon rain has kindled farmer’ hope for a good kharif season when it comes to yield. The groundnut farmers are getting ready for sowing operations in about 1.4 lakh hectares. Paddy is cultivated in about 20,000 hectares in the district, and sugarcane in about 15,000 hectares. Officials said the early onset of monsoon this year is prompting the farmers to intensify farm operations. Tavanampalle and Chittoor rural mandals witnesses a precipitation of more than 100 mm, giving a breather to farmers who expect bumper crops this kharif season. Joint Director (Agriculture) S. Dorasani told The Hindu that the Khariff season had a very good start with excess rainfall in Chittoor. “As per the weather forecast, the monsoon is going to be vigorous this year. Apart from the eastern mandals, several farmers in the western mandals can now start farm operations,” she said. The official said as groundnut happens to be the principal crop of the district, 80,000 quintals of seed would be distributed to farmers on a war-footing as the sowing would commence from June 15. “Some farmers in the eastern mandals have already started the sowing operations, thanks to good groundwater table there. We will be encouraging intercropping this karif season,” said Ms. Dorasani. Meanwhile, a downpour was reported in Puthalapattu and Tavanampalle and a dozen of western mandals from Saturday night till early hours of Sunday. The officials said two crest gates of the NTR Jalasayam near Chittoor were lifted in view of the heavy inflows.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/early-onset-of-monsoon-kindles-farmers-hope-for-good-kharif/article34747789.ece
07 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Big haul of illicit liquor in Chittoor, seven held||Police on Sunday seized 10,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash and one thousand litres of illicit liquor, and arrested seven persons at Kalini and Ayyavari Kandriga hamlets of Palassamudram mandal, 50 km from here. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar and Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told reporters here that taking advantage of the lockdown and thin movement of public, gangs involved in brewing illicit liquor had once again become active in Palasamudram mandal. A special party was formed by roping in police of NR Peta, Palasamudram, Chittoor East and SR Puram stations, and it swung into action in the early hours of Sunday. A large amount of material used for brewing of liquor and the stock of fermented jaggery and liquor was seized. Police also conducted a cordon and search operation at the two villages, while 27 cases were registered on detection of a number violations by some of the households such as entertaining strangers, helping them stock the contraband and acting as their informers. A couple of motorcycles were also seized. Meanwhile, SP Senthil Kumar said that gutkha and tobacco products worth Rs. 10 lakh was seized at several places during the special raids at Madanapalle, Palamaner, Chittoor, Puttur and Sri City police sub-divisions on Sunday. The raids covered petty shops and tea stalls. Cases were booked against 15 persons, who were arrested. The SP said the Punganur police arrested two youth and seized 10 kg of ganja at an isolated spot close to Karnataka border.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/big-haul-of-illicit-liquor-in-chittoor-seven-held/article34747787.ece
07 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidates demand probe alleging anomalies in Group-1 Mains exam||Even as the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has announced the schedule of interviews for the posts of various services under Group-1 from June 17, the applicants continue to demand an investigation into the conduct of the examinations citing several anomalies. Candidates who had appeared for the Group-1 Mains filed a petition in the A.P. High Court against digital evaluation of answer sheets taken up by the APPSC. The court had posted the case for hearing on June 14, and asked the APPSC to file a counter affidavit. The candidates say that digital evaluation is prone to errors. Each examination paper has different subjects such as geography and history, which require different evaluation. The UPSC has gone for manual evaluation despite the COVID-19 pandemic. The experiences of PSCs of various States show that digital evaluation is prone to data manipulation errors, they say. “The APPSC has so far not clarified how different subject questions have been taken for evaluation by experts,” says a candidate. “The APPSC has also not released the data on how many of the 6,800 candidates who appeared for the Mains examination in December 2020 wrote it in Telugu and English,” the candidates say. As per the data of the previous tests, 10-15% opted for Telugu medium, and the proportion of candidates selected for interviews remained the same. But this time, an overwhelming 40-45% candidates selected for interviews are from the Telugu medium, according to the commission. “How is the proportion so high? This implies that the APPSC has not taken up scaling parameterization thoroughly,” say another candidate. “We demand a judicial inquiry into the whole issue, followed by manual evaluation under judicial supervision,” says yet another candidate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/candidates-demand-probe-alleging-anomalies-in-group-1-mains-exam/article34747791.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist dies in hospital during treatment||Senior Maoist leader and Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee communications head Gaddam Madhukar alias Shobrai, who was arrested by the Warangal police on June 1, died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital in the wee hours of Sunday. Madhukar’s body was shifted to Kondapally village in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, his native place, after autopsy at the OGH morgue, for last rites. Though he managed to evade police for more than two decades, it was COVID-19 that forced Madhukar to break his self-imposed security measures and come out of Dandakaranya forests of Chhattisgarh for treatment at a private hospital in Warangal. He was nabbed by the police during a vehicle check and was taken into custody. He was shifted to OGH for better medical assistance. Madhukar had reportedly told the Telangana police that some senior Maoist leaders, including Central Committee members Katakam Sudershan and Thippiri Tirupathi have tested positive for coronavirus and are undergoing treatment in Dandakaranya. The outlawed CPI (Maoist) is not allowing them to go outside for better treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-dies-in-hospital-during-treatment/article34747220.ece
07 June 2021||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prison staffer attacks 3-year-old||A head warden serving at the local sub-jail reportedly left a three-year-old boy with a grave injury in his left eye after throwing a spanner at him, at Ramachandrapuram town in East Godavari district. The incident allegedly occurred on May 24. However, it came to light on Sunday after the boy’s family lodged a complaint with the local police. “D. Ramu, threw a spanner on the boy when the he went to the first floor of the house in which Mr. Ramu lives. The boy’s eye has been severely injured and he is undergoing medical treatment,” Ramachandrapuram Circle Inspector V. Srinivas told The Hindu . Visakhapatnam-based doctors are treating the boy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/prison-staffer-attacks-3-year-old/article34747807.ece
07 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea to hike Polavaram R&R package||The Adivasi Mahasabha has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fulfil his poll promise of offering additional relief and rehabilitation (R&R) package for the displaced families of the Polavaram irrigation project in East and West Godavari districts. The Adivasi Mahasabha is a Kakinada-based organisation working for tribal rights. In a release issued on Sunday, its legal adviser Ainavarapu Suryanarayana said: “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced Rs. 10 lack R&R package for each family against Rs. 6.86 lakh if he was voted to power. He had completed two years in power but he did not even bother about the issue.” “The Chief Minister should clarify his stand on the issue,” said Mr. Suryanarayana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-to-hike-polavaram-rr-package/article34747806.ece
07 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman homeguard attempts suicide||A woman homeguard attempted suicide by consuming hand sanitiser at Adoni on Sunday alleging harassment from the III Town circle inspector. After she sent a video recorded before her suicide attempt over social media, people rushed to her and saved her. The woman, identified as Rama Krishnamma, alleged that circle inspector Naresh had been harassing her ever since she reported for duty at Adoni. She was transferred from Yammiganur to Adoni recently. The CI Naresh clarified that he had not harassed her in any manner. There is always someone to talk to by dialling 100 or 112, or over WhatsApp no. 7777877722 in Kurnool district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-homeguard-attempts-suicide/article34747786.ece
07 June 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||228 persons held in raids across district||In a two-day operation, the police department in association with SWAT teams conducted raids at several places in the district and seized huge quantities of banned gutkha products, Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) and Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor. About 40 teams conducted raids on the ID liquor manufacturing units at Pedana, Mylavaram, Tiruvuru, Kruthivennu, Nagayalanka and some island villages and destroyed the liquor brewing units, said Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, who supervised the operation. The teams led by DSPs, B. Srinivasulu and N. Satyanandam, conducted raids on shops and seized gutkha packets, worth about Rs. 7.17 lakh. Raids were also conducted to check sand smuggling, gambling and other illegal activities on Saturday and Sunday, said Nandigama DSP G. Nageswar Reddy. 193 cases booked “During the 48-hour operation, police personnel booked 193 cases and arrested 228 persons. More than 200 police personnel of Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Special Branch and from various police stations participated in the raids in Machilipatnam, Nandigama, Nuzvid and Avanigadda divisions,” the SP said. Vehicle checks Police personnel checked vehicles at the border check-posts and seized a huge quantity of NDPL being smuggled from Telangana. Stern action will be taken against those involved in ID liquor brewing, liquor and Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) selling in the district, Mr. Ravindranath Babu warned. The police teams seized vehicles used for smuggling liquor, ID liquor and sand, said Additional Superintendent of Police Mallika Garg. SEB Additional SP Vakul Jindal, ASP Mallika Garg, Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) Masoom Basha and Mahaboob Basha and officers from Special Branch and other wings monitored the raids, the SP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/228-persons-held-in-raids-across-district/article34747270.ece
07 June 2021||Nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for distribution of herbal preparation of Anandaiah||All arrangements have been made for the distribution of the herbal preparation of B. Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam through the Nellore district administration in a decentralised manner from Monday. With the State government clearing the decks for the distribution of three variants of the herbal concoction following the intervention by the A.P. High Court, the police have stepped up security in and around Krishnapatnam as a steady stream of people started visiting the village to receive the herbal concoction packets. Allocation for districts Mr. Anandaiah has already made it clear that the herbal preparation will first be made available for people hailing from the Sarvepalli Assembly segment. For the patients from other districts, it will be made available only through their respective district administrations, he has said. “Initially 5,000 packets of the herbal preparation will be made available to the district administration for distribution in Nellore district, and an equal number of packets for each of the remaining districts in the State. Depending on the requirement, the availability will be stepped up,” YSRCP MLA from Sarvepalli Kakani Govardhan Reddy said on Sunday. Meanwhile, the police had a tough time in turning away those thronging the village in violation of the prohibitory orders and partial curfew in force. Check-posts were set up at Krishnapatnam, Muthukur and other places en route to prevent entry of outsiders into the village. Barricades were erected at different places en route and on the Chennai-Kolkata Highway. People came on foot, by two-wheelers and other modes of transport to get at least a few packets of the herbal preparation in spite of the appeal made by the district administration not to throng the village as it will lead to spread of COVID-19. Case against Somireddy Meanwhile, the Krishnapatnam police booked a case against TDP Polit Bureau member Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy under various IPC sections and the Information Technology Act following a complaint lodged by Narmada Kumar of Seshrita Technologies for “causing misapprehensions among the people on the distribution of the herbal preparation through a website.” Mr. Kumar also threatened to file a defamation suit against the TDP leader. The TDP, in its reaction, said it would fight the case “foisted at the behest of the ruling party” legally. Mr. Anandaiah, however, maintained that Mr. Govardhan Reddy had no links with the website as was alleged by the TDP leader, and urged Mr. Chandramohan Reddy not to drag him into any political controversy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-distribution-of-anandaiahs-herbal-mixture/article34747705.ece
07 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South Coastal A.P. sees decline in cases||The health situation improved further in Nellore and Prakasam districts as active cases fell below the 25,000 mark for the first time during the second wave of COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. However, COVID deaths failed to abate as 13 patients — seven in Prakasam district and six in Nellore district — succumbed in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Sunday. As many as 396 persons in Nellore district and another 506 persons in Prakasam district tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. However, 2,163 patients in the region, including 1,671 in Prakasam district, have recuperated in this period, bringing down the number of active cases to 24,232 in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-sees-decline-in-cases/article34747790.ece
07 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Desperate daily workers find no takers for even half wage||Fifty five-year-old Nagaiah, a construction worker from Thuravagunta, comes to the Ongole bypass centre at dawn every day without fail with eager anticipation of finding work. But most of the times he returns dejected after waiting till noon when the relaxation period of the lockdown ends. Like him, there are tens of others who come from nearby villages in search of work at the centre. The plight of everyone is the same. Since the second wave of the pandemic started, most of the construction activity in both the public and private sectors have come to a grinding halt, leaving the workers, numbering about one lakh, to fend for themselves. Some times, when they are fortunate, they are engaged by owners to carry out sundry repairs in their homes. Earlier, they used to demand Rs. 500 per day for working at the construction site or at any home for carrying out repairs. But the situation has now changed for the worse. “We are ready to work for reduced pay as we cannot return home empty-handed every single day,” said a middle-aged worker Ch. Moshe from Pernamitta. With their desperation growing by the day, they say they are now even ready to clean blocked drains. “We will work harder if need be. But what do we do when there is no work in the first place,” said 65-year-old Venkateswarlu from Karavadi village, 13 km from here. They find work only once in three days or so, added 36-year-old Shiva who has migrated to the city from drought-prone Pamur village. Adding to their problems are the lockdown restrictions in compliance of which they have to disperse by 12 noon. Police do not allow them to stay there even for a minute after 12 p.m., said yet another worker Sk. Maabasha from Perlamanyam. Financial aid demanded Taking up cudgels for the hapless workers, Centre of Indian Trade Union leader Ch.Srinivasa Rao demanded that the government provide workers in the unorganised sector a minimum of Rs. 10,000 per month and free ration supply. Those hit hard by the pandemic included painters, slab workers, carpenters, electricians and plumbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/desperate-daily-workers-find-no-takers-for-even-half-wage/article34747794.ece
07 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) hits the roads against fuel price hike||Activists of the Communist Party of India(Marxist) staged a protest here on Sunday by pulling an autorickshaw with a rope as the price of petrol touched the Rs. 100-mark. They raised slogans against the alleged indifferent attitude of the Union and State governments to the plight of people affected by the soaring prices of fuel. Leading the protest, CPI(M) District Secretary P. Anjaneyulu said both the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre and the YSR Congress Party in the State had led many agitations against the rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas. But they have turned a blind eye now to the demand for reducing the various taxes on fuel to provide some relief to the common people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-hits-the-roads-against-fuel-price-hike/article34747262.ece
07 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Philanthropist honoured for feeding the poor||Collector J. Nivas has said that giving back to society when people are in distress would ensure real happiness to everyone. He felicitated philanthropist and businessman Sura Srinivasa Rao who provided food to the poor and patients in RIMS and GEMS hospitals for the last one month. Mr. Rao supplied essentials to nearly 2,000 people in Kushalpuram of Etcherla mandal. Mr. Nivas said that Mr. Rao had inspired many others and made them to take up service activities in their respective localities. Mr. Rao said that many people suffered financially due to hospital expenditures and loss of livelihood caused by lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/philanthropist-honoured-for-feeding-the-poor/article34747810.ece
07 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete pending works, BJP urges NHAI||Bharatiya Janata Party Tekkali convener Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar on Sunday urged the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to direct contractors concerned to complete the pending works related to expansion of the national highway and also construct bus shelters in various places of the Tekkali division of Srikakulam district. According to him, the works between Kotturu flyover and Peddasana junction were yet to be completed. Bus shelters at Jagatimetta of Tekkali town and Turakalakota village of Nandigama mandal had to be constructed immediately as the bus shelters that existed earlier were demolished during the road expansion works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-pending-works-bjp-urges-nhai/article34747808.ece
07 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lag effect raises Kerala, Karnataka toll||Kerala on Sunday reported 14,672 new cases of COVID-19 from 1,02,792 samples, recording a test positivity rate (TPR) of 14.27%. The official toll was revised with the addition of 227 deaths, the highest so far, raising cumulative fatalities to 9,946. Active cases dropped to 1,60,653. On Sunday, 2,446 persons were hospitalised and the figure of patients being treated for moderate or severe infection went up slightly from the previous day to 35,231.  ICU admissions decline Total ICU admissions of critically-ill patients in both public and private hospitals declined to 3,376, and those on ventilator to 1,333 from 1,415. Malappuram had 30,235 active cases and Ernakulam 20,247. Thiruvananthapuram district had 13,537 active cases but hospitalisations were high at 5,829. Thiruvananthapuram reported the maximum new cases with 2,126, Ernakulam 1,807, Malappuram 1,687, Kollam 1,648, Palakkad 1,494, Thrissur 1,417, Kozhikode 960, Alappuzha 925, Kannur 640, Kottayam 499, Idukki 489, Kasaragod 423, Pathanamthitta 359 and Wayanad 198. Karnataka on Sunday reported 12,209 new cases, taking cumulative cases to 26.95 lakh. Of these, 2,944 were in Bengaluru Urban. There were 2.54 lakh active cases. The Health and Family Welfare department said the TPR for the day dropped to 7.71%. Also, 320 more deaths were reported raising the overall toll to 31,580. On Sunday, 57,519 people were vaccinated and the total was 1.51 crore in Karnataka. More than 1.58 lakh tests were conducted, and 1,15,041 were RT-PCR tests. Andhra Pradesh reported less than 10,000 new infections for the second time in the past week. There were 8,976 new infections and 90 deaths reported on Sunday. Active cases came down to 1,23,426. The daily TPR of 83,690 samples was 10.73%. Chittoor reported 12 deaths, West Godavari nine, Anantapur, Guntur, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram eight each, while seven patients died in Prakasam, six each in East Godavari, Kurnool and Nellore, five each in Krishna and Visakhapatnam and two in Kadapa. Nearly 60% of new infections were in five districts: East Godavari (1,669), Chittoor (1,232), Anantapur (995), Krishna (726) and Visakhapatnam (700). Telangana’s daily TPR was 1.47% on Sunday although screening tests had come down. A total of 1,436 new cases and 14 deaths were reported on Sunday; tests were down to 97,751 from 1,38,182 on Saturday. Cumulative cases and deaths touched 5,91,170 and 3,378, respectively. The Public Health department said on Sunday that active cases remained at 27,106. Active micro containment zones stood at 205, with 59 in Mahabubabad, 44 in Nalgonda, 12 in Warangal Rural, 11 in Siddipet and 10 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri districts.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lag-effect-raises-kerala-karnataka-death-toll/article34747216.ece
07 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to ensure internet connectivity for all students||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has convened a meeting of internet service providers on June 10 as part of the ongoing efforts to ensure connectivity for all students. The intervention by Mr. Vijayan, who also holds charge of the Information Technology portfolio, comes against the backdrop of several students finding it difficult to attend online classes for want of internet access in various pockets, including tribal areas. With low bandwidth affecting large sections of the student community, the government has also been making efforts to ensure high-speed internet supply. The government had joined hands with various agencies to provide educational tools, including smartphones and tablets, to students belonging to disadvantaged sections. However, inadequate internet supply has denied equitable access to the virtual classrooms. The meeting to be chaired by the Chief Minister is also likely to deliberate on the possibility of providing low-cost internet connection to students hailing from families hit hard by the economic downturn. Opposition claim The United Democratic Front (UDF), quoting a recent study by Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad, had claimed in the Assembly few days ago that an estimated seven lakh school students lacked access to online education. While a large section belonged to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe communities, fishing communities and other backward sections, the government did little to bridge the digital divide, they had alleged. Many teachers’ organisation expressed discontent over lack of a comprehensive assessment of internet connectivity and availability of IT tools among schools. In a preliminary survey conducted last year, the Directorate of Collegiate Education had found over 30% of the student community in government colleges lacked access to internet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-ensure-internet-connectivity-for-all-students/article34747210.ece
07 June 2021||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT may question Kerala BJP chief’s son||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Kodakara black money case may question Kerala BJP president K. Surendran’s son. The case pertains to the looting of Rs. 3.5 crore — allegedly meant for spending for the Assembly elections — by a gang near Kodakara in Thrissur after waylaying a car on April 3. The police found that Harikrishnan, Mr. Surendran’s son, had been in constant touch over phone with Dharmarajan, the RSS worker who was carrying the money. It is suspected that they met at Konni during the election campaign. Twenty-four-year-old Mr. Harikrishnan was active in the BJP’s election campaign. The SIT has already questioned Mr. Surendran’s driver and secretary. Both told the team that they had contacted Mr. Dharmarajan over distribution of campaign material. The police may question Mr. Surendran soon. The police now suspect that the black money involved in the case was around Rs. 10 crore. They suspect that Mr. Dharmarajan, who brought Rs. 10 crore, handed over Rs. 6.5 crore in Thrissur. The remaining Rs. 3.5 crore was stolen at Kodakara, as per the police. Meanwhile in Kochi, leaders of the BJP alleged that the State government was out to malign the party and its leaders on the Kodakara issue. ‘Bid to malign BJP’ Speaking to media persons before a core committee meeting of the party, senior leaders Kummanam Rajasekharan, Union Minister V. Muraleedharan and Mr. Surendran said the police were targeting the complainant rather than tracking down the accused in the case. The police were out to defame the party and to finish it off, which would be resisted. The party leaders would rally together to defend the organisation and oppose such attempts, they said. The police were not investigating the connection some of the accused in the case had with the CPI(M) and the CPI. The role of a CPI legislator and some of the AIYF activists in the case had to be probed, they demanded. On a question whether the party would ask for a probe by the Enforcement Directorate, Mr. Muraleedharan said there were certain legal formalities for the Central agency to take over the investigation. Mr. Surendran said he was unnecessarily being targeted by the police and implicated in cases. Meet venue changed Incidentally, the BJP leaders had to change the venue of the meeting from a city hotel to its party office in Ernakulam after police intervention. The change of venue was warranted after the police served a notice to the hotel authorities asking them to follow the COVID-19 protocol in hosting the meet. By that time, several party leaders had arrived at the hotel. The application of the party for organising the event at the hotel was also rejected by the authorities. The meeting attained significance in the wake of the party facing unprecedented organisational crisis. Besides the humiliating electoral defeat, the party had found itself in a sticky wicket after the Kodakara hawala money transaction case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sit-may-question-kerala-bjp-chiefs-son/article34747222.ece
07 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD frames new guidelines for leasing its kalyana mandapams||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has framed new guidelines for leasing out its kalyana mandapams . It has about 304 kalyana mandapams spread across seven States – A.P. (216), Telangana (77), Karnataka (5), Tamil Nadu (3) and one each in Kerala, Odisha and Gujarat. The changes are aimed at enhancing their utility and occupancy ratio. As per the new rules, letters of ‘expression of interest’ will be invited from local temple authorities, organisations, corporations and other interested parties with a thrust on optimum utilisation of the mandapams rather than earning mere lease amount. The buildings shall be rented only for Hindu religious and traditional functions with a rider prohibiting consumption of non-vegetarian food and alcohol. The TTD Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) will organise religious and devotional programmes subject to their availability. Planting of trees shall be taken up in the open spaces available at the mandapams other than the parking area besides reserving a part for taking up make-shift arrangements for the conduct of various religious festivals and fairs. The lessee alone should collect the rent as prescribed by the TTD, take up repairs, bear the maintenance cost of the structures and pay GST. An official team consisting of engineering and revenue personnel in addition to the Deputy Executive Officers concerned shall inspect the buildings twice a year and submit a report to their higher-ups. Lease term extended The lease period of the mandapams has been increased to five years from three and extendable by another two years based on the performance and fulfillment of the conditions. Meanwhile, the TTD has also resolved to henceforth construct new kalyana mandapams based on local population, demographic conditions and the revenue potential of a town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-frames-new-guidelines-for-leasing-its-kalyana-mandapams/article34747802.ece
07 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SPMVV gets herbal garden||The herbal garden at Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) got off to a formal start with the plantation of a Tulasi (holy basil) plant, coinciding with World Environment Day. The garden, developed under the aegis of Department of Biosciences and Sericulture, is funded by National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB), functioning under the Union Ministry of Ayush. Nearly fifty medicinal plants such as Vaja, Brahmi, Punarnava, Nannari, Gymnema, Aparajiha, Konda Kothimeera, Thippatheega, Ashwagandha, Sabja, Pulichinta, Kondaneeli, Adavikandi, Sathavari, Nelavemu and Addasaramu have been selected under the scheme to be planted for the purpose of conservation and research. Vice-Chancellor Jamuna Duvvuru and Registrar D.M. Mamatha planted the medicinal plants and announced to improve greenery on the campus. Departmental head G. Savithri, faculty and research scholars participated. JNTU Anantapur Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana appealed to the public to protect ‘Mother Earth’ by thinking global and searching local. Speaking at a webinar organised by JNTUA College of Engineering in Kalikiri commemorating ‘World Environment Day’, he stressed the role of practising engineers, scientists and industrial leaders to groom students to opt for ‘local solutions’ to address the challenges of climate change, global warming and increase in carbon deposits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spmvv-gets-herbal-garden/article34747266.ece
07 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushpagiri pontiff supports TTD viewpoint on Hanuman’s birthplace||Pushpagiri Mutt pontiff Sri Vidya Shankara Bharati Swamy supported the viewpoint presented by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. Participating in the third day of the five-day festivities organised to celebrate ‘Hanuman Jayanti’ at Akasa Ganga atop Tirumala hills on Sunday, he said the “puranic evidences” had conclusively proved that Anjana Devi had performed penance at Anjanadri, one of the seven hills comprising Tirumala, to beget Lord Anjaneya. The pontiff showered praise on the TTD management for conducting ‘Akhanda Sundarakanda Parayanam’ during the COVID-19 pandemic. TTD Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, National Sanskrit University (NSU) Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma, and TTD’s adviser (Vaikhanasa Agama) Mohana Rangacharyulu took part. Meanwhile, NSU academic M.G. Nandan Bhat presented a lecture on ‘Personality of Hanuman’ at the Nada Neerajana Mandapam. “As a versatile personality, Hanuman acted as a mentor to devotees to tread the right path of piousness ,” he said. Quoting the Puranas, he said Lord Anjaneya had never gone after name, fame or power, and remained a devotee of Lord Rama.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pushpagiri-pontiff-supports-ttd-viewpoint-on-hanumans-birthplace/article34747796.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccine procurement: CM trying to pass the buck, alleges Somu Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s insistence that the Central government should procure the COVID vaccines and distribute them to States reflects his ‘escapist attitude’. “Public health is a State subject as per the Constitution. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is not only shirking his responsibility, but also trying to drum up support of the Chief Ministers of other States for his illogical move in his bid to pass the buck,” Mr. Veerraju said while addressing the media in virtual mode on Sunday. Mr. Veerraju said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had warned the States about the second wave of the COVID pandemic in February itself, but the Andhra Pradesh government was not prepared to face the surge in the infection. “Moreover, it has failed in properly utilising the medicines, vaccines and equipment supplied by the Centre,” said Mr. Veerraju and pointed out that that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy should have taken other political parties into confidence while drawing plans to tackle the pandemic situation, but he did not do so out of ‘disdain’ for the opposition parties. At least now, the State government should act promptly to prevent the anticipated third wave from taking a heavy toll, Mr. Veerraju demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccine-procurement-cm-trying-to-pass-the-buck-alleges-somu-veerraju/article34747801.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ union concerned at school restructuring plan||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) have raised concerns over the government’s proposed school restructuring programme as part of reforms in the education sector. The executive committee of the federation, which met in virtual mode on Sunday, passed resolutions after discussing key issues. The leaders demanded that the proposed pre-primary classes should be linked to the primary schools and Anganwadi workers should be given adequate training before starting these new institutions. Trained teachers should be appointed to teach the preparatory class meant for children above five years. They reiterated their plea to drop the proposed division of the primary classes and said that making children of Classes 1 to 5 travel a distance of more than 1 km would violate the terms of the Right to Education Act. They said upper primary schools with 75 students in the 6, 7, and 8 Classes should be upgraded as high schools. Primary schools should continue to have Telugu as a medium of instruction and in high schools, students should be given the freedom of choice on the medium of instruction. Plus Two education should be included in the high schools with a strength of 400 students from Class 6 to Class 10 and sanction a post of headmaster in every primary school. They also demanded immediate steps to fill the vacant teacher posts and make representatives of teacher unions, intellectuals, educationists and MLCs part of the discussions on the changes the government proposed to introduce in the school education sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/teachers-union-concerned-at-school-restructuring-plan/article34747268.ece
07 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CS encourages students to become ‘techpreneurs’||Chief Secretary Adityanath Das on Sunday said students should come up with new ideas and become techpreneurs by establishing start-up companies. Addressing a meeting organised to mark the fourth anniversary of the VIT-AP University in virtual mode, Mr. Das appreciated the management for imparting quality education and said the fact that despite the pandemic, the first graduating batch of students had achieved 527 placements, which reflected its commitment towards grooming the students into responsible citizens. VIT Founder and Chancellor G. Viswanathan said in a short span, VIT-AP had created world-class infrastructure for 4,728 students from 28 States and six countries and faculty from 17 different States. Besides, there were 65 clubs to groom the students into rounded personalities. VIT-AP vice-president Sekar Viswanathan said students, researchers, professors and staff were rewarded on the occasion. The university presented 71 academic awards, 13 student achievement awards, 17 awards to faculty, six awards to staff and appreciation certificates in academic, research, co-curricular activities and special achievements. Executive Director Sandhya Pentareddy, Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy, Registrar CLV Sivakumar, Assistant Director (Student Welfare) Anupama Namburu and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cs-encourages-students-to-become-techpreneurs/article34747269.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hyderabad-based NGO to set up 10-bed ICUs in govt. hospitals||Nirmaan, a Hyderabad-based non-profit organisation, will set up 10-bed ICUs in government hospitals and be a part of the State’s fight against COVID-19, according to an official release. It is an initiative taken up by Srikanth Nathamuni, Head of Operations, Nirmaan, in collaboration with Vinod Khosla, founder-partner of Khosla Ventures. A similar project, which they had taken up in Telangana, was launched by Minister K.T. Rama Rao on June 5. On behalf of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, Eluru MP Kotagiri Sridhar and government representative for North America Rathnakar Pandugayala are coordinating the implementation of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hyderabad-based-ngo-to-set-up-10-bed-icus-in-govt-hospitals/article34747800.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: 33 hospitals de-notified||With the number of COVID infections and patients requiring hospitalisation coming down, the district administration de-notified 33 hospitals from treating COVID patients. Joint Collector and district COVID Nodal Officer L. Siva Shankar said in a press release issued on Sunday that 82 hospitals were treating COVID patients in the district. As the number of patients requiring treatment under Aarogyasri and treatment, in general, was coming down, the permissions of 33 hospitals to treat COVID patients were revoked, he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Siva Shankar imposed a fine of Rs. 8.80 lakh on Times Hospital in Ashok Nagar for violation of various rules. He said a case against the hospital will be booked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-33-hospitals-de-notified/article34747256.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covaxin doses available today||Covaxin will be available for eligible beneficiaries at the 12 permanent vaccine centres in the city on Monday. According to VMC officials, 6,000 doses of Covaxin doses are available for vaccination on Monday and both first and second doses will be administered to the people of 45-plus age group. Locations Permanent vaccine centres are located at KBN College, Bhavanipuram Shadhikhana, Lowtha Subbarao Municipal School, MLC MC Elementary School (Old HB Colony), Rajiv Nagar CHC, AKTPM Municipal High School, MK Baig Municipal High School (Singh Nagar) Sadgathi Vidyanikethan (Madhuranagar), GDET Municipal School (Patamata), APSRM Municipal School (Krishna Lanka), Sample Building (Ranigari Thota) and Bishop Grassi School (Gunadala).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covaxin-doses-available-today/article34747257.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Property tax hike: CPI(M) stages protest||Leaders of the Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) leaders burnt copies of notifications issued on hike in property taxes and user charges on garbage collection in municipal areas in the State, near CPI(M) office in the city on Sunday. CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Babu Rao and Krishna district secretariat member Donepudi Kasinath submitted a memorandum to Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas Rao urging him to prevail on the government to cancel the hike. Mr. Babu Rao said as per the notification, the tax hike would be 0.15% on value of the residential properties, 0.3% on non-residential and commercial buildings, and 0.5% on vacant lands. At a time when people were urging the government to reduce the tax hike, and scrap the interests and penalties, the government issued a notification to implement the GOs from April 2021. The government was already collecting taxes for the current financial year and was gearing up to hike taxes again, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/property-tax-hike-cpim-stages-protest/article34747267.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI plans roundtable on hike in property tax||Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Sunday said that the party would organise a two-day roundtable on the issues pertaining to user charges on garbage collection and hike in property tax by the urban local bodies on June 8 and 9. The roundtable would be organised in all municipalities and corporations, he said. Mr. Ramakrishna said that the burden of hike in taxes would be around Rs. 750 to Rs. 1,450 per annum on 50 lakh families in the State. The government issued GOs 197 and 198 in this regard. The party would submit memoranda to Municipal Commissioners across the State on Monday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-plans-roundtable-on-hike-in-property-tax/article34747797.ece
07 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh flays demolition of special school in Vizag||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has condemned the demolition of Hidden Sprouts, a special school for mentally challenged children, in Visakhapatnam. “It is a reflection of the State government’s indifference to the future of the innocent children in the school,” Mr. Lokesh said in a statement on Sunday. Stating that over 190 children were being imparted training in the special school, Mr. Lokesh said it was demolished as YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy had allegedly set his eyes on the valuable property located in a prime locality in the Port City.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-flays-demolition-of-special-school-in-vizag/article34747799.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demolition of temporary sheds of special school draws protest||A large number of parents along with their children staged a protest on Sunday, a day after the Town Planning Department of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) demolished a few temporary sheds, which were constructed in an open space in the Hidden Sprouts Special School for Mentally Handicapped Children. Condemning the action of the GVMC officials, the parents alleged that the future of about 190 children was at stake. They stated that their children wish to spend more time in school rather than at home, as the management takes utmost care of the children. Even after the COVID-19 first wave, following requests from the parents, the management had conducted classes, they said. “Many parents are daily wage earners and are unable to take care of the children. This school has filled the void through its service and we are grateful to the management, who are doing the service for free since many years. Demolition of the sheds and asking them to vacate is heart-wrenching,” some parents said. Meanwhile, members of the Telugu Desam Party, the Jana Sena Party and a few other political parties came out in support to the school organiser and criticised the GVMC. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the reserved open space in Sector-12, MVP Colony, was leased to founder-secretary of the school K. Srinivasa Rao for nominal rent for a period of one year in 2013. Mr. Srinivasa Rao was also allowed to utilise the building on nominal monthly rent of Rs. 3,000 for office room for one year. According to the lease, the school is not eligible to utilise the open space outside the allotted structure. If the GVMC requires the premises for any one of its activities, the lease would stand cancelled and it could be taken over without prior intimation, she said. “Taking undue advantage of the temporary allotment, he had occupied the open space, which is meant for a playground and had been continuing it unauthorisedly for the past seven years. He has also encroached and extended the office building with sheds, without prior approval,” Ms. Srijana said. She said that as per the norms, no park/ open space in a layout shall be put to use than for the purpose for which it was reserved. Now to restore the park and to create playground, the school management was informed orally and also through a notice to vacate the premises well in advance.  Community hall The GVMC has asked to vacate the site on or before June 4 and offered an alternative community hall, to which the school authorities did not respond. “The GVMC is ready to provide alternative accommodation at some other place and will not shirk its social responsibility,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demolition-of-temporary-sheds-of-special-school-draws-protest/article34747820.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU stages protest against hike in prices of essential commodities||The steep hike in the prices of essential commodities by the Union government at a time when many people are losing their livelihood due to the COVID-19 pandemic has come in for severe criticism from the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU). At a protest organised at Kommadi, on the outskirts of the city on Sunday, CITU city president R.K.S.V. Kumar said that agitations were being organised all over the country against the ‘anti-people’ and ‘anti-labour’ policies of the Centre, which instead of going to the rescue of the workers was taxing them further. The Union government was bent on privatisation of public sector undertakings and cripple the economy of the nation further, he alleged. He demanded that the families, which do not come under the purview of the Income Tax, be given Rs. 10,000 a month and 17 varieties of essential commodities. The prices of petrol and diesel should be reduced and subsidy should be extended, he said. The COVID-19 vaccination should be done free of cost to all people, Mr. Kumar said. Madhurawada Zone CITU president D. Appalaraju, secretary P. Rajkumar, leaders A. Kiran, M. Ramesh and S. Pydithalli were among those who participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/citu-stages-protest-against-hike-in-prices-of-essential-commodities/article34747814.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh criticises police over row with hospital employee||A day after Lakshmi Aparna, a typist working in a hospital, alleged harassment from police personnel while she was returning home from duty near Rama Talkies, which subsequently led the city police to book cases against her for reportedly using abusive language and obstructing them from performing their duties, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leader Nara Lokesh criticised the city police and the State government and termed it as a ‘shameful incident’. In his tweet on Sunday, Mr. Lokesh noted “Vizag may or may not be the executive capital for the State. But the city has been a hub for YSCRP’s Pulivendula policing anarchy.” The videos regarding the incident were widely circulated in the social media and the police officials were also criticised by various sections. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Assistant Commissioner of Police (East) Harshita Chandra said that at 5.20 p.m. on Saturday, the police teams had stopped A. Raj Kumar while he was going on his bike near Rama Talkies. The person failed to furnish any pass, ID proof or give proper explanation for his movement. As a result, the SI raised an e-Challan for COVID-19 violation and was allowed to go. “Again around 5.40 p.m., Raj Kumar along with Lakshmi Aparna came to the police and started arguing with police officers for generating the e-challan. The SI at the picket explained to the girl that the permission letter was not disclosed by Mr. Rajkumar. However the girl continued to argue and started abusing the police,” she said. Though a few locals tried to make her see reason, the girl did not stop and obstructed the police in the discharge of their duties. As a result, the officers on the spot registered a case as Cr.No. 356/2021 U/s 332, 353, 188, 269, 270 r/w 34 IPC and Sec 51(b)DM Act on Lakshmi Aparna and her friend for obstructing a public servant from discharging duties and violation of the Disaster Management Act. The two policewomen tried to take the girl into custody but she refused to cooperate and a struggle took place between police staff and the girl, the ACP added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-criticises-police-over-row-with-hospital-employee/article34747818.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports five deaths and 700 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 700 new COVID-19 infections, while 1,294 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered in the last 24 hours ending on Sunday morning. The cumulative tally has increased to 1,42,354. The death toll has also increased to 944 after five more persons succumbed to the coronavirus. The daily infections were below 1,000 for the last seven days. Active cases have been declining since the last week of May and now stand at 8,933. The number of recoveries has increased to 1,32,477.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-five-deaths-and-700-new-covid-cases/article34747817.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meat sale ban violators fined||Despite the ban on the sale of chicken, meat, fish and other seafood to avoid overcrowding in the pandemic situation, a number of shopkeepers continued to sell them at various places, violating the orders on Sunday. While many took orders and delivered them to their customers at their homes, some others opened their shops. Fisherwomen also sold fish in several colonies. Special teams formed by the GVMC had conducted raids at various places and slapped heavy fines. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao said that Rs. 96,380 was imposed as fine against the violators. He said that 86 kg meat, 180 kg chicken, 60 kg fish, 43 kg prawns and 20 kg crabs were seized by the special teams, which conducted raids in various areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meat-sale-ban-violators-fined/article34747821.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks withdrawal of cases||The CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee has demanded withdrawal of the cases booked by the police against an employee of a private pharmacy. In a statement issued here on Sunday, city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said that the police officials were trying to squarely blame the girl in a bid to cover up their own lapse. He alleged that the police behaved in a high-handed manner with her on the road. Instead of taking measures to correct their actions, they were trying to defend themselves. He demanded withdrawal of the cases booked against her and said that the Police Commissioner should initiate measures to prevent recurrence of such incidents. In a separate statement, the Shramik Mahila Samanvaya Committee (CITU) has condemned the action of the police on the woman frontline worker. District convener of the committee M. Kameswari said it was very difficult for women to attend to their duties during the pandemic situation. She said that the police had behaved in a high-handed manner with the pharmacy worker as she had dared to question their actions, despite being a woman. She appealed to the Police Commissioner to withdraw the cases booked against the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-seeks-withdrawal-of-cases/article34747815.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allocate more anti-fungal injections to city: BJP||BJP Parliamentary District president Raveendra Medapati has appealed to the Centre to allocate more vials of the anti-fungal Liposomal Amphotericin B and Posaconazole injections to treat the growing number of black fungus cases in Visakhapatnam. In a letter to Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan on Sunday, Mr. Raveendra while commending the Union government for controlling the second wave of COVID-19 in an effective manner, noted that the increase in mucormycosis cases led to a severe shortage of injections to treat the fungal infection. The city is a hub to meet the health needs of north Andhra and hence more number of the anti-fungal injections should be allocated, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/allocate-more-anti-fungal-injections-to-city-bjp/article34747813.ece
07 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ECoR extends cancellation of special trains||East Coast Railway (ECoR) has extended the cancellation of some special trains in view of poor patronisation due to the second wave of COVID-19 infection. The trains cancelled are: 08528 Visakhapatnam-Raipur daily special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 11 to 20, will be cancelled and 08527 Raipur-Visakhapatnam daily special train, leaving Raipur from June 12 to 21, will be cancelled, Train no. 08445 Bhubaneswar-Jagdalpur special train, leaving Bhubaneswar from June 11 to 20, will be cancelled and 08446 Jagdalpur-Visakhapatnam special train leaving Jagdalpur, June 12 to 21, will be cancelled. Train no. 08516 Visakhapatnam-Kirandul special train, leaving Visakhapatnam from June 11 to 20, and 08515 Kirandul-Visakhapatnam special train, leaving Kirandul from June 12 to 21, is cancelled. 08561/62 Visakhapatnam-Kacheguda-Visakhapatam from June 11 to 21, and 07488/87 Visakhapatnam-Kadapa-Visakhapatnam special from June 11 to 21, 07488/87 Visakhapatnam-Kadapa-Visakhapatnam special from June 11 to 21, 02831/32 Visakhapatnam- Lingampalli-Visakhapatnam special and 08301/02 Sambalpur- Rayagada-Sambalpur special trains are cancelled on June 12, 13, 19 and 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ecor-extends-cancellation-of-special-trains/article34747812.ece
07 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tele-consultation gaining popularity due to COVID||Tele-consultation is gaining popularity in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts during the pandemic. Many patients who have underwent surgeries in the past in cities like Hyderabad or Chennai are finding it convenient to speak with their doctors over the phone for their regular check-ups, without having to visit them in person. Experts say tele-consultation will gain even more impetus in the future as it will help save valuable time both for the doctors as well as patients, but also add that it comes with its own set of disadvantages. “Many non-COVID services were stopped at several hospitals with doctors reluctant to put themselves at risk. Except for those directly involved in treatment of COVID, others are showing little interest in having a direct interaction with their patients,” a doctor in Vizianagaram said. Indian Medical Association-AP honorary joint secretary Kuppili Venkata Ramprasad told The Hindu that tele-consultation would enable patients to access specialist doctors staying in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Senior orthopaedic surgeon S. Rajendra Chakravarthy said that patients should be in a position to explain their problem correctly in order to be assessed properly by the doctor. “Tele-consultation saves valuable time and helps the doctors give proper advice when the patient is being shifted to hospital in serious cases. But patients should not depend completely on phone and video calls since the exact health condition of them is known only through direct interaction with doctors,” said Dr. Chakravarthy. Neonatologist and paediatrician Merugu Anusha felt that video calls have become a preferable option for the time being as there is the risk of COVID transmission. “Paediatricians have to ensure that infants and children are safe from COVID. Parents also hesitate to bring their children to hospitals for a check-up. In this backdrop, tele-consultation is a great way to get medical advice from doctors,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tele-consultation-gaining-popularity-due-to-covid/article34747811.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wondrous sight||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/wondrous-sight/article34747264.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No takers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-takers/article34747805.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Less than 1,500 cases logged as tests fall by 41K on Sunday||The daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infections in the State stood at 1.47% on Sunday although the number of tests fell by about 41,000. A total of 1,436 new cases and 14 deaths were reported in Telangana during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Sunday as the tests conducted came down to 97,751 as against 1,38,182 tests conducted on Saturday. The reports of another 1,587 samples were still awaited. The cumulative total of positive cases and deaths reached 5,91,170 and 3,378, respectively. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID-19 cases on Sunday, 3,614 infected persons were declared recovered during the day taking their total to 5,60,776 so far. The recovery rate in the State has gone up to 94.85% against 93.62% at the national level. Similarly, the case fatality rate was 0.57% against 1.2% at the national level. The active cases remained at 27,106 as of Sunday evening. The active micro containment zones based on the active cases in a particular locality continue to be over 200, at 205, with a highest of 59 in Mahabubabad followed by 44 in Nalgonda, 12 in Warangal Rural, 11 in Siddipet and 10 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri districts. In another 14 districts, the containment zones were in single-digit numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/less-than-1500-cases-logged-as-tests-fall-by-41k-on-sunday/article34747684.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana behind 20 States and UTs in school education||The Performance Grading Index of all States and Union Territories on school education released by the Ministry of Education on Sunday has put Telangana in the fourth category behind twenty States and UTs for the reference year 2019-20. Telangana is clubbed with Goa, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Manipur and Sikkim in Grade II in a score range of 751 - 800 points out of a total weightage of 1,000 points. The report showed that Telangana occupied 21st position in the country in creating infrastructure and facilities for school education, 26th in equity, including provision of girls toilets, 26th in governance processes, 12th in learning outcomes and 19th in access to education. In a score range of 901 - 950, Andaman and Nicobar islands, Chandigarh, Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu were in Grade I ++, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan in Grade I + (851 - 900 points), Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Daman & Diu, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh in Grade I (801 - 850). With Telangana and seven other States in Grade II (751 - 800), Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Mizoram were in Grade III (701 - 750), Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Nagaland in Grade IV (651 - 700), Meghalaya in Grade V (601 -650) and Ladakh in Grade VII (0 - 550). There were no States in Grade VI (551 - 600). This was the first year of States touching a score of 901 950. This year, none of the States were in score range of 951 - 1,000. In the first year of the publication of the report in 2019 (reference year 2017-18), the top most score was in 801 - 850 range. The same went up to score range of 851 -900 in 2020 (2018-19) and, this year, the highest score reached 901 - 950. Prepared with seventy parameters, the PGI evaluation provided grades to States as opposed to ranking. Each of the seventy indicators were assigned weightage of ten or twenty points. The States were assessed based on their performances against the benchmarks. The data for 54 of the 70 parameters was taken according to 2019-20 publication and updated by States themselves. The scores given by National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT) were used for the remaining 16 parameters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/telangana-behind-20-states-and-uts-in-school-education/article34747711.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demand for more mass vaccination drives in city||The mega vaccination drive by a private hospital in Madhapur here on Sunday seems to have caught people’s fancy, prompting many to demand similar programmes across the city. On the lines of the drive by Medicover Hospitals, another hospital is planning to conduct a vaccination programme, but with 1,000-2,000 beneficiaries per day over several weeks. Senior officials from the State Health department said that another corporate hospital might conduct a mass drive in Secunderabad soon. General secretary of Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals Association R Govind Hari said that similar drives are necessary in Old City. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao has requested people who can afford to pay for the vaccination to opt for paid immunisation to reduce the economic burden on the State government. “The government intends to vaccinate everyone in the below poverty line category. Immunisation for high-risk groups is under way,” he added. 2 lakh inoculated Apollo Hospitals has vaccinated 2 lakh people in the State so far. “Apollo Group of Hospitals has emerged as the single largest vaccinator in India with close to 1.5 million jabs, and Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, with over 2 lakh jabs so far is the largest private vaccinator in Telangana,” stated a press release. The hospital management said they have conducted multiple out-reach mega camps in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Karimnagar and Bhadrachalam districts. From the past 10 days, they have been conducting the drives with a capacity to deliver 25,000 jabs per day at HICC, Madhapur. “Frontline workers, employees in essential industries, housing colonies including maids and helpers, IT professionals and a host of other citizens in Telangana are benefiting from this initiative,” they said. Urban-centric People in rural districts aged above 18 years have been waiting for several weeks to get the first dose of the vaccine. Currently, only people above 45 years who are waiting for their second dose are allowed to take the jab at Government COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (GCVCs). Besides them, the State government is holding special drives to vaccinate people in high-risk groups such as vegetable and fruit vendors, and workers at grocery stores. People aged 18-44 years in the high-risk group are also given the jab. Students set to go abroad are administered the vaccine free of cost. So, the only option for people above 18 years in the non-high-risk groups in rural areas is to opt private CVCs. However, majority of the corporate hospitals or PCVCs which are offering the vaccines are located in and around Hyderabad. Owing to the geographic location of the hospitals and of the vaccination drives, the immunisation by corporate hospitals has turned urban-centric in Telangana. Since lockdown is still continuing, travelling from faraway districts to the city becomes challenging. Mid-level and small scale private hospital managements in rural districts of the State are struggling to find access to the vaccine manufacturing firms. Mr Srinivasa Rao said that they will complete vaccinating high-risk groups in a week. “Thereafter, we will give first dose to people above 45 years in non-high-risk groups, and some in 18-44 age group too,” he said. There are around 2.75 crore beneficiaries in the State and 5.5 crore doses are needed to immunise them. The senior official said they are aiming to complete vaccination in the next three to four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/demand-for-more-mass-vaccination-drives-in-city/article34747686.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2 African women nabbed for smuggling heroin||In one of the biggest drug hauls at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in recent times, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials arrested two women drug peddlers from Uganda and Zambia and seized 12 kg of heroin worth Rs. 78 crore from their possession in the last two days. Acting on a tip-off, DRI sleuths on Saturday intercepted an Ugandan woman when she came to the airport to collect her missing baggage. She had come to Hyderabad from Zambia via Johannesburg and Doha, a few days ago. The baggage was examined and found to have concealment in the sides. The powder was recovered and tested positive for presence of heroin. The drug was seized and the woman was arrested under the provisions of NDPS Act 1985. Further, in the little hours of Sunday, the officials intercepted a Zambian woman passenger who flew from Zambia via Johannesburg and Doha. “Detailed examination of her baggage resulted in recovery of off-white powder from beneath the pipe rolls, which was brought in the baggage. The substance tested positive for heroin,” the officials said. She was identified as Makumba Carol and was carrying eight kg of heroin. Heroin, an opioid derivative, is highly addictive. People inject, snort, or smoke heroin. People who regularly use heroin often develop a tolerance, which means that they need higher and/or more frequent doses of the drug to get the desired effects, the DRI official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2-african-women-nabbed-for-smuggling-heroin/article34747700.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Vaccines working, but social vaccine must for 6 months’||The devastating second wave of COVID-19 pandemic appears to be abating, but it does not mean reverting to our normal lifestyles, till a significant section of the population is fully vaccinated and scientists give the all-clear signal. Social vaccine comprising masks, distancing and hand hygiene should be scrupulously followed for the next six months, says former director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology and now adviser Rakesh Mishra in this exclusive interview. Excerpts:  We have been noticing fully-vaccinated persons getting infected and hospitalised too. Are our vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — working? Both vaccines are pretty good and the data is very strong [in their favour]. They are definitely avoiding severe symptoms or deaths. We should realise vaccines are 70-80% effective, which means 20-30% of those vaccinated are susceptible to any infection. But, these could be mild symptoms and need not require intensive hospital support. Of course, vaccination does not mean immortality! Do those vaccinated need to go for antibodies and other tests to check immunity levels? People should not be concerned with the antibodies count, Actually, it does not mean much because having a high count does not mean you are well protected or vice-versa. It has been established that we have cell based immunity within our body which comes into play and responds whenever a virus tries to break our protection system. But, if we allow the virus to play freely by disregarding face masks and allowing clustering of people, we will give scope for a variant to evolve even after vaccination which could breach the immune system. Are we doing any follow-up study post-vaccination? We are doing vaccine follow-up programmes and have already chosen fully-vaccinated volunteers for the exercise. This will go on for about two years. We cannot say if a booster dose will be necessary at this instance as it depends on new variants. But, first, we need to double dose our population as quickly as possible. What should the people do in the coming months till vaccination programme is completed? We have burnt our fingers enough so we have to be very careful and socially responsible. Face masking and social distancing should become part of our culture for the next few months, You can get married, but it needs just two individuals! Indoor spaces with poor ventilation should be avoided, be it offices, restaurants, bars or cinemas as you are taking a risk irrespective of your vaccination status. The 25%-50% capacity allowance in restaurants, theatres etc., is dangerous as it has been proven that even a single infected person can transmit the virus in the entire room, especially when there is not enough outside air circulation. Is it safe for fully vaccinated people to meet socially? We have to practise something like being in a bio-bubble. We can be sure with our immediate family for care they are taking but when any outsider/house-help comes, we have to put our mask on, as we are not sure where they have been moving around. Maintaining such precautions, you can meet others in COVID secure setting where there is plenty of free air circulation and physical distancing of one metre or more.  If we disregard masks and allow clustering of people, we will give scope for a variant to evolve even after vaccination which could breach the immune system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccines-working-but-social-vaccine-must-for-6-months/article34747681.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Historical pathway between Golconda Fort, Qutb Shahi Tombs to be restored||As the Telangana government plans to restore the historical connection between the Golconda Fort and the Qutb Shahi tombs, more evidence has surfaced to show how the two monuments were linked. A 1693 map in a Dutch travelogue shows the Patancheru Darwaza (then called Masjid Poorten) as the main entrance to the fort besides the Fateh Darwaza as the other important entrance. The doorway has a paired peacock pattern carved in stone like the one on Bala Hissar Darwaza. An 1880 photograph shot by Raja Deen Dayal with Fateh Rahbar cannon in the foreground also shows a small masjid between the Patancheru Darwaza and Qutb Shahi Tombs complex. An Archaeological Survey of India map from 1941 shows the Patancheru Darwaza as a direct path to the inner Golconda Fort. “The presence of the mosques on the east side makes me think that was the path of the old road. It may have been partially filled in, and the land should be examined by engineers carefully before building a road across the middle of it if that interpretation is correct. The historical road from the ‘Old Golconda’ settlement (as I have taken to calling it) to the early fort (in the Inner Fort area) then would have either run to the east or west side of that tank,” says Prof Robert Alan Simpkins of Porterville College. An old masjid with two mazaars dating from 1821 were restored by the community three years back after vandals tried to occupy it. But to restore the historical route, the State government will have to relocate a small settlement that has come up on the edge of the waterbody. “There were three lakes here but two have been filled in and only one is still there. In October 2020, the water entered our house up to knee level,” says Aruna Bai, a resident of the area asking for better amenities. The restored path will help make a better case for Telangana’s nomination for World Heritage Site status that has eluded Hyderabad for so long. It was in September, 2010 that India nominated ‘The Qutb Shahi Monuments of Hyderabad Golconda Fort, Qutb Shahi Tombs, Charminar’ for Unesco tag. But there has been limited progress. One of the criterion for Unesco Site status is: “To exhibit an important interchange of human values, over a span of time or within a cultural area of the world, on developments in architecture or technology, monumental arts, town-planning or landscape design.” A 2015 excavation in the Qutb Shahi Tombs complex had led to the discovery of a 3.25-metre-wide stone-floored pathway on the southern side of the necropolis. Historians say that the pathway was used to bring dead bodies from the fort to be buried in the necropolis. “Some of these mosques and tombs scattered in and outside the current Qutb Shahi Historic Park are not the remnants of outlying villages, but rather are all part of the original settlement at Golconda from the 16th century that extended from the pair of very early mosques hidden in the bushes, south of Neknampur Road, all the way perhaps to the cluster of mosques and tombs by Manikonda village,” says Prof Simpkins. Once the State government overcomes all hurdles to restore the historical pathway between the Golconda Fort and Qutb Shahi Tombs complex, visitors to the site will get a holistic experience. It may also make Hyderabad’s case for a heritage site, more strong.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-evidence-on-golconda-fort-qutb-shahi-tomb-link/article34747218.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Construction of Secretariat badly hit||The Roads and Buildings Department is hopeful of further relaxation in the restrictions in the coming days so that the ongoing construction works on the new integrated Secretariat complex which are affected by lockdown are carried out to meet the deadline. Launched in mid-November with a deadline of one year for handing over the fully constructed complex to the government, construction works suffered a setback after the onset of the second wave of the pandemic. With a section of workers contracting the virus, a major chunk of them left for their native villages and did not return. Senior officials said the Holi festival and recent elections in West Bengal were other reasons for the workers, engaged mostly from the northern parts of the country, to leave the city, and they did not return owing to the restrictions imposed. “Not even 25% of the more than 1,200 engaged are on site because of various reasons,” an official supervising the works told The Hindu . The contracting firm executing the works and the department are firm that only skilled workforce should be engaged in the works of the prestigious project that would become an icon for the State. “We could mobilise material like steel, cement and others in spite of lockdown. But, we are running short of skilled hands for taking up the works,” the official said. When asked as to why the contracting form was not mobilising the labour force available locally, he said people who left were skilled workers with expertise in various aspects of building construction. There is shortage of fabricators, carpenters and other skill sets. Senior officials said a major chunk of works pertaining to basement slab, a key component of the Rs. 616 crore project, have been completed. Reinforcement of steel for erection of pillars and other works are underway for expeditiously completing the balance works. They are however not confident that the construction of the iconic complex would be completed within the stipulated deadline unless the lockdown restrictions are eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construction-of-secretariat-badly-hit/article34747710.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR partners with city firm for clinical trial of COVID drug||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), in collaboration with Hyderabad based Laxai Life Sciences Pvt. Ltd., has initiated Phase-II clinical trial with anti-helminitic drug Niclosamide for treatment of COVID-19. The trial is a multi-centric, randomised, open label clinical study to evaluate efficacy, safety and tolerability of Niclosamide for the treatment of hospitalised patients. It was extensively used in the past for treatment of tapeworm’s infection in adults and children. The safety profile of this drug has been tested over time and has been found to be safe at different dose levels. CSIR Director-General Shekhar C. Mande expressed happiness over SEC recommendations to conduct the Phase II clinical trial using Niclosamide, which is generic, affordable and easily available in India and therefore can be made available to the population, said a press release on Sunday. Niclosamide was identified as a promising repurposed drug by research group from King’s College, London, which collaborated on this project, in a screen to identify drugs that can inhibit ‘syncytia’ or fused cells observed in lungs of patients with COVID formation and this drug was found to be inhibiting the formation, said adviser to D-G, Ram Vishwakarma. S. Chandrashekhar, director of CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, also based here, said the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) made by Laxai Life Sciences was based on improved technology developed at IICT and is a partner in this important clinical trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/csir-partners-with-city-firm-for-clinical-trial-of-covid-drug/article34747690.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Global tenders for COVID-19 vaccine draws a blank||Telangana government’s global e-tender to procure ten million COVID-19 vaccine doses drew a blank. Though two foreign companies have evinced interest till pre-bid meeting, it did not materialise into commercial bids. A teams from Russia’s Sputnik V and a UK team of AstraZenca participated in a virtual pre-bid meeting organised by the State government on May 27. “But the response did not materialise into commercial bids. Other States too did not receive commercial bids. The Government of India has to take the dialogue further, help States to procure the vaccine doses,” said a senior official from the government. The State’s Industries Minister KT Rama Rao, who is also heading COVID-19 Task Force, said on Sunday that the government’s global tenders did not evoke response. Twitter session During a Twitter session on #Letstalk vaccination on Sunday, Mr Rama Rao tweeted, “When the States reach out to vaccine manufacturers, they are clearly saying they would rather deal with one entity; Govt of India, who unfortunately seems to have no urgency to go for a global procurement & supply to all Indian States.” While the State government has been receiving the vaccines from Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India, the senior official said that the supply is less and would continue to be so till end of July. There are around 2.75 crore beneficiaries of vaccines in the State. And 5.5 crore doses are needed to give the jab twice. A little over 65.75 lakh received the vaccines until Sunday. The senior official said that the vaccines would be continued to be administered on priority basis. Currently, people at high-risk are being vaccinated in all districts. They are anticipating the supply to increase after July.  When States reach out to vaccine manufacturers, they are clearly saying that they would rather deal with one entity - Govt of India. K.T. Rama Rao, Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/global-tenders-for-covid-19-vaccine-draws-a-blank/article34747708.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rapid inoculation, precautions key to arrest any further wave’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday stated that rapid vaccination and social vaccine of wearing masks, observing social distancing and personal hygiene are the only ways to halt further COVID-19 waves in the country. “We need to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour not for the sake of police or in view of the government-induced restrictions but to protect our own families. The elderly, those with co-morbidities and children are especially vulnerable and need to be taken care of,” he said. Talking to the media after visiting various mass vaccination sites and places where essential commodities were being distributed by party workers in different parts of the city, he said the Centre had allotted about 82.5 lakh vaccine doses to Telangana. The State government procured about 4.5 lakh doses while private hospitals procured 11.75 lakh and the rest were supplied free by the Centre to vaccinate 45-plus residents under 50% distribution quota. “We have decentralised the vaccine procurement. Efforts are also on to get the necessary raw materials from abroad to increase our vaccine production to vaccinate the entire population by this year-end,” he claimed. The Centre has also supplied 1,440 ventilators to government hospitals here with 250 having been handed over to Gandhi Hospital alone while four of the proposed 19 oxygen plants have been running across Telangana with funds from ‘PM Cares’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rapid-inoculation-precautions-key-to-arrest-any-further-wave/article34747689.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vaccination drive for elderly, disabled in old age homes||After the high risk groups, the State government has launched a vaccination drive for the elderly and disabled staying in old age homes. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar visited the old age home at Bansilalpet on Sunday and inspected the vaccination centre set up for the elderly. He flagged off 24 mobile medical units that had been deployed to vaccinate the elderly and disabled staying in various old age homes in the GHMC limits. The mobile units were equipped with a doctor, pharmacist and ANM. The CS later inaugurated a vaccination centre at Union Bank of India (formerly Andhra Bank) regional office at Koti where the employees and their family members were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vaccination-drive-for-elderly-disabled-in-old-age-homes/article34747696.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Novel ideas will always find investors’||“Ideas are not chasing capitals; capitals are chasing ideas,” said Ninad Karpe, VC 100 X partner, while explaining the scope for start-ups and asked them to focus more on products with global appeal. He was speaking at the “WiseViews”, an interactive webinar series conducted by ICFAI Foundation for Higher Education (IFHE) for its MBA students and other prospective students. Mr. Karpe, who spoke on ‘Start-ups – from Ideation to Scaling’, shared his views on the current scenario of start-ups and its future in our country. His talk was laced with a nice presentation of short videos of some of the start-ups such as Dollarshave Club, Casper mattress, and Under Armour, among others. Explaining the nuances of start-ups, he said, “One should have the passion to grow rapidly and should aim to achieve sustainable growth over a period of time”. “Growth is critical than earning profits,” he added. He advised enthusiasts to think of a product that has a global appeal so that investors come forward to fund novel ideas. “Journey of a start-up is a journey of wealth, not income. Incubators, government policies are lined up now for founders to succeed in start-ups.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/novel-ideas-will-always-find-investors/article34747697.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Immunisation drive at HRC||Hyderabad Race Club chairman R. Surender Reddy inaugurated a vaccination drive on the club premises on Sunday. On his request, Covishield vaccine was given free of cost to the club by Cyrus S. Poonawalla, chairman and managing director of the Serum Institute of India. The first and the second shots were given to all the staff aged 18 years and above working at the Hyderabad Race Club. The club, through its charitable trust, donated ventilators, oxygen concentrators and other equipment worth Rs. 1.19 crore to NGOs, hospitals and organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/immunisation-drive-at-hrc/article34747694.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man stabs son-in-law to death||A 25-year-old youth was stabbed to death by his father-in-law at Falaknuma in Old City on Sunday afternoon. Police said that the victim, Salman, a resident of Mailardevpally, suffered severe stabbing injuries and died on the spot. As per the police, the accused, Mohammed Ghouse, who was taken into custody, killed Salman, as he was harassing his daughter for the past few weeks. Five months ago, an already-married Salman married Ghouse’s daughter, without informing the latter and other family members. Since then, Salman was harassing her. When Ghouse learnt about Salman’s behaviour, he hatched a conspiracy to eliminate him, and according to his plan, followed the victim and attacked him from behind around 12.45 p.m. on Sunday near Falaknuma bus depot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-stabs-son-in-law-to-death/article34747701.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Around 360 Mucormycosis surgeries in past 20 days||Around 360 surgeries on Mucormycosis patients have been performed at Government ENT Hospital, Koti, in the past 20 days. Doctors from three to four specialisations are involved in surgeries performed at the State-run facility between 8 am and 10 am every day. On a daily basis, 30-35 people with the fungal infection are operated on. The surgeries include Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery (FESS), FESS with orbital exenteration, FESS and Maxillectomy. Rush from mid-May Hundreds of Mucormycosis patients started to get admitted at the hospital from mid-May. Soon after, it was converted into the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection. Apart from ENT doctors from the hospital, anesthetists, opthalmologists from Eye Hospital, endocrinologists and nephrologists from Osmania General Hospital, as well as facio maxillary surgeons from Government Dental Hospital are working on deputation basis at the nodal centre, said Manish Gupta, associate professor at ENT Hospital. Hospital superintendent T. Shankar said that post surgery, they are shifting some patients to SD Eye Hospital to make space for more patients in need of emergency care. Those discharged are provided Posaconazole tablets for two to three months based on requirement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/around-360-mucormycosis-surgeries-in-past-20-days/article34747687.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Valedictory function at Navigation Training School||The graduating team of 100th Advance Navigation course comprising seven officers, including two from Indian Navy and one from Indian Coast Guard, as well as 132nd Ab-Initio Navigation course comprising seven flight cadets of Indian Air Force (IAF) and two officers one each from Sri Lankan Air Force and Nigerian Air Force, completed their respective training at the Navigation Training School (NTS), Air Force Station Begumpet. Deputy Director General NCC, AP and Telangana Region Air Commodore TSS Krishnan was the reviewing officer for the valedictory function. Station Commander Group Captain Sunil Tomar participated. Navigation Training School is a premier aerial navigation training institution of IAF transforming flight cadets to become navigators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/valedictory-function-at-navigation-training-school/article34747706.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Give details to AEOs for Rythu Bandhu’||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has asked farmers secured their pattadar passbooks for the first time by June 10 to contact the Agricultural Extension Offices (AEOs) concerned along with their passbook details and their bank account details for getting the Rythu Bandhu (investment support scheme) for this kharif (vanakalam) season. In a statement issued here on Sunday, the Minister stated that the AEOs were already told to collect the details of farmers who had secured pattadar passbook for the first time, along with the details of passbook and bank account. The farmers were required give copies of the pattadar passbook, bank account and Aadhaar card to the AEOs concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-details-to-aeos-for-rythu-bandhu/article34747707.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR launches 10-bed ICU initiative||Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao formally launched a 10-bed ICU initiative where ICUs with 10 beds are being set up in the districts to combat COVID cases in rural India and small towns. The Minister virtually launched the first critical care ICU unit started in Narayanpet district. The 10-Bed-ICU (10BedICU.org) is a PPP (private-public-partnership) project between the State government and a group of NGOs. The goal of the 10-Bed-ICU project is to cover every district in India with at least one 10-Bed-ICU facility. Mr. Rao and Vinod Khosla, founder partner, Khosla Ventures, USA., were the chief guests for the event. After the launch, Mr. Rao said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is according top priority to healthcare infrastructure in the State. He said in the last seven years, the government has added 1,600 ICU beds, apart from setting up five new medical colleges, while another 7 medical colleges are in the pipeline. He also highlighted that the Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad presently has one of the largest ICUs in the country with 600 beds. Mr. Rao promised his active support to the 10-Bed-ICU project to not only cover 33 district and secondary hospitals in Telangana but also to help take this initiative to the rest of the country.    Mr. Vinod Khosla said that he will further fund 100 more district hospitals with 10-Bed-ICU across the country.  He stressed the need for a technology platform and remote specialist assistance to help rural hospitals. Mahesh Bhagwat, Commissioner of Police, Rachakonda, extended his support for expanding the programme beyond Telangana. Srikanth Nadhamuni, co-founder of 10-Bed-ICU, said the programme consists of 10-Bed-ICU equipment donation, COVID Management Technology Platform and Doctor Connect programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-launches-10-bed-icu-initiative/article34747714.ece
07 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free admission for students who lost their parent to COVID||The MS Education Academy has announced free admission in their junior colleges to students who have lost their fathers to COVID. According to MS Education Academy chairman Mohammed Lateef Khan, students would have to bring relevant documents to show that their parent passed away after being infected. “A death certificate, an HRCT report, or even an RT-PCR positive test report will do. We reject discrimination, therefore, students, irrespective of religion and caste, will be given admission in any of our nine Intermediate colleges if they approach us,” Mr. Khan said. “No student should struggle for education. Free coaching for entrance tests will also be given to students,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-admission-for-students-who-lost-their-parent-to-covid/article34747703.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Asad bats for jab drive for Gulf job aspirants||Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday sought the intervention of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in organising a vaccination drive for those who have received job offers in Gulf countries. “Request @TelanganaCMO to hold spl vax camp for job visa holders, like it’s being done for students going abroad. ”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/asad-bats-for-jab-drive-for-gulf-job-aspirants/article34747704.ece
07 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor promotes green India (briefly)||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan planted saplings at the Raj Bhavan on the occasion of the World Environment Day. Rajya Sabha member and founder of Green India Challenge, Joginapally Santosh Kumar, also joined the Governor in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/governor-promotes-green-india-briefly/article34747718.ece
07 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Rain exposes shoddy work at R&R Colony||Come rainy season, the oustees of projects remain on tenterhooks. In the past it was Kondapochammasagar oustees while now it is Mallannasagar. On Saturday night, when an oustee (name concealed to protect identity) entered the washroom constructed under the steps of his house, it caved in and the hollowness poor quality of construction was totally exposed. Fearing something wrong, the family members used a crowbar to test the strength of the basement; it went down four feet without any hindrance. This has happened to one of the oustees of Pallepahad village rehabilitated in Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Mutrajpally. T. Krishna (name changed) was a native of Etigaddakishtapur in Toguta mandal. This village is going to submerge in Mallannasagar reservoir shortly. Along with some others in the village, he had shifted to the house allotted to his family at the R&R Colony located on the outskirts of Gajwel revenue divisional headquarters. On Wednesday night he had a bitter experience. Rain water entered into the house and he made a serious effort to clear the water outside the verandah. He also made some arrangement to ensure that rain water does not enter inside in the next rain. However, Kumar is not sure whether his effort is fruitful and has to wait for another rain. Several families in the submerging villages have already vacated and shifted to the newly built R&R Colony. Some other facilities are under progress and will be completed in the next few months. In a related development, landslips developed for Mallannasagar bund at Kolgur- Etigaddakishtapur road on Thursday. The villagers said that there was a huge rain the previous night and as a result the landslips were seen at several places. They wondered what will be the fate of the bund during rainy season if there will be heavy downpour. The officials have started repairing the bund immediately.  With the worst experiences by the oustees of Komdapochamma last year, the oustees of Mallannasagar are fearing that they may have to face serious problems during rainy season. “There are several problems being faced oustees at R&R Colony. They have left the villages and they cannot go back as their houses were already demolished by the officials thereby closing that option. Oustees were already warned that they may be deprived of the new house in case they make any complaint openly. Hence no one is coming forward to raise their voice unlike when in the villages. No option is left to them,” said another oustee, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-exposes-shoddy-work-at-rr-colony/article34747716.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||KTR comes out in support of Malayali nurses working in Delhi||Language is a strong emotion and Telangana knows it much better than anyone else given its role in the separate State agitation. No wonder, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao joined the fray in support of Malayali nurses in Delhi hospitals who have been directed by the Delhi government-run hospital not to converse in Malayalam but use English or Hindi. In a tweet, he described the directive as reeking of language chauvinism further adding that every Indian should have the right to converse in a language of their choice and no one should infringe on that basic right.   After the first and second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, officials are apparently worried over the talk of the third wave. Though there is still no confirmation of the sections which would be impacted in the third wave, the speculation that children would be affected is unnerving the Health Department machinery. The department is understood to have prepared a road map to combat the virus if it indeed strikes as third wave. Several key aspects should be factored in for advance preparations to effectively combat the virus and these include continuance of measures for avoiding the spread of the virus, availability of beds, required quantum of oxygen supplies and others.   With Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao convening a meeting of the State Council of Ministers on June 8, people are hopeful that the government will further relax the restrictions after June 9, the day when the current phase of the lockdown ends. The recent comments made by Minister K.T. Rama Rao on resumption of daily routine as soon as possible give credence to the speculation on lifting of the restrictions during the day time. Several sections of people, especially businesses, are suffering on account of the restricted timings during which people are allowed on the roads. Given the government’s assertion that the case load had come down significantly as also the case positivity rate, hopes are high on easing the restrictions at least during the day time so that majority of activities continue as usual.   The lapse of the latest spell of lockdown on June 9 is significant for one more reason. It was expected that the government will take a decision on conduct of Intermediate exams after that date. The Intermediate board has already proposed to the government that it was willing to conduct the exams from July 15 in the hope that COVID spread will come down by then. But, the government was biding time though the CBSE exams were cancelled. It was studying the course that other State governments would take for their own board exams of plus two. The decision on lockdown which would come at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday will probably have a bearing on conduct of exams in the State. (R. Ravikanth Reddy, M. Rajeev & N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-comes-out-in-support-of-malayali-nurses-working-in-delhi/article34747713.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Garage Sale||A brand new Beetel landline white colour phone just 2 months old in very good working condition well maintained Rs. 2,500. Contact Ch. Anand on cell no. 9121383238.   A 32 inch SONY LED TV purchased in 2016 and in a very good working condition. Expected price Rs. 12,000. Contact: K. Jagannathan on cell no. 9247179297.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/garage-sale/article34747695.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||A daily struggle for daily wagers||On a roadside in west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar, Inder Yadav, a 49-year-old construction worker, was dripping in sweat under the searing sun. His right hand is injured, he manages with half the wages he used to get in the past, yet he keeps plugging on so that he could feed his family. A resident of Bihar’s Samastipur, Inder, who lives in Vikas Nagar with his wife and four children, is a daily wager. Whether his children will get meals for the next two days depends on what he earns on a particular day. For over a month, he and his wife often fooled their children saying that the food they were eating was not just plain flour. “There were days when my wife made chapatis and to show children that there’s something to eat the chapati with, she would add water to wheat flour and tell them it is gram flour instead and that they were eating kadhi,” he says as he broke into tears. “There have been days when we ate only salt and chapati. Today, I’ve brought only chapatis and potato for lunch”. Inder used to get Rs. 800 as he is a construction repairman (mistry) but currently, he is being paid Rs. 400 a day for 10 hours of work. Labourers working with him are getting Rs. 300 as opposed to Rs. 600 they earlier used to get. More workers, less work  “If we don’t agree to work, he will get someone else. There are so many labourers at the chowks looking for work. There are more workers and less work right now. At least with this money, I can ensure that my children don’t sleep hungry or cut down on any meal,” he says, adding that milk, curd and vegetables are a luxury these days. Grocery store owner refused to give ration on credit despite Inder’s children pleading with him, he adds. Adding to his mental woes, he got injured during work. He twisted his right hand while lifting a heavy stone. But he is not thinking of taking leave. “I cannot afford to take any off. Someone else will be hired in my place,” he says. The impact of the crisis is not limited to food. The family owns one smartphone, which was bought during last year’s lockdown for children’s online classes. And now, Inder doesn’t have money to recharge the phone. They only hope that they’re able to manage once school reopens after summer vacations. Working with Inder was Jagdish Kumar (28) and Bablu Kumar (28), both from Uttar Pradesh and residents of Hastsal Village in the Capital. They are working for Rs. 300 per day, half of what they used to get. Their reasons remain the same as Inder – fear of losing work. Woes piling on  Adding to his misery, Jagdish lost his mother 15 days ago. It saddened him even more that he didn’t have the money to manage the expenses of last rites. But thankfully, his landlord helped him. “We have been lucky. He is a good man. He ensured all of us were fed two meals a day irrespective of money. He also helped with my mother’s last rites,” Jagdish says. His wife gave birth to their daughter nine months ago and while they need nutritious food, they could only manage with “dal roti”. For Bablu, this lockdown meant adding debt which he already owed to his landlord. “I have a debt of Rs. 25,000 from last year’s lockdown and our house rent is Rs. 3,500 a month. If I don’t pay Rs. 5,000 to the owner, he threatens to levy interest. Nobody understands,” he laments. Cooked meals were provided in schools last year but that is not the case this time around. “Kabhi kabhi jab log khana bantte hain to hum bhi line main lag jaate hain [Sometimes when people distribute food, we also stand in queue],” says Bablu. At a construction site in Mayapuri Industrial Area, Dharampal (23) has just returned from his village in Uttar Pradesh with his wife and a 10-month-old daughter. Living in the jhuggis close to the construction site, he had left the Capital on May 15 and returned on May 31. “There was no work. The contractor gave us money for dry ration but then he deducts that money from our daily wages now. We thought it is better to leave,” recounts Dharampal, who left for his village on top of a bus after paying Rs. 1,206 for two tickets. However, there has been no reduction in Dharampal’s daily wages before and after lockdown. He used to get Rs. 400 a day and continues to do so. For women, though, it’s Rs. 350 a day. Hopeful wait  At Tilak Nagar Labour Chowk, a crowd of daily wagers wait and peer at everycar passing by with hopeful eyes. Thinking that someone approaches them for work, most of them arrive at 8 a.m. and leave by 4 p.m., often after finding no work. While most said they need to show a unified front and not settle for less than Rs. 500 a day, a few bowed down in the face of penury. “Jise zaroorat hai woh Rs. 250 main bhi kar raha hai [The one who needs is also doing it for Rs. 250 a day],” said Abhishek Singh (32), who dishes out Rs. 3,000 per month for rent in a cluster nearby. “Two days ago, I worked for Rs. 300 a day for painting at a construction site. What to do? If I’d said no, I wouldn’t have been able to take flour and pulses back home. My wife and children were waiting,” he added. No rent respite  Most labourers said their landlords continued charging rent. For two days, 24-year-old Ravi says, he lifted debris from construction sites to make money. He used to work in a private showroom in Subhash Nagar as support staff but the showroom, which shut due to the lockdown last year, has not reopened. “I used to get Rs. 10,000 and it was a private job. I never thought I’ll have to go back to labour work,” he says, adding that he is worried for his daughter’s education because he doesn’t own a smartphone and has informed the school that he can’t afford it. “They ask me to take help from landlord but who will give their phone for hours? Thankfully, they have not struck my daughter’s name from school”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-daily-struggle-for-daily-wagers/article34747669.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||21 arrested as police bust illegal call centre racket||The Delhi police have arrested 21 people after busting an illegal international call centre in west Delhi’s Naraina. The accused used to allegedly dupe U.K.-based citizens by posing as revenue and custom officials of that country, the police said on Sunday. The employees at the call centre in Naraina Industrial Area approached U.K.-based citizens through phone service over the Internet (VoIP) and posed as HMRC (Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, United Kingdom) officials. They then duped them claiming that discrepancies were found in the audit of their income tax. The police said the call centre was raided on June 3 after information was received by Naraina SHO Sameer Srivastva, following which a team was constituted and 21 employees at the centre, including a floor manager, two supervisors and 14 agents were nabbed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Urvija Goel said, “During interrogation, it was revealed that these fraudsters were using illegal techniques, VOIP calling, by-passing the legal International Long Distance (ILD) gateways and thus, causing loss to government exchequer.” On pretext of I-T frauds “They used costly softwares and cheated U.K.-based citizens on the pretext of I-T frauds and violations of government regulations by posing as HMRC officials of the U.K.” These fraudsters are suspected to have links abroad who helped them by providing data of international citizens and also assisted them with international payment gateways, she said. “Investigation of the case is in progress. Data of recovered mobile phones of the accused and banking transactions of the accused’s accounts are being analysed to connect the people involved in the nexus,” Ms. Goel said. The police have recovered 34 computers along with accessories, optical fibre routers, LAN servers, Wi-Fi routers, Wi-Fi-switches, mobile phones, incriminating evidence of foreign payment gateways, fraud bank accounts and data of lakhs of U.K. taxpayers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/21-arrested-as-police-bust-illegal-call-centre-racket/article34747670.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Pay a year’s emoluments to kin of missing officer’||The Delhi High Court has expressed displeasure at the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for not releasing commensurate financial assistance to the family members of an officer, who has been missing since his car fell into a deep gorge and rolled into the fast-flowing Drass river on the Zojila-Kargil-Leh road last year. “The BRO appears to feel no pain whatsoever for the families of the personnel employed,” a Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Amit Bansal said, pointing at the meagre Rs. 40,000 released to the family of the missing 27-year-old officer. It directed the BRO to release — on or before June 15 — a sum equivalent to one year’s emoluments of the officer to the parents for the period since he went missing. The parents, in their plea, said their son Shabir Ali was employed as an Assistant Executive Engineer (Civil) in the Border Roads Engineering Service and was deployed for monitoring the casual paid labour (CPL) quarantine camp at Minamarg in Leh. On June 22, 2020, the vehicle in which he was travelling fell into the gorge. Nothing is known about him and his body has not been recovered till now. The parents have urged the court for a direction to the government to find their missing son and to direct the BRO to provide financial assistance to them. The parents said prior to the filing of the petition, they received only Rs. 40,000 from the BRO. When the petition came up first before the court on April 15, 2021, the BRO was directed to take a decision and pay whatever amount was deemed appropriate to the family within four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/pay-a-years-emoluments-to-kin-of-missing-officer/article34747663.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||Wife held for killing man over ‘illicit affairs’||A 31-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly killing her husband as she suspected him of having illicit relationships with other women in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar, the police said on Sunday. The woman, identified as Bhuvneshwari Devi alias Pinky, also alleged that her 35-year-old husband Anil Sahu, who ran a placement agency, often used to beat her, they said. In order to get rid of him, she along with one Raj, with whom she was also having an affair, hatched a conspiracy to kill him and later tried to mislead investigators by narrating a fake story, the police said. They said that the accused, Raj, has been absconding and raids are being conducted to nab him. Sahu’s body was found with multiple injuries at his home on June 3. During enquiry, his wife had told the police that he was killed by two unknown people who had come to meet him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/wife-held-for-killing-man-over-illicit-affairs/article34747665.ece
07 June 2021||Washington,||Ahead of summit with Putin, Biden backs European allies||The U.S. will stand with its European allies against Russia, President Joe Biden has promised ahead of the first face-to-face meeting with Vladimir Putin. Mr. Biden will head to Europe on Wednesday, and is set to attend both the G-7 and NATO summits as well as holding a high-stakes meeting with the Russian leader in Geneva on June 16. The summit comes amid the biggest crisis in ties between the two countries in years, with tensions high over a litany of issues including hacking allegations, human rights and claims of election meddling. In an op-ed for the Washington Post published on Saturday, the U.S. President promised to shore up Washington’s “democratic alliances” in the face of multiple crises and mounting threats from Moscow and Beijing. “We are standing united to address Russia’s challenges to European security, starting with its aggression in Ukraine, and there will be no doubt about the resolve of the U.S. to defend our democratic values, which we cannot separate from our interests,” he wrote. “President Putin knows that I will not hesitate to respond to future harmful activities,” he said. “When we meet, I will again underscore the commitment of the United States, Europe and like-minded democracies to stand up for human rights and dignity.” Since taking office in January, Mr. Biden has ramped up pressure on the Kremlin, and his comments likening Mr. Putin to a “killer” were met with fierce criticism in Moscow. But both leaders have expressed hopes that relations can improve, with the Russian President saying on Friday he expected a “positive” result from the talks. Mr. Biden in his weekend op-ed also stressed that Washington “does not seek conflict” — pointing to his recent extension of the New START arms reduction treaty as proof of his desire to reduce tensions. “We want a stable and predictable relationship where we can work with Russia on issues like strategic stability and arms control,” he wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ahead-of-summit-with-putin-biden-backs-european-allies/article34747150.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Online group digs deeper into coronavirus leak theory||When it was proposed about a year ago, the theory of an original lab leaked virus was dismissed as a mere conspiracy theory. A year later, that theory is back in the reckoning, teased out of its conspiratorial hues, and summoned into the limelight through a method at the same time, most unconventional in its approaches, and conventional in its due diligence. When U.S. President Joe Biden ordered a probe into the origin of the SARS-COV-2 virus last week, it was thanks in large measure to circumstantial evidence dug up by a unique group of investigators communicating entirely via Twitter threads. Calling themselves DRASTIC, Decentralized Radical Autonomous Search Team Investigating COVID-19, a group of amateurs decided to sniff the lab leak theory to the ground. One of its members, based in India, also fancifully calls himself the ‘The Seeker’, as a definition of what he brought to the motley group of investigators who came together on Twitter. Probe further, and he reveals a “science background, with a mix of architectural, entrepreneurial, filmmaking and teaching experience.” The others on the team are also apparently engineers and business people. ‘Billy Bostickson’ — yet another pseudonym — was reportedly responsible for steering conversations The anonymity some of them have harks back the focus on to the most important aspect of DRASTIC — its revelations. For over a year, the team has been inspired to dive deep online to build a body of evidence that would establish that there was enough there at least for a professional investigation into the origins of the virus that has held the world at ransom. As for The Seeker, in an email interview, he says that he did not consciously go out to get the lab leak angle. “I’d say, curiosity got the best of me. Like most people I once assumed it was a natural zoonosis, but reading some articles and papers last year (Yuri’s Medium piece, Rossana’s researchgate paper, Botao Xiao’s paper, Metzl’s blog, Sirotkin’s blog, Khaled’s Tabletmag article, and the project evidence github page) made me question my assumptions, and I started drifting towards researching the lab origin theory.” Primary sources And once he got in, however, it was literally a journey down a rabbit hole, for him. “The more I researched the more I got pulled into researching it further. And meeting DRASTIC people, got me to dedicate myself even more carefully to tracing and reading all primary sources that dealt with Wuhan Institute of Virology and Wuhan CDC,” The Seeker explains. The evidence that DRASTIC has painstakingly pieced together points to the possible collection of the virus sample from a mineshaft associated with an incident where miners died of a pneumonia like infection, back in 2012. This involved translating several scientific papers from China translated roughly on Google, and using DNA sequences to compare viruses. “At the broad conceptual level, I see DRASTIC as a collaborative use of Twitter to complete a big jigsaw puzzle,” The Seeker says. It seems all the information was brought together in a Twitter chatroom, and resolved, through chats, sharing, and arguments, finally crystallising into Twitter threads that began to grab the attention of scientists of renown. The amplification of that theory post that took its own form, and a year down the line, DRASTIC had teased the premise out again, this time bolstered with a bunch of documents that got the world thinking again. “DRASTIC benefited immensely from the participation of scientists. They made a huge contribution to the discourse, and they conveyed the findings in a much better way than we could have otherwise…. it’s heartening to see that our work is being increasingly taken seriously by science and the media.” An an official origin probe will lead its own investigation into the theory of the leak of the virus from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, the seekers of the truth at DRASTIC do not think their work is done.“Well, I am certainly hopeful that we’ll get to the truth one day. But honestly, at this moment I’m not sure — a proper investigation hasn’t even begun.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/online-group-digs-deeper-into-coronavirus-leak-theory/article34747158.ece
07 June 2021||Vatican City,||Pained over Canada school deaths: Pope||Pope Francis on Sunday expressed his pain over the discovery in Canada of the remains of 215 Indigenous students of church-run boarding schools and pressed religious and political authorities to shed light on “this sad affair.” But he didn’t offer the apology sought by the Canadian Prime Minister. Pope Francis, in remarks to faithful gathered in St. Peter’s Square, also called on the authorities to foster healing but made no reference to PM Justin Trudeau’s insistence, two days earlier, that the Vatican apologize and take responsibility. From the 19th century until the 1970s, more than 1,50,000 Indigenous children were forced to attend state-funded Christian schools, the majority of them run by Roman Catholic missionary congregations, in a campaign to assimilate them into Canadian society. The Canadian government has admitted that physical and sexual abuse was rampant in the schools, with students beaten for speaking their native languages. Ground-penetrating radar was used to confirm the remains of the children at the Kamloops Indian Residential School in Kamloops, British Columbia, last month. The school was Canada’s largest such facility and was operated by the Catholic Church between 1890 and 1969. “I am following with pain the news that arrives from Canada about the upsetting discovery of the remains of 215 children,” Pope Francis said in his customary Sunday remarks to the public. “I join with the Canadian bishops and the entire Catholic Church in Canada in expressing my closeness to the Canadian people traumatized by the shocking news,’’ Francis said. ”This sad discovery adds to the awareness of the sorrows and sufferings of the past,” he added. Mr. Trudeau on Friday blasted the church for being “silent” and “not stepping up,″ and called on it to formally apologize and to make amends for its prominent role in his nation’s former system of church-run Indigenous boarding schools. He noted that when he met with Pope Francis at the Vatican in 2017, he had asked him to ”move forward on apologizing” and on making records available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pained-over-canada-school-deaths-pope/article34747156.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal Deputy PM stirs controversy with demand for ‘multi-nation state’||Newly appointed Deputy Prime Minister of Nepal Rajendra Mahato has kicked up a controversy soon after taking over on Saturday, saying he is committed to building a ‘multi-nation state’. Mr. Mahato is one of the three Deputy Prime Ministers (Raghuvir Mahaseth and Bishnu Prasad Paudel are the other two) appointed by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, who reshuffled his Cabinet this weekend. “We remain committed to building an alternative power and will safeguard identity and rights of our people. As long as we are in power, we will pursue good governance. We will prepare for a nationwide movement to set up multi-nation state in Nepal,” said Mr. Mahato. He is one of the pioneers of the Madhesi movement which has been demanding greater rights for the people of the plains. The comment drew quick criticism on social media, with many accusing Mr. Mahato of trying to play divisive politics. CPN-UML leader Yogesh Bhattarai urged Prime Minister Oli to advise his ministerial colleagues to exercise restrain while making public comments. A protest was organised on Saturday by the All Nepal National Free Students Union (ANNFSU) that demanded Mr. Oli to step down over the comments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nepal-deputy-pm-stirs-controversy-with-demand-for-multi-nation-state/article34747160.ece
07 June 2021||London,||‘Delta variant 40% more transmissible’||Britain’s Health Secretary on Sunday said the delta variant, which is fast becoming the dominant coronavirus variant in the U.K., is 40% more transmissible compared to the country’s existing strains. Matt Hancock acknowledged on Sunday that the rise in delta variant cases may delay the government’s plan to lift most remaining lockdown restrictions on June 21. He also said he wouldn’t rule out continuing measures, such as face masks in public settings and working from home where possible. On Friday, the country recorded 6,238 new coronavirus cases, the highest number since late March. The figure came down to 5,765 on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/delta-variant-40-more-transmissible/article34747161.ece
07 June 2021||Kano,||Nigeria attack toll rises to 88, say police||Police in northwest Nigeria’s Kebbi state said on Sunday that the death toll from an attack by a gang of cattle thieves on seven villages on Thursday had risen to 88. The region has struggled with decades-long communal clashes over resources but more recently some groups have become more violent, looting, killing and kidnapping for ransom. “Initially 66 bodies were recovered but 22 more have been found,” Kebbi state police spokesman Nafiu Abubakar said, adding that the search for more bodies was ongoing. Dozens of assailants on motorcycles attacked seven neighbouring villages in Danko-Wasagu district on Thursday, Mr. Abubakar said. Many people were still unaccounted for Sunday after fleeing the attacks. “The search is still going on and more bodies could be found,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nigeria-attack-toll-rises-to-88-say-police/article34747151.ece
07 June 2021||Herat,||11 killed as bomb hits Afghan bus||At least 11 civilians including four women and three children were killed when a roadside bomb struck a bus in Afghanistan, officials said on Sunday, as top U.S. negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad visited Kabul. The latest attack targeting passenger vehicles occurred on Saturday evening in Badghis, raising fears of fresh violence in the months ahead as the U.S. military continues to pull out its remaining troops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/11-killed-as-bomb-hits-afghan-bus/article34747152.ece
07 June 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka recovers black box from ship||A black box from a container ship sinking off Sri Lanka was recovered but a dive on Sunday to check for oil leaks had to be aborted, the Navy said. The Voyage Data Recorder, also known as a maritime “black box”, was found intact and is expected to help investigators review procedures and instructions ahead of an accident. The Navy said divers were deployed for a third time on Sunday to examine the fuel tanks of MV X-Press Pearl , but they were unable to carry out their mission due to poor visibility and choppy seas. Sri Lankan authorities hope the black box will provide details of the ship’s movements and its communications with the harbour in Colombo, where it had been due to dock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-recovers-black-box-from-ship/article34747159.ece
07 June 2021||SANTA BARBARA,||US--Britain-Meghan-and-Harry||Prince Harry and Meghan Markle announced on Sunday the birth of their daughter Lilibet Diana, who was born in California after a year of turmoil in Britain’s royal family. “Lili is named after her great-grandmother, Her Majesty The Queen, whose family nickname is Lilibet. Her middle name, Diana, was chosen to honour her beloved late grandmother, The Princess of Wales,” the couple announced in a statement.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-britain-meghan-and-harry/article34747154.ece
07 June 2021||LAGOS,||AF--Nigeria-Obit-Preacher Joshua||A popular but controversial Nigerian evangelical preacher, T.B. Joshua, has died, his church said on Sunday. The 57-year-old founder of The Synagogue Church of All Nations was one of Africa's most influential preachers with millions of television and social media followers, but YouTube and Facebook took him to task over content deemed violent.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/af-nigeria-obit-preacher-joshua/article34747157.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The red flags on the trail of the virus||The publication of science writer, editor, and author Nicholas Wade’s well-researched article in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The origin of COVID: Did people or nature open Pandora’s box at Wuhan?” (https://bit.ly/3uWUxMI), has  set alarm bells ringing about the collusive cover up of the possible leak of the novel coronavirus from the Wuhan Institute of Virology (WIV). He has laid out a strong case for a fuller investigation into the event.  The U.S. link China promoted the narrative that the virus spread from a wet market (seafood and animal market) in Wuhan to avoid any scrutiny of what was being done in the WIV. Senior health officials in the United States seemed to concur. It soon became public that the coronavirus-related research in the WIV was funded by American money. Most experts embraced the natural spread narrative since the alternative was unimaginable. The lab-leak proposition was discredited as a conspiracy theory simply because it was being espoused by then U.S. President Donald Trump and his Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo. With advances in biotechnology, it is now possible to genetically engineer existing pathogens to make them more lethal and difficult to treat. Higher mortality and ethnic specificity could be the other features of such new, synthesised organisms or viruses. A possible antidote or vaccine would only be accessible to those conducting such research. Dr. Peter Daszak of the EcoHealth Alliance obtained grants from the U.S. National Institutes of Health and subcontracted research to a group headed by Dr. Shi Zhengli at the WIV. Dr. Daszak claimed in a 2019 interview that after six or years of research, over 100 new SARS-related coronaviruses, some of which were introduced into human cells in the lab, caused SARS disease in humanised mice and were untreatable. The research carried out involved the creation of novel, life-threatening and pandemic-creating viruses. The WIV operates a Biosafety level-4 (BSL-4) facility. Its deficient safety had been flagged by U.S. inspectors, but there is no record of any remedial action. A 2018 inspection report stated that the facility did not have appropriately trained professionals to safely operate the BSL-4 laboratory (https://wapo.st/3gbHkKJ). A former Israeli intelligence official and visiting fellow at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, Dany Shoham, now with the Bar Ilan University, Israel, has linked the WIV to China’s biological weapons programme (https://bit.ly/3gb1XH3). Why were American funds made available to a Chinese laboratory to conduct sensitive research? No doubt because it was less expensive and dangerous to carry out the experiments in China. Besides, U.S. funding ensured it would have access to the experiments conducted at the WIV. In a recently released email (https://bit.ly/3co8Xzb), Dr. Daszak thanked the Director of the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, for publicly stating that scientific evidence supported a natural origin for the coronavirus and not a lab release. China’s reactions Admittedly, it is difficult to distinguish between a naturally occurring event, an accidental release of a genetically modified pathogen, or its deliberate use. Because of this and the lingering suspicions, it is the responsibility of the institution and the country where the first outbreak occurred to establish the facts. China has done the opposite. It has covered up facts and impeded the investigation. A 34-year-old doctor in Wuhan, Li Wenliang, tried to alert others on a social media platform from his hospital bed in Wuhan about a possible outbreak of a SARS-type virus. Instead of treating the young doctor as a hero, Chinese security officials vilified him and charged him with making false claims, spreading rumours, and disturbing the social order. He died as a result of a coronavirus infection. While he was officially exonerated by an investigation into his death, the report has been criticised for only having recommended the reprimand be withdrawn. There are also other reports of the police making an apology to his family. The WIV head of coronavirus research, Shi Zhengli’s database on SARS-like viruses went offline just before the virus outbreak in Wuhan. Countries demanding greater transparency and accountability have been either denounced or ‘punished’ by China. China’s vehement opposition to further investigations, actions to suppress facts from getting out, and reluctance to share data only fuel the suspicion that China has something to hide. The release of the findings of the World Health Organization (WHO) on March 30 — and revised on April 6 (https://bit.ly/3fVDuGH) — on the origins of the SARS-CoV-2 virus (coronavirus) that dismissed the lab-leak as “extremely unlikely” actually energised the controversy instead of laying it to rest. Subsequently, the WHO Director-General, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, called for further studies on the virus origins and said that all hypotheses remained on the table, dismissing the earlier findings as non-definitive. The WHO findings were tainted because Dr. Daszak, a self-declared partisan of the natural occurrence theory and with a personal financial stake in the WIV experimentation, was included in the inquiry team (https://nyti.ms/3uXFZN9). Together with a group of fellow virologists, Dr. Daszak had already declared in February that they stood together to “strongly condemn conspiracy theories” suggesting that the virus did not have a natural, zoonotic origin (https://bit.ly/3w9o07y). Including him in the WHO investigation team was akin to having a suspect investigate the crime scene. It is unlikely that U.S. President Joe Biden’s call to the U.S. intelligence community (https://bit.ly/3clSoEd) — “to collect and analyse information that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report back to me in 90 days” — will result in a smoking gun being found. Unfortunately, the available evidence that is scant will compromise a credible forensic examination. Any determination of what went wrong will necessarily be circumstantial. Present and future dangers That the coronavirus escaped from the WIV is in fact increasingly plausible. Whether this was a negligent or wilful act can never be proven, but it is evident that the research at the WIV — bioengineering more lethal coronavirus variants — crossed ethical boundaries. The 1972 Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BWC) — formerly known as the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapons and on their Destruction — has no systems to verify compliance with its prohibitions, nor any enforcement mechanisms to penalise infringement of its provisions. These shortcomings have been repeatedly highlighted in the five-yearly Review Conferences of the BWC, but the state parties to the BWC have been unable to agree on any measures to address them, thus compromising on biosecurity and wilful breaches of the Convention. Smallpox and other viruses have escaped from secure laboratories before. Public knowledge is that the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, and the Russian State Research Center of Virology and Biotechnology, Koltsovo, are now the only two “official” repositories of smallpox spores, but there have been persistent fears that these have been disseminated, and certain countries are experimenting with genetically modifying them. Smallpox was deadly enough. Its ‘improved’ version might be devastating. The coronavirus research conducted in the WIV for years is an example of science that has run amok, without ethical restraints or any code of conduct for the scientists, who appear to be bereft of any accountability. Such action threatens the very existence of humankind. This is why China’s role requires closer scrutiny. Jayant Prasad is a former diplomat and a former Director-General of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-red-flags-on-the-trail-of-the-virus/article34747136.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Behavioural change can reduce transmission||Most of us in India will agree that there are two large parts to this pandemic: medical science and human behaviour. Universal vaccination will reduce infections, but with vaccine availability currently challenging, ‘herd immunity’ is still many months, if not years, away. Lack of physical distancing and proper hand washing are among the reasons for daily new infections. But the biggest reason for the surge is that people are wearing masks inconsistently, incorrectly, or not at all. Data from a global survey of COVID-19 knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) produced by the Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs show that from July 2020 to March 2021, India saw a 5% drop in mask wearing. In the two-week period starting on March 15, 84% reportedly wore masks. However, the number varied sub-nationally and it was not measured whether the mask wearing was correct or consistent. Nevertheless, this is discouraging. While there will always be a minority who do not believe in the virus, masks or vaccines, a great majority would like to do what it takes to put this pandemic behind us. Relying solely on medical science, especially treatment, takes the agency away from the average people to act. Channels for communication With behavioural data and strategic approaches, resources can be more efficiently used in reaching different audience segments with information through the channels they trust. Here are seven ways, rooted in behavioural science, that we can employ to improve mask wearing and other COVID-19 prevention measures. First, we all need basic information on why masks are effective in preventing COVID-19 transmission. We also need to know who should wear them, when and where. We need clarity on what types of masks are most effective, how to wear a mask correctly, and when is it important to double mask. The COVID-19 KAP survey shows that scientists and health experts are the most trusted sources of information on COVID-19, followed by the World Health Organization, television, newspapers, radio, and local health workers. These trusted channels should be used together to share basic information. As new information becomes available that is different from, or that adds to, the baseline information that people have, it should be shared with everyone in a comprehensive and timely way. We should not discount or put down people’s beliefs or misconceptions, but counter them with credible facts (Limaye, Sauer 2021). Addressing those barriers creatively through expert testimonials, infographics and statistics that explain how masks have prevented infection transmission is important. Second, not everyone has the same information needs. Some don’t believe that masks prevent COVID-19 infection whereas some know and agree that masks do prevent infection but don’t wear them consistently or correctly for various reasons. Communication to each group of people should be tailored accordingly. Generic messages saying ‘wear your mask’ can only serve as reminders at best; they will not help someone who, say, only wears a mask when she decides that she is in a risky situation. For that person, the message should convince her that any situation outside the home can pose a COVID-19 risk and that masking up any time you leave your house is critical. Third, we need to communicate the benefits of mask wearing. We need to highlight stories that show how COVID-19 infections are low among communities where mask wearing is high. Sharing testimonials from people who wear masks regularly and explaining how they have managed to avoid getting infected could help. Making masks a symbol of being cool (for the image-conscious), a sign of being considerate and respectful (for people who have elders and vulnerable people at home), and a badge of being smart (for those who want to protect themselves) could all be ways of reaching out to different kinds of people. Positive social norm Fourth, we need to create a positive social norm around mask wearing. People are more likely to practise a behaviour if they believe that everyone else is also doing it too. Each audience segment has its own influencers, whether in their community or in the media. Those influencers should be routinely seen wearing a mask or heard talking about it. Advertisements, messages and visuals all positively reinforce mask wearing. Fifth, we need to enforce correct and consistent mask wearing. Many people do not follow proper masking behaviour because there is no consequence for their inaction. We rely only on the police to enforce mask wearing. While that is needed, we should all take collective responsibility. We need language that shows us how to politely tell an unmasked or poorly masked community member to wear a mask. If each of us can influence the people around us, the positive multiplier effect of wearing masks will be significant in curbing infections. Sixth, we need compassionate leadership. Leaders, at every level, can play a positive or negative role in influencing our behaviour. From the head of a family to the head of a country, leaders have to lead with empathy, and build and hold the trust of the people they lead. Religion, politics and profit have no role when we are in such a dire situation. These leaders should themselves consistently convey and enact positive behaviours like mask wearing and vaccinations. The role of media Seventh, we need responsible media. If fear of the threat (COVID-19 in this case) is stronger than our perception that we can do something about it, we will ignore the threat rather than trying to address it (EPPM, Witte et al. 1992). We look to the media for brave and honest reporting and there have been some great examples of that during the pandemic. However, when many channels sow more panic than positivity, the audience grows numb. People feel that there may be no point in them doing anything if it is all doom and gloom anyway. In their helplessness, people indiscriminately share information, misinformation and disinformation on social media. We need sections of the media to hold themselves to a high standard and report on much more than just burning pyres, struggling hospitals, the oxygen crisis and vaccine and drug shortages. When we see uplifting and inspiring stories of prevention efforts, ideas and innovations to promote masking, distancing and vaccination, we will feel inspired to do our bit for prevention. If we want to finish this year being able to celebrate festivals, hug our loved ones and enjoy a real holiday, we need to invest in a comprehensive, behavioural approach to address COVID-19 behaviour. While no expense is being spared in engaging the best scientific experts from around the world to address questions and explain the pandemic, the human behavioural aspect has only been addressed in an ad hoc manner. Understanding, predicting and shaping human behaviour is a science too. Indeed, it is the less expensive way of digging ourselves out of the hole we are currently in. Uttara Bharath Kumar is a Senior Technical Advisor for Social and Behaviour Change at the Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs which is part of the Bloomberg School of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/behavioural-change-can-reduce-transmission/article34747146.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Embedded in Ambedkar’s historiography||Published in London in July 1879, The Light of Asia by Sir Edwin Arnold, a poem on the life and teachings of the Buddha, contributed greatly to the international community’s knowledge of Buddhism and also played an important role in India’s cultural awakening and social transformation. Jairam Ramesh highlights the influence it had on the subcontinent’s leaders from Swami Vivekananda, Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru to Dr. B.R. Ambedkar. An excerpt from The Light of Asia: The Poem that Defined the Buddha , the biography of an epic poem written in blank verse:  Edwin Arnold was a quintessential Victorian in every way. A remarkable polyglot, he was conversant in Greek, Latin, Arabic, Turkish, French, German, Japanese, Hebrew, Persian, Sanskrit and Marathi. For about forty years he was a leader writer for London’s newspaper The Daily Telegraph . He was a firm believer in the civilising mission of the British Empire, but he was also at the same time an ardent Indophile. So far, Arnold had written a two-volume study of Lord Dalhousie as Viceroy. He had published translations of two very well-known Indian literary classics. In addition, he had brought out a number of original poems on Indian themes. But in 1879 he would hit the jackpot as it were and bring out the blockbuster that would reverberate across the world. The Buddha was very much in the air, what with Rhys Davids, Max Mueller himself and Madame Blavatsky having generated up great interest in him. It was natural for a man of Arnold’s background and inclinations to be drawn into writing something on this theme. The title page reads thus: The Light of Asia or The Great Renunciation (Mahabhinishkramana) being the Life and Teaching of Gautama Prince of India and Founder of Buddhism (as told in verse by an Indian Buddhist). So, from the beginning, it is clear that Arnold has adopted a novel technique: the life, character and philosophy of Prince Gautama of India, the founder of Buddhism, are being depicted ‘by the medium of an imaginary Buddhist votary’. He does this because, as he says: to appreciate the spirit of Asiatic thoughts, they should be regarded from the Oriental point of view; and neither the miracles which consecrate this record nor the philosophy which it embodies, could have been otherwise so naturally produced. Clearly, the two-year stint at Poona College had left an indelible imprint on Arnold. In his preface he says that he wants to elucidate on Nirvana, Dharma, Karma and other chief features of Buddhism (like the doctrine of Transmigration), saying that it was his firm conviction that a ‘third of mankind would never have been brought to believe in blank abstractions, or in Nothingness as the issue and crown of Being’. He was taking the orthodox Christian critics head-on. The Light of Asia was in ‘eight books of blank verse, with some five or six hundred lines in each’. Impact on Ambedkar The biggest political event of 1956 and indeed amongst the biggest ever in twentieth-century Indian history was the conversion of Dr Ambedkar to Buddhism, with lakhs of his followers, on 14 October of that year. Dr Ambedkar had had a long engagement with Buddha and Buddhism and the event came as no surprise. I tried to find out whether The Light of Asia had ever figured in his life. That Dr Ambedkar was very familiar with Arnold’s work is evident from the fact that he had two copies of it in his personal library, now at Siddharth College in Mumbai. But did The Light of Asia have any impact on Dr Ambedkar? Here is what Akshay Singh Rathore, a noted scholar, had to say on this subject when I asked him whether the poem had meant anything to the key architect of the Indian Constitution: “As for direct influence it would be a stretch to say that it was in any way robust … But what is really the point of focus when thinking about Ambedkarite Buddhism are the points of rupture (with the Buddhisms of his day) and the points of continuity with the classical literature, and primarily the Pali canon. So coming then to indirect influence. Arnold awoke Kosambi and Kosambi had a huge impact on Ambedkar; however, what influenced Ambedkar was not Kosambi’s transmission of ideas from Kane/Arnold, but rather his break with them …” What Rathore was referring to was the fact that by the 1940s Dharmanand Kosambi had put forward a very radical explanation for Siddhartha’s renunciation. Arnold’s poem and indeed all of Buddhist tradition believes that the Prince saw four sights in quick succession — an aged man, an ill man, a corpse and a tranquil monk. The first three set him thinking on the nature of suffering and the fourth on the way to salvation. Kosambi had discovered Buddhism after reading The Light of Asia in 1899, and become a Buddhist monk and the first modern Indian scholar of Pali. Revisionist account But in his posthumously published play in 1949 called Boddhisatva: Natak , Kosambi wrote that it was not so much revulsion for the world and hope for nirvana that set Prince Siddhartha on his search for enlightenment but actually it was his violent opposition to the use of force and conflict to resolve a water dispute between the two tribes—the Sakyas, to which his father belonged, and the Koliyas, to which his mother belonged. It is clear that Kosambi’s late-life rejection of the conventional wisdom on the motives for Prince Siddhartha’s renunciation was fully shared by Dr Ambedkar. There is absolutely no doubt that Dr Ambedkar challenged the mainstream historiographies of Indic civilization through a revisionist account of the social and political role of Buddha and Buddhism in India’s past. The Light of Asia was embedded in that historiography. This set him apart from others in India who were also great admirers of Buddha, like Tagore, Gandhi and Nehru. Excerpted with permission from Penguin Random House India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/embedded-in-ambedkars-historiography/article34747139.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The question of nuance||For years, I have referred to editorials in newspapers to explain a rather difficult word, perspicacity. The Oxford dictionary defines it as “the ability to understand somebody/something very quickly and accurately”. Etymologists trace the origin of this word to the Latin word perspicācitās, which means discernment. Perspicacity is the power to discern what is going on beneath the surface. Journalism has two fundamental roles: informing the public and making sense of what’s going on around us. While the role of reporters is to inform the public, the function of an editorial is to help readers make sense of myriad developments. Many readers were taken aback by the editorial, “No comments” (June 1), on tennis star Naomi Osaka’s decision not to attend the post-match press conferences at the French Open, which is a contractual obligation for players. The editorial dealt exhaustively with the interactions between sports personalities and journalists in the age of social media. It read: “In a universe where athletes prefer social-media posts over media interactions, the official press-conference is the last remaining avenue for probing questions that elicit insightful answers. Player-journalist interactions are the only substitute for source-based inferences that colour the narrative. Closer home, M.S. Dhoni revealed his international retirement through Instagram and lapsed into silence.” The challenges of mental health issues The editorial acknowledged that some questions asked during post-match conferences are insensitive. This is vastly different from the multiple challenges posed by mental health issues. One of the readers, Vasudevan, felt that the editorial was written before Ms. Osaka decided to quit the tournament. He wrote: “The editorial has jumped the gun by stating that Osaka ignored nuance, dished out a lame excuse and trivialised the serious issue of mental health. In hindsight, it is obvious that it is the editorial that has trivialised the serious issue of mental health by not taking cognisance of what a champion player like Osaka is going through. If one goes through her on-court interviews of the past, one would find that she never was comfortable, though the real reasons were never known. Instead of trying to understand the problem, as not all individuals are made equal, other Grand Slam tournament authorities also joined French Open authorities in warning an already vulnerable individual.” I agree with Mr. Vasudevan. Editorials should exemplify perspicacity and in this context, Osaka’s subsequent statement makes the editorial seem churlish. She spoke of experiencing “huge waves of anxiety” before speaking to the media and said that she has “suffered long bouts of depression”. This needs empathetic listening. But having expressed my reservation about the editorial and flagging the concerns of readers, I must acknowledge that the opinion pages made quick amends. A moment’s lapse of empathy Preethi Ramamoorthy, who has covered Grand Slam tournaments, wrote a reflective article, “Asking the right questions” (June 3). She wrote: “There exists a larger question of what we expect from our sporting icons. Are we satisfied with them just doing their job — playing, winning — or do we want to get to know the person, the tactical genius, behind the champion? It takes a particular brand of mental fortitude to thrive in a punishing and lonely sport such as tennis. It is this trait that journalists most often want to probe and showcase.” She rightly pointed out that the ideal way to do this is through “long-winded, private chats”. On the same day, the President of the Public Health Foundation of India, K. Srinath Reddy, wrote an article stressing on the need to look at the delicate subject of mental health more closely. He also documented the hypocrisy of sporting bodies. He wrote: “The French Tennis Federation did not cover itself in glory when it displayed an utter lack of empathy towards a vulnerable young woman who rose to the top of the game because of her immense talent and not because of her speaking abilities… To add irony and insult to injury, Gilles Moretton, the president of the French Tennis Federation, made a statement to the press about Osaka’s withdrawal and left without fielding questions. The incident lays bare deep hypocrisy.” As an ombudsman, my special respect for sports journalism stems from the fact that it effortlessly straddles the two worlds of public interest and what the public is interested in. Even a moment’s lapse of empathy will derail this fine balance. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-question-of-nuance/article34747143.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Recognising sex work as work||The pandemic has hit millions of people and caused a great deal of suffering across communities. But there is one community that is especially hard hit and that is sex workers. Owing to the non-recognition of sex work as “legitimate work”, sex workers have mostly been kept at arm’s length from the government’s relief programmes. COVID-19 has thus provided more reason to consider a long-pending demand of sex workers in India — decriminalisation of sex work and a guaranteed set of labour rights. An archaic, regressive view The legislation governing sex work in India is the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. The Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Children Act was enacted in 1956. Subsequent amendments were made to the law and the name of the Act was changed to Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. The legislation penalises acts such as keeping a brothel, soliciting in a public place, living off the earnings of sex work and living with or habitually being in the company of a sex worker. This Act represents the archaic and regressive view that sex work is morally wrong and that the people involved in it, especially women, never consent to it voluntarily. After all, in popular depiction, entry into sex work is involuntary, forced, and through deception. As a consequence, it is believed that these women need to be “rescued” and “rehabilitated”, sometimes even without their consent. While this is a valid argument for minor girls, for many consenting adult sex workers, it has been a problem. This is what has led to the classification of ‘‘respectable women” and “non-respectable women”. This view is based on the belief that sex work is “easy” work and no one will or should choose to practise it. It thus perpetuates the prejudice that women who do practise sex work are morally devious. The Act has not only criminalised sex work but also further stigmatised and pushed it underground thus leaving sex workers more prone to violence, discrimination and harassment. The Act denies an individual their right over their bodies. Moreover, it imposes the will of the state over adults articulating their life choices. It gives no agency to the sex workers to fight against the traffickers and in fact, has made them more susceptible to be harassed by the state officials. The Act fails to recognise that many women willingly enter into agreements with traffickers, sometimes just to seek a better life as chosen by them. Evidence shows that many women choose to remain in sex work despite opportunities to leave after ‘rehabilitation’ by the government or non-governmental organisations. Labour rights The Justice Verma Commission had also acknowledged that there is a distinction between women who are trafficked for commercial sexual exploitation and adult, consenting women who are in sex work of their own volition. We must recognise sex work as work and stop ourselves from assigning morality to their work. Adult men, women and transgender persons in sex work have the right to earn by providing sexual services; live with dignity; and remain free from violence, exploitation, stigma and discrimination. It is time we rethink sex work from a labour perspective, where we recognise their work and guarantee them basic labour rights. The judiciary is moving in the direction of recognising sex workers’ right to livelihood. The Supreme Court, in Budhadev Karmaskar v. State of West Bengal (2011), opined that sex workers have a right to dignity. Parliament must also take a re-look at the existing legislation and do away with the ‘victim-rescue-rehabilitation’ narrative. During these times of crisis especially, this is all the more important. T. Sumathy (A) Thamizhachi Thangapandian is MP, South Chennai parliamentary constituency||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recognising-sex-work-as-work/article34747148.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Media and sedition||It has long been recognised that strident criticism of government will not amount to an attempt to excite disaffection and disloyalty towards government. Yet, the archaic and colonial view that an intemperate attack on an incumbent ruler should be met with fierce prosecution for sedition prevails among many in power even today. In a significant judgment, the Supreme Court has quashed a criminal case registered in Himachal Pradesh against journalist Vinod Dua by invoking the narrowed-down meaning of what constitutes an offence under Section 124A of the IPC, the provision for sedition, set out in Kedar Nath Singh (1962). Every journalist, the Court has ruled, is entitled to the protection of that judgment, which said “comments, however strongly worded, expressing disapprobation of actions of the Government, without exciting those feelings which generate the inclination to cause public disorder by acts of violence, would not be penal”. The law on sedition has come a long way from the formulation of British-era judges Comer Petheram and Arthur Strachey that “feelings of disaffection” towards the government connote “absence of affection... hatred, enmity, dislike, hostility... and every form of ill-will towards the government” to the more rational reading that only a pernicious tendency to create public disorder would be an offence. Yet, it appears that every generation needs a judicial iteration of this principle, and that is because of two reasons: that Section 124A remains on the statute book and that powerful political figures and their minions are unable to take criticism in their stride. Enacted to put down journalistic criticism of the colonial administration from an increasingly vocal press, Section 124A is essentially a provision which seeks to protect the government’s institutional vanity from disapprobation using the interests of public order and security of the state as a fig leaf. It has often been criticised for being vague and “overbroad”. Its use of terms such as “bringing (government) into hatred or contempt” and “disloyalty and all feelings of enmity” continues to help the police to invoke it whenever there is either strong criticism or critical depiction of unresponsive or insensitive rulers. The explanation that disapproval of government actions or measures with a view to altering them by lawful means will not amount to an offence is not enough to restrain the authorities from prosecution. The mischief lies in the latitude given to the police by an insecure political leadership to come down on the government’s adversaries. It is unfortunate that the Bench did not go into the aspect of political motivation behind the police registering FIRs without checking if the required ingredient of incitement to violence is present. The Court’s verdict brightens the hope that the section’s validity will be re-examined. For now, it is a blow for free speech and media freedom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/media-and-sedition/article34747131.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Diminishing options||The RBI’s latest policy statement underscores the diminishing options available to it to address the economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic. The bank’s Monetary Policy Committee left benchmark interest rates unchanged for a sixth straight meeting and reiterated that it would keep its policy stance accommodative ‘as long as necessary to revive and sustain growth on a durable basis’. Since its May 2020 decision to cut interest rates by 40 basis points, taking the cumulative reduction in borrowing costs in the wake of the pandemic’s onset to 115 basis points, the MPC has found itself in a bind. While the first lockdown constricted supply and demand for much of Q1 of the last fiscal, pushing the economy into a record 24.4% contraction during April-June and causing full-year GDP to shrink 7.3%, the second wave has crushed all-round demand and consumer confidence. The RBI’s May round of the consumer confidence survey shows the Current Situation Index at a new all-time low, with 75% of households perceiving the economic and employment situations as having worsened further, and the future expectations index reflecting overall pessimism. It is hard to see the mere availability of low-cost credit helping revive the all-important consumption demand. The MPC acknowledged the bleak outlook when it slashed its projection for Q1 growth by as much as 770 basis points to 18.5%, from the 26.2% it had forecast just on April 7. Banking more on optimism than hard data, the panel bumped up its growth estimates for the second half resulting in an overall cut of only one percentage point to its full-year growth forecast at 9.5%. For this, it has assumed rural demand will remain buoyant on the back of an expected normal monsoon, while noting that widespread infections in rural areas, which likely led to a sequential decline in tractor and two-wheeler sales in April, could undermine future demand. The other factor the RBI is banking on to provide a fillip to economic activity is an accelerated pace of vaccinations, over which it has virtually no control. To be fair, Governor Shaktikanta Das has used the bank’s liquidity spigot as a tool to address some of the economic distress. A series of measures focus on bolstering credit flow to the hardest hit MSME and contact-intensive industrial and services sectors, respectively. Still, the MPC can ill-afford to drop the ball on its primary remit — ensuring inflation remains anchored. With international commodity prices, including crude oil, on an upward trajectory and no signs of domestic policy support to check skyrocketing petrol and diesel pump prices, inflation is sure to accelerate, posing a major conundrum to the RBI. Raising rates could risk hurting recovery, and not doing so could heighten inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/diminishing-options/article34747132.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The Interviews and After||The citizens of Jubbulpore assembled in public meeting on Sunday, 5th June resolved that they have full confidence in Congress Leaders. They then proceeded to pass the undermentioned Resolutions:- That considering the present situation created in consequence of Simla Interviews and speeches, it is high time that Mahatma Gandhi, Lalalajpatrai, Pandit Malwiya and the Ali Brothers, who are all concerned, should soon disclose the whole affair in detail to the public. The assembly declared that not disclosing affairs concerning them will be very injurious. The assembly, of right, demanded that Mr. Vijairaghavachariar, as the President of All India Congress Committee ought to state how Congressmen should stand and act to-day; That in view of the indecent taunts whether rightly or wrongly flung at the leaders, by Lord Reading at Simla, it has become incumbent on the leaders to clear the mist and to keep the public confidence in Mahatmaji, Ali Brothers and other leaders unshaken; That Hakim Ajmal Khan, and Dr. Ansari are requested not to have interviews with the Viceroy until the Ali Brothers’ case is fully appreciated by the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-interviews-and-after/article34747140.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Housing the Homeless (From an Editorial)||The Tamil Nadu Governor, Mr. K.K. Shah, who was formerly Union Minister for Housing, has put the shortage of housing at over 90 million residential units for the whole country and some 6 to 7.5 million units for Tamil Nadu alone. Other estimates have put the funds required for building so many housing units at Rs. 33,000 crores for the whole country and by the same criterion, it should cost over Rs. 2,500 crores for Tamil Nadu. These are staggering figures and the raising of resources on such a colossal scale is not within the means of either the Centre or the State Governments. But rather than be frightened away by the very magnitude of the task, Governments should consider it a challenge, and at least quicken the pace of attack on the problem, even if there can be no hope of a complete answer to the growing shortage in the forseeable future. It is Mr. Shah who initiated, as Minister for Housing, the pragmatic Rs. 200-crore revolving fund plan to make housing somewhat self-financing with the help of this initial nucleus. There have been several other Central aid schemes in operation since the beginning of planning in the early fifties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/housing-the-homeless-from-an-editorial/article34747141.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||When to look at passive MFs||You know that investing in equity requires you to pick the right stocks at the right time. If that’s difficult, you choose an equity mutual fund. But your effort doesn’t end in picking a fund. It’s also essential that you review your funds every year. Why? Because funds can slip and fall behind their benchmark or peers — meaning you’re earning less than you could be. The need to track fund performance and review portfolios has increased over the past few years as more funds struggle to stay steadily better than the market. This holds true whether you hold equity, debt, or hybrid funds. Enter passive For those who have the time and the ability, weeding out poor performers, picking quality funds and reviewing is not a hard task. It gets difficult if: One, you do not have the guidance, time or knowledge to identify under performers or outperformers, whether in portfolio review or making fresh investments. Two, even if you do, you always wonder if you should give the fund more time to perform or exit right away. Three, you don’t know the impact of any change in fund strategies and how it can impact you. The solution is passive mutual funds and/or ETFs. A passive fund mimics the returns of a specific index (equity index or debt). It does not seek to beat the index. You don’t need to either worry about fund management or understand fund strategy. Also, passive funds have lower expense ratios than active funds. But a good portfolio needs balance, to broad-base where returns are coming from and mitigate the risk from specific market segments. Here’s how to go about it. Equity options The plain-vanilla Nifty 50, the Nifty 100 or the Sensex work very well to give your portfolio the fundamental large-cap exposure it needs. The Nifty 100 is very similar to the Nifty 50 in returns and behaviour, so don’t use both indices in the same portfolio. To tap into higher returns — with higher risk — you have three options. The first is the Nifty Midcap 150, which represents the full mid-cap market segment; the index shows up well against even active mid-cap equity funds. The available BSE mid-cap index funds do not compare well in returns against the Nifty Midcap 150. The second is the Nifty Next 50; while this comprises large-cap stocks, its behaviour is similar to that of a mid-cap and is a high-volatile, high-return index. The third is the Nifty 500 or the BSE 500 — both indices represent the entire market and are good portfolio diversifiers. These indices provide enough of a return boost without the need to go for small-cap indices. The Nifty 50 or the Sensex is a portfolio must-have and should form the primary allocation. Layer on the other return-booster indices based on the risk you’re willing to take and your time frame. Longer time frames allow for higher allocations to the high-risk indices. Cap allocations to these indices at 30-35%. If your time frame is less than 5 years, stick to the Nifty 50 or Sensex. If you’re looking for higher return, use the Nifty Next 50. For the more sophisticated, these are factor indices – indices that take a main index such as the Nifty 100, apply factors such as alpha, volatility, value and so on to it, and create an index that exhibits defined characteristics. You can use these indices to tap different strategies and diversify your portfolio. But be aware that you need to understand the factors and the index performance and how the index fits in your portfolio. ETFs such as Nifty Low Vol 30 and Nifty Alpha Low Vol 30 are examples of factor indices. Finally, you can hold the U.S. market through index funds built on the Nasdaq 100 and the S&P 500. In all these indices, avoid making them the primary part of your portfolio – that should still be the market-cap based indices mentioned earlier. Debt, gold Gold funds/ETFs that track domestic gold prices are aplenty. If you want to add gold allocation, include up to 15% of your portfolio in gold as long as your time frame is longer than 4 years. On the debt side, options are few, but this space too is evolving and more opportunities can come by. Currently, the easiest is Liquid ETFs. In the short-term space, you don’t have other options. But once you cross into longer-term time frames, consider PSU bond ETFs/ index funds such as the Bharat Bond indices, PSU Bond and State Development Loan ETFs/index funds and gilt ETFs. Go for them based on your holding time frame and the index’s maturity profile. Points to note In choosing index funds or ETFs, it’s important to check how well the fund/ETF mimics the actual index return (called tracking error). You still need to do asset-allocation between equity and debt, before then deciding on which index to use. And finally, in passive funds, let go of the need for ‘best’ returns. It’s enough that you mimic market returns.  (The author is Co-founder, PrimeInvestor.in)   Gold funds/ETFs that track domestic gold prices are aplenty. If you want to add gold allocation, include up to 15% of your portfolio in gold as long as your time frame is longer than four years||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/when-to-look-at-passive-mfs/article34747122.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||The saliency effect of COVID-19||Previously, we have discussed how your risk attitude could be influenced by the recent stock market uptrend. We now discuss the saliency effect of COVID-19 on your personal finance. Saliency refers to our tendency to focus on information that catches our attention and ignore others that are less visible. Positive saliency Consider the positive saliency effect of COVID-19. It has made you more health conscious. This action impacts your personal finance; your healthcare costs in the future could be lower if you take continual steps to stay healthy. There is an associated positive impact. Watching friends and extended families spend sizeable amounts on medical expenses has made most individuals realise the importance of having adequate healthcare insurance cover for their families. The other aspect is the importance of cash to meet emergency situations. You would have heard from individuals who had to arrange for hospitalisation of their friends or family members as to how various institutions involved in the process require cash payment for treating patients. True, we pay using debit and credit cards for most of our transactions. But, we are far from being a cashless society. So, it is important that you have emergency cash at home. You could keep half of your month’s living expenses or an ad hoc amount you think is reasonable to meet an emergency. Negative saliency Negative saliency effect of COVID-19 is the present bias — ie, our tendency to take actions that improve our present happiness even if such actions can have a negative effect on our future well-being. Take discretionary spending. Spending more today can increase your present happiness at the cost of saving less for the future. The question is: have you increased your discretionary spending recently? It refers to non-essential spending that can increase your happiness, albeit temporarily. This pandemic has shown that life can be short. So, why not enjoy life while we can, the argument goes. Typically, such an argument would lead to individuals spending more on experiences such as taking an exotic vacation. With the current restriction on travel, the focus has shifted to acquiring material goods, especially electronics that provide for a comfortable living. The other negative saliency effect is the behaviour caused by the remarkable recovery in the stock market after initial crash last March when the country went into its first pandemic-related lockdown. The sharp rise in investment value has encouraged many individuals to increase their discretionary spending. This phenomenon is referred to as the wealth effect. Individuals typically do not keep sizeable funds in savings accounts or have emergency cash at home because they do not want to lose the opportunity to earn higher returns. Yet, they hold loss-making investments for long not minding the associated opportunity cost. Why? Losing an investment opportunity is more salient than holding on to unrealised losses. Similarly, individuals buy extended warranty for air conditioners and laptops but are reluctant to buy healthcare insurance or term life insurance products. Why? Till now, most individuals did not face large healthcare costs. So, healthcare was not a salient factor. This behaviour could change because of COVID-19. There is a caveat. The saliency effect may last till you fear the pandemic and its impact on lifestyle. Once the fear subsides, the saliency effect too could fade. You have to act quickly to capitalise on the positive saliency effect. So, arrange to have some emergency cash at home and get adequate health insurance protection for your family. To address discretionary spending, first set up systematic investments to meet your life goals. Then, spend the rest of your monthly income.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals for managing their personal investments)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/the-saliency-effect-of-covid-19/article34747123.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold, silver on an uptrend||Building on the positive trend in April, precious metals closed on a healthy note in May. The weakness in the U.S. dollar and inflation concerns helped Comex gold close near a 5-month high on May 28. Comex gold gained 7.8% in May to close at $1,905.3 an ounce. Comex silver, too, closed on a positive note, clocking a gain of 8.3% to settle at $28.02 an ounce. Mirroring the global trend, MCX gold futures gained 4.9% to close at Rs. 49,349 per 10-gm. MCX silver futures gained 5.2% to settle at Rs. 71,898 per kg. Comex gold price moved well past the target of $1,865-1,880 mentioned last month. The price could be confined to a trading range as the recent rally has pushed the price into a short-term, overbought region. A move past $1,925 would indicate that the move to $1,950-1,960 is underway. Until this happens, expect range-bound or subdued action in the near term. Silver hits target Comex silver, too, achieved the target of $27.7-28.5 mentioned last month. Silver prices are also likely to be remain subdued and confined to a range in the near term. A move past $29.1 would indicate that the white metal is headed to the next target of $30.2-31. Until the breakout happens, the price is likely to be subdued. MCX gold ruled firm in May and also moved to the then-mentioned target of Rs. 48,500-49,500. The short-term is positive and a rise to Rs. 51,500-52,000 appears likely. This view would be invalidated if the price closes below Rs. 47,200. MCX silver reached the target at Rs. 71,500-72,000 indicated earlier. The short-term outlook is positive and MCX silver could head to the next target of Rs. 76,700-77,000. This view would be invalidated if the price falls below Rs. 69,100. To summarise, the medium-term outlook for precious metals remains positive. While there is a possibility of either a short-term consolidation or a minor cool-off, the medium-term uptrend is likely to reassert itself once the anticipated cool-off happens.  (The author is a Chennai-based analyst/trader. This is not meant to be trading or investment advice)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gold-silver-on-an-uptrend/article34747127.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.I purchased 23 shares of Oriental Bank of Commerce on May 12, 2005 at Rs. 2,250 per share and 10 shares of United Bank of India on January 10, 2011 at Rs. 90 per share . These banks were merged with the Punjab National Bank on April 1, 2020. I was allotted 26 shares of PNB in lieu of my holding in Oriental Bank and 10 shares of PNB in lieu of my holding in United Bank of India.  I want to sell shares of PNB. I would like to know what would be the date of purchase of the shares of PNB and at what price in order to calculate capital gains tax ? S.S. Saxena A.For the purpose of computing the respective capital gains, the period of holding and cost of acquisition will be as follows: the period of holding will be taken into consideration from the date of acquisition of original shares purchased of the merging entities. The cost of acquisition will be the cost of the shares of the original shares purchased of the merging entities  Q.I am 81 years old with about Rs. 17 lakh in annual interest income. Under normal tax rules, as a resident senior citizen, my income tax is about Rs. 2.3 lakh. I am now claiming deductions u/s 80C, 80D and 80TTB. This financial year, I redeemed three mutual fund schemes and got about Rs. 13 lakh in capital gains. With this LTCG, my taxable income level goes up to Rs. 30 lakh.   This exceeds AMT liable level of Rs. 20 lakh.   However, I am not claiming any deductions from Section-10AA, 35AD and Chapter VIA Part C. My doubt is whether I am liable for Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)? A. Paramasivachari A.Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) is applicable to only those non-corporate assessees who have availed benefits under Chapter VIA Part C, Section 35D and Section 10AA. As you have not availed any of these benefits, AMT will not be applicable in your case.  Q.I am currently studying. Since, I don't have a job, I don’t have any income. But, I sold my property for a certain value. I need to invest the sum in a fixed deposit.   I was told if the interest per year was more than Rs. 40,000, then tax would be deducted But my question is my only income is this Rs. 40,000 and I come under the Rs. 2.5-lakh slab. Why should I pay tax then? If I don't need to pay tax, what is the procedure? Arun Shanjay A.Banks are required to deduct tax at a prescribed rate if the interest paid/payable to a non-senior citizen exceeds Rs. 40,000 in an assessment year. As stated by you, as your taxable income does not exceed the basic exemption limit, you may submit Form 15G to your respective bank whereby you declare that your taxable income is lesser than the basic exemption limit. Once the bank takes into record the submitted form, they shall not deduct the applicable TDS. You are required to submit this form every assessment year after estimating your taxable income.  Q.If during the financial year 2020-21 (June 2020) one has completed 60 years, is he eligible to claim higher exemptions for income tax purposes for that year? Raman Swaminathan A.An assessee will be treated as a senior citizen once he completes the age of 60. You will be treated as a senior citizen for the first time in FY 20-21 (AY 21-22).  (N. Sree Kanth is partner, GSS Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ask-us/article34747125.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34747129.ece
07 June 2021||Paris,||Rybakina forces Serena to wait for her record-equalling title||American Serena Williams was knocked out in the fourth round at Roland Garros by Kazakhstan's Elena Rybakina on Sunday, losing 6-3 7-5 to the 21st seed. Serena, 39, was below her best as her wait for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam singles title went on. Rybakina held her nerve superbly to reach her first Grand Slam quarterfinal, sealing victory as Serena struck a backhand return out. Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova made the quarterfinals in Paris 10 years on, beating 2013 semifinalist Victoria Azarenka 5-7, 6-3, 6-2. Former Wimbledon champion Marion Bartoli, who was doing the courtside interview, congratulated her. “I've known you for a long time. We're friends off the court,” Bartoli said. “I can see the joy on your face.” Indeed, it was hard for Pavlyuchenkova to stop smiling. “It's just incredible, even that I'm still playing tennis such a long time after,” she said. “It's a surprise for me. I fought hard and I'm very happy to win.” The 29-year-old Russian has reached the quarters at the Australian Open and Wimbledon, but has never reached the semifinals at any major. The former top-ranked Azarenka saved two break points before clinching the first set on a sunny Court Philippe-Chatrier, where the crowd was subdued. Tamara Zidansek, meanwhile, became the first Slovenian woman to reach the quarterfinals of a major. She won 7-6(4), 6-1 against Romanian Sorana Cirstea after saving a set point in a tight first set between the unseeded players. The 23-year-old dropped to her knees and held her head in her hands after winning on her first match point. Zidansek's run is even more impressive, considering the former snowboard enthusiast had never beaten a top 10-ranked player before this tournament. No. 33 Paula Badosa of Spain joined her in the last eight for the first time at any major, beating No. 20 Marketa Vondrousova 6-4, 3-6, 6-2. Daniil Medvedev’s remarkable turnaround at Roland Garros has propelled him to the quarterfinals. The second-seeded Russian beat Cristian Garin 6-2, 6-1, 7-5 on Sunday. Medvedev received treatment on his right elbow during the third set against Garin but finished strong, hitting a succession of winners to take the final two games. Stefanos Tsitsipas advanced to the last eight for the second year running with a 6-3, 6-2, 7-5 victory over Spain's Pablo Carreno Busta.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rybakina-forces-serena-to-wait-for-her-record-equalling-title/article34747226.ece
07 June 2021||Baku,||Sergio Perez wins incident-filled Azerbaijan GP||Sergio Perez won the Azerbaijan Grand Prix in a two-lap shootout after championship leader Max Verstappen crashed while leading with a tyre failure and Lewis Hamilton went off course trying to seize the win on the standing restart. Verstappen was four laps away from a second consecutive victory on Sunday when his Red Bull suddenly slammed hard into the wall with a puncture to his left rear tyre. Formula One red-flagged the race and brought the field to pit lane before deciding to resume with a standing start for a two-lap sprint to the finish. Perez was the leader but Hamilton shot past him in his attempt to win the race and reclaim the overall lead from Verstappen. But he failed to brake in the first corner and his Mercedes slid off track. Hamilton dropped to 15th, snapping a streak of 54 consecutive races of earning a points finish.  Four-time champion Sebastian Vettel took second for Aston Martin after an impressive drive after qualifying 11th. Pierre Gasly was third for AlphaTauri.  The results:   1. Sergio Perez (Red Bull) 3h33m686s; 2. Sebastian Vettel (Aston Martin) +1.385s; 3. Pierre Gasly (AlphaTauri) 2.762; 4. Charles Leclerc (Ferrari) 3.828; 5. Lando Norris (McLaren) 4.754; 6. Fernando Alonso (Alpine) 6.382; 7. Yuki Tsunoda (AlphaTauri) 6.624; 8. Carlos Sainz Jr. (Ferrari) 7.709; 9. Daniel Ricciardo (McLaren) 8.874; 10. Kimi Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) 9.576; 11. Antonio Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) 10.254; 12. Valtteri Bottas (Mercedes) 11.264; 13. Mick Schumacher (Haas) 14.241; 14. Nikita Mazepin (Haas) 14.315; 15. Lewis Hamilton (Mercedes) 17.668; 16. Nicholas Latifi (Williams) 42.379; 17. Geroge Russell (Williams).   DNF: Max Verstappen (Red Bull); Lance Stroll (Aston Martin); Esteban Ocon (Alpine).   Standings: Drivers: 1. Verstappen 105; 2. Hamilton 101; 3. Perez 69; 4. Norris 66; 5. Leclerc 52.   Constructors: 1. Red Bull 174; 2. Mercedes 148; 3. Ferrari 94; 4. McLaren 92; 5. AlphaTauri 39.    Cliffhanger in Baku  On lap 46, race-leader Verstappen suffered a tyre failure on the start/finish straight Due to debris on the track, the race was red-flagged after a few laps behind the safety car The race resumed for a two-lap sprint with a standing start on lap 49 Hamilton, starting second behind Perez, locked up his brakes, ran wide into the Turn 1 run-off and failed to score points It was Perez’s second career win and first with Red Bull Vettel took the second spot, powering Aston Martin to its first podium finish Gasly and Leclerc’s intense battle for third place on the final lap was won by the former||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sergio-perez-wins-incident-filled-azerbaijan-gp/article34747296.ece
07 June 2021||Paris,||Federer calls halt to Paris campaign||Roger Federer said on Sunday he was withdrawing from the French Open despite having reached the fourth round, opting to focus on his primary objective of winning a ninth Wimbledon title. "After discussions with my team, I've decided I will need to pull out of Roland Garros today," the 39-year-old said. Knee surgeries "After two knee surgeries and over a year of rehabilitation it's important that I listen to my body and make sure I don't push myself too quickly on my road to recovery. "I am thrilled to have gotten three matches under my belt. There is no greater feeling than being back on court." Federer, a 20-time Grand Slam title winner, who will be 40 in two months, battled over three-and-a-half hours until 12:45 a.m. on Sunday to reach the last 16 with a 7-6(5), 6-7(3), 7-6(4), 7-5 win over 59th-ranked Dominik Koepfer. He was due back on court on Monday to tackle Matteo Berrettini for a place in the quarterfinals. However, the Swiss star had admitted there were doubts over whether he'd make it. Main goal Federer is playing only his third tournament since last year's Australian Open and has always said Wimbledon is his main goal. He is chasing a ninth title at Wimbledon which starts on June 28. He is also scheduled to play the warm-up grass-court tournament in Halle beginning on June 14, the day after the French Open ends. Federer, who made his Roland Garros debut in 1999 and was champion in 2009, was playing a night session for the first time. It is likely that this was Federer's final appearance at the tournament. His return this year was only his second participation since 2015. "The Roland Garros tournament is sorry about the withdrawal of Roger Federer, who put up an incredible fight last night," said tournament director Guy Forget. "We were all delighted to see Roger back in Paris, where he played three high-level matches. We wish him all the best for the rest of the season." After winning his match, Federer said that he was pacing himself in his recovery. "All the matches I've played since the injury are information for the rest of the season," he said. "It gives me great pleasure to be able to play 3hr 30min at a high level against a very good player. It shows that I'm on the right track." Rave reviews His performance won rave reviews from rivals following the match on television. "I'm not bothered by the outcome of this match at all," tweeted Britain's Andy Murray, a former World No. 1 and three-time Major winner. "Just seeing Federer at 39 off the back of 2 knee surgeries playing to an empty stadium at 12.30 a.m. getting fired up is inspirational to me. Do what you love."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-calls-halt-to-paris-campaign/article34747230.ece
07 June 2021||LONDON,||First Test heading for a draw||New Zealand captain Kane Williamson made a bold declaration to leave England needing 273 in 75 overs to win the first Test on the fifth and final day at Lord's on Sunday. When rain forced an early lunch, New Zealand was 169 for six in its second innings, a lead of 272, after Ross Taylor had made a rapid 33 off 35 balls. England was 146 for three in 60 overs at the time of going to the press. Opener Dom Sibley (53) and Ollie Pope (6) were at the crease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-test-heading-for-a-draw/article34747223.ece
07 June 2021||Southampton,||Jadeja happy with bowling session||India all-rounder Ravindra Jadeja trained for the first time here on Sunday. India and New Zealand will lock horns in the finals of WTC, beginning June 18. The Indian men’s and women’s cricket teams arrived in London last Thursday for the WTC final and England series. Shares pictures “First outing in Southampton. Feel the vibe,” Jadeja tweeted while sharing pictures from the training session. While the men’s team is gearing up for the WTC final against New Zealand, the women’s team will take on the England team in a one-off Test before playing ODIs and T20Is. Tested again At the Hampshire Bowl, the players were tested again before commencing a period of managed isolation. Regular tests will be conducted during the period of isolation. Players’ activity will be allowed in a gradually increasing manner after each round of negative testing, moving from exercise in isolation to small group and then larger squad activity, whilst always remaining within the bio-secure venue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/jadeja-happy-with-bowling-session/article34747232.ece
07 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Mohd. Riaz is TTTA president||Mohammed Riaz, former Indian men’s hockey team captain, was unanimously nominated as the president of Tamizhaga Table Tennis Association (TTTA) in its Emergent Executive Committee meeting (held online) here on Sunday. He will stay in the post till 2023. The position was left vacant after former India paddler and three-time National men’s champion V. Chandrasekar passed away last month due to COVID-19 complications. Riaz, who represented India in the 1996 Atlanta & 2000 Sydney Olympics, was clear in what he wants to do. “I will not get into the politics of the association(s) (there are two — TTTA & TNTTA affliliated to the Table Tennis Federation of India). My focus will be on player development alone,” the 49-year-old told The Hindu here on Sunday. “For me table tennis is a sport like hockey or any other sport. I will do everything in my capacity to provide the best of facilities to the players.” J. Selvakumar, secretary of TTTA, said Riaz was nominated as he had the full support of district secretaries of the association. “All the district secretaries of TTTA wanted Riaz as he is a familiar face having represented the country in two Olympics. Moreover, he has helped the TT fraternity in sponsoring tournaments earlier and has come as chief guest for tournaments,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mohd-riaz-is-ttta-president/article34747337.ece
07 June 2021||KOCHI,||Srabani Nanda is fastest Indian this year||Srabani Nanda, currently the most active Indian athlete in the world, has emerged as the fastest Indian woman this year. While the rest of the Indians are desperately hunting for competitions, the 30-year-old from Odisha clocked a personal best 11.36s while running against some of the world’s best at the NACAC New Life Invitational Meet in Florida, the US, on Saturday. The 100m final was run as two races and Nanda, who has been training in Jamaica for the last few years, was sixth in her race and 13th overall. Jamaican Elaine Thompson, the Rio Olympics 100 and 200m champion, won the event in 10.87s while American Tianna Bartoletta, the long jump gold medallist in Rio, was second in 10.96. Nanda had clocked a faster but wind-assisted 11.29s in the preliminary round. With her 11.36s, Nanda replaces S. Dhanalakshmi, who clocked 11.38s in the Federation Cup in Patiala in March, as the Indian leader in the event this season. Dutee Chand (11.44) and Hima Das (11.63) occupy the next two spots. AFI confident Though the women’s 4x100m relay team is in the 22nd rung in the Road to Tokyo rankings, the AFI is confident that it will qualify for next month’s Tokyo Olympics where the relays will be a 16-team affair. So, will Nanda be considered for the relay team? “The AFI will go by its set rules that it has always followed. If it fits in, she goes. Rules are same for all,” Adille Sumariwalla, the federation president, told The Hindu on Sunday evening. Sumariwalla also confirmed that Neeraj Chopra had left for France. The Asian Games javelin throw champion, who had been waiting to fly out for the last few days, took an early morning flight. Another bunch of athletes, including the sprint and mile relay runners and a few throwers, will be leaving for Kyrgyzstan on Tuesday. Jisna Mathew, a member of the 4x400m mixed relay team which finished seventh at the 2019 Doha World championships and qualified for the Olympics, will not be joining the bunch to Kyrgyzstan. “Jisna had missed a few training sessions because of a back issue a few weeks ago. She is just coming into form now. It will be better if she skips the meet in Kygryzstan on June 12 and 13. That is why she is not going,” said P.T. Usha, her coach. “She will be in full form by the time of the inter-State meet (in Patiala, from June 25).”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srabani-nanda-is-fastest-indian-this-year/article34747276.ece
07 June 2021||Doha,||India in a desperate situation||A win-less India desperately needs a positive result against neighbour Bangladesh in its joint World Cup and Asian Cup qualifiers match here on Monday, if it wants to avoid the ignominy of playing in the qualifying play-off round of the continental showpiece. India is already out of contention for a World Cup berth but still in the reckoning for a place in the 2023 Asian Cup. But with just three points from six matches, India is fourth in Group E and is not yet guaranteed an automatic berth in the third round of the Asian Cup qualifiers. Only the best four fourth-place finishers in each of the eight groups directly qualify for the third round of the Asian Cup qualifiers. The other four fourth-place finishers and all the bottom place finishers of the eight groups will play in a play-off round from which eight will re-enter the qualifying process again. Among the fourth-place finishers, six teams have more points than India currently. That would mean that Igor Stimac’s men will have to beat Bangladesh to have any chance of an automatic berth in the third qualifying round of the Asian Cup.   At the bottom of the group with two points, Bangladesh would also be desperately looking for a win.  Match starts at 7.30 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-in-a-desperate-situation/article34747291.ece
07 June 2021||PARIS,||Swiatek, Mattek-Sands the great survivors||Iga Swiatek kept her bid alive to become the first woman since Mary Pierce in 2000 to win the French Open singles and doubles titles in the same tournament, saving seven match points with partner Bethanie Mattek-Sands to reach the quarterfinals. Swiatek and Mattek-Sands staged an incredible recovery from 5-1 down in the final set against top seeds Hsieh Su-Wei and Elise Mertens, pulling off an improbable 5-7, 6-4, 7-5 victory after more than three hours on court. Poland's Swiatek, the reigning singles champion, will continue the defence of her title on Monday against Marta Kostyuk in the last 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/swiatek-mattek-sands-the-great-survivors/article34747228.ece
07 June 2021||LOS ANGELES,||Want to thank you for all the love: Osaka to fans||Four-time Grand Slam winner Naomi Osaka posted her first social media comments on Saturday since pulling out of the French Open after a dispute over attending press conferences. Osaka, who also had revealed her ongoing battle with depression and anxiety, thanked her supporters in a brief message on Instagram. “Just want to say thank you for all the love. Haven’t been on my phone much but I wanted to hop on here and tell you all that I really appreciate it,” she wrote. French tennis officials fined Osaka $15,000 and threatened to remove her from the tournament for not honouring mandatory media commitments, prompting the 23-year-old Japanese star to withdraw on her own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/want-to-thank-you-for-all-the-love-osaka-to-fans/article34747234.ece
07 June 2021||Paris,||Bopanna & Skugor enter quarterfinals||India's Rohan Bopanna and his Croatian partner Franko Skugor advanced to the quarterfinals at Roland Garros here on Sunday. The pair got a walkover in its men's doubles clash against The Netherlands’ Matwe Middelkoop and Marcelo Arevalo of El Salvador. Bopanna and Skugor will now face Spain’s Pablo Andujar and Pedro Martinez in the last-eight stage. The unseeded Bopanna and Skugor had notched up a straight set win over USA’s Frances Tiafo and Nicholas Monroe in the second round earlier this week. The 41-year-old Bopanna, ranked 40 in the world, is not defending any points this year at the Roland Garros. The Indian needs to earn points since this is his last chance to improve his ranking. The rankings on June 10 will be considered for entry into the Tokyo Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-skugor-enter-quarterfinals/article34747225.ece
07 June 2021||LITTLE ROCK (USA),||Sasikumar loses in doubles semifinals||Sasikumar Mukund and Michail Pervolarakis of Greece were beaten 3-6, 5-7 by Nicolas Barrientos and Ernesto Escobedo in the doubles semifinals of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here. The Indo-Greek pair collected 29 ATP points and $1080. Sasikumar will next play the Challenger in Orlando, while the other Indian players — Prajnesh Gunneswaran, Sumit Nagal and Ramkumar Ramanathan — will be busy in Challengers in Europe, on grass and clay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sasikumar-loses-in-doubles-semifinals/article34747283.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 recovered athletes to get first dose of vaccine||The Indian Olympic Association on Sunday askedfive Olympic-bound sportspersons, who have recovered from COVID-19 in therecent past, to take their first dose of the vaccine as soon as possible. Simranjit Kaur (60kg) is the lone boxer in the listwhile the other four are shooters, including 19-year-old Saurabh Chaudhary. The other three are 2018 Jakarta Asian Games goldmedallist Rahi Sarnobat (women’s 25m pistol), silver medallist at the sameedition Deepak Kumar (10m air rifle) and veteranshotgun shooter Mairaj Ahmed Khan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-recovered-athletes-to-get-first-dose-of-vaccine/article34747292.ece
07 June 2021||Chandigarh:,||Milkha showing ‘continuous improvement’||Indian sprint icon Milkha Singh is showing “continuous improvement” as he battles COVID-19 in the Intensive Care Unit of PGIMER hospital, the facility’s spokesperson said on Sunday. The 91-year-old is being closely monitored by a medical team at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). His COVID positive wife Nirmal Kaur (82), however, “continues to battle it out bravely,” according to a family spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-showing-continuous-improvement/article34747233.ece
07 June 2021||Hengelo (the Netherlands),||Sifan Hassan sets women’s 10,000m world record||Sifan Hassan of the Netherlands fired a warning shot ahead of the Tokyo Olympics by setting a new world record in the women’s 10,000m on Sunday. Sifan, 28, clocked 29m 06.82s at the Hengelo meet, smashing the previous best set by Ethiopian Almaz Ayana (29:17.45) while winning gold at the 2016 Rio Games. The reigning world champion over 1,500m and 10,000m has also posted world records over one mile, one-hour and 5km on the road.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sifan-hassan-sets-womens-10000m-world-record/article34747274.ece
07 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Nets draw first blood against Bucks||Kevin Durant had 29 points and 10 rebounds as Brooklyn Nets withstood Giannis Antetokounmpo’s 34-point performance to beat Milwaukee Bucks 115-107 in the opening game of their second round playoff series.   The result (semifinals): EC: Milwaukee Bucks 107 lost to Brooklyn Nets 115 (Nets lead series 1-0) . AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nets-draw-first-blood-against-bucks/article34747284.ece
07 June 2021||Kingston,||Fraser-Pryce sends Olympic warning with 10.63 for 100m||Jamaican sprint star Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce became thesecond fastest woman in history on Saturday, clocking aworld-leading 10.63s (1.3m/sec) for the 100m at theOlympic Destiny meeting here.Only late US sprinting starFlorence Griffith-Joyner, who holds the world record of 10.49sec, has run faster.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fraser-pryce-sends-olympic-warning-with-1063-for-100m/article34747286.ece
07 June 2021||TOKYO,||Uchimura books spot at fourth Olympics||Japanese gymnastics superstar Kohei Uchimura qualified for his fourth Olympics on Sunday, but admitted he was “lucky” to scrape home. The 32-year-old opted not to defend the all-around titles he won in 2012 and 2016 at the Tokyo Games because of shoulder pain, deciding instead to focus on the horizontal bar. He squeaked home ahead of rival Hidenobu Yonekura on points accumulated over three competitions.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/uchimura-books-spot-at-fourth-olympics/article34747288.ece
07 June 2021||LONDON,||Mo Farah fails to make Olympic 10,000m qualifying time||Four-time Olympic champion Mo Farah’s hopes of ending his career at the Tokyo Games suffered a huge blow as he fell short of the qualifying mark for 10,000m in Birmingham on Saturday. The 38-year-old finished eighth, behind Marc Scott, in the European Cup, which doubled as British Olympic trial. Farah’s time in his first race at this distance for four years was 22s short of the required standard of 27m 28s to qualify for the Games.   This is the first bit I have done of track in the last two weeks. It is not ideal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mo-farah-fails-to-make-olympic-10000m-qualifying-time/article34747294.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 08:38 IST,||Sudoku — June 7, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-7-2021/article34747853.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Realise your dreams||I am a civil engineering graduate from the 2018 batch. Although I was preparing for the UPSC exams, due to financial instability, I am now looking for a job. But I don’t want to give up my UPSC dream and am unable to handle my situation. — Shastika Dear Shastika, You can take on an assignment / job that comes your way and ensure that you are able to contribute to the family, financially. Just make sure that you don’t get consumed by it and have time clearly set aside to study and prepare for the UPSC exam. Many candidates are in the same boat and some have it even worse, so this is not something that should bother you or impact your prep work. Be strong and brave! I am currently in Class 12 and wish to become an IAS officer. But I am not able to concentrate on my studies. — Ananya Dhar Dear Ananya, You have a dream to aspire to and, perhaps, are just a little distracted right now. It is hard work and tough but not impossible. Look up the IAS exam pattern and make a realistic study plan. Read the newspaper daily and stay updated with both the national and the international current affairs. Become well versed with the syllabus and make notes and slowly start attempting the previous year question papers. You could also join a tutorial that helps with the preparation. It will certainly help you structure your time better and stay focused and committed. I am going to appear for the Class 12 boards this year. I want to be a professor in a university. What steps, courses or exams do I have to take? — Anjali Rawat Dear Anjali, You will need to do your graduation (three years) in the subject of your choice and follow it up with a post-graduation (two years) in the same subject and then qualify for the UGC lectureship. You could also join an integrated five-year programme that includes graduation and post-graduation. After this, you have to appear for the UGC NET exam. If you do your Ph.D after your PG, then you do not have to qualify for the NET exam. I am 30 and was working as a copywriter for a few years and would now like to make a career shift to soft skills training. How do I become a certified soft skills trainer? What are the prospective areas where soft skills trainers are in demand? While it is never too late to switch careers, you need to ensure that you have the required skillset of and for the new profession and are willing to invest the time in the learning and training to equip yourself reasonably well. The basic skillsets of a soft skills trainer are a pleasant and confident personality, strong communication and organisational skills, adaptability, advanced research skills, ability to assess employees, enthusiasm for learning, and technology skills. Skill trainers are needed from personality development training to confidence coaching, to verbal and vocal communication training to employability and job skills training, behavioural skills training, etiquette coaching, team management and motivational training to public speaking and presentation skills enhancement only to mention a few key areas.  Disclaimer: This column provides advice, guidance and suggestions on education and careers. It is a guiding voice from a practising career counsellor.   The writer is a practising counsellor and a trainer. Send your questions to eduplus.thehindu@gmail.com with the subject line ‘Off the edge’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/realise-your-dreams/article34747118.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Two webinars on June 11||Two webinars will be held as part of the series hosted by Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (HITS) in association with The Hindu Group to provide career guidance to students in Classes 10, 11 and 12.  ‘A Career in Allied Health Sciences: Current Trends and Future Prospects’ will be held on June 11 at 11.00 a.m. The speakers are Dr. R.W Alexander Jesudasan, Pro VC, HITS; Dr. Jayaprakash Shetty K., Vice-Dean, Professor & HOD, Pathology, K.S. Hedge Medical Academy, NITTE University, Mangaluru; and Dr. B. Rajashekhar, Founding Dean, Manipal College of Health Profession and Professor in the Department of Speech and Hearing. The session will be moderated by Ramya Kannan, Chief of Bureau-Tamil Nadu,The Hindu. To register, visit http://bit.ly/HITSTHE2  On June 11 at 4.00 p.m., the second session will be ‘How a Liberal Arts education helps promote interdisciplinary learning’. The speakers are Dr. Salil Sahadevan, education researcher; Dr. Afrose Farid, Professor and Head Admissions, School of Liberal Arts and Applied Sciences, and HOD, Department of Fashion Design and Arts, HITS; and Dr. Joya John, Assistant Professor of Literature, Krea University. The session will be moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, founder and CEO, AuxoHub. To register, visit http://bit.ly/HITSTHE3||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-educationplus/two-webinars-on-june-11/article34747120.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Big shorts||When you think of auteurs, it is usually in connection with a feature film or films of theirs, not shorts. Many of them do begin with shorts as calling cards, before going on to global fame with feature films. For example, you may know Martin Scorsese for several features, including Taxi Driver and Raging Bull , but one of the films he cut his cinematic teeth with was the short The Big Shave (1967). Similarly, while you may delight in Christopher Nolan’s work, including Inception and Interstellar , few remember him for the short Doodlebug (1997). What I’m looking at this week is shorts that auteurs made after they’d already achieved international acclaim. Spanish filmmaker Pedro Almodovar was coming off the majestic Pain and Glory (2019) when he directed, in lockdown no less, the 30-minute short The Human Voice (2020). Almodovar had directed several shorts before his breakthrough Pepi, Luci, Bom (1980). But this film, now available in India via bookmyshow, showcases a master working at the height of his powers. A free adaptation of Jean Cocteau’s monodrama of the same name, The Human Voice stars the ethereal Tilda Swinton as a woman who has broken up with someone but can’t get over him or her. It is a solo performance, with Swinton at one end of a phone in a monologue (we can’t hear what her interlocutor is saying). Swinton’s co-star is the apartment set she is in. And what an apartment it is, production designed to within an inch of its life by frequent Almodovar collaborators Antxón Gómez and María Clara Notari. The last time you might have seen an apartment so striking was in Pain and Glory , where it was Almodovar’s own living quarters that were gussied up.   Naman Ramachandran is a journalist and author of Rajinikanth: The Definitive Biography, and tweets @namanrs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/big-shorts/article34747418.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||She makes stress delicious||Humid. Anxiety-inducing. Intense. In the last two months, film reviewers around the world have been explicit about the discomfort that creeps in while watchingShiva Baby, Emma Seligman’s feature film debut. Yet not one of them wanted to cut short the experience. In fact, ‘claustrophobia’ joins sharp comedy and a breakout performance as some of the winning features of this tightly choreographed film about a floundering college student at a funeral service. “Danielle [Rachel Sennott] was taken from my time in university in New York. I was very stressed about what I wanted to do. And a lot of my friends were seeking an arrangement where they had sugar daddies,” says Canadian director and screenwriter, Seligman, over Zoom with The Hindu Weekend . Based on Seligman’s short of the same name, her thesis project at NYU, the film has Danielle attending a shiva, which is a Jewish mourning ritual, with her parents. She runs into her sugar daddy there and her ex-girlfriend. It is stressful and chaotic. Seligman, 26, shares that the film’s themes of identity and empowerment are what she too struggled with in college. “What I wanted to be the backbone [of the film] was reckoning with your self worth as a young woman, realising that it has been based on sexual validation and that it needs to go beyond that,” she says, adding that she also “sprinkled" other parts of her life “like my family, my sexuality”. On June 11, MUBI will be launching Shiva Baby as their LGBTQI+ focus for Pride Month. Seligman remarks that she is lucky it is reaching people beyond the Jewish or bisexual audience. “The short film had a lot of success among my Indian friends too. They loved it and kept telling me they were into it,” she recalls. As for the future of queer cinema, the challenges are many. Noting the lack of portrayal of bisexuality or pansexuality or gender fluidity on screen, she says, "We’ve made progress with telling gay stories and lesbian stories and trans stories, which is wonderful. I think people sometimes worry that audiences may not be able to wrap their head around someone who is in between or fluid with their sexuality or gender. I hope more and more people at the top who make the decisions begin to understand that and not be confused.” While Seligman has often talked about her “very insular Jewish upbringing” she hands it to TV shows like the teen drama series, The OC , and the medical drama, Grey’s Anatomy , for introducing bisexual characters on screen. “Eventually we got stuff like The Bisexual and Transparent, where there are tonnes of bisexual and pansexual characters. But as a kid, those were two shows that stuck out for me.” Meanwhile, the young filmmaker who managed to create her indie darling with a $225,000 budget is on to the big league. Coming up next: a queer high school comedy, Bottoms, with her lead actor and collaborator, Sennott, and Elizabeth Banks’ Brownstone production company.  Seligman tackles questions on authenticity, queer representation and her final van scene on weekend.thehindu.com   Watch: Emma Seligman   discussesShiva Babyon weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/she-makes-stress-delicious/article34747419.ece
07 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra sees lowest daily case spike in nearly 3 months||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its lowest single-day surge in nearly three months, with 12,557 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 14,433 recoveries. The State’s active case tally has dipped further to 1,85,527. However, the State’s total death toll has crossed the one lakh mark, climbing to 1,00,130 with the case fatality rate rising to 1.72%. A total 618 deaths were added to the State’s progressive fatality toll, of which 167 occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 66 were from the past week. As many as 385 fatalities have been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department. The State’s total cases have reached 58,31,781 while its cumulative recoveries have climbed to 55,43,267 with the recovery rate going up to 95.05%. “Of a total 3,65,08,967 laboratory samples tested thus far, 58,05,565 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.97%) have returned positive with over 2.37 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported more than 1,300 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,26,717. As per the State Health Department figures, only two deaths were recorded as the toll rose to 13,348. According to district authorities, the active cases have declined below 22,000 while the death count has crossed 20,000. Mumbai recorded 786 new cases to take its total tally to 7,10,643 while the active count has declined further to 18,041. Twenty fatalities took the city’s toll to 14,971. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur continued to add big spikes, with more than 1,400 new cases taking its total cases to 1,22,914 of whom 18,177 are active. As many as 42 deaths saw the toll go up to 3,756. Neighbouring Satara logged 1,148 new cases and 32 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,73,895 of whom 15,151 are active. Its death toll has touched 3,361. Ahmednagar registered 20 deaths and more than 650 cases as its toll climbed to 3,439 and the total tally reached 2,56,275 of whom 7,278 are active. Nashik in north Maharashtra reported more than 250 new cases and six deaths. The total cases stand at 3,90,423 with the active case tally coming down to 5,891 while its fatality toll touched 4,918.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/maharashtra-sees-lowest-daily-case-spike-in-nearly-3-months/article34747417.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||If pizza can be home-delivered, why not ration, Kejriwal asks PM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow doorstep delivery of ration of the Delhi government. The scheme was scheduled to be rolled out from this week but did not receive the go-ahead from the Centre. In a digital address, Mr. Kejriwal questioned Mr. Modi and the Central government on the reasons behind rejecting the scheme, which he said, was going to end the rule of “ration mafia” that had victimised the poor of the country. He said the Central government has said the scheme is being stopped due to a case involving ration shopkeepers in the High Court, but neither has the court stayed the scheme nor has the Centre put forward any objection in the court. Mr. Kejriwal said the Delhi government had taken the approval of the Centre five times and in spite of no such legal obligations of the government to do so to start the scheme. ‘Adhered to all demands’ “We adhered to all the demands of the Centre. You had objected that we cannot name this scheme after the Chief Minister, and we removed the name of the scheme. Our goal was not to make our name shine. We accepted all the objections you made. After all this, you say that we did not take your approval. How else to get approval, sir? Even after that, you rejected this scheme. Why sir?.” Mr. Kejriwal asked Mr. Modi. “If Pizza can be home-delivered, burgers can be home-delivered, smartphones and clothes can also be home-delivered, then why should ration not be delivered to the houses of the poor? The entire country wants to know why did you reject the scheme?” Mr. Kejriwal asked the Prime Minister. He added that no government has dared to end the “ration mafia” and that the scheme would also help in the containment of the spread of COVID-19. “For the first time, a government has come to Delhi which has shown this courage. If this house-to-house ration system was implemented, then the ration mafia would end. But look how powerful this ration mafia turned out to be. This plan was to be implemented in Delhi from next week and a week ago, they got it rejected,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Calling it a matter of national interest, Mr. Kejriwal asked why the Central government was fighting with States as they needed to come together to fight COVID-19. “The Central government is fighting with Mamata didi, Jharkhand government, Lakshadweep people, Maharashtra government, Delhi, and with the farmers. People have started saying that the Centre is fighting the most,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Beneficiaries under the scheme would have received 4kg wheat flour (atta), 1kg rice and sugar per person at the convenience of their homes as against the current provision of 4 kg wheat, 1 kg rice and sugar from fair price shops. The new scheme would have enabled a person to get wheat flour instead of wheat. All the ration would have been delivered to the doorstep of the beneficiary in hygienically packaged form thereby cutting several trips for a common man to the ration shop and local miller, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/if-pizza-can-be-home-delivered-why-not-ration-kejriwal-asks-pm/article34747431.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi needs to learn from other parts of country, vaccinate more’||The Delhi government should pay more attention to happenings in other parts of the country in order to prepare for the potential third COVID wave, experts said, adding that there is a need for better coordination with the Centre and conducting more vaccinations. They said there should be better genome sequencing of the virus and sharing of its data. When the second wave hit the city, there was an extreme shortage of beds as people oscillated between hospitals. The city also faced a grave oxygen shortage and many people died in hospitals. ‘Did not predict’ The Delhi government had termed the scale of the second wave as “unexpected” and said it did not predict it. After a peak in November, the cases fell through December and January and the government slowly opened up many healthcare infrastructures for non-COVID treatment. Due to this, the beds used for COVID treatment had reduced. On many days in April, the vacant beds in the city were only 5-6% of the total capacity and the number of available ICU beds was less than 20. When asked about the challenges, Delhi Medical Council president Arun Gupta said: “The next wave will be unpredictable in many ways when it comes and if it comes. What will be the magnitude? For instance, during the second wave in many countries, the peak was 75% higher than first wave. But in India, it was 320% higher than the first wave. We don’t know who will be affected more.” Last month, the government formed two committees to prepare for the third wave and also started making predictions about it so that it can be better prepared. Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicine department at Safdarjung Hospital, hailed the government’s move on forming panels. “Health is never limited to one sector, so the committees have to be multi-sector. It also has to involve other departments such as education, water and sanitation. For instance, if there is not enough water supply, people cannot wash their hands to prevent the spread of the virus and children’s mental health has been impacted by the pandemic, so the education department should be part of it,” Dr. Kishore said. “The government should strengthen Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme [IDSP], which tracks diseases in the society. For instance, data on how many in one colony or village is suffering from a sore throat or having fever should go from the ground-level to the district-level and National Centre for Disease Control [NCDC]. This works strongly in developed countries, but it doesn’t work properly in India,” Dr. Kishore said. When asked about what the government should be doing, Dr. Gupta said, “Before the second wave, we were under-prepared. Preparing for a third wave, we should overestimate the cases and prepare accordingly. Also, vaccination has to be done on a massive scale.” The experts said genome sequencing of the virus and sharing of information regarding it should be done more strongly. “For instance, the variant, which has been now named Delta variant was found in October, but the government didn’t pay much attention. It proved disastrous for us in the second wave. We have to be very vigilant of what is happening in other parts of the country and pick up trends,” Dr. Kishore said. He said there should be a high-level inquiry on oxygen shortage during the second wave, as it was not seen anywhere else in the world, and accountability should be fixed to avoid it in the future. IIT Delhi has recommended the government to use GPS data of oxygen tankers to capture real-time delivery and sensor-based, real-time data on oxygen tankers and cylinder hubs, according to government officials. CM Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the government is preparing for the third wave and was gearing up to handle a peak even as high as 37,000 cases per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-needs-to-learn-from-other-parts-of-country-vaccinate-more/article34747438.ece
07 June 2021||New Delhi,||They are not gangsters: court on plea to produce Khalid, Saifi in handcuffs||A Delhi court dismissed the plea of authorities to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots last year, in “fetters and handcuffs”, noting that they are not previous convicts nor even gangsters. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said, “The applications appear to have been filed in a mechanical manner, without application of mind by the high echelon of Delhi Police and prison authority.” “The Delhi Prison Rules are silent about the handcuffing and putting fetters upon the prisoners. The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the court said. Pursuant to notices issued by the court on previous hearing, Additional DCP (Special Cell) on May 6 stated that “no such application, seeking to produce both the above named accused in ‘handcuffs in both hands from back side’ is filed by the undersigned before any court or before any other authority”. However, the DCP, 3rd BN, in its reply filed on April 26, stated that in the aftermath of attempt to free under trial prisoner (UTP) Kuldeep alias Fajja from the custody at GTB Hospital on March 25 by armed assailants, it was decided to request the courts for permission to handcuff the high risk or sensitive UTPs who are prone to escape or attempts may be made by their gang members to free them. “As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of the Court,” the DCP, 3rd BN had stated. “A joint reading of the stand(s) taken by the aforesaid authorities in their respective replies show that the material on the basis of which the aforesaid applications were filed is devoid of merits. The Delhi Prison Rules are silent about the handcuffing and putting fetters upon the prisoner,” the court said.  COVID protocols “Be that as it may, since now fresh COVID protocols have been notified in Delhi and even the minutes of the High Powered Committee dated May 4, 2021, are in place, now the accused persons are not being produced in Court physically, therefore, these application(s) at this stage are not required,” the court added while dismissing the application.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/they-are-not-gangsters-court-on-plea-to-produce-khalid-saifi-in-handcuffs/article34747655.ece
07 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||4 held in Kamothe for murder||The Kamothe police have arrested four people including two who were caught while trying to dispose of a body. The accused have been identified as Dilip Ganesh Sahu (21), his brother Sandeep Ganesh Sahu (19), and their friends Sonu alias Sunil Kushwaha (28) and Maharaj alias Ramagar Sai (26), all residents of Jui village in Kamothe. According to the police, the sister of the Sahu brothers had an affair with a man from the same village and the duo was against it. On Thursday, their sister’s boyfriend along with his two friends, including one Lakshmikant Mishra alias Bade, assaulted the brothers at their house. The Sahu brothers decided to teach the trio a lesson and the next day, asked the boyfriend to meet them to discuss his relationship with their sister. “Carrying weapons, the brothers and their two friends went to meet the three with an intention to kill them. Seeing the four, two of them managed to escape but the accused got hold of Mishra and stabbed him to death,” an officer from Kamothe police station said. The brothers then carried the body to the outskirts and while disposing of it, a police vehicle with senior police inspector Smita Jadhav spotted them. The accused claimed that the man, who was known to them, was found injured on the roadside and they were waiting for an ambulance. Mishra was declared brought dead at a hospital. During investigation, the police learned about the incident from villagers and arrested the four accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/4-held-in-kamothe-for-murder/article34747416.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BJP has no interest in preventing ration theft, alleges Deputy CM||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday alleged that the BJP has no interest in preventing the theft of ration or keeping a check on its black marketing but was only hurling “abuses” at Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The BJP claimed that the Centre has forestalled a “big scam”, which the Delhi government would have committed by “diverting” subsidised food grains. BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said the Delhi government is free to run such a scheme by purchasing grains at a notified rate, but it has no right to tweak or stop a national programme of subsidised ration distribution under the Food Security Act to launch its own plan. “We will never know to whom Kejriwal is giving ration to. He wanted to launch a ration diverting system. He wanted to start a big scam as the ration would not reach the right person and nobody knows where it might have gone... The Centre has prevented a big scam from taking place,” the BJP spokesperson alleged. Mr. Sisodia said the BJP leader (Mr. Patra) did not talk about ration theft in the country and has misplaced priorities in the times of crisis. “Kejriwal has appealed to the PM for approval of doorstep delivery of ration in Delhi. We were hopeful that our appeals were being heard by the right people but instead, Mr. Patra in his press conference berated Mr. Kejriwal,” the Deputy Chief Minister said. ‘Ration is stolen’ He said the BJP claimed that 80 crore citizens in India receive ration but conveniently missed out on the crucial information on how much of this ration is stolen and sold on a large scale, and how many have to suffer because of this. “The BJP has no interest in eliminating the black marketing of ration in the nation. They want that this shadow economy of ration should thrive and the poor in our country should keep on suffering. If someone tries to stop this illicit black marketing, they have to hear reprehensible statements from the mouth of BJP leaders,” Mr. Sisodia added. On the claims from the BJP that the Delhi government wants to earn an extra buck through ration distribution, Mr. Sisodia said the Centre has released an order wherein State governments can charge an additional Rs. 3 if they wish to provide grounded wheat to people. “Haryana government charges Rs. 3 and distributes flour [atta] instead of ration. Whereas the Delhi government charges only Rs. 2 for the same and also delivers ration to homes of people. All is well when the BJP-ruled States distribute ration for Rs. 3 but when the Delhi government decides to start doorstep delivery of ration to households of the poor, they have a huge problem,” Mr. Sisodia said.  We will never know to whom Kejriwal is giving ration to. He wanted to launch a ration diverting system...The Centre has prevented a big scam Sambit Patra BJP spokesperson||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-has-no-interest-in-preventing-ration-theft-alleges-deputy-cm/article34747432.ece
07 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Haryana extends curbs till June 14||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown in the State till June 14 with increased relaxation for shops, shopping malls and hotels. The club houses, restaurants and bars are now permitted to run with 50% seating capacity and the cap on gatherings at various functions has also been relaxed. Extending the lockdown for the fifth straight week till 5 a.m. on June 14, the Haryana government allowed the shops in market places to remain open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. as per the odd-even formula. Earlier, the shops could only remain open till 3 p.m. The shopping malls are now allowed to open for extra two hours till 8 p.m. The club houses and the restaurants and bars, including those in the shopping malls, can also open with 50% seating capacity. The religious places are also allowed to open with 21 people at a time adhering to social distancing norms and Covid-appropriate behaviour.  50% attendance The corporate offices can open with 50% attendance. The cap on the number of attendees at weddings and funerals has been relaxed to 21 people, but wedding processions are not allowed. At gatherings other than weddings and funerals, maximum 50 people are allowed. The Haryana government had first imposed a week-end lockdown in nine districts — Gurugram, Faridabad, Rohtak, Sonipat, Karnal, Panchkula, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad — from 10 p.m. on April 30 to 5 a.m. on May 3. The entire State was then brought under lockdown for a week on May 3 and the restrictions are being extended on a weekly basis thereafter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-extends-curbs-till-june-14/article34747657.ece
07 June 2021||Guwahati,||Stop auction of two Assam paper mills, Congress tells PM Modi||The Assam unit of Congress has asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to stop the auction of two closed mills of the Hindustan Paper Corporation (HPC) in the State. The Joint Action Committee of Recognised Unions (JACRU), the apex body of employees of the Nagaon Paper Mill at Jagiroad near Guwahati and Cachar Paper Mill at Panchgram near Silchar, has made a similar plea to Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The Cachar and Nagaon mills have been closed since October 2015 and March 2017. The employees of both the mills have not received their salaries and pension benefits since 2017. Liquidator Kuldeep Varma had on June 1 issued an e-auction notice for the sale of the two HPC mills as “going concern” at a “reserve price of Rs. 1,139-crore”. The auction is scheduled on June 30 on the site of the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation. In a letter to the Prime Minister on June 5, Assam Congress president Ripun Bora said auctioning the mills off would undermine the government’s bid to promote industry besides being an injustice to the employees and the local economy that grew around the facilities over the years. ‘Repeated commitment’ He also reiterated the party’s demand for a special economic package for mills and reminded the Prime Minister of the commitment to their revival by former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley and his successor Nirmala Sitharaman. “…it is not necessary to remind you about your repeated commitment in a number of election campaign meetings in Assam… even in 2021 to revive the said two paper mills by granting a special economic package,” Mr. Bora said, recalling similar assurances by Dr. Sarma and his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal. The JACRU too reminded the Chief Minister of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s April 4 declaration to make India ‘atmanirbhar’ in paper production by utilising the available bamboo and forest resources in Assam. “This is a golden opportunity for the government to bring industrial revolution in Assam for ensuring economic growth… and fulfilling commitments, thereby saving the lives of the struggling workers,” JACRU president Manobendra Chakraborty and general secretary Ananda Bordoloi said. They also said 87 employees had died so far because of hunger and inability to afford treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/stop-auction-of-two-assam-paper-mills-congress-tells-pm-modi/article34747658.ece
07 June 2021||Mumbai,||Pawar visits Dilip Kumar at hospital||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar on Sunday called on legendary actor Dilip Kumar at a hospital in Mumbai. The 98-year-old veteran actor was admitted to Khar-based Hinduja Hospital, a non-COVID-19 facility, on Sunday morning after experiencing “episodes of breathlessness”. Mr. Pawar tweeted, “visited legendary actor shri Dilip Kumar ji at Khar Hindujahospital to check on his health and treatment, with veteran actress SmtSaira Banu. I wish shri Dilip Kumarjia speedy recovery and good health.” According to an update posted earlier on Mr. Kumar’s Twitter handle, the actor has been admitted to the medical facility for routine tests and investigations. The screen icon was admitted to the same hospital last month for a regular health check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pawar-visits-dilip-kumar-at-hospital/article34747413.ece
07 June 2021||Amritsar,||Pro-Khalistan slogans at Golden Temple on Bluestar anniversary||The supporters of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann) raised pro-Khalistan slogans at the Golden Temple and a large number of young people carried banners and placards saying “Khalistan Zindabad” on the 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar on Sunday. Describing the event as the “ghallughara (holocaust)” of 1984, Jathedar of Akal Takht Gyani Harpreet Singh stressed on maintaining unity among the Sikh community. Actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence during the farmers’ tractor march on January 26 and later released on bail, was also seen at the Golden Temple along with former MP Simranjit Singh Mann. Operation Bluestar was an Army operation which was carried out in 1984 to flush out the militants from the Golden Temple. Pro-Khalistan slogans were raised by supporters of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Mann) led by Mr. Mann at the Akal Takht, which is the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs.  Tight security Elaborate security arrangements were put in place in Amritsar to ensure that the event passed off smoothly. Delivering his customary message from the podium of Akal Takht, Jatehdar said the Sikh community will always remember the unhealed wounds of Operation Bluestar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pro-khalistan-slogans-at-golden-temple-on-bluestar-anniversary/article34747662.ece
07 June 2021||Mumbai,||Shivaji Maharaj’s coronation remains golden moment for Maharashtra: CM||Coronation of Shivaji Maharaj is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday as he paid tributes to the warrior king who was crowned “Chhatrapati” of the independent Maratha kingdom in 1674. In normal times, public rallies and processions mark the coronation day at Raigad Fort, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, no public function was held for the second consecutive year. Mr. Thackeray said the legendary warrior king instituted a welfare State and gave the topmost priority to his motherland. “On the occasion of Shiv Rajyabhishek Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray paid homage to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the founder of Swarajya, saying this is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra,” the CMO said. BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje visited Raigad fort on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shivaji-maharajs-coronation-remains-golden-moment-for-maharashtra-cm/article34747420.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Police inform shopkeepers about new guidelines||As markets are set to open partially from Monday, Delhi Police briefed the shopkeepers and Market Welfare Association (MWA) representatives at various markets across the city on the latest DDMA guidelines. According to the police, they have been asked to create markings outside their shops and in the market spaces to ensure social distancing, especially among customers. They need to ensure that customers follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and stand in marked squares or circles outside respective shops. Also, volunteers have been deployed to ensure that shopkeepers and their staff follow the instructions and take necessary precautions. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said: “We have briefed MWAs about using staggered timings for staff and opening shops on an odd-even basis to ensure sufficient distancing among shoppers. We have also encouraged them to put markings for social distancing.” On Saturday, police personnel deployed at Outer district also distributed free masks. Also, violators were greeted with flowers at picket points to remind them to follow COVID guidelines. In some areas, the policemen encouraged shopkeepers and individuals to take a COVID pledge to follow the precautions at all times. South Delhi's Lajpat Nagar Central Market, which usually attracts a bigger crowd, will be operational from Tuesday. “We have held meetings with MWA members. As per DDMA order, we along with MWA members will ensure that COVID-appropriate behaviour is followed. At least 20 policemen will be deployed at the Central Market in Lajpat Nagar. Besides this, RWAs volunteers will also be present at the site,” an officer said. Regular announcements and distribution of pamphlets will be done by the policemen and the MWA. Another officer said: “Extra pickets are being set up. Also, patrolling will be intensified as the unlocking begins tomorrow [Monday].” Near liquor shops In case, the liquor shops witness heavy crowds, extra police teams will be deployed to ensure compliance of DDMA order, he added. According to police data, a total of 1,22,010 challans were issued during lockdown from April 19 to June 5 of which, 1,02,645 people were prosecuted for mask violation, 17,646 for violating social distancing, 1526 for hold large public gathering or congregation, 72 for spitting, 121 for consumption of liqour, pan or tobacco.  We have briefed MWAs about using staggered timings for staff and opening shops on odd-even basis to ensure sufficient distancing among shoppers Parvinder Singh DCP (Outer)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-inform-shopkeepers-about-new-guidelines/article34747435.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi records lowest daily virus cases since March 15||The city on Sunday recorded 381 fresh COVID-19 cases and 34 more deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The number of new infections recorded was the lowest since March 15 and the number of deaths was the lowest in nearly two months. The bulletin showed that 76,857 tests were conducted in 24 hours with a positivity rate of 0.50%. The city now has 5,889 active cases, which is down from 6,731 a day before, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 2,327 from 2,855 on Saturday. The total number of cases reported in the city so far stood at 14,29,244 with the total number of deaths at 24,591. On Saturday, the city had recorded 60 fatalities and 414 new cases of COVID-19 with a positivity rate of 0.53%. The day before, Delhi had recorded 50 deaths and 523 new cases with a positivity rate of 0.68%. Delhi had recorded 623 cases and 62 deaths on Tuesday, 576 cases and 103 fatalities on Wednesday, and 487 cases and 45 deaths on Thursday. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2%, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. The bulletin also said 58,091 beneficiaries had been vaccinated in 24hours, of which, 42,823 got the first dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-records-lowest-daily-virus-cases-since-march-15/article34747429.ece
07 June 2021||Aligarh (U.P.),||Key accused in Aligarh hooch tragedy arrested||The key accused in the last month’s hooch tragedy in Aligarh, which has claimed at least 35 lives so far, was nabbed on early morning on Sunday, the police said. Accused Rishi Sharma, who carried a reward of Rs. 1 lakh on his arrest, was held near Bulandshahr border in western Uttar Pradesh, Aligarh Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said. Sharma, whom the police described as the kingpin of the liquor mafia, was named in 13 different cases connected to the recent liquor tragedy, and was nabbed this morning on the Aligarh-Bulandshshar border as he was about to slip out of the district after being holed up. On Saturday, the police had raised the bounty on Sharma from Rs. 75,000 to Rs. 1 lakh. His wife, son, two brothers and a nephew were arrested in the last five days. The search for Sharma was extended to half a dozen neighbouring States and several districts, where he had his network. The police were tracking over 500 cell phone numbers. The police were tipped off on Saturday night that Sharma would be travelling to Bulandshshar in an SUV. He was nabbed in his vehicle, which was carrying a large cache of spurious liquor, the police said. Nearly 50 people have died in Aligarh after consuming spurious liquor on two different occasions recently, according to the police, while officials estimated that the death toll could go up to 100 as autopsy reports of another 50 were awaited. “Earlier, the police had arrested accused Vipin Yadav, with Rs. 50,000 reward on his arrest, and Rishi Sharma’s brother Munish Sharma carrying a bounty of Rs. 25,000 in this case,” the SSP said. He said so far 17 FIRs have been lodged and 61 accused arrested in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/key-accused-in-aligarh-hooch-tragedy-arrested/article34747426.ece
07 June 2021||Palghar,||Newborn dies in Palghar||A girl detected with novel coronavirus infection some hours after birth in Palghar district in Maharashtra died on Sunday morning while undergoing treatment, health officials said. The child was born premature and underweight on May 30 in Saphale and was detected with COVID-19 while the mother, from Darsheth village, had tested negative, they said. “The infant was being treated at Jawhar government hospital and was then shifted to Nashik Civil Hospital where the child died around 5 a.m.. She may be the youngest COVID-19 victim hailing from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/newborn-dies-in-palghar/article34747415.ece
07 June 2021||Guwahati,||Manipur shooting victim’s family to get Rs. 10 lakh||A tripartite agreement has been signed for providing Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to the family of a Manipur villager, who was allegedly shot by an officer of the paramilitary Assam Rifles on Friday night. The villager, a daily wager, succumbed to bullet injuries in the hospital. The agreement was signed among three civil society groups, officials of the Assam Rifles and the State police after the Major, accused of killing 30-year-old Mangboilal Lhouvum, was taken into custody for a brief period. A case was registered against the Major for the incident at Chalwa village in Kangpokpi district reportedly after an argument between the Assam Rifles personnel in plainclothes and members of the extremist Kuki Revolutionary Army. Brigadier P.S. Arora, commander of the 22 Sector Assam Rifles, signed the agreement on behalf of the paramilitary force. Four-point agreement “A four-point agreement was signed to assuage the agitated people of the village. Accordingly, the Assam Rifles will compensate Rs. 10 lakh for the loss of life to the family of the deceased on humanitarian ground, of which Rs. 1 lakh has been given,” a police officer said on Sunday. The agreement also said the Assam Rifles company at the Banglabung outpost near the village would be removed or replaced at the earliest after approval from the Army headquarters in New Delhi and a fully functional armed police station would be set up in the area soon. “An investigation into the June 4 incident has been initiated according to the agreement,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/manipur-shooting-victims-family-to-get-rs-10-lakh/article34747659.ece
07 June 2021||Thane,||CIDCO moves to fast-track airport area development||Town planning authority CIDCO on Sunday asked land owners who come within the Navi Mumbai Airport Influenced Notified Area, also known as NAINA, to submit consent letters as soon as possible to fast-track development plans in the area. Such consent letters must be submitted within 10 days of the CIDCO publishing notices in newspapers, it said. It would benefit land owners as they would be able to undertake development works on the land allotted to them, CIDCO managing director Sanjay Mukherjee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cidco-moves-to-fast-track-airport-area-development/article34747412.ece
07 June 2021||Mumbai,||NCB arrests man wanted in drug case||A wanted accused in a drug case was held on Sunday along with an associate in Pune and a consignment of 12 kg of ganja was seized from his car, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials said. The NCB had earlier arrested one person with 28 kg of ganja and the man held on Sunday, identified as Sunil Bhandari, was wanted in that case. “Mr. Bhandari and his associate Aman Gagade were arrested from near a toll plaza,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ncb-arrests-man-wanted-in-drug-case/article34747414.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready to serve||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-to-serve/article34747725.ece
07 June 2021||New DELHI,||‘Delhi youth travelling 100 km to get vaccinated’||The youth of Delhi is now travelling 100 km to get vaccinated as it has been two weeks since the stock of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines depleted in the national capital for the 18-44 age group, said AAP leader Atishi said on Sunday. The Centre said it will provide a fresh supply of vaccines for the said age group on June 10. She requested the Union government during the daily vaccine bulletin to provide vaccines for the group as several people will soon be due for their second dose. “It is becoming a serious issue as a lot of people in the 18-44 group are nearing their date for the second dose. We are also hearing reports that people are travelling 100-200 km to Meerut, Bulandshahr to get their shots because there are no vaccines in Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said. She added that when youth gets vaccinated in large numbers, the 45+ age group will also be encouraged to come out. “Seeing the youth getting vaccinated will also reduce their hesitancy to vaccinate,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-youth-travelling-100-km-to-get-vaccinated/article34747427.ece
07 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Caretaker kills elderly woman during robbery||A 75-year-old woman was strangled to death allegedly by her caretaker and his two accomplices during a robbery at her flat in Hari Nagar, the police said on Sunday. The 22-year-old caretaker, Monu, hatched a conspiracy along with Vishal and Naveen to rob the woman as she was an “easy target”, they said, adding that all of them were arrested from Burari. The woman has been identified as Savitri Sharma. DCP (West) Urvija Goel said: “We received information on June 1 that Savitri was admitted to Orchid Hospital in an unconscious state. Prima facie, the matter seemed to be of attempt to murder as there were strangulation marks on her neck. She later succumbed to injuries.” During interrogation, suspicion grew on the caretaker as he kept changing his statements, the DCP said. With the help of technical surveillance, it was confirmed that on the day of incident, Monu had come to the spot with two unidentified people. When Monu was confronted, he confessed to the crime. On May 31, Monu and Vishal went inside the flat while Naveen kept an eye on possible threats to them. After entering the flat, Monu and Vishal assaulted the woman and asked her where she kept cash and valuables. When she refused, both of them strangled her and fled the spot with cash and jewellery. The police have recovered a pair of earrings, Rs. 2,000 cash and the motorcycle used in the offence from the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/caretaker-kills-elderly-woman-during-robbery/article34747433.ece
07 June 2021||June 07 2021 00:00 IST,||Long march||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/long-march/article34747661.ece
07 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Only four U.P. districts have over 600 cases||Barring four of the 75 districts, relaxations to the partial lockdown in Uttar Pradesh have been extended to the rest of the State as on Sunday. Only Lucknow, Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur, which have more than 600 active cases, continue to face restrictions. The districts with below 600 active cases will be allowed to open markets and bazaars from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. five days a week with a weekend lockdown. U.P. recorded 1,165 news cases and 101 deaths and has 17,928 active cases, as per the Health Department. The recovery rate had gone up to 97.7%, the government said. The State’s caseload surged to 16,98,389 on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 102 were reported from Kanpur, 91 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 55 from Meerut and 51 from Varanasi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/only-four-up-districts-have-over-600-cases/article34747425.ece
