08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. will revert to centralised procurement of vaccines: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday announced that India would revert to a system of centralised procurement of vaccines against COVID-19, with free vaccines to be provided for the 18-44 age group as well and with 25% of procurement kept open for the private sector. This system will be operationalised byJune 21. Announcing the decision during a televised broadcast to the nation, Mr. Modi said many Chief Ministers had “come forward with a demand for reconsideration of the vaccination strategy and for bringing back the system in place before May 1”. He announced a cap of Rs. 150 on the amount private hospitals can charge over the cost of purchase of the vaccine from the manufacturer. He also announced the extension of the free ration distribution scheme for 80 crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana till Diwali, in November. SC hearing on June 30 The Prime Minister’s announcement comes a week after the Supreme Court asked for an affidavit from the Centre on how the sum of Rs. 35,000 crore allocated in the Union Budget for vaccines has been spent so far. The Court sought to know why these funds cannot be used for giving free vaccination for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years, observing that the Centre’s policy of not providing free vaccines to this particular age group was prima facie “arbitrary and irrational”. The affidavit is due on June 15 and the next hearing is on June 30. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had written to Chief Ministers across the country urging a consensus on central procurement of vaccines, while Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to Chief Ministers of 11 non-NDA States to unite to ask for free vaccines from the Centre. Expressing grief at the loss of life especially during the massive second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic that has hit India, Mr. Modi said his government had dealt with the challenges of resources on a war footing to deal with a “once in a century” pandemic. ‘Unprecedented crisis’ “Never in a 100 years has there been such a pandemic, and this saw an unprecedented demand for medical oxygen across the country. We pressed the government, railways, army, air force, navy and other wings into service to procure medical oxygen and other medicines required in our fight against the pandemic,” he said. At the receiving end of much criticism over vaccine shortages, Prime Minister Modi defended his government’s record and capacity. “When we were first elected in 2014, we found that vaccine coverage under the universal immunisation programme was around 60% and we quickly launched ‘Mission Indradhanush’ to not only increase coverage but we added other vaccines to improve the health of our children. When COVID-19 hit, our scientists got to work to develop a vaccine to deal with the disease. Government of India set up a vaccine task force in April 2020 itself,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-revert-to-centralised-procurement-of-vaccines-modi/article34757180.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||State extends lockdown till June 16||The State has extended the lockdown till June 16. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Monday that the State was yet to achieve the desired reduction in the COVID-19 transmission rate. He had earlier chaired a high-level meeting to review the pandemic situation. The State would shut down entirely on June 12 and 13. The administration would allow only indispensable activity during the weekend.  As per the new regulations, ration shops and stores selling food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk, and dairy products could open for business between 7 a.m. and 7.30 p.m. There is no restriction on medical shops and fuel pumps. Banks can open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Shops selling construction material and raw material suppliers can conduct business. The government has allowed food to be delivered home as parcels to keep the gig economy running while opening a door for the youth to gain part-time employment. Stationery shops, jewellery, footwear showroom, textile shops and optical shops can open for one day on June 11 between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Vehicle showrooms can open for service and maintenance on June 11. However, no sale is permitted. It has also directed that 50% of government employees should report for work from June 17. Greater leeway An official said the extension and further tightening of lockdown measures would accord the administration greater leeway to exert better pandemic transmission control. Social gatherings, indoor dining, sale of legal liquor and public transport already remain banned. The government has also banned the sale of toddy as a takeaway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-extends-lockdown-till-june-16/article34757348.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 TPR in Bengaluru Urban plummets to 4.91%||From a COVID-19 Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of nearly 38.32% in the first week of May, the seven-day average from May 31 to June 6 in Bengaluru Urban plummeted to 4.91%. While this is a reason to cheer,experts have said it is vital to sustain this now and continue the existing testing strategy till December. This is the first time that the TPR in Bengaluru Urban has fallen to below 5% since mid-March, when the second wave began in Karnataka. With this, Bengaluru Urban is one of the six districts that have a TPR of 5% or less, making them eligible for unlocking. The State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) had recommended that the lockdown should be continued till the TPR fell below 5%. While Bidar had the lowest seven-day average TPR at 0.65%, Kalaburagi and Haveri had a TPR of 2.7% and 3.32%, respectively. Yadgir and Ramanagaram also saw a drop in TPR, at 5.21% and 5.85%, respectively. There has been a considerable decline in the number of new cases in the past week. The State’s average TPR for the seven days prior to June 6 was 9.23%. However, what is worrisome is that the TPR in 18 districts was higher than the State average during the period. At 23.75%, Mysuru continued to have the highest TPR, followed by 23.7% in Chikkamagaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-tpr-in-bengaluru-urban-plummets-to-491/article34757221.ece
08 June 2021||GUNTUR,||MP’s phone is with forensic lab, says CID||The Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department has refuted allegations aired in a section of media over the seizure of a mobile phone purportedly belonging to the Member of Parliament, Narsapuram, K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, an accused in Cr 12/2021 charged under various sections, and clarified that the mobile phone has been in the custody of the AP Forensic Science Laboratory since May 18, 2021 and the CID has no access to it. The CID also has no means to find out what the actual phone number is since the final report of the APSFL is awaited. The CID, in a press note, said that the ‘intervening propaganda’, by the accused was intended to overawe the investigative agency with false and frivolous complaints and circulate them in public domain. “As far as investigation is concerned, the cell phone along with the SIM is in the custody of FSL for detailed forensic analysis. From time to time, updates on forensic analysis are being informed to the jurisdictional court. The final report from FSL is being awaited and it is only then it will be possible to establish the SIM no. in the phone of Mr. Raju. It is submitted that all these developments shall be placed before the Supreme Court. The investigating agency is pursuing the investigation in accordance with law and all insinuations to the contrary are incorrect and false,’’ the release said. There was a flutter on Sunday with a section of media airing stories based on a tweet by former IAS officer P.V. Ramesh that his family members got texts from a phone number, which was later identified as that of Mr. Raju. Mr. Raju had also sent notices stating that the APCID had seized his mobile phone during investigation and demanded that his mobile phone should be given back. The CID will now move the Supreme Court to cancel the bail of Mr. Raju and also investigate further on Mr. Ramesh’s tweets, tthe release said. Seizure as per law The MP was arrested from his residence in Hyderabad after instituting an FIR No. 12 / 21 u/s 124A, 153A, 505 r/w 120B IPC at CID PS on May 14. The CID said that the mobile phone was seized as per the procedure and a seizure memo was prepared in the presence of witnesses on May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mps-phone-is-with-forensic-lab-says-cid/article34757174.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Complete internal assessments by June 28, says CBSE||Schools which have pending internal and practical assessments for Class 12 must complete them through online mode only and submit the marks by June 28, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said in a notification on Monday. This comes as a CBSE panel is deliberating on how to determine Class 12 results in lieu of the cancelled board examinations. “Some schools have not been able to complete the school-based assessments in various subjects due to the pandemic. Schools with pending practicals/internal assessments are permitted to conduct the same in only online mode and upload marks on the provided link latest by 28.06.2021,” said the notification issued by CBSE Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj. Practical exams For practical examinations of project evaluations, the CBSE had appointed an external examiner who would decide on a date and conduct online viva voces. For internal assessment, the subject teacher concerned would test students based on the instructions provided by the CBSE. The policy for conducting such assessments for private candidates would be issued soon, said Dr. Bhardwaj. Examiners were warned to “keep in mind that the marks allotted should not bunch towards the maximum marks which is highly unlikely in view of diverse levels of students”. Dr. Bhardwaj is a part of the 12-member panel set up by the CBSE last week to decide on objective criteria to determine Class 12 results after the exams were cancelled. One of the options being considered is using the marks from students’ internal assessments, unit tests, project and practical work done through the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/complete-internal-assessments-by-june-28-says-cbse/article34757182.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Telugu Desam Party president may join TRS||Former minister and president of Telangana unit of Telugu Desam Party L. Ramana is said to have been approached by TRS leaders to join their party but he has not taken a decision so far. Talking to The Hindu , Mr. Ramana said he will make up his mind in two or three days after consulting his colleagues in TDP. He admitted the TRS leaders were in touch with him because they had access to him. But, he was in no hurry to take a decision immediately. Prominent among TRS leaders who spoke to him were Panchayat Raj Minister E. Dayakar Rao and Jagtial MLA M. Sanjay Kumar. Even some BJP leaders reportedly invited him to join their party but Mr. Ramana is reportedly not so keen. If Mr. Ramana joined the TRS, it will be a gain for the party in terms of roping in a backward classes leader ahead of possible by-election to the Huzurabad Assembly constituency due to the resignation of incumbent MLA Eatala Rajender, also a BC leader. Both Mr. Ramana and Mr. Rajender are from the erstwhile Karimnagar district. Sources said the TRS leaders sounded out Mr. Ramana for an MLC post upon his joining the party. There were six vacancies in the Legislative Council on account of retirement of members but the Election Commission has postponed the elections in view of COVID. Another vacancy in the Council from Governor’s quota will arise on June 16. Mr. Ramana, apart, another leader from erstwhile Karimnagar E. Peddi Reddy is also said to be looking towards TRS. Mr. Reddy is now the core committee member of State unit of BJP which Mr. Rajender will join next week after resigning as MLA. Mr. Reddy was unhappy with Mr. Rajender joining the BJP for obvious reasons as it will erode his chances of getting the party ticket to contest next elections from Huzurabad. The former had quit the TDP and joined BJP only last year. He had already expressed his displeasure at the BJP’s invitation to Mr. Rajender saying it was done without taking him into confidence as the local leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/telangana-telugu-desam-party-president-may-join-trs/article34757672.ece
08 June 2021||Mumbai,||Uddhav, Modi to meet today; focus likely on Maratha quota, GST dues||A delegation led by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday on various issues ranging from the Maratha reservation to the pending GST compensation. Mr. Thackeray’s team will include Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan. This will be the first visit of Mr. Thackeray to New Delhi since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. According to sources, the Chief Minister will be submitting a letter on the Maratha quota, which was scrapped by the Supreme Court, and the OBC reservation in local civic bodies. He will highlight the issue of pending GST compensation and seek Central funds for relief following the damage caused by Cyclone Tauktae.  Last month, Mr. Thackeray wrote to Mr. Modi requesting him to take steps to declare the Maratha community as Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) to enable them to take benefits of reservation. “The majority (Supreme Court Bench) has held that, in view of aforesaid 102nd Constitutional Amendment, all the States are denuded of their power, authority and jurisdiction to identify any community that falls in the category of SEBC.” The letter said as a consequence of the verdict, it is the President, i.e. the Union Government alone, which can identify and notify the community as SEBC. It said, “This is therefore, to earnestly request you that appropriate steps be taken, in accordance with law, declared by Hon’ble Supreme Court, to identify and declare the Maratha community as SEBC to enable them to claim the reservation in Education and Public Employment, to the extent of 12% and 13%, respectively.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/uddhav-modi-to-meet-today-focus-likely-on-maratha-quota-gst-dues/article34757739.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Markets, malls reopen to lukewarm response||Shopping malls and markets reopened in the Capital on Monday on an odd-even basis after nearly two months of lockdown. Sanitiser dispensers and markers for social distancing were in place as shopkeepers raised shutters with a hope to make their first sale after a long spell of no income. While most markets and malls bore a deserted look, few shoppers started trickling in from noon. At the Select City Walk mall in Saket, most shops reopened but some, including a few food joints, continued to have their shutters down. Sumit Agarwal, a shopper at the mall, said, “The last two months had been very long and stressful. Staying at home and constantly receiving terrible news had become too much to bear. Now that the malls have reopened, we can still think of stepping out in a restricted manner. I thought of visiting the mall today for some respite before it starts getting crowded.” An employee at an outlet selling cosmetics said, “We have a sanitiser dispenser in place which the customers have to use before entering the store. It is all the more imperative now as multiple customers touch the same products before buying.” At the Sarojini Nagar market, while the hawkers stayed away, the shops opened on odd-even basis. Manoj Bajaj, a shopkeeper, said, “We will be opening on alternate days. The circles have been marked outside the shop to ensure people maintain social distancing. Only two people will be permitted inside our shop at any given point.” Odd-even confusion Brijesh Goyal, chairman of Chamber of Trade and Industry, said there were some doubts about the odd-even rule in old Delhi markets such as Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Chawri Bazar and Sadar Bazar because there are many shops with the same number. “We told the shopkeepers to mark the shops at their level and allot numbers,” he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/markets-malls-reopen-to-lukewarm-response/article34757642.ece
08 June 2021||Pune,||State’s active case tally dips below 1.75 lakh||Maharashtra on Monday reported 10,557 new COVID-19 cases as opposed to 14,433 recoveries as its active case tally dipped to 1,74,320. The total death toll, however, crossed the one lakh mark, climbing to 1,00,130, with the case fatality rate at 1.72%. The Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation has decided to increase the frequency of buses to different cities. Pune reported more than 900 new cases, while Mumbai recorded a spike of 730 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-case-tally-dips-below-175-lakh/article34757736.ece
08 June 2021||Kochi,||12-hour strike across Lakshadweep for Patel’s recall||People across the islands under the Lakshadweep administration observed a 12-hour hunger strike on Monday. The protests which began at 6 a.m., were held at islanders’ homes in observance of COVID-19 protocols as the number of cases continue to rise in the archipelago. Residents held up placards calling for the Centre to immediately recall the islands’ Administrator Praful K. Patel. The protesters also held placards underwater in the Arabian sea and outside their homes with slogans like “Revoke LDAR” (Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation) and “Justice for Lakshadweep”. They also demanded recall of Lakshadweep Collector Asker Ali. While the people staged protests at their homes, panchayat council members from Kavaratti gathered at the panchayat office to register their protest “in a peaceful manner”. However, the police intervened and the protesters were turned away, said a spokesman for the Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), which organised the protests. “This is the first pan-island protest by the people under the Lakshadweep administration, demanding that the government roll back the anti-people policies unveiled by the Administrator,” said a spokesperson for the SLF, which included members across political parties and professions. Stand united “All political parties and organisations are united in their demand that the policies of the Administrator are anti-people and against the actual requirements of the people,” the SLF said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-hour-strike-across-lakshadweep-for-patels-recall/article34757172.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||State to get 3 paediatric multi-speciality hospitals||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked officials to take steps to set up three multi-speciality paediatric hospitals at Vizag, Tirupati and in the Krishna-Guntur region, in addition to augmenting paediatric infrastructure at existing hospitals and clinics across the State, in view of a third COVID wave that is likely to impact children, according to experts. Each multi-speciality paediatric hospital is likely to cost Rs. 180 crore. At a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed officials to create awareness among parents on the impact of the ‘third wave’ of COVID-19 in children. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that paediatric wards should be set up in all teaching hospitals following national standards and directed officials to develop them at the earliest. Mr. Jagan also asked officials to recruit paediatric medical personnel and purchase all medicines required to treat children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-get-3-paediatric-multi-speciality-hospitals/article34757173.ece
08 June 2021||GUNTUR,||Jagan to launch phase-2 of interest-free loans today||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the Jagananna Thodu scheme on Tuesday, which aims to provide a helping hand to small and petty vendors across the State. Under this scheme, an interest-free loan of Rs. 10,000 would be provided to 3.7 lakh small and petty vendors at an expenditure of Rs. 370 crore. The scheme was launched on November 25, 2020, and in the first phase Rs. 535 crore was disbursed by the banks to 5.35 lakh beneficiaries. The government had paid Rs. 29.42 crore towards interest for the phase-1 beneficiaries. In phase-2, the State government has decided to extend financial assistance to 3.7 lakh beneficiaries through Sthreenidhi Credit Cooperative Federation and APCOB. The government will pay Rs. 20.35 crore interest on the Rs. 370 crore loan. The aim of the scheme is to free vendors from paying heavy interest for loans taken from private parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-to-launch-phase-2-of-interest-free-loans-today/article34757175.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Warangal jail to be vacated in three days||Director General of Prisons Rajiv Trivedi has said that the central prison at Warangal will be vacated in three days with the shifting of the remaining 231 prisoners and machinery used in various trades to other prisons. On a visit to the jail on Monday to supervise the shifting operations for the purpose of handing over the premises to Health department for construction of a multi super-speciality hospital, Mr. Trivedi said 80% of prisoners were already accommodated in other jails in the State. A large portion of the machinery was also sent to Cherlapalli and Chanchalguda jails. He said revenue authorities were surveying a 100-acre land adjacent to the police battalion at Mamnoor on Warangal outskirts for the construction of a modern jail at a cost of Rs. 250 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/warangal-jail-to-be-vacated-in-three-days/article34757673.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||8 injured as Mumbai to Kolkata flight hits turbulence||At least eight passengers aboard a Vistara flight from Mumbai to Kolkata suffered injuries following air turbulence on Monday evening. “Five passengers had minor injuries, and three passengers had serious injuries. Among those with serious injuries, there was a case each of head injury, spinal injury and shoulder dislocation. The injured were taken to Charnock Hospital,” airport director C. Pattabhi told The Hindu . The incident occurred when the flight was 15 minutes away from the airport. It landed at 4.25 p.m. The airport official added that Kolkata was experiencing heavy rains when the incident occurred, and several flights had to be diverted. Probe in progress “Passengers were provided first aid during the flight and immediate medical assistance upon arrival in Kolkata. We are saddened by this unfortunate experience our customers had, and are closely monitoring the health status of those injured. We are investigating the incident on priority,” the airline said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/8-injured-as-mumbai-to-kolkata-flight-hits-turbulence/article34757315.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Lockdown pains||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-pains/article34757223.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Centre gave 1.01 cr. vaccine doses to T.N.’||The State government on Monday informed the Madras High Court that it had received 1,01,63,960 doses of COVID-19 vaccines from the Centre till June 5, and that it had given the shots to 96,74,470 people, including 79,92,373 belonging to the 45 and above age group and 16,82,097 belonging to the 18-44 category. The court was also told that the Centre had given an assurance to supply 37,13,190 doses between June 9 and July 2. Appearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said the Centre had stated that 20,38,810 doses would be supplied through the Government of India channel for vaccinating those aged 45 and above, and 16,74,380 doses could be purchased by the State government directly from manufacturers for vaccinating the other category [The Centre subsequently announced that it would revert to centralised procurement of vaccines]. The A-G noted that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, seeking a special allotment of one crore doses to the State to make good for the lower allocations made in the previous months. After taking note of his submissions, the judges hoped that the efforts to expeditiously augment the supply of vaccines would be kept up so that the entire population could be vaccinated as early as possible. The court also expressed the hope that both the Centre and the State government would look into the aspect of vaccinating on priority the students who wish to travel abroad for studies and other international passengers. The judges said the government could also consider the possibility of recording the passport number of the individual concerned on the vaccination certificate so that things become easy for international travellers. “With many countries now opening up and allowing international travellers from India, this aspect of the matter gains even more significance,” the Bench said. It also expressed the hope that the State government would continue its efforts, by constituting district-level committees led by Medical Department officials, to ensure that private hospitals do not indulge in profiteering at the expense of the distressed citizens suffering from COVID-19. Further, observing that the second wave of COVID-19 appeared to be under control, and that both the Tamil Nadu government and the Puducherry administration had taken appropriate measures to deal with the problem, “though there may have been a state of unpreparedness at the initial stage”, the court adjourned by two weeks further hearing of a suo motu case taken up by it to monitor the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-gave-101-cr-vaccine-doses-to-tn/article34757267.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Curfew to stay till June 20||The State government has extended the curfew by 10 days i.e. till June 20, and the relaxation will be from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. from June 11 (at present it is from 6 a.m. to 12 noon). Government offices will be open from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m.. Curfew had to be extended to bring down the number of positive cases, which has been on a steady decline but not to a level where the government can heave a sigh of relief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curfew-to-stay-till-june-20/article34757176.ece
08 June 2021||Pune,||18 feared killed in Pune factory fire||At least 18 people, of whom 15 are believed to be women, are feared killed in a blaze following explosions in a private chemical plant in Pune’s Mulshi taluk on Monday. There were conflicting reports of the exact number of workers trapped at the time of the blaze, with some officials giving the figure as 38 and others stating that the roll call showed 37. Fire department personnel, who reached the scene at 4 p.m., said they recovered 11 bodies and that at least two persons were feared missing. The death toll could rise further, officials said. According to Pune rural authorities, a massive fire was reported around 2.30 p.m. at the SVS Aqua Technologies, a company in Urawade village near the Pirangut MIDC area in Mulshi. It is believed that two powerful explosions led to the ensuing inferno. “We have information that over 35 workers were inside the factory of which 20 were rescued. So far, 11 bodies have been recovered. Most of them are charred beyond recognition. The process of identification is on,” said a Fire department official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-feared-killed-in-pune-factory-fire/article34757183.ece
08 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Officials told to remove encroachment||Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu has directed revenue authorities in Byndoor and Udupi taluks to remove encroachment on government land in Golihole and Kukkehalli. He had come across encroachment during his recent visit to these two villages for COVID-19 containment related works. About five acres of government land near the helipad of Golihole was found to be encroached upon. In Kukkehalli village, government land abutting the village accountant’s office had been encroached upon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/officials-told-to-remove-encroachment/article34757271.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Rs. 1,500-crore upgrade for hospitals in State||To make Karnataka ready for handling a possible third wave of COVID-19, the State government has decided to upgrade 146 taluk and 19 district hospitals in the next three months on an expenditure of Rs. 1,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-1500-crore-upgrade-for-hospitals-in-state/article34757225.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,||CM appeals to MLAs to shun signature campaign||Internal bickering and confusion in the BJP over the issue of leadership change continued on Monday even as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked his party legislators to refrain from signature campaigns either in his favour or opposing him. His appeal came a day after he publicly said he would step down if the party high command wished so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-appeals-to-mlas-to-shun-signature-campaign/article34757226.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Clarify decision on sale of land to JSW, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to clarify its decision related to the sale of 3,677 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre, and to submit documents related to decisions taken in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/clarify-decision-on-sale-of-land-to-jsw-says-hc/article34757227.ece
08 June 2021||Kolkata,||WB records 5,887 new cases, 103 deaths||West Bengal on Monday saw the number of COVID-19 infections drop to 5,887. The State also recorded 103 more deaths in the past 24 hours. The case postivity rate, the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested is, 11.08. The State government has imposed COVID-19 restrictions till June 15 and public transport remains suspended. North 24 Parganas remains the worst affected district. It recorded 1,181 more infections and 32 deaths on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/wb-records-5887-new-cases-103-deaths/article34757314.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal announces drive to vaccinate all above 45||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a pan-city vaccination drive aimed at ensuring that everyone above the age of 45 receives their first dose of vaccine over the coming four weeks. Beginning Tuesday, teams led by block-level officers would visit every household allotting vaccination slots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kejriwal-announces-drive-to-vaccinate-all-above-45/article34757644.ece
08 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer leaders released, SKM claims major victory||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday claimed major victory in its protest at Haryana’s Tohana after all three farmer leaders arrested last week were released. Led by SKM leaders, the farmers had been holding a sit-in at the Sadar police station in support of their demands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmer-leaders-released-skm-claims-major-victory/article34757645.ece
08 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Vaccine sale in Punjab: Oppn. corners Cong. govt.||Amid controversy over the sale of COVID-19 vaccine by the Punjab government to private hospitals, the Opposition parties are cornering the Congress dispensation and demanding the dismissal of State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu over the alleged scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccine-sale-in-punjab-oppn-corners-cong-govt/article34757646.ece
08 June 2021||Mumbai,||Aarey land handed over to Forest Department, SGNP||The Maharashtra government on Monday announced that 812 acres of notified land of Aarey Milk Colony, and Aarey land at Borivali, Goregaon, and Marol Maroshi village have been officially handed over to the State Forest Department and Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP). Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the decision “paves a path for a massive forest to blossom in the heart of Mumbai”. In September last year, the State government had decided to apply Section 4 of Indian Forest Act to the land declaring it as a reserved forest. The area does not include the land earmarked by the previous government for Metro car shed project but is adjacent to SGNP. The land was earlier with the Dairy Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aarey-land-handed-over-to-forest-department-sgnp/article34757735.ece
08 June 2021||Pune,||‘RSS may sideline Modi if popularity dips further’||Senior Congress leader and the party’s national panel spokesperson Anant Gadgil on Monday predicted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in real danger of being sidelined by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh if his popularity continued to dip further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rss-may-sideline-modi-if-popularity-dips-further/article34757737.ece
08 June 2021||Chennai,||Portal issuing e-pass for travel crashes||Hundreds in Chennai who were attempting to get the mandatory e-registration to travel within the city were left fuming on Monday after the portal crashed. The State government, despite announcing relaxations, had mandated e-registration to travel in taxis and autorickshaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/portal-issuing-e-pass-for-travel-crashes/article34757266.ece
08 June 2021||Chennai,||Cases in T.N. drop below 20,000 after 36 days||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day in Tamil Nadu dropped below 20,000 after 36 days on Monday. The State logged 19,448 cases and 351 deaths, taking its tally to 22,56,681 and toll to 27,356. The number of deaths fell to below 400 after two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cases-in-tn-drop-below-20000-after-36-days/article34757269.ece
08 June 2021||Namakkal,||‘No response to global tender for vaccines’||The State government is ready to procure and distribute any eligible vaccine for the people, but there was no response to the global tender called for procuring vaccines, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-response-to-global-tender-for-vaccines/article34757270.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHi,||SC urged to stop illegal adoption||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to intervene after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) sounded the alarm on a spate of complaints about illegal adoption of COVID orphans through private individuals and organisations. The NCPCR informed a Bench led by Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose that it had received many complaints in May that private individuals and organisations have been actively collecting data on these children while claiming that they want to assist families and children in adoption. ‘Violates JJ Act’ “Social media posts are circulating that children are up for adoption. This is plainly illegal and violates the Juvenile Justice Act,” advocate Shobha Gupta, for an intervenor, made an impassioned plea. “The adoption of orphaned/abandoned/ surrendered children is lawful only after the adoption procedure as given under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 is followed and the final adoption order is passed by the prescribed authority,” Additional Solicitor General K.M. Nataraj, for NCPCR, submitted. NCPCR statistics shows that 3,621 children were orphaned, 26,176 children lost either parent and 274 children were abandoned between April 1, 2021 to June 5, 2021. The second wave of the pandemic was at its worst form during this period, leaving a trail of death across the country. Justice Rao said the court would pass the necessary orders on the issue of illegal adoptions. The national child rights body said information about these children, including their personal details, are being leaked from within government sources to private bodies, which circulate them. “The Commission is receiving intimation regarding disclosure of children’s identity/ information by government authorities to private NGOs and organizations. Care must be taken by the authorities to ensure that their action is not in violation of Section 74 of the Juvenile Justice Act,” the NCPCR affidavit said. The provision prohibits the disclosure of identity of children with regard to the name, school, age, address or any information which would reveal the essential details of the child. Susceptible to trafficking NCPCR urged the court to direct the States and Union Territories to not place any confidential information about children in the public domain which would make them susceptible to trafficking, “The Commission is also concerned to note that several NGOs are seeking monetary support in the name of children impacted by COVID. However, there is no disclosure to authorities regarding actual beneficiaries, as mandated under the JJ Act, 2015,” the NCPCR said. The Commission asked the court to direct the States and UTs to create State Juvenile Justice Funds to enable the credit of donations/ contributions/ subscriptions directly in the notified account.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-urged-to-stop-illegal-adoption/article34757087.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Death toll in India tops 3.5 lakh||India recorded 83,887 new COVID-19 cases and 2,075 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Monday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,89,93,541 cases and 3,51,304 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 19,448 new infections, followed by Karnataka (11,958) and Maharashtra (10,219). Tamil Nadu also recorded 351 new casualties on the day, followed by Maharashtra (340) and Karnataka (340). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States and Union Territories. Nearly 15.88 lakh samples were tested in the country on Sunday (the results for which were made available on Monday). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 4% on June 6 compared with 9% recorded a week before. Nearly 13.91 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Monday, which is nearly 19.62 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 3.73 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 26.96 lakh on June 6, which is more than the 23.5 lakh recorded a week before (May 30). About 20% of adults in India, 40.5% of those aged above 45 and 44.7% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Monday. India continued to record the highest number of daily deaths in the world with 2,896 average daily fatalities on June 6. The two other countries with the highest daily death count after India were Brazil (1,639) and Mexico (756).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/death-toll-in-india-tops-35-lakh/article34757127.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Oppn. leaders say their constant pressure led to U-turn in policy||Opposition leaders across the spectrum on Monday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s new vaccination policy of providing free vaccines to all adults in government hospitals from June 21 has been driven by the Supreme Court’s criticism of its policy and constant pressure from political rivals. While the Chief Ministers of non-BJP-ruled States thanked the Prime Minister for ‘reversing’ the Centre’s earlier policy of asking them to buy directly from vaccine producers and offering the vaccines free of cost, several Opposition leaders argued that such a decision should have been taken right at the start of the vaccination programme, pointing out that the delay cost many lives. Among the Chief Ministers who welcomed the move on Twitter included Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Tamil Nadu’s M.K. Stalin, Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan, Punjab’s Captain Amarinder Singh and Rajasthan’s Ashok Gehlot. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted, “Back in Feb '21 & multiple times thereafter, I’d written to the PM stating our long standing demand to provide vaccines to ALL for FREE. Took him 4 months but after much pressure, he has FINALLY listened to us & implemented what we've been asking all this while. The well-being of the people of India should’ve been prioritized since the very start of this pandemic. Unfortunately, this delayed decision by PM has already cost many lives”. Mr. Gehlot also contested Mr Modi’s claim that States had asked for a ‘free-hand’ from the Centre with regard to vaccine procurement. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Prime Minister’s announcement partially met the Congress’ demand for a free universal vaccination and even now, a person may have spend anywhere between Rs. 1,900 to Rs. 2,700 for two doses if he is ‘forced’ to get vaccinated at a private hospital because of non-availability of vaccines in a government hospital or opts for a private hospital. “One simple question — If vaccines are free for all, why should private hospitals charge for them?” asked former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on twitter with hashtag #FreeVaccineForAll. “The cost of the delay has been unbearable for India as it resulted in tens of thousands of deaths,” added senior Congress leader Anand Sharma. Questioning the 25% quota of vaccines for private hospitals, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “The vaccination programme is funded by people's money. So why is the discrimination continuing? This is not a largesse by the Modi government, it is not a favour that they are granting us.” “The opposition parties, including ours have been demanding universal, free vaccines and free foodgrains for the vulnerable. The government did not listen to the Opposition and then the Supreme Court had to step in,” said CPI general secretary D. Raja, adding, “Vaccination is the government's responsibility; it is not an act of charity” Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge also took to Twitter to ask “if Govt has enough doses to vaccinate the most vulnerable people by July as it plans. Where is the blueprint for it?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/oppn-leaders-say-their-constant-pressure-led-to-u-turn-in-policy/article34757107.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Antigua to investigate Choksi’s complaint||After repeatedly rejecting fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi’s claim that he had been abducted from the Caribbean islands of Antigua and Barbuda, Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne said on Monday that the police would investigate the “very serious” offence that Mr. Choksi might have been kidnapped to Dominica, ahead of a Tuesday hearing for his bail application. “An abduction is a serious offence and assuming the veracity of that claim, law enforcement and the executive would be very concerned,” Mr. Browne said in a radio interview, adding that he had earlier dismissed Mr. Choksi’s claims because Antigua and Barbuda do not have a “culture of abduction”. In his complaint dated June 2, Mr. Choksi has named the woman he claims entrapped him, Barbara Jabarica, and named “Indian men” — Narender Singh, Arminder Singh and Gurmit Singht — that he claims beat him up, forcibly took him on a boat to Dominica and interrogated him. Mr. Choksi has not directly named Indian authorities for the alleged abduction, but makes several references to the possibility that the men whom the complaint says “seemed to be highly experienced mercenaries or contractors, hired specifically for the purpose of detaining and abducting me in such a brutal and unlawful manner”, intended to take him back to India. Mr. Choksi also says Narender Singh asked him over the telephone not to disclose the names of any offshore accounts that he held. Mr. Choksi claims that Narender Singh, who introduced himself as the ‘chief agent in charge of the case’, told him he would be meeting a ‘high-ranking Indian politician’ soon, that Mr. Choksi’s citizenship had been ‘fixed’ with Dominican authorities and he would be repatriated to India. On Monday, Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said the rights of Mr. Choksi, whom he identified as an Indian, would be respected. The Ministry of External Affairs, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the CBI declined requests from The Hindu for a comment on the case, and Mr. Choksi’s latest claims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/antigua-to-investigate-choksis-complaint/article34757096.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||It’s ‘Assam model’ for BJP in Uttarakhand||The BJP’s uncharacteristic move to change the Chief Minister with less than a year to go for the Assembly election in Uttarakhand surprised many when it happened, but a couple of months down the line, the party is looking at going into the polls next year on the basis of collective leadership rather with a chief ministerial face. Party leaders are calling this collective leadership pattern the “Assam model” with no guarantee that the sitting Chief Minister would be repeated, referring to the replacement of Sarbananda Sonowal with Himanta Biswa Sarma after the polls. Tirath Singh Rawat replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat in Uttarakhand as Chief Minister after the latter alienated party MLAs, leaders, workers and also the Vishwa Hindu Parishad that threatened him with an agitation if he did not announce the withdrawal of the Devasthanam Act of 2019 that sought to regulate the working of a large number of Hindu shrines, including the Badrinath and Kedarnath temples. Mr. Tirath Singh Rawat has reversed many of his predecessor’s unpopular decisions, but he is not considered an inspiring administrator. Stocktaking exercise At a recent stocktaking exercise held in Uttarakhand, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh got much feedback from various leaders of the party and one thing was clear: the exit of Mr. Trivendra Singh Rawat did not mean the end to factionalism. Several leaders belonging to various factions made their concerns clear to Mr. Santhosh. “At this time, the faction of leaders who had moved from the Congress to the BJP, led by former Chief Minister Vijay Bahuguna, is active, as are those belonging to factions led by previous BJP Chief Ministers. While Mr. Tirath Singh Rawat has tried to reverse many unpopular decisions of the Trivendra Singh Rawat government, he has not been able accommodate many of these faction leaders in his team,” said a source. The divisions within the party have prompted the central leadership to emphasise the collective leadership trope to begin preparations for the next Assembly polls. “Please remember that this is the same State unit that raised slogans of ‘Khanduri hai zaroori’ [Khanduri is necessary] in 2012 before losing the polls due to heavy infighting between the Brahmin and Rajput lobby,” said a senior State unit leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-assam-model-for-bjp-in-uttarakhand/article34757100.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ensure doctors can work without fear, IMA urges PM||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure that medical professionals are allowed to work without fear. The IMA, in a letter, said Mr. Modi’s urgent intervention was required to stop the continuous and ongoing physical and mental assault on doctors as well as deliberate spread of misinformation against modern medicine and vaccination by certain people with vested interests. “Any person(s) who spreads misinformation against the vaccination drive, which is meant to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, must be booked and punished in accordance with law including under the relevant provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” it stressed. Any attempt of any person to fool the gullible public and promote so-called “magic remedies” or “wonder drugs” without the approval of the Union Health Ministry ought to be curtailed. The government should promote universal free vaccination to all above 18. The IMA noted that post COVID-19 complications of lung fibrosis, increased thrombotic events and fungal infections were on the rise and that there was need to get prepared for the same. “We appeal to you to set up a separate research cell to study these complications in detail and to come out with multi-faceted treatment guidelines in all disciplines of medicine,” the letter urged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-doctors-can-work-without-fear-ima-urges-pm/article34757129.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC flayed decentralised procurement, paid jabs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Monday to centralise vaccine procurement and provide free inoculation to the 18-44 age group marks a U-turn, which comes just a week after a scathing 32-page Supreme Court order. Grilling the Centre for its flawed vaccination policy, the court had nudged the government to correct its course, advising that admitting one’s mistakes was a sign of strength rather than weakness. The Supreme Court order of May 31, which was published on June 2, slammed the Centre on three cardinal issues — decentralised procurement of vaccines, differential pricing and paid vaccination for citizens in the 18-44 age group under its ‘Liberalised Vaccine Policy’. The order was by a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. Under the liberalised policy introduced in May, the Centre had reduced its vaccine procurement role to 50%, leaving the States to fend for themselves. The court questioned the rationale of the sudden change in policy and said it needed to test it on the touchstone of Article 14 (right to equal treatment) of the Constitution. Differential pricing The court trashed the Centre’s argument that citizens would not suffer because States were paying for their vaccines. But the court reasoned that the money for States to buy the vaccines came out of the public exchequer. Hence, the citizen was indeed the loser. On the second aspect of differential pricing, the court questioned the Centre’s logic that it could buy the vaccines for Rs. 150 per dose because its orders were bulky. The States had to pay double. The court asked the Centre then why it could not buy 100% of the vaccines instead. On the third aspect of making the age 18-44 group pay for their vaccine, the court order said, “The policy of the Central Government for conducting free vaccination for groups under the first two phases and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/Union Territory Governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is, prima facie, arbitrary and irrational”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-flayed-decentralised-procurement-paid-jabs/article34757105.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Domestic air travel likely to get easier for fully vaccinated||The Civil Aviation Ministry is “examining” a proposal to dispense with the need for a negative RT-PCR test report for fully vaccinated passengers for domestic air travel, a senior government official said. He said the proposal to exempt passengers who have received both doses of vaccines is yet to be discussed with the Health and Family Welfare Ministry. Differing norms Norms for incoming passengers vary from one State or Union Territory to another. While States such as Odisha, Punjab and Rajasthan require all incoming passengers to have a negative RT-PCR test, others such as Delhi and Maharashtra have this requirement only for passengers from selected States. Some States want a report not earlier than 48 hours, while others accept reports up to 72 hours before travel. “It is a welcome move which will boost travel confidence and help ease any anxiety surrounding travel in the current environment. The decision will also inspire more people to get vaccinated against COVID-19, encouraging safe and free movement for all domestic travellers,” said Aloke Bajpai, CEO of travel booking portal ixigo. Vaccine passports So far, only 4.49 crore Indian citizens have received both doses of COVID-19 vaccines, and 18.55 crore have received a single dose. The idea is inspired from “vaccine passports”, which is a documentation proving that a person has been vaccinated against COVID-19 and will allow people to enter a country more easily. While it is exploring the concept for travel within the country, the Indian government, however, firmly opposed the adoption of COVID-19 vaccine passports at the G7 meeting of Health Ministers last week on the grounds that it was “hugely discriminatory” against developing countries that have lower rates of vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/domestic-air-travel-likely-to-get-easier-for-fully-vaccinated/article34757124.ece
08 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab extends restrictions till June 15 with some relaxations||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered extension of COVID-19 restrictions in the State till June 15 with certain relaxations. Shops can remain open till 6 p.m., while private offices can function with 50% strength. Night curfew will remain in force from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, while regular weekend curfew will continue on Sundays, he said. With the test positivity declining to 3.2% and active cases also coming down, gatherings up to 20 people are allowed at weddings and cremations. Entry restrictions (negative COVID test/vaccination) on arrivals have also been done away with Recruitment exams will be allowed to be held subject to adherence to social distancing and other norms, though the Chief Minister said online mode should be preferred. Sports training for national and international events has also been permitted and the Department of Sports and Youth Affairs has been asked to issue the guidelines. Reviewing the pandemic situation virtually with Ministers, police and administrative officials and health experts, the Chief Minister said district administrations may determine opening of non-essential shops, including on weekend, on the basis of local situation, while ensuring that crowding leading to spread of COVID-19 is avoided. On government offices, he said attendance can be decided by the head of the office but co-morbid/disabled employees may be exempted. Further relaxations will be allowed in the coming weeks if the cases continue to decline, he said, adding that gyms and restaurants could be opened after a week with 50%, if the situation improves. Owners and workers of the gyms and restaurants should get themselves vaccinated. On the spread of mucormycosis, the Chief Minister said there are 381 cases in the State. There is adequate supply of drugs, he assured the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-extends-restrictions-till-june-15-with-some-relaxations/article34757367.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Draft Rules for live-streaming court proceedings out||Draft Rules released by the Supreme Court e-Committee on Monday for live-streaming and recording court proceedings propose a 10-minute delay in transmission and exclusion of communally sensitive cases and matters that involve sexual offences and gender violence against women. The Rules are part of the National Policy and Action Plan for implementation of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the judiciary. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana recently said the process to make live stream a reality was actively under consideration. Now, the apex court has invited inputs and feedback on the ‘Draft Model Rules for Live-Streaming and Recording of Court Proceedings’. The Rules would cover live-streaming and recording of proceedings in High Courts, lower courts and tribunals. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who heads the SC e-Committee, had written to the Chief Justices of the High Courts for their feedback on the draft Rules. A sub-committee consisting of judges of the Bombay, Delhi, Madras and Karnataka High Courts was constituted to frame the model draft Rules. In his letter, Justice Chandrachud said the right of access to justice, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, “encompasses the right to access live court proceedings”. The Rules intend to balance between access to information and concerns of privacy and confidentiality. Matrimonial matters, cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act would also be exempted from livestream. The Bench can exempt, for reasons recorded in writing, any case it considers antithetical to the administration of justice. “The final decision as to whether or not to allow the live-streaming of the proceedings or any portion thereof will be of the Bench, however, it will be guided by the principle of an open judicial process,” the Rules said. Personal information such as date of birth, home address, identity card number, bank account information, and the personal information of related parties, such as close relatives, witnesses and other participants, will be deleted or muted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/draft-rules-for-live-streaming-court-proceedings-out/article34757090.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Farmer protests increased fivefold since 2017: CSE report||Apart from the three contentious Central farm laws, procurement and agricultural market price-related failures have contributed to a fivefold increase in major farmers’ protests since 2017, according to data collated by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). In 2017, there were 34 major protests across 15 States. The number has now shot up to 165 protests across 22 States and Union Territories. The CSE’s State of Environment in Figures 2021 report records that 12 of these are pan-India protests, including 11 agitations against the three farm reform laws introduced last year. Along with protests against State legislation and inadequate Budget allocations for the agricultural sector, such anti-policy agitations account for 96 major protests across the country. However, large numbers of farmers are also fighting against market failures and demanding fair prices, which have led to 38 major protests. Battles against acquisition of farm land for development projects, including highway and airport construction, are the prime cause of 17 agitations. At least seven agitations have been to demand loan waivers or to protest poor insurance coverage and delayed compensation. Farmers have gathered at least four times to protest the unavailability or increased prices of farm inputs and infrastructure. The arrests of protesting farm leaders have also led to further stirs. Although Punjab and Haryana farmers have caught the limelight for the recent protests outside Delhi, data shows that the largest number of recent protests have taken place in Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The report notes that India now has more farm labourers than landowning farmers and cultivators. This is true in 52% of the country’s districts, as well as in all districts of Bihar and Kerala. More than 28 agricultural workers and cultivators end their lives every day. The latest data available shows that 5,957 farmers and an additional 4,324 farm labourers died by suicide in 2019. The CSE has called for better maintenance of agricultural data, noting that 14 States had actually witnessed a deterioration in the quality of their land records. “India is sitting atop a massive time-bomb of agrarian crisis and disquiet, and the clock is ticking away,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-protests-increased-fivefold-since-2017-cse-report/article34757094.ece
08 June 2021||Patna,||BJP flags attack on Dalits in Bihar||After the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and the Vikassheel Insaan Party, the BJP, the largest ally in the Bihar ruling coalition, has raised questions over claims of good governance by the NDA government in the State. BJP State chief Sanjay Jaiswal, in a Facebook post on Sunday, questioned the functioning of the police and raised concern over the recent spurt in attacks on Dalits by minority community members in different parts of the State. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar holds the Home portfolio. “Instead of taking action against the guilty in incidents of communal clashes between members of minority communities and the Scheduled Castes, the police always send members of both warring communities to jail,” Dr. Jaiswal said. “On June 5, I got information from Dhangarhwa village that some members of the minority community have blocked the pathway of Dalit community by raising a brick wall. I spoke to local officials and they resolved the issue,” Dr. Jaiswal said. There had been spurt in such incidents in last few days in the State, he said. “In East Champaran district, members of Dalit communities not only got police thrashing but were also sent to jail when they sought police help. Over six such incidents were reported from Dhaka area of the district in recent days. Instead of taking action against those guilty, police sent members of both the warring communities to jail,” he said. RJD’s poser Mr. Jaiswal’s statement evoked a sharp reaction from the Rashtriya Janata Dal. “The BJP State president has questioned the so-called good governance of CM Nitish Kumar. Will the ruling alliance partner JD(U) leaders chop off Dr. Jaiswal’s arms for this,” asked RJD leader Mrityunjay Tiwari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-flags-attack-on-dalits-in-bihar/article34757103.ece
08 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Trinamool will have units across nation: Abhishek||Two days after he was appointed general secretary of the Trinamool Congress, Abhishek Banerjee said on Monday that his aim was to spread the footprint of the party across the country. Speaking to presspersons at the Trinamool Congress headquarters, Mr. Banerjee said that the party had got congratulatory messages from every State in the country after it defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party in the West Bengal Assembly polls. “We received around one lakh emails from people across India thanking the TMC for defeating the BJP. We will take the BJP head-on in every State where the TMC builds its foundation,” he said. Mr. Banerjee did not name the States, but said if the Trinamool Congress intended to set up a unit in any State, it would not be about winning one or two MLAs. The party would like to come to power in the State.  Dynasty politics The Diamond Harbour MP responded to questions whether his elevation as general secretary indicated the rise of dynasty politics in the State. “Dynasty can be better than being nasty. If the Union government passes a law that no second person from a family will occupy a public post, I will accept it. Can the BJP pass such a resolution?” said Mr Banerjee. He referred to Jay Shah, son of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, holding the post of secretary of Board of Control for Cricket in India and said he himself would not occupy any post in government for the next 20 years. He was not the Number 2 in the party, only an ordinary worker who had been the youth president for the past six years and had now assumed the role of the party’s general secretary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trinamool-will-have-units-across-nation-abhishek/article34757109.ece
08 June 2021||Beijing,||300 stranded Indians take Chinese vaccines abroad||More than 300 Indians, who have managed to take Chinese COVID-19 vaccines to comply with China’s stipulation for travellers from India to be inoculated with its jabs, have urged Beijing to lift travel restrictions and permit them to return to join their jobs and businesses. On March 15, China made it mandatory for travellers coming from India and 19 other countries to get Chinese vaccines. The announcement put hundreds of Indians, who are working and doing business in China but stuck in India due to travel restrictions, in a dilemma as Chinese vaccines are not available in the country. But desperate to return to join their jobs and families in China, more than 300 Indians travelled to neighbouring countries such as Nepal and the Maldives besides Dubai to get the Chinese jabs, incurring huge expenditure. However, their efforts were in vain as the Chinese Embassy has not started issuing visas for their return. Following this, more than 200 Indians jointly sent written representation to Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong early this month. They have also written to the Indian Embassy in Beijing, seeking its help to facilitate their early return. “Respected H.E Sun Sir, now that we have been successfully vaccinated by the Chinese vaccine, kindly guide us with a way forward. We request you to start visa issuance to Indian nationals, which has been stopped since early November last year,” the Indian community in China wrote to the Chinese Ambassador. The letter was attached with the names of 202 Indians who had taken Chinese vaccines. Subsequently, the association members told PTI that the number had gone up to more than 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/300-stranded-indians-take-chinese-vaccines-abroad/article34757116.ece
08 June 2021||Kolkata,||20 killed in lightning strikes in south Bengal||Lightning strikes killed 20 persons across several districts of south Bengal on Monday as rain and thundershowers lashed the region. According to officials, nine deaths were reported each in Murshidabad and Hooghly and two in Paschim Midnapore. Most of the victims were farmers working in the fields. The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata had predicted thunderstorms with lightning and gusty wind across several districts on Monday afternoon. Almost 13 districts from the South 24 Parganas to Purulia witnessed such weather. A squall that lasted about two minutes also passed over Alipore at 16.25 hours in the north westerly direction with the highest wind of speed of 59 kmph . The weather office has predicted similar weather for some districts in north Bengal.   The central team visited the South 24 Parganas district to take stock of the significant damage caused by cyclone Yaas. The cyclone, which made landfall on May 26, had resulted in the ingress of saline water in low-lying areas in the district and Purba Medinipur district. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asked officials to be vigilant before the high tides likely to occur on June 11 and June 26. State Chief Secretary H.K. Dwivedi assured her that most of the embankments which have been breached will be repaired before the high tides.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-killed-in-lightning-strikes-in-south-bengal/article34757317.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Strike in Lakshadweep for Patel’s recall||The SLF includes members across political parties and professions. “All political parties and organisations are united in their demand that the policies of the Administrator are anti-people and against the actual requirements of the people,” the SLF said. Lockdown extended Meanwhile, the complete lockdown on Kavaratti, Androth, Kalpeni, Amini, Minicoy and Bitra islands has been extended for seven more days from Monday, in view of the high positivity rate on the islands. An order issued by the collector S. Asker Ali said shops and establishments selling groceries, vegetables and other essential commodities would be allowed to open between 1 p. m. and 4 p. m. with prior permission from district collector Kavaratti and deputy collector/block development officers, authorised officer for Androth, Kalpeni, Amini, Minicoy and Bitra islands. Mr. Ali said the COVID 19 situation had not yet stabilised. There are 1,005 active cases — 484 on Kavaratti; 16 on Agatti; 51 on Amini; 14 on Kadmat; 21 on Kiltan, 14 on Chetlat; 188 on Androth; 24 on Kalpeni; 123 on Minicoy and 70 on Bitra. The test positivity rate on the Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Androth, Amini, Minicoy and Bitra is high when compared to other islands and there is high risk of the virus spreading further in the islands, the order said. A corona curfew is already in place on all the islands and the lockdown is expected to be an effective containment strategy adopted by the island administration, the order said. Hotels and restaurants would be allowed to function from 7.30 a. m. to 9. 30 a. m.; 1 p. m. to 3 p.m. and 6 p. m. to 9 p. m. only for home delivery. All the staff and delivery persons have to be tested for COVID-19 and take prior permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/strike-in-lakshadweep-for-patels-recall/article34757084.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine procurement to be centralised: PM||“We provided logistical support, funds and other encouragement to our scientists and manufactures, with the result that by the end of the year we had two “made in India” vaccines. A situation different from before, when it would be decades before vaccines developed abroad could become available in India,” he added. “We launched the vaccination drive against COVID-19on January 16and kept to guidelines provided by WHO and best practices of other countries. We prioritised our healthcare and frontline workers, elderly and those with comorbidities. It doesn’t bear thinking what would have happened in the second wave if our frontline workers had not been vaccinated,” Mr. Modi said. “As COVID-19 cases started declining, questions arose about the lack of choice for States and some people questioned why the Central government was deciding everything. Flexibility in lockdown and one-size-does-not-fit-all type arguments were were forwarded,” he said. As the vaccination progressedfrom January 16to April end, India’s vaccination programme was running under the Central government and people were “showing discipline in getting vaccinated when their turn came” he said. “Amidst this demands for decentralisation of vaccination were raised, decision about priority to certain age groups was raised. Many types of pressures were exerted and certain sections of the media houses ran a campaign to this effect as well,” he said. “So, we announced that from May 1, 25% of all procurement for the vaccination programme would be done by State governments. Many tried and came up against many challenges that the Centre had managed to overcome, dealing with manufacturers, pricing etc. Then a few days back many States said that a reverting to the old system was better,” he said. “We will be reverting to the old system where the Centre can procure upto 75% of the doses of vaccines and it will provide them free to State governments, even for the age group 18-44,” he said. “Those who want to go to private facilities, that too will be allowed, as private institutions can procure 25% of vaccines from manufacturers, but there will be a cap of Rs. 150 per dose as service charge over the cost of the vaccine,” he said. He expressed optimism that more vaccine candidates will be available in the country in the future, including an under-development nasal vaccine. He added that trials for vaccines for children were also going and urged people to spike rumours over vaccines and encourage as many as possible to get inoculated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-procurement-to-be-centralised-pm/article34757091.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||18 feared killed in Pune chemical factory fire||The bodies were taken to the Sassoon General Hospital for post-mortem and identification through DNA testing. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is also Pune’s Guardian Minister, announced an ex gratia payment of Rs. 5 lakh each for the kin of the deceased on behalf of the Maharashtra government. The Centre also announced a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 for the injured. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families,” tweeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “It is tragic that the workers of a chemical company died in a fire near Urawade village. It is even more tragic that the fire brigade was unable to rescue some of the victims despite their best efforts. We sympathise with the families of those killed in the accident. The police have already registered a case,” said Mr. Pawar. A probe had been ordered into the incident. Panel to probe A committee headed by the Pune District Collector has been formed to determine the cause of the fire. On information about the fire, teams of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) and the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) fire brigade rushed to the spot with at least five fire tenders, water tankers and fire-fighting equipment. The blaze was brought under control after battling for five hours. Fear and pandemonium reigned supreme outside the chemical plant as shocked relatives of the deceased and the missing labourers gathered there, compelling the Pune police to restrain them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/18-feared-killed-in-pune-chemical-factory-fire/article34757097.ece
08 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Farmer leaders’ release: SKM claims major victory||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a coalition of farmer unions, on Monday claimed major victory in its protest at Haryana’s Tohana after all the three farmer leaders arrested this past week were released. Led by several SKM leaders, the farmers had been holding a sit-in at the Sadar police station for the past three days in support of their demands. Swaraj India national president, in a tweet, said all the demands of the agitating farmers were met with the release of the three farmers leaders, associates of local MLA Devender Babli withdrawing their complaint and the administration agreeing to withdraw cases against them. Seeing no headway in talks with the local administration after two days, the SKM leaders had on Sunday given a call for State-wide sit-in outside the police stations and made an appeal to the farmers from four neighbouring districts to reach Tohana in large numbers for the protest outside the Sadar police station. The call for the State-wide agitation was withdrawn after two of the leaders, Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, arrested in connection with the protests against Mr. Babli, were granted bail on Sunday night and released from jail early on Monday. But the farmer unions went ahead with their proposed protest outside the Sadar police station during the day demanding the release of the third farmer leader, Makkhan Singh, and withdrawal of cases. “Thousands of protesters showed up in response to this call. The bringing of livestock into the protest by a farmer in the absence of caretakers at home, along with the pitching up of a tent and setting up of a stage along with langar facilities that provided warm hospitality to the police personnel too, marked this particular battle in the ongoing farmers’ movement,” said the SKM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farmer-leaders-release-skm-claims-major-victory/article34757098.ece
08 June 2021||Kolkata,||No Raj Bhavan appointee from my family: Dhankar||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday refuted Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra’s allegations about appointment of members of his “extended family” at the Raj Bhavan in different capacities. Mr. Dhankhar called it a “distraction strategy to divert attention from the “alarming law and order situation” in the State. “Assertion @MahuaMoitra in tweet & Media that six coterminous appointee OSDs [officers on special duty] in personal staff are relatives is FACTUALLY WRONG. OSDs are from three states and belong to four different castes. None of them is part of close family. Four of them are not from my caste or state,” Mr. Dhankhar said in his tweet. On Sunday, Ms. Moitra alleged that six appointees at the Raj Bhavan were from the Governor’s “extended family”. On Monday, she asked the Governor to explain how the appointees got into the Raj Bhavan. “Asking Uncleji to lay out right here what the antecedents of the appointees are & how each one got into Raj Bhavan. Do it NOW. BJP IT Cell can’t get you out of this one Uncleji.. And I don’t think Vice President of India also happening for you,” she tweeted. She also shared a screen grab from the Raj Bhavan website highlighting four names and asking how they were appointed OSDs. “Uncleji is kindly requested to come clean on who marked persons are & how they were appointed OSDs. End of story. End of lies,” she tweeted. The Governor said, “This is unfolding of “distraction strategy” to divert attention from alarming law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Would continue undeterred and with zeal to serve the people of state and vindicate my oath of office under Article 159 of the Constitution”. Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee refused to comment on the ‘appointments’, but said the Governor should be mindful of the high constitutional office he held. When the Governor raised allegations of political violence, he should be specific about the name and place. “Why does he raise allegations only when BJP supporters are killed, isn’t he the Governor of the entire State,” he asked. From the day Mamata Banerjee took oath as the Chief Minister, the Governor had been targeting the government and alleging that “rampant post-poll retributive violence is continuing in the State”, Mr. Banerjee added.  Why does he raise allegations only when BJP supporters are killed. Isn’t he the Governor of the entire State? Abhishek Banerjee Trinamool Congress general secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-raj-bhavan-appointee-from-my-family-dhankar/article34757111.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||UDID card can be used to register on CoWIN||The Union Health Ministry on Monday asked the States to include the Unique Disability Identification (UDID) card as a photo ID for registering on the CoWIN 2.0 portal for COVID-19 vaccination. As per the guidance note for CoWIN 2.0 issued on March 2, seven photo IDs were prescribed for beneficiary verification prior to vaccination. In a letter written to the States and the Union Territories, the Ministry said the UDID card, issued by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities, Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, had all the necessary features such as the name, year of birth, gender and photograph of the person, and met the criteria for use of identification in vaccination. “Therefore, with a view to further facilitating access to vaccination for persons with disability, it has been decided to include the UDID in the list of prescribed photo ID document for COVID-19 vaccination. The necessary provisions for the same are being made and will be available in CoWIN shortly,” it stated. It advised the States to widely publicise the use of UDID card for accessing vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/udid-card-can-be-used-to-register-on-cowin/article34757115.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. revises vaccine rules for those going abroad||Students and those travelling abroad for jobs or as part of the Indian contingent for the Tokyo Olympics can take the second dose of Covishield after 28 days, the Centre said on Monday. As per the revised rules, the facility will be available to those who need to undertake international travel for the specified purposes till August 31 this year, and the mention of the vaccine type as “Covishield” is sufficient and “no other qualifying entries are required”, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. While the States and the Union Territories will designate a competent authority in each district for permission for such administration of the second dose of Covishield, the order stated that CoWIN certificates will be linked to the passports of such travellers. At present, the second dose is administered 12 to 16 weeks after the first dose. The Ministry said the CoWIN system would soon provide the facility for the administration of second dose in such exceptional cases. The Ministry said it was advised that vaccination might be availed of in such cases through passport, which was one of the permissible ID documents as per the current guidelines, so that the passport number was printed in the certificate. If passport was not used at the time of administration of the first dose, the details of the photo ID card used for vaccination would be printed in the vaccination certificate and mention of the passport in the vaccination certificate was not to be insisted upon. The Ministry has issued standard operating procedures and asked the States to take all measures to immediately implement them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-revises-vaccine-rules-for-those-going-abroad/article34757120.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre warns against misuse of Remdesivir||The Union Health Ministry said on Monday that Remdesivir, a drug currently used in treatment of COVID-19, can be used only in select moderate/ severe hospitalised patients on supplemental oxygen, as it is a reserve drug approved under the emergency use authorisation based on limited scientific evidence globally. In a revised advisory, it said the drug is not indicated in patients with mild symptoms who are in home care/ COVID Care Centres and that doctors are advised to exercise extreme caution in using it. The Ministry said the advisory is aimed at stopping the misuse of the drug, which is relatively expensive, has limited availability and has a potential to harm. The Ministry recommended that Remdesivir must be advised by senior faculty members/ specialists involved in a patient’s care. The order must have the signature and stamp of the doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-warns-against-misuse-of-remdesivir/article34757122.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Ineffable grace of the guru||As a poet, philosopher and preceptor par excellence, Adi Sankara’s name is synonymous with the Advaita Siddhanta he has firmly established in the spiritual tradition. Apart from his discerning bashyas to the Prastanatraya texts, he has composed many Prakarana granthas to instil faith and belief in this tradition at a time when people were confused by doubts about the validity of the Vedas and of the Supreme Brahman. He travelled through the length and breadth of the country to debate, discuss and argue for this siddhanta. In his grantha Satasloki, he pays a glowing tribute to the role of the preceptor who alone is capable of transmitting the highest knowledge, atma tatva, to his disciples, said Sri K. Ramasubramaniam in a discourse. Generally many laukika ideas, objects etc, are grasped by means of comparison, description, inference, etc. In sastras too, for instance, the all-pervading atma swaroopa is explained by comparing it to the akasa. In the medical field, analysis, extensive tests, etc, lead to research findings that are based on inference or anumana. But the acharya confesses in the first verse of this grantha that he has checked thoroughly for a suitable analogy to describe the ineffable greatness of the guru’s grace. The guru imparts jnana which is very rare and at best, the example of the philosopher’s stone may seem to be a fitting analogy. This stone has the power to convert base metals into gold and even so, the acharya converts even a dull sishya into a realised soul. But the analogy falls short because the transformed gold does not possess the power of the philosopher’s stone. But in the case of the guru, when an ordinary disciple is initiated to the state of realisation, he too automatically gets the power to convert his disciples also into jnanis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ineffable-grace-of-the-guru/article34757112.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Congress slams rising fuel prices||As the retail price of petrol crossed Rs. 100 in several cities, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday called it a ‘tax collection epidemic’ by the Central government. “The process of unlocking has started in many States. While paying the bill at the petrol pump, you will see the growth in inflation by the Modi government. The waves of tax collection epidemic are coming continuously,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. His colleague and party general secretary Randeep Surjewala also termed the rise in petrol prices as an ‘excessive public loot’ and blamed the Modi government for it. “Excessive public loot — in the last 13 months, petrol and diesel have risen by Rs. 25.72 and Rs. 23.93 per litre. In some States, petrol has crossed Rs. 100 per litre. The increase in taxes by the Modi government and not high crude oil price is responsible for this rise in petrol and diesel prices,” Mr. Surjewala tweeted. The Congress has been regularly criticising the imposition of special excise duty on petroleum products by the Modi government and has argued for bringing petrol and diesel under the ambit of good and services tax regime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/congress-slams-rising-fuel-prices/article34757085.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Remove illegal constructions in Aravali land’||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the Haryana government and the Faridabad Municipal Corporation to take “all essential measures” to remove encroachments, including about 10,000 residential constructions, in the ecologically fragile Aravali forest land near Lakarpur Khori village. A Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar dismissed the argument by the residents that they should be rehabilitated first, saying “land-grabbers cannot take the refuge of the rule of law” and demand fairness. “We expect the Corporation will take all essential measures to remove encroachments on the subject forest land without any exception, not later than six weeks from today and submit a compliance report in that behalf,” the court directed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/remove-illegal-constructions-in-aravali-land/article34757088.ece
08 June 2021||Srinagar,||J&K leaders voice concern on troops||Deployment of paramilitary personnel in Jammu and Kashmir in the past week has fuelled speculations of the Central government pushing new changes in the Union Territory, and several leaders voiced their concern on Monday, demanding a clarification from the government. Officials said 70 companies were “reinducted and redeployed” in parts of the UT in the past one week. It is the first time since the Centre revoked J&K’s special constitutional position on August 5, 2019, that the UT was witnessing such large-scale movement of paramilitary troops. Police officials, who requested anonymity, described the movement as “just reinduction of personnel who were dispatched for poll duties in several States in the past one year”. They claimed that around 300 companies of paramilitary personnel were moved out of the UT and were “likely to be brought back”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-leaders-voice-concern-on-troops/article34757092.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Minister takes back remark on Data Bill||Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad’s comment to The Hindu in an interview on Monday claiming that the Select Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 “has given their report” led to a protest by many members of the committee, ultimately forcing him to recall his comments by evening. The committee led by BJP MP Meenkashi Lekhi is yet to circulate the draft report among its members. “I am amazed. On March 8, I had been assured by Mrs. Meenakshi Lekhi, Chairperson, that the draft report will be circulated for comments by members. That is still awaited,” said Jairam Ramesh, senior Congress leader and committee member. The committee has so far held 66 meetings and its last sitting was on December 29.  Later in the evening, Mr. Prasad issued a correction. He tweeted, “I understand that the Select Committee of Parliament is still to finalise its report on Data Protection Law. I appreciate their hard work. I look forward to their final report so that Parliament approves a Data Protection Law soon.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minister-takes-back-remark-on-data-bill/article34757101.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||The missives that pushed for free doses||The Opposition parties, jointly and individually, have repeatedly in the past few weeks demanded free and universal vaccines from the Central government. In May, two joint statements were issued by opposition parties reiterating this demand. Other than these, two opposition Chief Ministers — Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan and Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren — sent off missives. These are not counting the innumerable letters shot off by the parties individually. On May 2, when the country was facing a huge oxygen shortage the Opposition parties issued a joint statement, urging the Prime Minister to focus all attention to ensure uninterrupted flow of oxygen supplies. They also spoke about changing the vaccination policy. “We call upon the Central government to immediately launch a free mass vaccination programme across the country. The budgetary allocation of Rs. 35,000 crore for the vaccine programme must be utilised for this,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-missives-that-pushed-for-free-doses/article34757110.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||28,000 cases of mucormycosis||India has reported 28,252 cases of mucormycosis, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Of them, 86% had a history of COVID-19 infection and 62.3% had diabetes. Maharashtra reported the most number of cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/28000-cases-of-mucormycosis/article34757121.ece
08 June 2021||Mysuru,||Actor to the rescue of zoos in Karnataka||A video featuring actor Darshan Thoogudeepa with an appeal for supporting the zoos of Karnataka, badly hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, has received good response from his fans and others as donations to the tune of Rs. 43 lakh have been received in two days. The closure of zoos due to the lockdown resulted in zero revenue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actor-to-the-rescue-of-zoos-in-karnataka/article34757368.ece
08 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan eases lockdown restrictions||The Rajasthan government on Monday modified the COVID-19 lockdown to ease restrictions following a recommendation of the Council of Ministers to strike a balance between containing the virus infection and securing the livelihood of people. The Home Department issued new guidelines to allow commercial activities and widen the scope of permitted activities. Though the “public discipline week-end curfew” will remain in force from Friday evening to Monday morning, the shops and commercial establishments will be allowed to open from 6 a.m. to 4 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-eases-lockdown-restrictions/article34757318.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Modi government suppressing and manipulating data related to pandemic: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday accused the Narendra Modi government of “suppressing and manipulating” data related to the pandemic and using it as a “tool for propaganda” to save the government’s image. “The Modi government’s emphasis on propaganda over saving lives has caused immense damage. It is answerable to the people of India,” she said on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-government-suppressing-and-manipulating-data-related-to-pandemic-priyanka/article34757113.ece
08 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Amarinder orders extension of restrictions to June 15 with certain relaxations||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered extension of COVID-19 restrictions in the State till June 15 with certain relaxations. Shops can remain open till 6 p.m., while private offices can function with 50% strength. Night curfew will remain in force from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, while regular weekend curfew will continue on Sundays, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amarinder-orders-extension-of-restrictions-to-june-15-with-certain-relaxations/article34757114.ece
08 June 2021||Mumbai,||Bombay HC nod for use of repaired ventilators||The Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court on Monday allowed the use of repaired ventilators provided they are supported by stand-by machines. A Division Bench of Justices R.V. Ghuge and B.U. Debadwar perused the affidavit by the Centre and said, “We have been told through this affidavit that the ventilators are safe to be used on patients.” On May 25, the Bench was informed that 19 ventilators provided by the Centre had serious flaws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bombay-hc-nod-for-use-of-repaired-ventilators/article34757125.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal launches drive to vaccinate all above 45 in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announ- ced a pan-city vaccination drive aimed at ensuring that everyone above the age of 45 receive their first dose of vaccine over the coming four weeks. Beginning Tuesday, he said, teams led by Block Level Officers would visit every household across 70 civic wards allotting vaccination slots to those falling in the 45+ category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kejriwal-launches-drive-to-vaccinate-all-above-45-in-delhi/article34757131.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Doctors move SC against AIIMS PG exam notice||A group of doctors has moved the Supreme Court challenging an AIIMS notification announcing June 16 as the date for the Postgraduate Entrance Test-INICET exams in “utter disregard” of an assurance from the Prime Minister’s Office to postpone PG exams by four months. The petition said an assurance was also given that students would be given a month’s time to prepare for the exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-move-sc-against-aiims-pg-exam-notice/article34757132.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases drop below 20,000 after 36 days||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day in Tamil Nadu dropped below 20,000 after 36 days on Monday. There was a decline in the number of deaths as well. The State logged 19,448 cases and 351 deaths, taking its tally to 22,56,681 and toll to 27,356. The number of fatalities came down to under 400 after over two weeks. Districts’ tally Coimbatore clocked in 2,564 cases, while Erode had 1,646. For the second consecutive day, Chennai reported fewer cases than Erode, with 1,530 people testing positive for COVID-19. Tiruppur recorded 1,027 cases, while Salem’s count dropped below 1,000. As many as 997 people tested positive for the infection in Salem. A total of 31,360 people were discharged after treatment. Till date, 19,97,299 people have been discharged. As many as 2,32,026 people are presently under treatment in the State. This includes 29,268 people in Coimbatore, 19,184 in Chennai and 18,849 in Tiruppur. Of the 351 fatalities, Chennai reported 40, followed by Tiruvannamalai (30), Coimbatore (26) and Chengalpattu (22). Of the deceased, 83 did not have co-morbidities. Three aged in their 20s succumbed to the infection. As many as 26 people in their 30s succumbed to the infection. In the last 24 hours, the State tested 1,70,838 samples, taking the total figure to 2,88,92,497. The number of beds available in COVID-19 health centres and hospitals stood at 40,058 — 17,669 oxygen-supported beds, 20,956 non-oxygen ones and 1,433 ICU beds. Of these, 9,161 are vacant in Chennai alone. Inoculation update Vaccination coverage dropped to 28,763 on Monday, after officials cited shortage of vaccines in the State. The overall coverage stood at 97,35,420. Of the 28,763 people who were vaccinated, 12,768 were in the 18-44 age group. Apart from this age group, 10,584 people aged 45 to 59 and 4,094 senior citizens also received the jabs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-drop-below-20000-after-36-days/article34757618.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water may arrive after mid-June||The Water Resources Department (WRD) expects Krishna water to be released around mid-June to help improve storage in the Poondi reservoir, one of the major waterbodies that distributes drinking water to the city. To augment resources, the department had written to their counterparts in Andhra Pradesh to discharge water from the Kandaleru reservoir. Officials of the WRD said the five reservoirs, including Thervoy Kandigai-Kannankottai in Tiruvallur district, had a combined storage of 6,985 million cubic feet of water (mcft), which was nearly 59.4% of their capacity. In Poondi reservoir, which receives Krishna water, the storage had reduced to 11% of its capacity as much of it’s storage was transferred to other waterbodies in Red Hills and Chembarambakkam. “We are seeking Krishna water to step up storage in the Poondi reservoir and sustain daily water supply in the city. Andhra Pradesh authorities have agreed to release additional water in the Kandaleru-Poondi Canal around June 15. They are already releasing about 1,600 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water for drinking water and irrigation requirements of areas en route in their State,” an official said. The Kandaleru reservoir has sufficient storage of about 44,000 mcft. The department is expecting to increase the storage in the Poondi reservoir by about 500 mcft if the KP Canal’s entry point in Uthukottai receives 500 cusecs for a fortnight. The city had received nearly 8,158 mcft as its share of Krishna water since May 2020 with a break. Water release was stopped in April 2021. Discharge of Krishna water would be timely to manage resources and maintain adequate water supply. Chennai is being supplied with 844.54 million litres of water a day (mld). Officials noted that the ongoing repair work in the KP Canal may help minimise water loss. About 40% of the work has been completed in the vulnerable stretches between Uthukottai and Poondi. “Normally, we have 15% of water loss when it reaches Poondi . We expect this to reduce by 10-11% by taking up repair work of the canal,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-water-may-arrive-after-mid-june/article34757588.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Change in nomenclature for T.N. departments||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a G.O. to amend the Tamil Nadu Business Rules, 1978 to change the nomenclature of a few departments in the Secretariat. Already the portfolios of quite a few Ministers, sworn in last month, carried new nomenclature. As per the G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department would be called Human Resources Management Department. Agriculture Department would be renamed Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Department. Animal Husbandry, Dairying, Fisheries Department would be known as Animal Husbandry, Dairying, Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department. The term ‘Climate Change’ has been included in the Department to be called Environment, Climate Change and Forest Department. As for labour, the revised name is Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department. Instead of Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, it would henceforth be called Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/change-in-nomenclature-for-tn-departments/article34757603.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Panel to come up with criteria for awarding Class 12 marks’||Minister for School Education Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Monday said that as announced by the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, a committee has been formed and it has begun to look into how Class 12 students of State Board can be awarded marks following thecancellation of their board exams. Headed by School Education Secretary Kakarla Usha, the committee has the Higher Education Secretary, University of Madras Vice Chancellor and other members. “The committee will discuss and come up with a criteria as soon as possible. Based on the criteria that they come up with and submit, the Chief Minister will make an announcement,” Mr. Poyyamozhi said. Followingseveral complaints regarding sexual harassmentfaced by students in schools, the Tamil Nadu government had said that it would announce guidelines for conducting online classes in schools. “We have a draft of the guidelines ready and are awaiting the Chief Minister’s approval following which it will be announced. Many private schools have already started online classes for the new academic year and once these guidelines are announced, they will be expected to incorporate them,” Mr .Poyyamozhi also said. The Minister said that the department would also address distribution of textbooks, fee collection and other aspects shortly.  Committee is headed by School Education Secretary Kakarla Usha and has Higher Education Secretary, University of Madras V-C as members Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Minister for School Education||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-come-up-with-criteria-for-awarding-class-12-marks/article34757595.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s e-registration portal crashes due to heavy traffic||Hundreds in Chennai who were attempting to get the mandatory e-registration to travel within the city were left fuming on Monday after the portal crashed. The State government, having extended the COVID-19 lockdown till June 14, had announced certain relaxations, but mandated e-registration to travel in taxis and autorickshaws. Similarly, plumbers, carpenters and electricians too have to complete the registration to travel. Several commuters complained about the difficulties in getting e-registration to get to their offices and for other personal purposes, as they were unable to get OTPs for getting through theeregister.tnega.orgportal on Monday. Commuters also rued the lack of clarity on the issuance of e-registrations for purposes other than medical and other emergencies. A number of people found it difficult to get autorickshaws as drivers put the onus on passengers to get the e-registration done. T. Santosh, a resident of Tambaram, said some taxis that had e-registration were ready to ply, but charged exorbitant fares. He said autorickshaw drivers, citing the absence of e-registrations, wanted passengers to apply for the same themselves. A senior official of the Tamil Nadu e-governance Agency, which is involved in e-registration and the issuance of e-passes, said the site on Monday crashed after a large number of people tried applying for permits. He said the site would be up and running in the evening. The official said though the State government had announced some relaxations, e-passes were to be strictly issued only for three purposes — medical emergencies, attending funerals and travelling to other States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/states-e-registration-portal-crashes-due-to-heavy-traffic/article34757608.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supply, not hesitancy, slowing down vaccination||Tamil Nadu has been one of the poorest performing States, only next to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, in COVID-19 vaccine coverage, with just an estimated 13.8% of its eligible population having received at least one dose of the vaccines, and only 3.6% having taken both. National averages for both measures are 20% and 3.3% respectively. The State has often attracted criticism for vaccine hesitancy and wastage that were cited for its performance. However, an analysis of the supply of vaccines received by the State government and the doses it has administered clearly proves the State government’s concern off late that limitations in supply and not hesitancy has been standing in its way of inoculating people at a faster rate. Even as the State sharply improved its utilisation, the supply available to it has slowed down. Importantly, data showed that as a proportion of the population, the vaccine doses supplied to Tamil Nadu by the Centre were significantly lower when compared to the rest of the States put together. During the first phase of vaccination until February 28, when the drive was open onlt to healthcare workers and frontline workers, the State received 23.77 lakh doses of vaccines and it utilised only 4.6 lakh. In the second phase from March 1, even when vaccination was opened to all aged over 60 and those with co-morbidities in the 45-plus age group, thereby significantly widening the target population, utilisation did not go beyond three-fourth of the supplied doses. For instance, as on March 31, the State had utilised only 75% of its supplied vaccines. Since April 1, when the drive opened to everyone aged over 45, utilisation gradually began to increase and stayed around 80%. After the entire 18-plus population became eligible for vaccination on May 1, utilisation went up further. In the past few weeks, utilisation has sharply increased, and as on Sunday, the State has utilised over 95% of vaccines it received from the Centre and through its own channel. A month-on-month analysis of doses received by the State, meanwhile, showed that the rate of supply did not match the demand. Since May, the number of doses administered, in fact, exceeded supply during the same period. This shows that while the State government was vaccinating more people by utilising all the supplies it received until and since May, its stocks were not getting replenished at a matching rate. While the State sourced 13.1 lakh doses of vaccines from its own channels since May, supplies from the Centre during the same period was just 19.7 lakh doses — over 30% lesser than the doses it supplied in April. The supply of vaccines, as a percentage of the total eligible population during each phase of vaccination also slowed down significantly since May. Tamil Nadu also stood in stark contrast to all other States put together when vaccine supply is compared to the proportion of population. In the beginning of May, doses received by it accounted for just 12.24% of its eligible population above the age of 18. This improved by just five percentage points, to 17.56%, as on June 4. Doses received by all other States put together accounted for 18.12% of their total eligible population on May 1, more than six percentage points higher than Tamil Nadu. This further went up by another eight percentage points to 26.29% as on June 4, showing a stark difference between the availability of vaccines for the rest of India and for Tamil Nadu.  (Note: Data used in the analysis includes vaccines received and administered by the State government alone and not private healthcare providers)   (With inputs from Srinivasan Ramani)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/supply-not-hesitancy-slowing-down-vaccination/article34757616.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with mental illnesses get priority vaccine coverage||By prioritising persons with mental illnesses, Tamil Nadu has ensured that a vast majority of them under institutional care in Chennai and other parts of the State have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Tamil Nadu was in a better position when compared to other States when it came to prioritising persons with mental illnesses for vaccination. Doctors and representatives of NGOs pointed out that the process began much earlier, particularly in Chennai, and a significant number of persons with mental illnesses had received two doses of the vaccines. At the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), Ayanavaram, 753 residents have received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccines, while 513 have got the second dose as well. “It was a hassle-free process, with the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Differently Abled Welfare Office ensuring that our residents got access to vaccination,” P. Poorna Chandrika, director of IMH, said. “There is a greater need to get persons with mental illnesses vaccinated in view of a number of factors like higher prevalence of co-morbidities, greater exposure risk and difficulty in complying with norms like hand washing, physical distancing and wearing masks. We explained to the residents the importance of vaccination, and proceeded with it based on their willingness,” she said. She said there were no complications post-vaccination, except fever for a day in some cases. K.V. Kishore Kumar, director of The Banyan, said vaccinating persons with mental illnesses was important as COVID-19-compliant behaviour was extremely difficult to implement among this population. “While we vaccinated all persons who had identity cards, there were some who did not know their names, and no ID was available with them. With the Government of India’s directive that everyone, including the homeless, with no ID cards should be vaccinated, we managed to achieve 100% vaccination, except for those who had tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. Vaccination of persons with mental illnesses was taken up as a priority, said Alby John Varghese, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation. “We started to vaccinate them during early April. We run five shelters that are maintained by two NGOs — The Banyan and Anbagam. Many of the residents of these shelters have already received two doses of the vaccines,” he added. Archana Padmakar, deputy director, Emergency Care and Recovery Centre, The Banyan, said a total of 292 clients and 186 staff had been vaccinated. While clients who were mobile were taken to the nearest Primary Health Centre for vaccination, a camp was organised by the PHC for the bedridden.“Persons with mental illnesses are more immune-compromised as many have been homeless, and have metabolic syndrome profiles. In the last wave, we lost four of our clients to COVID-19 complications, and hence, it was important to get them vaccinated,” she said. “There are many myths surrounding vaccination. We started to hold awareness sessions for clients. It took some time before many gave their consent. One of the factors that motivated them was seeing our staff getting vaccinated. All of them were mandatorily screened prior to vaccination,” she explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/persons-with-mental-illnesses-get-priority-vaccine-coverage/article34757620.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vadapalani temple’s property worth Rs. 250 crore retrieved||Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P.K. Sekar Babu on Monday said the government will ensure that properties belonging to temples will be retrieved. Land worth Rs. 250 crore, belonging to the Vadapalani Subramaniaswami temple, was retrieved on Monday. Addressing the media during the removal of encroachments on the land in Saligramam, he pointed out that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had directed the department to take all necessary steps to safeguard temple properties. “Recently, encroachments around a mandapam belonging to the Sri Ranganathar temple in Srirangam was removed by the department,” he said. The vacant land in Saligramam, measuring 5.5 acres, was being used as a parking lot illegally and was worth Rs. 250 crore. Leased originally According to official sources in the HR and CE Department, the land was originally leased out to the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women for 29 years starting 2008. The Corporation then handed it over to the Social Welfare Department, which had constructed a hostel for working women on a portion of the land. The hostel has remained closed for over two years now. The payment of lease amount, which had been fixed at Rs. 1 lakh a month, was defaulted and after proceedings under Section 78 of the HR and CE Act, the temple has taken possession of the land once again. On Monday, officials of the HR and CE Department, Chennai Corporation and police personnel removed encroachments from the land. The owners of the vehicles parked there were given a day’s time to remove them, an official added. HR and CE Commissioner J. Kumaragurubaran was also present during the encroachment removal drive. When asked about the posting of persons who had completed the archaka course in temples, the Minister responded that such questions would be answered within 100 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vadapalani-temples-property-worth-rs-250-crore-retrieved/article34757592.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||65% of those over 45 given first dose of vaccine in city||Even as the State is facing a vaccine shortage, the Greater Chennai Corporation has been channelling its resources to vaccinate those who come into contact with a large number of people on a daily basis. It has started vaccinating workers and traders in the wholesale markets so that those who were exposed to these places do not contract the SARS CoV-2 virus. The civic body, having started the vaccination programme with limited doses in Koyambedu market a few days ago, has begun inoculating the vendors in the Chintadripet and Kasimedu fish markets. A senior official said the vaccine was in short supply and whenever they received vaccine doses they had been administering them to the priority categories such as those aged above 45 and also those working in markets. With the lockdown norms relaxed in the city, a large number of people were expected to throng the wholesale vegetable and fruit markets of Koyambedu and the fish markets in Kasimedu and Chintadripet. So far, 7,663 people have been given vaccine during the special vaccination campaign. The civic body had been giving priority to administering the vaccine to those aged above 45. The senior civic official said of the population of 78,53,602 in 15 zones in the city, 20,45,447 were aged above 45. The Corporation has covered 13,46,080 people, nearly 66% of the population aged above 45, with the first dose of vaccine. He said: “Close to six lakh people have been given the second dose and once sufficient stock of vaccines are available, we will accelerate giving second dose.” The Anna Nagar zone has administered vaccine to the highest number of 1,55,960 people (total population 2,07,425), followed by Teynampet 1,53,353 (2,35,436), Royapuram 1,50,055 (2,09,788), Kodambakkam 1,47,426 (2,31,163), and Adyar 1,28,309 (1,75,216).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/65-of-those-over-45-given-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-city/article34757599.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PFI volunteers help in cremating unclaimed COVID-19 bodies||Popular Front of India (PFI) has been involved in various COVID-19 relief activities during the first and second waves. The volunteers of PFI have been mainly involved in cremating bodies of COVID-19 victims, which are left unclaimed by the near and dear ones, irrespective of the religious communities. According to a press release, the PFI volunteers who have been given training to cremate the COVID-19 victims, have cremated more than 1,854 bodies in the State by following all Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), prescribed by the World Health Organisation (WHO). The volunteers are also provided with all facilities to go into self-isolation whenever they cremate a body to prevent the spread of pandemic. The PFI has cremated more than 9,000 dead bodies in the country, the release added. According to M. Abdul Razzack, office bearer of PFI, the initiative to cremate the unclaimed bodies was taken as a number of COVID-19 bodies remained in the hospitals. The PFI has also been involved in other relief measures -- creating 60-bed isolation centre at Mannady near Parrys, providing 500 oxygen cylinders, free ambulance facility, and supplying ‘Kabasura Kudineer’ to nearly 58,000 persons, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pfi-volunteers-help-in-cremating-unclaimed-covid-19-bodies/article34757604.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constitute Heritage Commission to protect anicient monuments, temples, HC tells govt.||The Madras High Court on Monday issued a series of 75 directions to the State government on protecting historical monuments, sites, ancient temples, idols, safeguarding temple funds, retrieving temple properties, appointing temple staff, filling up vacancies in the post of trustee, maintaining animals owned by the temples and safeguarding their waterbodies. Justices R. Mahadevan and P.D. Audikesavalu ordered that Mamallapuram World Heritage Area Management Authority should be established within eight weeks to manage and safeguard all monuments and that a 17-member Heritage Commission should be constituted to act as an advisory body to the Authority. “The Heritage Commission shall identify all structures, monuments, temples, antiques with historical/archaeological importance within the State, formulate a list with age of such monuments... issue appropriate notification, render periodical advice to the State, supervise the restoration, repair works, etc. and maintain the same,” the High Court order read. It also made it clear that no structural alteration or repair of any structures or murals notified under relevant Central and State legislations should take place without the Commission’s sanction. The orders were passed on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court on the basis of a reader’s letter titled ‘The Silent burial’ published in The Hindu on January 8, 2015. The court also ordered re-constitution of State-level and district-level expert committees to accord sanction for repairs or renovation of temples and archaeological sites. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) was also directed to conduct field survey of more-than- 100-year- old temples, estimate damages and restore the structures within 12 months. The funds of individual temples should first be utilised for the maintenance of those temples, conducting festivals, making payment to staff and only the surplus fund could be utilised for attending repair works and maintenance of other temples, the judges said. Registers for maintenance of jewellery and other valuables must be maintained and immovable properties of the temples must be taken stock of and retrieved from encroachments. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department website must display the number of idols of historical importance, the number stolen and retrieved idols and the status of investigation in cases, the court ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitute-heritage-commission-to-protect-monuments-temples/article34757720.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newborn with COVID-19 treated in city hospital||A newborn was recently treated for COVID-19 he contracted in utero. The boy was delivered on May 24 through Cesarean section and was brought to Dr. Mehta’s Hospital in Velapanchavadi within two hours of birth with respiratory distress. An RT-PCR test confirmed the infection. The mother was infected but was asymptomatic and had later tested negative. Doctors diagnosed it as a rare case of transplacental infection with fetal hyper-inflammatory syndrome. A CT scan for the chest revealed that the baby, born at 37 weeks of gestation, had 80-90% lung involvement. Consultant neonatologist Arun Krishnan B. said the neonate was started on non-invasive positive pressure ventilation. The baby was on mechanical ventilation for five days and then for three days in a high-flow nasal cannula. The baby was under observation for three days. He had a few episodes of intermittent tachycardia, which was evaluated and concluded as inappropriate sinus tachycardia post-COVID-19 hyper-inflammatory syndrome. The baby recovered and was discharged after 11 days of hospitalisation with oral steroids and blood thinners.  Doctors diagnosed it as a rare case of transplacental infection with fetal hyper-inflammatory syndrome||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newborn-with-covid-19-treated-in-city-hospital/article34757589.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMJEE phase 2 exam to be held on June 29 and 30||The second phase of the SRM Institute of Science and Technology’s (SRMIST) entrance exam for B.Tech programmes (SRMJEE) will be held on June 29 and 30. Aspirants who were unable to attend the first phase exams held in May may appear. Candidates may submit applications for the second phase remote-proctored online examination till June 20. The candidates must submit a valid email ID during registration. The institute has started counselling on the basis of phase 1 results. Another round of counselling will be held after the results for the second phase are declared. Scholarships are available. To apply and for more details visit www.srmist.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmjee-phase-2-exam-to-be-held-on-june-29-and-30/article34757591.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Constitute Heritage Commission to protect monuments, temples: HC||The Madras High Court on Monday issued a series of 75 directions to the State government on protecting historical monuments, sites, ancient temples, idols, safeguarding temple funds, conducting audits, retrieving temple properties, appointing temple staff, paying salaries to them, filling up vacancies in the post of trustee, maintaining the animals owned by the temples and safeguarding their waterbodies. Justices R. Mahadevan and P.D. Audikesavalu ordered that the Mamallapuram World Heritage Area Management Authority should be established within eight weeks to manage and safeguard all monuments and that a 17-member Heritage Commission should also be constituted to act as an advisory body to the Authority. Historians, archaeologists and anthropologists should be part of the commission. “The Heritage Commission shall identify all the structures, monuments, temples, antiques with historical/archaeological importance within the State of Tamil Nadu, formulate a list with age of such monuments by categorising them within their period group, issue appropriate notification, render periodical advice to the State, supervise the restoration, repair works etc., and maintain the same,” the court order read. It also made it clear that no structural alteration or repair of any monument/temple/idol/sculpture/murals notified under the relevant Central and State legislations should take place without the sanction of the commission. The orders were passed on a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court on the basis of a reader’s letter titled ‘The Silent burial’ published in The Hindu on January 8, 2015. The court also ordered re-constitution of State-level and district-level expert committees, comprising of structural experts, to accord sanction for repairs or renovation of temples and archaeological sites. The committees should meet at least once every month and conduct periodical inspection of monuments and temples, prepare reports and forward them to the government for appropriate action, the court said. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) was also directed to conduct field survey of temples that were more than 100 years old, estimate the damages and restore the structures as per rules within 6 to 12 months. The funds of individual temples should first be utilised for the maintenance of those temples, conducting festivals, making payment to its staff including the archakas, oduvars, musicians, folklore and drama artiste and only the surplus fund could be utilised for attending the repair and maintenance of other temples, the judges said. They directed the State government to allocate sufficient funds for preservation of ancient monuments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constitute-heritage-commission-to-protect-ancient-monuments-temples-hc/article34757602.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. coast on alert after ship sinks||Intelligence agencies have sounded an alert on the possibility of hazardous chemical debris getting washed ashore along Tamil Nadu coast in the next few days following the sinking of Singapore-flagged vessel mv X-Press Pearl off the Sri Lankan coast on June 2. In what is described as the worst marine ecological disaster, the vessel anchored 9.5 nautical miles off Colombo Port in Sri Lankan waters caught fire on May 20, with a huge consignment of chemicals, including nitric acid, loaded in 1,486 containers on board. The ship was holding 325 tonnes of fuel in its tanks. Top police sources said the spillage of oil had triggered fears of serious environmental concerns. Immediately after the fire was reported, the Indian Coast Guard and Sri Lankan Navy, as part of Operation Sagar Aaraksha, jointly launched fire-fighting and pollution control response. While the fire was put out on June 2, the ship sank in the outer anchorage and reached the sea bottom after an unsuccessful attempt by the authorities to tow the vessel to deeper seas. The alert pointed to the possibility of hazardous chemical debris and oil waste being washed ashore between Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, the sources said. Senior police officials in coastal districts were told to take steps to avert any disaster and coordinate with agencies concerned, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-coast-on-alert-after-ship-sinks/article34757732.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for abusing SI||The police arrested Asgar Ali, 39, an auto driver from Perambur, for abusing and intimidating a woman sub-inspector attached to the Kothawal Chavadi police station after she seized his vehicle, which was carrying passengers beyond the permitted number, in violation of lockdown norms. The video the incident went viral over social media. Based on her complaint, the police arrested the auto driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-abusing-si/article34757590.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||$2 million for COVID-19 relief from IIT-M alumni||The alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have donated over $2 million toward COVID-19 relief efforts in the country. The Office of Alumni and Corporate Relations at the institute along with the IIT Madras Alumni Association of North America and IIT Madras Foundation in the United States of America coordinated the effort. Anand Rajaraman, alumnus and partner at Rocketship.vc, a silicon-valley based venture capital firm, said the alumni network had mobilised to help the State with medical supplies and equipment. Institute director Bhaskar Ramamurthi handed over 200 oxygen concentrators, with a capacity of 10 litre each, to Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi. Jane Prasad, registrar, handed over 74 biPAP units to the civic body. Kamal Duggirala, chairman of the IIT Madras Foundation-US, said many people helped source the equipment, raise funds and ensure delivery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-million-for-covid-19-relief-from-iit-m-alumni/article34757596.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Changes in nomenclature for depts. notified||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued a G.O. to amend the Tamil Nadu Business Rules, 1978, to change the nomenclature of a few departments in the Secretariat. Already the portfolios of quite a few Ministers, sworn in last month, carried new nomenclature. As per the G.O. issued by Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu, Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department would be called Human Resources Management Department. Agriculture Department would be renamed Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department. Animal Husbandry, Dairying, Fisheries Department would be known as Animal Husbandry, Dairying, Fisheries and Fishermen Welfare Department. The term ‘Climate Change’ has been included in the department to be called Environment, Climate Change and Forest Department. The revised name for Labour Department is Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department. Instead of Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department, it would be called Social Welfare and Women Empowerment Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/changes-in-nomenclature-for-departments-notified/article34757731.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM sanctions Rs. 25 crore for essential medicines||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin has ordered that Rs. 25 crore from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) be used towards procuring essential medicines, including those used to treat patients with mucormycosis. As of Monday, contributions amounting to Rs. 280.20 crore had been received by the CMPRF, following an appeal by Mr. Stalin seeking support for the State to fight COVID-19, an official release said. Other supplies The Chief Minister has already sanctioned Rs. 50 crore from the CMPRF for procuring essential drugs and liquid oxygen, and Rs. 50 crore for procuring RT-PCR kits. The Chief Minister has also sanctioned Rs. 41.40 crore from the relief fund for importing oxygen concentrators and other equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-sanctions-rs-25-crore-for-essential-medicines/article34757606.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB donates Rs. 20 cr. to CMPRF||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board has donated Rs. 20 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. Minister for Environment-Climate Change and Youth Welfare and Sports Development Siva V. Meyyanathan gave the amount to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat. Employees of the State Transport Department donated over Rs. 14.46 crore. The Southern Railway Mazdoor Union contributed Rs. 1.70 crore to CMPRF. Rajya Sabha MP M. Shanmugam, representing the Labour Progressive Federation (LPF), presented a cheque of Rs. 1.60 crore. Hindustan Group of Institutions chancellor Elizabeth Verghese donated Rs. 50 lakh. A similar amount was also given by the Gurunanak Educational Society. An amount of Rs. 25 lakh was donated by Aravind Laboratories and Rs. 20 lakh by the Tamil Nadu Retired College Teachers’ Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnpcb-donates-rs-20-cr-to-cmprf/article34757613.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister welcomes PM’s announcement||Appreciating Prime Minister Narendra Modi for reversing the Centre’s previous position on vaccine procurement, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Monday welcomed his decision and said States should be given complete control over the vaccination process. “I welcome the @PMOIndia’s statement indicating that the Union government will procure 75% of the vaccines produced in the country and provide them to the States for free. I also appreciate the Prime Minister for reversing his government’s previous position,” Mr. Stalin tweeted. Pointing out that Mr. Modi had, in his speech, stressed that health was a State subject, Mr. Stalin said: “It will be appropriate for each State to be given full control of vaccination.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-welcomes-pms-announcement/article34757614.ece
08 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Native dog breeds to detect wildlife crimes||Four dogs namely Valavan, Kaduvan, Kaaligan and Athavai are all set to become new stars of Tamil Nadu Forest Department. These five-month-old dogs, Valavan of Kanni breed and others of Chippiparai, both sighthound breeds from Tamil Nadu, were deployed at four different forest divisions last week after the completion of three months of training at Tamil Nadu Forestry Training College (TNFTC), Vaigai Dam. According to R. Rajmohan, principal of TNFTC, Tamil Nadu Forest Department is the first in the country to have inducted native dog breeds to detect wildlife crimes. “One of the forest guards attached to the Forest Elite Force (FEF) at Vaigai Dam (Delta team) completed dog handling training at Bhopal. The guard, Vadivelan, trained four dogs of native breeds for the FEF initially. The four new puppies were given training by the staff trained by Vadivelan,” he said. Sent to forest divisions The four new dogs were sent to four forest divisions namely Coimbatore ( Valavan), Pollachi division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve ( Kaduvan), the Nilgiris ( Kaaligan) and Gudalur ( Athavai ). Each dog will be taken care of by a handler and helper who were trained at TNFTC. “Native breed dogs are better suited for our forest conditions than that of foreign breeds. Maintenance is also easy,” Mr. Rajmohan said. The dogs were given training to conduct vehicle checks, house search, box search, ground search (for buried objects), to detect sandalwood, wildlife articles such as skin or bones and contrabands like ganja. They were also trained for tracking. According to N. Balasubramaian, one of the trainers at the TNFTC, native breed dogs pick up commands quickly. “The induction of trained dogs will strengthen forest protection, investigation and prosecution of wildlife crimes. The native breed dogs easily adapt to our conditions and they are highly efficient. One trained dog for every forest division may become a reality in the near future,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) and Field Director (in-charge) ATR. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore forest division, said that Valavan, who was given for Coimbatore, was currently kept at Boluvampatti forest range. Foreign breed Though Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, Udumalpet division of ATR and Srivilliputhur Wildlife Sanctuary have their dog squad, the dogs are of foreign breed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/native-dog-breeds-to-detect-wildlife-crimes/article34757292.ece
08 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Native breed dog squad set to detect wildlife crimes in State||Four dogs — Valavan, Kaduvan, Kaaligan and Athavai — are set to become new stars of the Forest Department in the State. These five-month old pups have been inducted into the country’s first dog squad of native breeds formed to detect wildlife crimes. The dogs, Valavan of Kanni breed and others of Chippiparai, both from Tamil Nadu, were deployed at four forest divisions last week after the completion of three-month training in the Tamil Nadu Forestry Training College (TNFTC), Vaigai Dam. According to TNFTC principal R. Rajmohan, the department is the first in the country to have inducted native breeds to detect wildlife crimes. “One of the forest guards attached to the Forest Elite Force (FEF) at Vaigai Dam (Delta team) completed dog handling training at Bhopal. The guard, Vadivelan, trained four dogs of native breeds initially. The four new puppies were given training by the staff trained by Vadivelan,” he said. The four new dogs were sent to four forest divisions — Coimbatore ( Valavan), Pollachi division of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve ( Kaduvan), the Nilgiris ( Kaaligan), and Gudalur ( Athavai ). Each dog will be under the care of a handler and helper who were trained at TNFTC. “Native breed dogs are better suited to our forest conditions than the foreign breeds. Maintenance is easy,” Mr. Rajmohan said. The dogs were given training to check vehicles, search houses, boxes, and ground search (for buried objects), to detect sandalwood, wildlife articles such as hide or bones and contraband like ganja. They were trained for tracking. According to N. Balasubramaian, one of the trainers at TNFTC, native breeds picked up commands quickly. “The induction of trained dogs will strengthen forest protection, investigation and prosecution of wildlife crimes. The native breed dogs easily adapt to our conditions and they are highly efficient. One trained dog for every forest division may become a reality in the near future,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) and Field Director (in-charge) ATR. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore forest division, said that Valavan, who was given for Coimbatore, was currently kept at Boluvampatti forest range. Though Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve, Udumalpet division of ATR and Srivilliputhur Wildlife Sanctuary have their dog squad, the canines are of foreign breed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/native-breed-dog-squad-set-to-detect-wildlife-crimes-in-state/article34757601.ece
08 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 case count has come down in Coimbatore city: Nehru||COVID-19 case count has come down in Coimbatore after the district administration and the civic body acted upon the instructions of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Chief Secretary V. Irani Anbu, who conducted meetings to review the steps taken to control the infection spread, Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru said here on Monday. Speaking to reporters, he said the case count had reduced by 60% in the past few days and it was 40% of what it was a few days ago. Municipal Administration Secretary Shiv Das Meena said the positivity rate had also come down from 26% to 13% in the recent past. The strengthening of door-to-door survey, increasing fever camps and introduction of car ambulance were some of the measures that helped in the case count reduction. Mr. Meena said the Corporation sought details from private clinics and doctors to gather the details of fever reporting for early testing and identification of COVID-19 persons. There was no shortage of oxygen, beds with oxygen and beds at COVID-19 Care Centres, he said and added that the shortage the Coimbatore Corporation reported was that of nurses, the Secretary said. Mr. Nehru said to address the shortage the Corporation had issued appointment orders to 100 nurses to work on a temporary basis for three months. As for controlling black fungus disease, the Corporation would act as per the instruction given by the Health Department. No medicine shortage There was no shortage of medicine for the disease, he also said. In response to a question on action against private hospitals that over charged patients to treat COVID-19 patients, the Minister replied that the Collector S. Nagarajan was seized of the issue. He earlier conducted a review meeting and inspected a few spots where Corporation works were under way. A release from the district administration said that officials told the Minister that the Corporation had vaccinated over two lakh people, deployed 70 vehicles for selling vegetables in 100 wards and established a war room.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-case-count-has-come-down-in-coimbatore-city-nehru/article34757634.ece
08 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industry engages sanitation workers at CMCH||The Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, Coimbatore Cancer Foundation, and the CSR arms of Pricol and Messer Cutting Systems, have jointly initiated a programme to keep the COVID-19 ward at Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) clean. Chamber president C. Balasubramanian said in a press release, “We hear from patients who got discharged from our CMCH as well as from the general public that even though the doctors and nurses are undertaking super human efforts to help those affected by the virus, sanitation is not upto the expected standards.” While the CMCH administration is concentrating on attending to the patients and their treatment, maintenance of the washrooms and wards need more personnel. “We have therefore offered to assist in the area of sanitation as an unique contribution - the CLEAN GH drive,” he said. Vanitha Mohan, Chairperson of Pricol, said the CMCH has a team of people to keep the premises clean. However, several new facilities have been created now to treat COVID-19 patients. Hence, the industry have jointly taken up the drive to keep the COVID-19 entry point, zero delay ward, and the COVID-19 wards at the hospital clean. “We have appointed an experienced housekeeping service provider who will engage 15 people and a supervisor every day to clean these areas regularly. We will also provide the cleaning material required,” she said. The plan is to continue the drive for three months. However, it will be experimented with for a month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-engages-sanitation-workers-at-cmch/article34757626.ece
08 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for sexual assault on minor girls||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Pollachi, on Monday arrested two persons from Anamalai on charges of sexually assaulting two minor girls, aged 15 and 14. M. Saravanakumar (28) and M. Chinnadurai (34) from a village near Anamalai were arrested based on the complaints lodged by the two girls. As per the complaint, the accused got introduced to them at their workplace. According to the police, the accused took the girls to the house of Saravanakumar on various occasions between May 17 and June 6 and sexually assaulted them by promising to marry them. The two men were arrested by the AWPS Pollachi under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on Monday. They were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-sexual-assault-on-minor-girls/article34757293.ece
08 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient found dead||A COVID-19 patient from Palladam in Tiruppur district took his life at the treatment ward of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Saturday. R. Periyasamy (63) aka Jayaseelan Madheswara Nagar at Palladam was found dead at the New Ortho Ward at CMCH around 7 a.m. In another incident, a 59 year-old man from Rathinapuri was found dead at his house on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as M. Ramasamy from Subbathal Layout at Rathinapuri. The police said the man and his wife underwent treatment for COVID-19 at a private hospital recently. According to the police, Ramasamy recovered from the disease and returned home. He was found dead at the house around 10.30 a.m. on Sunday.  (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-found-dead/article34757638.ece
08 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Pay incentive to conservancy workers’||Kovai Mavatta Jeeva Municipal Thozhilalar Sangam has urged the State government to pay incentive to conservancy and local body contract workers. In a letter to Municipal Administration and Water Supply Minister K.N. Nehru, the union said the government should pay incentives to conservancy workers including those working on contract, daily wagers and self-help group members who had helped local bodies in urban and rural areas to fight the COVID-19 spread. It also asked the Minister to consider its request for paying a solatium of Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of those workers who succumbed to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pay-incentive-to-conservancy-workers/article34757635.ece
08 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Amrita varsity adds one lakh trees on campus||Amrita University has added one lakh trees on its campus in Ettimadai to take the total green cover to seven lakh sq.m. A release said with the addition of one lakh trees, the campus now had 1.75 lakh trees in thick vegetation, rich in biodiversity with over 200 species of trees and medicinal plants. The increase in green cover has brought down the temperature in the campus and improved water table. The University was recently ranked first in the Swachhata ranking award, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/amrita-varsity-adds-one-lakh-trees-on-campus/article34757305.ece
08 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express reaches Madukkarai||The 53rd Oxygen Express for the State carrying 32.38 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) arrived at Madukkarai on Monday. The train service with two tankers of LMO reached Madukkarai Railway Station at 5.28 p.m., a release said. This is the seventh Oxygen Express to arrive at Coimbatore district. The total load of LMO delivered via Oxygen Express services to the State was 3,608.99 MT, according to the release.    Salem Division of Southern Railway announced eight fully-reserved weekly special train services between Coimbatore and Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Train No. 02198 Jabalpur – Coimbatore super fast festival special train will leave Jabalpur at 11.50 p.m. on Fridays from June 11 to July 30 to reach Coimbatore Junction at 5.10 p.m. on Sundays. Train No. 02197 Coimbatore – Jabalpur super fast festival special train will leave Coimbatore Junction at 3.30 p.m. on Mondays from June 14 to August 02 reach Jabalpur at 8.45 a.m. on Wednesdays, according to a release.    NGO Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust announced that it had distributed 6,000 food packets through its mobile food bank initiative in three weeks of COVID-19 lockdown in Tiruppur. According to the NGO’s founder Kavitha Jenarthanan, the food packets were distributed to the patients in Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital including those in the COVID-19 ward, and homeless persons on the streets. Apart from food packets, the NGO had also distributed masks, umbrellas and blankets during the lockdown, Ms. Jenarthanan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-reaches-madukkarai/article34757303.ece
08 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mobile vehicles collect swab from doorstep in Erode||As part of early detection of COVID-19 positive cases, the corporation has deployed 10 mobile vehicles to lift swab samples from the residents. On an average 350 to 400 cases were reported everyday in the corporation limits and the civic body has been taking various steps to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2. As many as 1,400 volunteers were deputed for conducting door-to-door fever surveillance camps and persons with symptoms were taken to the District Headquarters Hospital and Urban Primary Health Centres for lifting swab samples. Fear among people However, there is a fear among the people that visiting the hospitals or UPHCs for tests would pave the way for infection. Hence, the corporation deputed 10 vehicles from Sunday to visit the residential areas of persons with symptoms and lift the samples on the spot. After persons with symptoms were identified during door-to-door surveillance, the mobile team comprising a technician and health staff visit the house and lift samples from the person. Samples were sent to the laboratory at the Government Erode Medical College Hospital at Perundurai for analysis. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that surveillance camps being conducted for the past one week have paved way for early identification and providing treatment to the patients’ results in the number of cases dropping in the corporation limits. Samples were lifted from persons with symptoms in all the 60 wards at their doorsteps, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mobile-vehicles-collect-swab-from-doorstep-in-erode/article34757628.ece
08 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode runs out of vaccine stock||With COVID-19 positive cases continues to be on the rise, the district’s vaccine stock exhausted here on Monday. As of Sunday, the district reported a total of 64,596 cases, 48,829 discharges, and 425 deaths while the active cases stood at 15,902. The positivity rate stood at 18.7% on Monday. While 1,94,963 persons above 45 years were vaccinated, 46,092 persons in the 18-44 age group were vaccinated so far. As many as 15,000 doses of vaccine arrived in the district with which vaccination was done between June 3 and 7. Confirming this, Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that vaccine stock was exhausted on Monday and vaccination camps were temporarily halted. “Only after receiving the vaccine from the government, vaccination would resume”, she added. Sources said that after the arrival of vaccines, persons who are yet to receive a second shot will be given priority over persons in the 18-44 age group. The district has run out of vaccine stock at a time when positive cases continue to be over 1,600 a day while cases are declining across the State. From June 1 to 6, the district reported 7,993 positive cases and 79 deaths as two-third of the cases continue to be reported in rural areas. Non-availability of vaccines at private hospitals, lack of dissemination of information regarding camps and number of doses available, poorly organised vaccination camps at Primary Health Centres and inadequate stock have caused inconvenience to the people who have to wander from one place to other in search of vaccines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode-runs-out-of-vaccine-stock/article34757630.ece
08 June 2021||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala did nothing for AIADMK’s election victory: Kadambur Raju||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and joint-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami would decide on the re-entry of Jayalalithaa’s close confidante V.K. Sasikala, who did nothing for the party’s victory in the recently concluded Assembly polls, former Minister and Kovilpatti MLA Kadambur C. Raju said. Speaking to reporters here on Monday after distributing kabasura kudineer and masks to the public on behalf of AIADMK’s Information Technology Wing, Mr. Raju said Mr. Palaniswami had made the party’s stand on Mrs. Sasikala’s re-entry and her purported conversations with a few very clear. Any decision taken by the party’s coordinator and the joint-coordinator on her re-entry into AIADMK would be final, Mr. Raju said. When asked about the performance of the DMK government, the former Minister said it would not be appropriate to comment on the DMK’s performance within just 30 days of its returning to power. The government’s performance could be gauged only after witnessing its performance for at least 100 days as the DMK itself had promised to the people during electioneering that it would solve all their problems within the first 100 days. “Now, the government, armed with lockdowns, is battling the COVID-19 and hence we’ll wait for a few more days to appraise its performance,” Mr. Raju said. On DMK’s charge that the 10-year-long AIADMK rule had derailed Tamil Nadu on all fronts, he said the State, under the rule of Jayalalithaa and then Mr. Palaniswami, had got A++ ranking in school education in the entire country. The State’s enviable performance in surplus power generation, industrial investments, healthcare, organ donation, etc., could not be eclipsed by anyone. “The anti-COVID-19 operations launched by the AIADMK government earned the praise of even Prime Minister Narendra Modi and we expect similar onslaught against the viral infection by the DMK government too,” Mr. Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sasikala-did-nothing-for-aiadmks-election-victory-kadambur-raju/article34757373.ece
08 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Mango growers in Krishnagiri seek remunerative price from government||Mango farmers have demanded remunerative price for the produce in the wake of the pulp industries lowering the procurement price for them citing the pandemic and the resultant slowdown in the market. A diseased season, coupled with fall in the price of procurement by the pulp industries is pushing farmers into a loss, the Mango Farmers Federation has stated. A fortnight ago, Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy called for tripartite meeting with the mango farmers, pulp industry representatives and the Horticulture Department to sort out the concerns of the farmers. K.M. Soundararajan, Mango Farmers’ Federation, Krishnagiri, in a statement, has said the tripartite meeting was convened with the objective of securing remunerative prices for the mango growers, who are currently battling diseased crop and also low procurement prices offered by the pulp industry here. However, a fortnight has passed, but no remunerative price has been announced, Mr. Soundararajan has stated. Mango production, this year, was hit by disease due to frost causing large-scale losses to the mango growers, according to Mr. Soundararajan. With the fall in production and the shortfall in supply, the mango growers ought to have found better prices for their produce. According to the federation, the pulp industry had not negotiated remunerative price with the farmers. As of last week, the average price of procurement of mangoes by the pulp industry was Rs. 10 per kg. Similarly, mango growers have also demanded relief as support to the farmers for the losses incurred during the season. Mango growers had incurred cultivation costs of Rs. 40,000 per acre for cropping this season. However, due to frost, the crop was hit by disease affecting the production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mango-growers-in-krishnagiri-seek-remunerative-price-from-government/article34757622.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fixing of CCTV cameras in GRH to be explored||Madurai Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar in an interaction with The Hindu  on Monday said oxygen availability in the hospitals in the district was sufficient. More than imposing fines on violators of COVID-19 lockdown norms, he appealed to the people to practise self-discipline.   How is the COVID-19 situation in Madurai?  The peak was 600 [cases] per day during May-end. It has started showing a declining trend now. In city limits, the numbers are 150 per day.  What is the stock position of vaccines?  We have around 16,000 doses available right now. We hope to get more numbers in the coming days.  What are the priorities now for the district administration?  We have planned to conduct door-to-door checks on people with fever and cold-like symptoms. The results of the swabs taken shall be made known in about 12-16 hours. The idea is to ensure that people with COVID-19 were contained. Secondly, we will be closely monitoring the people participating in marriages and funerals. The markets have already been decongested.  What are the measures to be taken after relaxation in lockdown norms?  More than imposing fines, self-regulation and self-discipline would be the ideal way. We cannot say the pandemic will end with the numbers declining. Hence, it is in people’s hands to prevent the third wave.  Any plans to install CCTV cameras in COVID-19 ward in GRH and Covid Care Centres?  It is a good idea. We will explore the possibilities of installing cameras like in the COVID ward in Ramanathapuram Government Hospital. Apart from an effective surveillance, the grievances of the inpatients in the isolation wards can be redressed at a much faster pace.  What are the steps taken to decongest crowding in vaccination centres?  In coordination with an NGO, the 'Covid Free Madurai' people willing to take vaccination have to register after they get an OTP. Similarly, those above 45 years can take the vaccine shots at the authorised centres. Priority groups (such as frontline workers) between 18 and 45 years shall get preference as per the health protocol.  How many ration cardholders have received the financial assistance so far?  A: About 99 % of the eligible cardholders have received the first instalment of Rs. 2,000. The next disbursal of Rs. 2,000 shall take place as and when the government rolls it out.  What is the status of oxygen availability in the district ?  We have sufficient stock of oxygen. Private hospitals have enough numbers. The oxygen beds in GRH were not fully occupied.  Have you increased the bed strength in COVID-19 care centres in peripheries?  Yes. From 600 in the initial stage, the number of bed strength had almost doubled. The recently opened CCC at Thoppur has oxygen facilities as well.  We have around 16,000 doses available right now. S. Aneesh Sekhar,   Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fixing-of-cctv-cameras-in-grh-to-be-explored/article34757380.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers find it difficult to make both ends meet||After three weeks of lockdown that kept autorickshaws off the road, relaxation of lockdown rules that allowed autorickshaws from Monday was yet to give any major relief for the livelihood for autorickshaws drivers in Madurai. With buses still not plying and majority of shops and all temples and cinema theatres closed, the number of people seeking the services of autorickshaws for their movement is very less, said autorickshaws drivers. “A majority of the people are yet to come out of their houses. And those who are coming out have their personal vehicles like bikes or cars,” said R.P. Chandrabose, State president of Share Autorickshaw Operators Association. He said that less than 20% of the three-wheelers was plying on the roads. “Passengers had engaged my vehicle only three times till now (Monday evening) and my earnings are not enough even to meet the autorickshaw rent, fuel and tea expenses,” said A. Subramanian (55). Stating that fear of e-registration was also a cause for many autorickshaws drivers not coming out, many drivers chose to ply their vehicles only for shorter distance. “After the peak hour traffic, police are insisting on e-registration. The police insist that even with e-registration, autorickshaws can ply only to and from hospitals,” K. Murugan, another autorickshaw driver said. Autorickshaws will be on high demand only if there is more floating population. “With no buses running, people seeking autorickshaw services is very less. Only those going to hospitals engage us,” he added. They had to spend over Rs. 50 to get e-registration. “Our men are thronging internet centres to get e-registration for their vehicles and get the printout pasted on their vehicles, whereas the e-registration is only for the customers,” Mr. Chandrabose said. Mr. Subramanian said that he had already borrowed Rs. 10,000 to meet family expenditure during the lockdown. “Now, even the moneylenders are hesitating to give us any more money, as they know that we will not have our usual daily income,” he added. Mr. Murugan said that only when lockdown is lifted, autorickshaw drivers can expect to make their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/autorickshaw-drivers-find-it-difficult-to-make-both-ends-meet/article34757375.ece
08 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Death sentence referred to HC||The death sentence awarded by Pudukkottai Mahila Court to a 52-year-old man for sexually assaulting his minor daughter and murdering his second wife has been referred to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for confirmation. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and G. Ilangovan ordered notice on the referred trial and adjourned the hearing. The man was said to have sexually assaulted his daughter for two years from 2017. When his second wife objected to his act, he planned to murder her and hacked her to death while she was grazing cattle in 2019. The Mahila Court sentenced him to death. He was also convicted under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-sentence-referred-to-hc/article34757756.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects preventive measures||Collector Aneesh Sekhar inspected the COVID-19 preventive measures undertaken at Tirupparankundram, Usilampatti and Sedapatti blocks in the district on Monday. He monitored the door-to-door screening at Nilaiyur and Thanakkankulam of Tirupparankundram block. He also checked the measures in containment zones. He inspected the quality of food commodities sold at Pandian Cooperative Store at Nagamalai. He visited PHC at Chellampatti and COVID-19 Care Centre at Uthapuram. Additional Director (Panchayat) A. Chelladurai was also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-preventive-measures/article34757377.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC relief for Melur farmers||Bringing relief to the farmers of Melur, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court quashed the final report/chargesheet filed against them for staging a protest demanding the release of water through the Periyar main canal in 2017. Justice G. Ilangovan observed the protest was for release of water. It was the demand of the farmers of the particular area and the same cannot be called an unlawful protest. The protest will not fall under the category of unlawful assembly. The court observed that no documents were produced to show the farmers caused damage to barricades put up at the place of occurrence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-relief-for-melur-farmers/article34757385.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CII donates medical supplies||Members of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Tamil Nadu, presented Rs. 50-lakh worth medical supplies, including 50 oxygen concentrators, one lakh three-ply masks and hand sanitisers to Thangam Thennarasu, Minister for Industries, at Virudhunagar on Sunday. According to a CII press release, a delegation, including Hari Thiagarajan, immediate past chairman, CII, TN, B. Subbaraman, Chairman, CII, Madurai zone, A.P.J. Jaisinh Vaerkar, Vice-Chairman, CII, Madurai zone, and S. Kannan, Director, CII, TN., explained to the Minister various covid relief activities carried out by the CII.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cii-donates-medical-supplies/article34757372.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SRMU virtual protest||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a virtual protest on the Twitter demanding to declare railway employees as frontline COVID warriors. The members tweeted: Treat railway employees frontline workers in Twitter by tagging the Prime Minister, Union Railway Minister and Union Home Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srmu-virtual-protest/article34757384.ece
08 June 2021||Madurai/Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.20 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,451 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.78 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,016 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,199 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Monday was (in mm): Kodaikanal 8, Periyar dam 3 and Thekkadi 1.2. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 134.05 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 754.28 cusecs and a discharge of 1,204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 87.70 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 145 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34757382.ece
08 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Slide in new case count||Madurai recorded 401 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, as against 441 fresh cases reported on Sunday. A total of 1,164 persons were discharged from different hospitals and healthcare facilities. The district also registered eight deaths, with which its overall death toll rose to 981. Virudhunagar recorded seven more COVID-19 deaths which took the district’s toll up to 465. A woman was among the deceased. The district registered 389 fresh cases and 654 discharges on Monday. A total of 420 new cases had been reported in the district on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/slide-in-new-case-count/article34757376.ece
08 June 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||New storage unit ensures adequacy of oxygen||The recent establishment of a six-kilo litre plant has ensured adequate availability of medical oxygen in the district. Five kilolitres of oxygen has been stored in the storage unit establsihed at a cost of Rs. 18 lakh. There are now close to 150 oxygen-fitted beds to cater to COVID patients in critical conditions. Asymptomatic patients are being treated at two main centres and two peripheral centres in the district. Siva V. Meyyanathan, State Environment Minister, who inaugurated the oxygen plant last week, also commissioned the new COVID Care Centre with 120-bed capacity at AVC College, in the presence of Collector R. Lalitha and other senior officials. Asymptomatic patients who were hitherto housed at Mayura Marriage Hall are being shifted to the facility created at AVC College. The shifting has been necessitated since Mayura Hall has a capacity to accommodate only 80 patients. The other COVID Care Centre is at Dharamapuram Adheenam College of Arts and Science with 80-beds capacity. Of the two peripheral care centres, the one at Goverment Arts College Puthur has a capacity to accommodate 80 patients and the Goverment Hospital, Tranquebar, has 30 beds, V. Prakash, Deputy Director of Public Health In-Charge, said. Manpower augmentation is taking place simultaneously. At present, doctors from mini clinics have been posted at the Covid Care Centres and the hospitals. Additionally, doctors, nurses and para-medical staff are being appointed to fill vacancies. Testing has been stepped up in the district, and the positivity rate depicts a decline. Per day, testing is carried out for nearly 2,000 persons and the positivity rate is in the range of 15 %. Earlier, the positivity rate hovered around 25 %, Dr. Prakash said. Anganwadi workers and nurses were undertaking door-to-door visits to check the incidences of cold, cough, fatigue and fever symptoms among the people. Meanwhile, the pace of immunisation is also picking up in the district. Till last week, about 55,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines were administered. Nearly 40,000 were given the first dose, and the rest took the second dose. Close to 10,000 persons in the age group of 18 to 44 years have been immunised against COVID-19 so far in the district, according to officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-storage-unit-ensures-adequacy-of-oxygen/article34757752.ece
08 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘State is ready to procure and distribute any eligible vaccine’||The State government is ready to procure and distribute any eligible vaccine for the people, but there was no response to the global tender called for procuring vaccines, Medical and Family Welfare Minister Ma. Subramanian said. Mr. Subramanian, along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan and other officials, assessed the COVID-19 situation in the district and reviewed the facilities. Mr. Subramanian inaugurated a paediatric ward with intensive care facilities for COVID-19 treatment at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital. It includes a special unit for treating newborn babies with COVID-19. He also presented temporary job orders to doctors and nurses appointed for the district and distributed welfare schemes. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan, Collector K. Megraj and other senior officials were present. Talking to mediapersons, Mr. Subramanian said, “The State government issued a global tender to procure vaccines for the State. However, no one took part in the bid and the situation is similar in other States as well. The Health Secretary and I will be meeting the Chief Minister tomorrow [Tuesday] and he will decide on further steps.” The Minister said he had visited the vaccine manufacturing unit at the Pasteur Institute of India in Coonoor and authorities there had said that they would be able to manufacture one crore vials a month if they are provided raw materials. He added that the centre, started in 1907, had 303 permanent workers and Rs. 137 crore had been allotted for its development Central government in 2013. It has been in a “ready-to-operate” state since 2019, he said. Mr. Subramanian said the State had received 1.01 crore doses of vaccines so far, and it had been distributed to the districts. On a question on the spread of COVID-19 variants, Mr. Radhakrishnan said during genetic studies, 70% samples were found with a variant. However, there is no change in the COVID-19 treatment or prevention protocols. Mr. Subramanian said a separate ward to treat mucormycosis cases had been set up at the Namakkal GH, and there were 938 patients in the State undergoing treatment for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-is-ready-to-procure-and-distribute-any-eligible-vaccine/article34757610.ece
08 June 2021||P. SudhakarTIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination shortage invites public wrath||Vaccine shortage posed an irritant to the large number of people who visited vaccination centres in Tirunelveli on Monday. Though a large number of people, including those aged 18 to 44, have started coming for inoculation, vaccination shortage proves to be a stumbling block in containing the COVID-19. The 600 doses of Covaxin received on Saturday evening from Chennai were shared among three vaccination points – Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital’s Multi Speciality Complex, Palayamkottai Central Prison, and Perumalpuram Urban Primary Health Centre, while not even a single dose of Covishield was received. Consequently, those who opted for Covishield for the first dose and those who are waiting indefinitely for their second dose went home with disappointment again. Altercations could be seen at Perumalpuram Urban Primary Health Centre and the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital’s Multispeciality Complex as only a limited number of people were vaccinated with the available doses of Covaxin on Monday. “We’re facing the people’s wrath due to the erratic supply of Covishield,” said a health worker at a vaccination point. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi also 600 Covaxin doses that were received on Saturday were given to the vaccination centres at St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School at Millerpuram and Government Nursing College. “Both these centres were given 150 doses each to be administered today and the remaining 300 doses will be given on Tuesday. If we don’t receive any fresh stocks, there will be no inoculation on Wednesday,” said the personnel manning the vaccination centres. Kanniyakumari In Kanniyakumari district, 500 doses of Covaxin were given to the vaccination centre at S.T. Hindu College while Padmanabhapuram Government Hospital received 300 doses. “We did not receive any Covishield doses for the past few days,” said the doctors in Government Medical College Hospital in Asaripallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-shortage-invites-public-wrath/article34757727.ece
08 June 2021||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Concern over evaluation of Class 12 students||While the State government's decision to cancel Class 12 board examinations owing to the COVID-19 pandemic was welcomed by a majority of the stakeholders, there are still concerns regarding how the students will be assessed. In view of the pandemic, the government had earlier announced to conduct board exams with revised syllabus, said S. Murugan, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduates and Postgraduates Teachers Association. The private schools conducted online classes and had very minimal issues in accessing the students. On the other hand, the government school students hardly attended online classes and it was not possible to complete the portions fully. "Hence, by cancelling the examination, this disparity could be avoided," Mr. Murugan added. S. Vennila Devi, district coordinator of government-sponsored NEET coaching, said that few students had turned COVID-19 positive when practical examinations were conducted at schools. "Hence, cancellation of the board examinations was the safest option for the students," she said. However, there are varied opinions and suggestions among teachers regarding how the students can be assessed. Some of the teachers say that the percentage of marks obtained in Class 10 can again be used to determine the Class 12 score of the students. But, some sections of teachers say Class 10 board exam papers are not based on the groups that students choose in class 11 and 12. Hence, those marks cannot be used to determine the Class 12 score of the students, they say. In addition, some students have transferred from other curriculum to the state board syllabus for higher education. Hence, considering Class 10 marks will not be the correct way to evaluate students, said Ms. Vennila. She suggested that Class 11 marks, along with internal assessment and practical examination marks of Class 12, can be combined to determine the final score of Class 12 students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/concern-over-evaluation-of-class-12-students/article34757378.ece
08 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||New cases fall below 500 in Puducherry||New COVID-19 cases fell below 500 for the first time in the second wave of the pandemic and the total number of recovered patients crossed one lakh even as the Union Territory registered ten deaths on Monday. The 482 new cases, which were detected from 7,731 tests, were spread out in Puducherry (400), Karaikal (53), Yanam (13) and Mahe (16). The test positivity rate was 6.23%, case fatality rate 1.50% and recovery rate 91.62%. The cumulative caseload in the Union Territory aggregated to 1,09,561 with 1,00,377 patients recovered. Meanwhile, 29 healthcare workers, 23 frontline personnel and 2,455 members of the public took the COVID-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-fall-below-500-in-puducherry/article34757605.ece
08 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don’t compel SHGs to repay loans’||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Monday asked micro-finance institutions that extended credit to women self-help groups not to compel them to repay instalments during the pandemic. In a press release, Ms. Uma Maheswari said there were complaints that micro-finance institutions were compelling women SHGs and groups associated with non-governmental organisations to repay the loan. At a time when several sections of society had lost their livelihood due to lockdown, the institutions should not compel the SHGs in the district to pay the instalments and send their employees to residences of group members. Grievance redressal Complaints pertaining to micro-finance institutions could be conveyed to toll free number 18001021080, the Collector added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-compel-shgs-to-repay-loans/article34757757.ece
08 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Intensify field survey to identify symptomatic persons’||The Secretary for Municipal Administration and Water Supply department, Shiv Das Meena, assessed the COVID-19 containment measures taken up in the municipal areas here on Monday. Mr. Meena said that field survey works to identify persons with COVID-19 symptoms should be intensified. He advised the officials to ensure early treatment for patients and to prevent deaths. They were also told to collect details of symptomatic persons from private clinics and pharmacies and conduct tests for such persons. Mr. Meena also instructed officials to quarantine the contacts of positive cases at the earliest and prevent the spread of disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intensify-field-survey-to-identify-symptomatic-persons/article34757631.ece
08 June 2021||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Rural Police launch WhatsApp video call complaint service||In a move to reduce hardship of people travelling to police stations to lodge complaints during the pandemic, the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Monday launched a video call complaint facility using WhatsApp. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam launched the service and attended to the first video call complaint. A man complained to the SP that he was cheated of Rs. 1.8 lakh by a person who he came to know through a friend. The SP assured him of action on the complaint. Mr. Selvanagarathinam said that the facility will be convenient for people during the COVID-19 induced lockdown period as they do not have to travel to police stations. According to officials at the SP office, people who need to report a complaint can send them to the WhatsApp number 7708100100. The staff at the office will scrutinise them and arrange video calls with the SP between 12 noon and 1 p.m. on all days, except Sundays. The complaints attended to by the SP will be forwarded to the respective stations for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-rural-police-launch-whatsapp-video-call-complaint-service/article34757290.ece
08 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||543 tonnes of oxygen despatched||Sterlite Copper’s oxygen plants have so far produced 542.92 tonnes of medical-grade oxygen to be supplied to hospitals in 17 districts in the State for saving patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19. It has also supplied 265 oxygen cylinders to the hospitals here.  The 17 districts In a statement issued here on Monday, Sterlite Copper said oxygen had been supplied to government hospitals and the medical college hospitals in Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Madurai, Thanjavur, Sivaganga, Namakkal, Kanniyakumari, Theni, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi, Dharmapuri, Ranipet, Krishnagiri, Ramanathapuram, Karur, Salem and Dindigul districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/543-tonnes-of-oxygen-despatched/article34757721.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Crowds back on streets as shops reopen||Most of the stand alone shops and provisions stores opened on Monday in Tiruchi and some neighbouring districts following relaxation in lockdown restrictions. Big crowds could be seen on the roads in Tiruchi, especially in commercial areas such as Big Bazaar Street, West Boulevard Road, Madurai Road, Thillai Nagar and Chathram Bus Stand area. In some places, there were even traffic snarls right through the day. Apart from fruits and vegetable shops, groceries, hardware stores, electrical goods, book and stationery shops, cycle and two-wheeler repair shops opened as they were allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Although Gandhi Market remained closed, wholesale and retail vegetable shops were allowed to function on West Boulevard Road through the night and till early hours of the day. A temporary fish market became functional at Central Bus Stand. Commenting on the situation, Dr. M.A. Aleem, former Vice-Principal, K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College, emphasised the need for people to maintain social distance, wear face masks properly and avoid visiting crowded places. “The effectiveness of the lockdown will be determined only by the behaviour of the people. It is essential that people follow personal distance. Although more number of people have taken to wearing face masks, many can be seen wearing them improperly, either below their nose or chin.” People should not entertain negative thoughts or apprehensions about COVID 19, but, at the same time, those with symptoms should not hesitate to undergo testing immediately and follow medical advice, he added. But for a few minor changes, most of the lockdown restrictions continued in Karur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts in the central region where “the spread of COVID-19 had not come under control.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crowds-back-on-streets-as-shops-reopen/article34757772.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Civic body resumes fever camps||With easing of lockdown restrictions, Tiruchi Corporation has resumed fever camps across the 65 zones within city limits. The move is a precautionary measure and aimed at containing the spread of the infection, senior officials said on Monday. From Tuesday, 36 camps, including 18 primary healthcare centres, would conduct fever camps to screen for fever and other symptoms, Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe-Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Fever camps had been planned for the whole week and they continue for a few weeks. On June 8, Dharmanathapuram, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, NMK Colony, TVS Tollgate, Bharathiar Nagar, Crawford, Nelson Road, Thiruvalluvar Street, TVS Tollgate, Gandhi Nagar Pillaiyar Kovil Street, Burma Colony, Saurashtra Street and Kaveri Nagar. would be among the localities covered. Kajapettai, Vannarapettai, Moolathoppu Anganwadi Centre, Kajamalai Library, Pratiyur, Adathukkara Street, Thiruvadi Street, Netaji Nagar, Nehru Street, and Selvapuram would be covered on June 9. Keelapputhur, Sangiliandapuram, RMS Colony, Fathima Nagar, Pillaiyar Kovil Street, Zakir Hussain Street, Thiruvalluvar Road, Khajamalai Main Road, Butterworth Road, RMS Colony, Edamalapattipudur, Thillai Nagar 4th Cross, and West Boulevard Road, Duraisamypuram, Nawab Thottam would be monitored on June 10. On June 11, Kajapettai, Senthaneerpuram, Kallukuzhi, Vasantha Nagar, Cauvery Nagar Bus Stop, Anna Street, Bhagavathipuram, Fathimapuram and Periyar Nagar would be among the localities covered. On June 12, St. Xavier’s Church Street, Mahalakshmi Nagar Park, Ayyappa Nagar, Amman Nagar, Melapudur, South Vellalar Street, Rajaji Street and Kasi Chetti Street would be covered. Speaking to The Hindu , Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said that at least 100 people would be screened at each location. Their vitals would be checked using a pulse oximeter and if there were fever and other COVID-19 symptoms, a throat swab sample would be lifted. “Through this method, even if we lift 20-30 samples per location, we can test 2,500 samples a day,” the civic chief observed. As markets and some businesses were opening up, it was important to monitor the spread of the infection, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-resumes-fever-camps/article34757762.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Uyyakondan river front project nearing completion||The Uyyakondan river front development project, undertaken by Tiruchi Corporation with the aim of beautifying the banks of the 1,000-year old canal, is nearing completion. Senior officials said three parks and other facilities planned under the project would be thrown open to the public by next month. While the project was delayed due to the lockdown as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19 in 2020 and this year, work had resumed and would be completed within the next few weeks. The project, funded by Smart City Mission, began in January 2019, was taken up at an estimate of Rs. 17.56 crore and would feature three public parks in a 2-km stretch. The parks located on the left bank of the irrigation channel would have a walkway, fountains and an open-air amphitheatre with a capacity to accommodate about 200 people. As many as 430 granite stone benches would be placed across the three parks. The entire 2.6-km stretch would be landscaped and the walking tracks would be laid for residents. Along with the walkways, the roads on the left bank would be relaid to improve mobility. “The work is under way and pavements using concete blocks are being laid,” a senior official of the civic body told The Hindu . Other interesting fixtures included a pergola, an outdoor garden feature forming a shaded walkway, landscaping and three branch channel culverts to ensure that the water from the canal flowed into appropriate channels. Elaborately decorated entrances with rooms for caretakers and security personnel, CCTV cameras for safety and surveillance, seven borewells to supply water for the parks, three drinking water systems, lighting fixtures within the parks and along the roadside were other important features. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said 80% of the work had been completed. “Despite some delays due to COVID-19, we are back on track. The work is expected to be completed soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/uyyakondan-river-front-project-nearing-completion/article34757763.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3,073 new cases and 64 deaths||As many as 3,073 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday, while 64 patients succumbed to the virus. Tiruchi district reported the highest number of deaths with 14 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur reported 11 deaths each, while Pudukottai and Thanjavur reported nine each. Karur reported seven deaths, while Perambalur reported four deaths. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 831 patients reporting positive on Monday. Tiruchi district reported a significant dip in the number of fresh cases with Monday’s count at 548. Meanwhile, a total of 69 patients who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, were discharged on Monday after recovering from the viral infection. Nagapattinam reported 492 fresh cases, while similar declining trends were also reported in Tiruvarur, with 387 fresh cases. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam had 11 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had eight. Karur district reported a slight dip in cases with 281 patients reporting COVID-19 positive. The district had nine ICU beds on Monday. Pudukottai reported 223 fresh cases, Ariyalur 193 and Perambalur 118. Bed vacancy in these districts too was minimal. Pudukottai had seven, Perambalur 20, and Ariyalur three.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3073-new-cases-and-64-deaths/article34757764.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plumbers, electricians, autorickshaw drivers demand exemption from e-registration||A section of plumbers and electricians have complained of difficulties in e-registration and urged the government to grant them exemption. Tiruchi District Electricians, Plumbers and Rewinders Society has contended that many of the plumbers and electricians are semi-literate or illiterate and unfamiliar with handling computerised procedure. According to Society secretary V. Murugesan, only a few could get the registration done and appealed to the government to do away with the norm. “Only some of us were able to make the e-registration on Sunday though the system was slow. Many tried and failed on Monday morning,” he said. Many are daily wage earners and, hence, they have been deprived of income during the lockdown. So, district authorities must allow those holding identity cards and uniforms issued by the society to ply their trade without any restrictions, he added ‘Sanction relief’ Tiruchi City Autorickshaw Drivers Association, affiliated to CITU, on Monday staged a demonstration in the city demanding Rs. 7,500 as relief to auto drivers rendered jobless and exemption from e-registration. It also demanded supply of essential commodities to all auto rickshaw drivers rendered jobless through regional transport offices. It also urged the government to do away with e-registration for autorickshaws which had been permitted to transport two passengers under the aystem. “The system is fraught with several practical difficulties. The government should do away with e-registration for autorickshaws though we do not mind the restriction to carry only two passengers,” said S. Rengarajan, district secretary, CITU. The association also demanded that drivers be given a six-month repayment holiday on dues to banks and micro-finance firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plumbers-electricians-autorickshaw-drivers-demand-exemption-from-e-registration/article34757773.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online classes by temple||Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam has launched online classes for children on culture, religion and history of the region. The weekly classes will be conducted every Saturday f from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. The first session began last Saturday with about 30 children and adults. Temple authorities have roped in the coordinator of Alwar Acharyaargal Vaishnava Research Centre at Srirangam temple and a temple staff to conduct the weekly class on different topics. The idea is to enlighten the younger generation about the rich culture, religion and other aspects connected with them. The sessions will be conducted by way of storytelling for easier understanding, says Temple Joint Commissioner/Executive Officer S. Marimuthu. Sessions covering the history of Alwars and Srirangam and bhakti -related stories will also form part of the online classes and there is scope for expanding the topics depending on feedback. The online classes have been arranged during the lockdown to enable children to learn about the greatness of Tamil culture and there is no age restriction to attend them. The classes will be taken by resource persons from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments office functioning inside the temple. The online link for the classes will henceforth be shared a day before they are scheduled to take place, Mr. Marimuthu further says. He adds that ancient manuscripts in the possession of the temple are in the process of being digitised. Old manuscripts in Tamil and Telugu containing divine topics such as Sundara Kaandam , Bhaagawatham , Sri Bhaagawatham , Periyalwar Thirumozhi Vyagyaanam and Thulakaveri Puranam have been preserved at the temple museum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-classes-by-temple/article34757765.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Police begin releasing seized vehicles||The city police on Monday began releasing in batches vehicles that were seized for lockdown violations here. About 240 confiscated vehicles stationed at City Police Armed Reserve Ground were handed over to their owners or those authorised by them after verifying documents of the vehicles and persons concerned. Barring one, the released vehicles were two-wheelers seized from May 15-18. The city police seized over 6,800 vehicles of different types since May 15 for lockdown violations. Police sources said the remaining confiscated vehicles would be released in batches daily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-begin-releasing-seized-vehicles/article34757767.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another Oxygen Express arrives in Tiruchi||Another Oxygen Express carrying about 85.9 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen arrived at Tiruchi railway junction on Monday The train came from Rourkela in Odisha.  After the train, which had had four containers of liquid medical oxygen, arrived here, oxygen was loaded in tankers and sent by road to government hospitals in Tiruchi, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Dindigul, Karur, Namakkal and Pudukottai, according to railway sources here. A couple of days ago, an Oxygen Expres carrying about 80 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen arrived in Tiruchi from Bhilai to meet the requirements of various government hospitals in Tiruchi and neighourbing districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-oxygen-express-arrives-in-tiruchi/article34757768.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination camps for Gandhi Market vendors||The district administration on Monday announced a special vaccination drive for Gandhi Market traders and workers. Special camps would be arranged solely to administer COVID-19 vaccine to those attached to the market, a release from Collector S. Sivarasu said. All vendors and workers attached to Gandhi Market were requested to get vaccination when the camps were arranged. Otherwise, they would not be permitted to entire the premises once it reopened. The vaccination camp was being set up as total lockdown measures were being eased in the district and vendors would begin trading again, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-camps-for-gandhi-market-vendors/article34757755.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown relaxations put an end to a fortnight of quiet||As the COVID-19-induced lockdown relaxations came into force on Monday, all arterial roads in Tirunelveli were full of vehicles and people again. As the Tamil Nadu government has allowed some relaxations after fortnight-long intensified lockdown, all standalone grocery, vegetable, meat, fish, vehicle spare parts, hardware and electrical shops, two-wheeler mechanic shops and garages attracted crowds since morning. Huge crowds without physical distancing could be seen in front of all grocery shops in Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai. When mobile phone shops, footwear showrooms, photocopying shops, fancy stores, etc., started transacting business using the relaxations, the police and corporation officials asked the owners to close down their shops as they had not been allowed to open. However, all these shops in interior roads functioned as usual. Barring buses, all other vehicles were plying as usual as permission had been given for operation of autorickshaws and taxis with e-registration. Similarly, ‘own use’ vehicles were also seen in large numbers on all the roads. Even though they were stopped at checkpoints by the police, most of them they managed to continue their journey. Similar situation prevailed in neighbouring Thoothukudi district also where hundreds of vehicles could be seen on Beach Road, VE Road and Great Cotton Road.  Madurai It was no different in Madurai also as all standalone grocery stores, platform stores selling vegetables, fruits and flowers, which reopened on Monday, saw a good crowd of customers throughout the day. Many autorickshaws were plying after a gap of several days. Although the government had mentioned that autorickshaws can operate only after e-registration, the autorickshaws were not monitored to check if they had completed e-registration. Nandha Singh, district general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress, said that with the closure of Internet browsing centres, the autorickshaw drivers could not apply for e-registration. “The government e-registration website was also mostly dysfunctional,” he added. However, there was poor patronage for autorickshaws due to limited public movement. “The restriction of allowing only two passengers to travel in an autorickshaw has also affected the patronage,” Mr. Nanda Singh added.The district administration had directed that wholesale traders of fish markets and slaughterhouses can only function between 12 midnight and 5 a.m. M. Selva Kumar, a plumber from S. S. Colony, said that the ease of restrictions permitting electricians and plumbers to work was welcomed. However, there were difficulties in obtaining e-registration, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-relaxations-put-an-end-to-a-fortnight-of-quiet/article34757726.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth gives out of his penury||A physically challenged postgraduate youth, who has been given family pension following the demise of his father, a driver with Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, and then his mother, has donated the first month pension to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. After the demise of his parents, S. Raja from Kottur Road in Palayamkottai had submitted a petition to Collector V. Vishnu on February 8 seeking continued disbursal of family pension to him as he was unable to find a job due to his disability. Mr. Raja’s father Sudalaimuthu died in 2007 and his mother Esakkiammal on January 1 this year. As a differently abled person with 90% disability, he was left alone without any income. “I submitted a petition to the Collector to recommend to the government to give the family pension to me to lead an independent life without being a burden for others. The Collector helped me get the family pension. So I’m donating the first month pension to the government which is fighting against COVID-19, I handed over the cheque to the Collector today,” said Mr. Raja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-gives-out-of-his-penury/article34757723.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Nainar Nagenthran donates materials to TVMCH||MLA of Tirunelveli Assembly constituency Nainar Nagenthran handed over Rs. 5 lakh worth medical equipment, masks, gloves and other anti-COVID-19 materials to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Monday. Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, M. Ravichandran, received the materials from Mr. Nainar Nagenthran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nainar-nagenthran-donates-materials-to-tvmch/article34757383.ece
08 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five nabbed for assaulting constable||The Avinashi police arrested five men, including a father-son duo, on charges of assaulting a police constable, who attempted to arrest them for illegal liquor sale amid the COVID-19 lockdown. The police said that Thiruvengadam (32), who was attached to the District Armed Reserve police, was sent by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) officers to bust the illegal sale of liquor reported near Thekkalur. As he attempted to nab them, the five men - Nataraj (53), his son Sudhan (20) and his acquaintances Muthusamy (34), Sattampillai (32) and Logeshwaran (18) – attacked the constable with wooden logs and escaped. Based on the information from the injured constable, the PEW officers nabbed Nataraj, Sudhan, Muthusamy and Sattampillai on Sunday and handed them to the Avinashi police. The police said that a case was registered against the accused under six Sections of the Indian Penal Code including Sections 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 307 (Attempt to murder) along with Sections from Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and remanded them in judicial custody. Logeshwaran, who was absconding on Sunday, was arrested and remanded on Monday, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-nabbed-for-assaulting-constable/article34757304.ece
08 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Collector reports fake FB account||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday said that he reported to the Tiruppur District Police regarding a counterfeit social media account that was set up by miscreants in his name on Facebook, which allegedly demanded money from a Tiruppur resident. According to the screenshots of the online conversation posted by S.P. Sundara Pandian on the social media, the miscreants demanded the transfer of Rs. 15,000 cash through the account. Replying to this post, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan wrote in his official Facebook account that he has informed the police to identify the miscreants and that he had reported the counterfeit account. “Please do not get misguided by such miscreants,” the Collector requested in his post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-reports-fake-fb-account/article34757302.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Machine transplantation of paddy seedlings picks up in Tiruvarur district||More than 200 machines have been deployed in Tiruvarur district to carry out transplantation of paddy seedlings, according to Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister M.R.K. Panneerselvam. Disclosing this to reporters after inspecting a community nursery raised in 0.75 acres at Aadhanur Mandapam near Needamanglam on Monday, the Minister said the total kuruvai coverage area in the district was expected to surpass the targetted acreage of 82,000 this season. Till now kuruvai paddy crop had been raised in 21,608 acres and another 75,306 acres had to be added. Stating that seedlings had been raised in 27,27 acres, Mr. Panneerselvam said a total of 218 machines had been deployed to complete the transplantation exercise on time. Later, the Minister chaired a meeting with officials of Agriculture Department and agriculture-related departments at the Collectorate, where he was informed that 40% of the total 174 desilting works taken up in the district had been completed and other works would get completed before water for irrigation would be released on June 12 from Mettur dam. It was pointed out that 3,155 tonnes of paddy seeds had been made available to farmers so far, while 899 tonnes of seeds were available for sale at agriculture depots and 900 tonnes were with traders. On availability of fertilizers, 787 tonnes had been procured by farmers and 11,980 tonnes were available for sale with primary agriculture cooperative credit societies and traders in the district, officials said. Earlier, the Minister chaired a meeting of officials at Thanjavur Collectorate where he was briefed that paddy cultivation had been completed in 1,42,766 acres out of the targeted 3,50,000 acres during the current kuruvai season. Arrangements had been put in place to fulfil the requirements of farmers with respect to agriculture inputs for taking up cultivation, according to an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/machine-transplantation-of-paddy-seedlings-picks-up-in-tiruvarur-district/article34757754.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Planting drive takes off||‘Plant a sapling, receive a gift’ campaign of Green Needa of Needamangalam has elicited favourable response from children and environment activists in Tiruvaur. Green Needa, an NGO engaged in promotion of greenery, distributes saplings to students in Needamangalam and nearby areas during school reopening days coinciding with World Environment Day. This year, a call through social media was given to children and environment activists to plant a sapling in or near their house on June 5 and forward a picture to the organisation to receive a gift for their participation in improving green cover. More than a dozen persons, including children assisted by their parents, responded to the call and forwarded the pictures to the NGO on World Environment Day, said chief coordinator M. Rajavelu. In addition, the organisation embarked upon a massive sapling plantation drive in the district on June 5 with Thiruthuraipoondi MLA, K.Marimuthu launching the programme at Nel Jayaraman Traditional Paddy Protection Centre at Aadhirengam near Thiruthuraipoondi. It had been proposed to plant and raise one lakh saplings by developing small dense native forests in villages, on the premises of educational institutions and at nandavanams of temples in the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/planting-drive-takes-off/article34757759.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Increase testing: MLA||Former Minister and Nannilam MLA R. Kamaraj on Monday urged the government to increase the number of tests conducted to ascertain the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Talking to reporters at Thiruveezhimalai Primary Health Centre, he claimed that a large number of positive cases were reported in delta districts during the current second wave. Urging the government to handle the situation deftly as done by the previous regime, he said increasing the number of tests was the need of the hour and infected patients should be treated at hospitals in order to prevent the spread of the infection. Demanding that home quarantine be dispensed with, Mr. Kamaraj also exhorted the State government to get adequate number of vaccines released to Tamil Nadu by the Union Government in the interest of the public. Earlier, he inspected a 30-bed ward set up at the PHC. To a query from reporters on allegation of corruption levelled against him by Arappor Iyakkam on finalising tender for procurement of cereals, he said such charges levelled earlier had already been absolved in courts of law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/increase-testing-mla/article34757760.ece
08 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Maneka Gandhi calls for elephant Rivaldo’s release||Prominent animal rights activists and former Union Minister Maneka Gandhi has called for the release of elephant Rivaldo in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). The elephant has been put inside a kraal (elephant shelter used to contain the animal and to impart training) since May 5. Now, a month after it was moved to the kraal, a mahout and two assistants have begun training the animal by teaching it commands. Ms. Gandhi told The Hindu on Monday that the elephant “has not attacked humans and is in no way a menace.” The BJP MP said the elephant had become habituated to humans because of a wound on his snout, which has since healed. “It is the fault of humans for feeding him, so now he sees himself as semi-human,” she said. The animal rights activist, whose recent intervention ensured the release of captured elephant Kusha in Karnataka, called upon Tamil Nadu to do the same with Rivaldo. “Now the answer to this is to do a soft-release in Theppakadu without any chains, and feed him at a specific time and place,” she said and added that the elephant should be left to gradually learn to forage for itself, and weaned off the feed. “If this works, he should be released into the forest,” she said. T. Murugavel, who filed a case in the Madras High Court seeking Rivaldo be left to roam free in Mudumalai, said that court had only asked the department to treat the animal for its injuries. “There is no need to restrain the elephant inside a kraal for over a month,” he said, calling on forest officials to release the animal. “From what has been observed about the elephant, it only seeks food from people during times of scarcity. It has been surviving for so long without any need for medical intervention,” he added. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said the Forest Department intended to treat the animal for its injuries. “There are people spreading rumours that we are beating the animal inside the kraal. This is not true. We are only administering medical treatment,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/manekas-call-to-release-rivaldo/article34757597.ece
08 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Maneka Gandhi calls for Rivaldo’s release||Prominent animal rights activists and BJP MP, Maneka Gandhi, has called for the release of an elephant in Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR), known to locals as ‘Rivaldo’. The elephant was put inside a ‘kraal’ (elephant shelter used to contain the animal and to impart training), on May 5. Training Now a month after it was moved to the kraal, a mahout and two assistants have begun training the animal and to teach it commands. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, Ms. Gandhi stated that the elephant “has not attacked humans and is in no way a menace.” Ms. Gandhi said that the elephant had become habituated to humans due to a wound on his snout, which has since healed. “It is the fault of humans for feeding him, so now he sees himself as semi-human,” she said. The animal rights activist, whose recent intervention ensured the release of a captured elephant ‘Kusha’ in Karnataka, called on the Tamil Nadu government to follow the same with ‘Rivaldo.’ “Now the answer to this is to do a soft-release in Theppakadu without any chains, and feed him at a specific time and place,” she said, adding that the elephant should be left to gradually learn to forage for itself, and weaned off the feed. “If this works, he should be released into the forest,” she said. Court order T. Murugavel, who filed a case in the High Court seeking Rivaldo be left to roam free in Mudumalai, said that orders have been passed by the court that only allows the Forest Department to treat the animal for its injuries. “There is no need to restrain the elephant inside a kraal for over a month,” he said, calling on forest officials to release the animal. “From what has been observed about the elephant, it only seeks food from people during times of scarcity. It has been surviving for so long without any need for medical intervention,” he added. Medical treatment When contacted, K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said that the Forest Department intends to treat the animal for its injuries. “There are people spreading rumours that we are beating the animal inside the kraal. This is not true. We are only administering medical treatment,” he said. When asked about the training which has begun for the animal, Mr. Kaushal said that the commands are only to foster easier treatment for Rivaldo. “A team of veterinarians will arrive in the coming weeks to check on how best to treat him,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/maneka-gandhi-calls-for-rivaldos-release/article34757295.ece
08 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||New SPs take charge in two districts||M. Manohar has assumed office as Superintendent of Police of Virudhunagar district on Monday. He was hitherto Assistant Inspector General of Police in the office of Director General of Police, Chennai. He succeeds P. Perumal who has been transferred as SP (Enforcement), Chennai. Mr. Manohar joined Tamil Nadu Police Department as Deputy Superintendent of Police in 1998 and has served in different places, including Srivaikuntam, Melur and Bodinayakkanur in the southern districts. He has served as Additional Superintendent of Police, Dindigul, and Additional DCP, Madurai city. After promotion as Superintendent of Police in 2007, he was posted as Deputy Commissioner of Police in Chennai city and Superintendent of Police, Madurai rural district.He had also served in Special Task Force and Coastal Security Group. “My immediate focus is on policing duty for containment of pandemic,” Mr. Manohar said.  Sivaganga T. Senthil Kumar took charge as the new Superintendent of Police of Sivaganga district the same day.Prior to the new posting, he was SP, Railways, Tiruchi. The public can reach him on WhatsApp number 86086-00100 and also on 94981 10044.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sps-take-charge-in-two-districts/article34757730.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Newly appointed police officials take charge in districts||G. Shashank Sai, a 2012-batch IPS officer, took charge as the new Superintendent of Police for Tiruppur district on Monday. He previously served as the SP of Karur district and was posted to Tiruppur district as part of the shuffle of IPS officers made by the State government on Saturday. Speaking to The Hindu after taking charge, Mr. Sai said the immediate focus of the Tiruppur District Police would be to control the spread of COVID-19 in the district and to ensure “people-friendly policing and community policing.” In Erode district, V. Sasi Mohan assumed office as Superintendent of Police. Addressing the media, he said the public could take up their complaints with him at the whatsapp number 94880-10684 and that action would be taken at the earliest. DIG In Salem, C. Mageshwari took charge as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Salem Range, on Monday. She formerly served as DIG, Headquarters, Chennai. M. Sree Abhinav assumed office as the Superintendent of Police for Salem district. Mr. Abhinav formerly served as Superintendent of Police for Cuddalore district. In Namakkal district, Saroj Kumar Thakur assumed office as Superintendent of Police. He earlier served as SP, Cyber Crime Division III, Chennai. In Krishnagiri, E.Sai Charan Tejaswi took charge as the Superintendent of Police on Monday. Mr.Tejaswi, a 2014-batch IPS officer, was earlier the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Pulianthope, Greater Chennai. C. Kalaiselvan took charge as the Superintendent of Police of Dharmapuri. Mr. Kalaiselvan, belonging to the 2012 batch of IPS, had earlier held the post of Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Chennai and the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/newly-appointed-police-officials-take-charge-in-districts/article34757301.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More people step out as restrictions are relaxed||With the State Government easing a few restrictions while extending the lockdown till June 14, wholesale and retail grocery stores, meat stalls and street vendors returned to business in the districts in western region on Monday. Consequently, there were more vehicles on the roads. Government establishments across the region functioned with 30 % staff. The Government had on June 5 said that in view of high COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore and 10 other districts, it permitted reopening of select shops. In Coimbatore city, grocery shops opened by 8 a.m.. Wholesale and retail shops on R.G. Street, Raja Street and their neighbourhood remained open. A traders’ representative said the day saw only moderate crowd with most of the customers being grocery store owners who wanted to refill stock. Only very few retail customers turned up.  An Agriculture Marketing Department officer said that in the coming days, the number of vehicles deployed for door-to-door delivery of vegetables and fruits would be reduced as the shops had reopened. In Coimbatore, several industries reopened on Monday. While those units that have export orders were able to ask the workers to visit factories on a rotation basis, many units that did not have export orders also started functioning. Approximately, 20 % of the units must have operated on the day. Coimbatore City Police formed 15 additional flying squads for lockdown monitoring on Monday. Coimbatore District (Rural) Police also intensified patrols and vehicle checks to control unnecessary movement of people and vehicles. In Tiruppur, many of the knitwear units started operations with minimum workforce. “We have given a positive message to the buyers that we are reviving by reopening the factories. The Prime Minister’s message on vaccination is another assurance to the buyers,” said Raja M Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association. Stopping industrial activity is not the right action as reopening becomes too difficult for the industries. Workers want jobs and queue up to the units, he said. Meanwhile, officials from the Revenue Department, Tiruppur Corporation and City Police imposed a total fine of Rs. 16,000 on three knitwear units in the city on Monday for flouting personal distancing norms. A private finance company in Pitchampalayam that was functioning illegally was also sealed. Major towns in the Nilgiris witnessed heavy crowds. Around 50 % of all shops selling essential commodities opened in the morning. The Ooty Municipal Market remained closed, while shops along Commercial Road were opened. Police set up checkposts in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri and Gudalur to check the flow of traffic. In Erode, shops selling groceries, vegetables, fruits and meat reopened across the district. However, the retail fish market in the Corporation limits, the Nethaji Vegetable Daily and Fruit Market and Uzhavar Sandhai remained closed. In Salem, vegetable markets at Paal Market, Anandha bridge functioned and public crowded these places with scant regard for COVID-19 safety protocols. Salem City Police Commissioner Najmal Hoda said regulations were strictly enforced and cases were booked for violations. Visitors to Yercaud were asked for e-pass as tourism activities are restricted in the hill station. In Krishnagiri, the public stepped out to stock up provisions for the month. The department stores that remained shut for over a month even before the lockdown, opened to customers with COVID-19 protocols in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-people-step-out-as-restrictions-are-relaxed/article34757637.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Case booked for holding wedding with huge crowd||Alangulam police have registered a case against the father of the groom and a few others on Sunday for organising a wedding in violation of COVID-19 norms. The groom was even taken on a procession while he was sitting atop an elephant. Police said over a thousand guests attended the wedding and partook the feast at Kasiyapuram. Following information from the locals, the Alangulam police registered case against the groom’s father Arumuga Pandian, a moneylender, and a few others. A fine of Rs. 5,000 was also imposed for the violation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-for-holding-wedding-with-huge-crowd/article34757724.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New cases drop to 2,564 in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Monday registered a further decline in the number of new cases of COVID-19. The district reported 2,564 new cases of the disease while 4,815 persons recovered. The Health Department said that the district had 29,268 active cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The district’s death toll increased to 1,532 after 26 more persons died of the disease. Tiruppur district reported 1,027 new cases, taking the overall tally to 69,211. The Health Department reported 11 more deaths due to COVID-19 that took the toll to 567. As many as 18,849 patients were active cases and 1,030 patients were discharged on Monday from various treatment centres in the district. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday chaired a meeting with representatives of private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Tiruppur district, where he warned that the district administration will initiate strict action against those hospitals that collect treatment fees more than the charges that has been fixed by the State government. Erode district reported 1,646 new cases, taking the tally to 67,905. While 2,392 persons were discharged, 14,712 continue to be under treatment. Nineteen persons died, raising the death toll to 454. The daily caseload dropped below the 1,000-mark in Salem as 997 positive cases were reported on Monday. According to officials, 936 cases were indigenous and 285 cases were reported in corporation limits. Sixty-one patients have returned from other districts like Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Tiruppur, Erode, Kalakurichi and Coimbatore. As per bulletin, 12 deaths were reported in Salem, including the death of a 65-year-old woman patient. In Namakkal, 597 positive cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. A total of 13 deaths were reported, including four women patients. In the Nilgiris, 503 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 22,872. The number of deaths in the district increased from 116 to 119 on Sunday while 4,298 persons are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 323 new cases with four deaths registered. A total of 310 patients were discharged. The total number of cases in the district stood at 3,314 cases as of Monday. A total of 35,462 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 298 fresh cases, with 354 cases discharged and three deaths. The total number of cases in the district was 2847. As of date, a total of 20,921 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-drop-to-2564-in-coimbatore/article34757624.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre gave 1.01 crore vaccine doses to T.N.’||After taking note of his submissions, the judges hoped that the efforts to expeditiously augment the supply of vaccines would be kept up so that the entire population could be vaccinated as early as possible. The court also expressed the hope that the State government would continue its efforts, by constituting district-level committees led by Medical Department officials, to ensure that private hospitals do not indulge in profiteering at the expense of the distressed citizens suffering from COVID-19. Appreciation for govt. The court observed that the second wave appeared to be under control, and that both the Tamil Nadu government and the Puducherry administration had taken appropriate measures to deal with the problem. The court said the situation was now under control, “though there may have been a state of unpreparedness at the initial stage”, and adjourned by two weeks further hearing of a suo motu case taken up by it to monitor the fight against COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-gave-101-crore-vaccine-doses-to-tn/article34757612.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the ‘In Brief’ report ‘Food packets distributed’ that appeared on Page 3 of Coimbatore edition on June 7, the contact number must be read as 98943 99577. E-routes Tours and Travels in association with NGO Dr. Kalam Welfare Association also announced that they would prepare meals for COVID-19 patients and attendants in small clinics and hospitals in Gandhipuram, Avarampalayam and Pappanaickenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article34757288.ece
08 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Man arrested in ‘gold missing’ case||Criminal Investigation Department (CID) officers have arrested one person in connection with a case of gold missing from police custody. Kiran Veerangoudar was arrested by the CID and brought to Sankeshwar, where a conspiracy in the theft was hatched. He is among the many suspected to be involved in the case wherein 4.9 kilograms of gold went missing from a car parked in the Yamakanamaradi Police Station. CID is looking into allegations that some police officers may be involved in the conspiracy. The accused has been booked under various sections of the IPC, including 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation), 471(using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 176 (omission to give notice or information to public servant by person legally bound to give it) read with Cr.PC 565 (punishment for failure to divulge information). He was produced before a magistrate in Sankeshwar on Monday. CID sources said that a team led by Superintendent of Police Raghavendra Hegde and Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Ramachandra interrogated the accused. The sleuths were trailing him for some weeks. They were keeping record of the movement and transactions of the Hubballi-based businessman. They found that he was staying in the house of a close relative in Hangal in Haveri district. “Our team visited Hangal town and he was caught by surprise. He was brought to Sankeshwar where the First Information Report was registered,’’ a senior officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-in-gold-missing-case/article34757273.ece
08 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘CM statement means he is a disciplined party member’||“Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is upset and deeply hurt by some leaders talking about his leadership. That is why he made such remarks in public,’’ Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said in Belagavi on Monday. The Minister, however, clarified that the Chief Minister had only reiterated that he was a disciplined member of the party and was ever willing to obey instructions from senior leaders. “His remarks about willing to quit if asked to, do not have any latent meaning. They do not mean that the BJP is trying to remove him or replace him. There are no such developments in the party. Just because some leaders go to New Delhi to meet some BJP leaders, it does not mean there are plans for change of leadership in the State,” Mr. Patil said. Mr. Yediyurappa will not only complete his term, but will also lead the party in the next elections, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-statement-means-he-is-a-disciplined-party-member/article34757275.ece
08 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Daily cases fall to less than 500 in Belagavi||For the second day on Monday, the total number of new COVID-19 cases fell below 500 in Belagavi district. There were only 355 new cases on Monday. The number of discharged cases were on the rise, with 1,219. As many as 15 persons died of COVID-19-related causes. On Sunday, there were 418 cases and 1,421 discharged patients. The case positivity rate fell to 12%-13% in the first week of June. The total number of active cases that had breached 23,000 has fallen to less than 10,000. There were only 9,605 active cases on Monday. The epidemic has claimed 651 lives till now in the district. However, due to limited capacity of tests per day, results are pending. On Monday, 1,062 results were pending. On Sunday, 2083 were pending. The average daily target of tests is 6,000. But officials say that the two permitted laboratories are capable of processing only around 3,100 tests per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/daily-cases-fall-to-less-than-500-in-belagavi/article34757274.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP sets vaccination target||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has set a target of administering 30 lakh doses over one month. In close to five months since the COVID-19 vaccinations began, 34.68 lakh doses have been administered to citizens in the city so far. Speaking to reporters on Monday, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the target is to cover at least 75% of 26 lakh citizens aged above 45 years and 50% of 64 lakh citizens aged between 18-44 years. To achieve this, the civic body would require 27 lakh doses. “We have been vaccinating around 1 lakh citizens every day. Over the past week, government healthcare institutions have vaccinated 1.67 lakh persons, while private facilities have vaccinated 4.15 lakh citizens,” he said, adding that efforts are being made to identify the uncovered population. A door-to-door survey is already under way to identify citizens in the 45+ age group who are yet to be vaccinated. The COVID-19 helpline is contacting beneficiaries for the second dose while donor organisations are covering citizens belonging to economically weaker sections of society. Testing of primary contacts and symptomatic persons is higher in the city when compared to other cities – 66,000- 68,000 tests per day – though the number of tests by private laboratories has come down to 10,000 a day from around 25,000, he said. “Earlier, people would get tested for want of negative report for work or travel reasons. We were also conducting random testing in railway and bus stations. However, with lockdown and subsequent reduction in cases, we don’t think it is necessary now,” he explained.  In preparation of the third wave, the government is working on increasing the number of ICUs. To overcome the shortage of oxygen, which was a major issue during the second wave, a big push is being given to establishing more plants. Many big hospitals in the city are establishing their own oxygen plants, he added.  Over the past week, government healthcare institutions have vaccinated 1.67 lakh persons, while private facilities have vaccinated 4.15 lakh citizens Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, BBMP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-sets-vaccination-target/article34757230.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Union government issues sanction order for 58-km ORR-airport metro line||The Central government, on Monday, issued a sanctioned order for the ORR-airport metro under Phase 2 A and B of the Namma Metro project. According to the order issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the 58-km line from Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport via K.R. Puram, Hebbal and Nagawara would cost Rs. 14,788.101 crore. The project will be completed in five years. The share of the Central and State governments for the project is 20% each. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) is raising Rs. 5,960 crore as loan from multilateral agencies or through domestic sources (60% share). The Karnataka government will also bear land acquisition cost and property development, that comes to Rs. 2,761 crore, while the remaining funds required for the project will be through innovative financing and other sources. The BMRCL has awarded contracts for the ORR metro from Central Silk Board to K.R. Puram (19.75km). Rakesh Singh, MD, BMRCL is hopeful of contractors starting ground work as early as possible, and once lockdown guidelines are eased measures will be taken to complete the tender process for the K.R. Puram to KIA line. A majority of properties required for the airport line have been acquired. The terms and conditions state that the Karnataka government should set up a dedicated urban transport fund by collecting taxes/levies, betterment charges, and higher FAR in the influence zone of metro railway stations. The Karnataka government has been asked to set up a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority backed by legislation. The metro stations will be integrated with various other modes of transport and suburban rail systems. About repayment of the loan, the order states that in case the BMRCL is not able to repay the loan (as and when it becomes due), the Karnataka government should bear the responsibility by providing direct financial support or credit enhancement support for refinancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/union-government-issues-sanction-order-for-58-km-orr-airport-metro-line/article34757237.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 1,500 crore upgrade for 146 taluk, 19 district hospitals||To make Karnataka ready for handling the possible third wave of COVID-19, the State government has decided to upgrade 146 taluk and 19 district hospitals in the next three months with an expenditure of Rs. 1,500 crore. All taluk hospitals would be upgraded with 25 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, 25 high dependence unit (HDU) beds, and 50 oxygenated beds, ventilators, and diagnostic facilities. Nineteen (19) district hospitals would be upgraded with 100 ICU beds, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also heading the State COVID-19 Task Force. Briefing the media on the decision taken at the Task Force meeting, Dr .Narayan said an action plan of Rs. 1,500 crore has been approved. About 4,100 doctors would be recruited to provide quality healthcare in upgraded taluk and district hospitals. Each doctor would require assistance of 2-3 nurses to provide the service. Similarly, Group ‘D’ employees would also be appointed for handling a variety of services in hospitals, he said. Out of Rs. 1,500 crore, a sum of Rs. 800 crore would be one-time investment for construction of buildings and purchase of equipment and while the rest would be spent on providing salaries of the staff. Under the CSR funding, the Boston Consulting Group would provide technical support for upgrading taluk and district hospitals. More attention would be given to technological improvement to ensure inter-face dialogues in healthcare and hospital management. District hospitals would be upgraded in such a way that they would be able to handle 97% of cases and only 3% of cases would be referred to the super speciality hospitals located in cities. There would be no compromise in the quality of upgradation of hospitals, the minister said. In another major decision, Dr. Narayan said a committee has been constituted headed by BBMP Commissioner Gaurav Gupta to identify lands for construction of secondary hospitals of 100 beds in each Assembly constituency of Bengaluru and one super speciality hospital for four Assembly constituencies. Skill development To meet the demand for skilled personnel in the delivery of various services in hospitals, COVID-19 care centres, ambulances, the Minister said a three month skill development training would be organised in six different programmes for 5,000 youths who passed 10th and 12th standards. Resource personnel in hospital management and other fields would provide training in each district. A stipend of Rs. 5,000 per candidate would be provided during the three month course, the Deputy CM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1500-crore-upgrade-for-146-taluk-19-district-hospitals/article34757247.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Coordination panel collecting details of transformer locations’||A joint coordination committee is collecting details of location of electricity transformers installed in all the eight zones of the city and will submit a report, the High Court of Karnataka was informed on Monday. A submission in this regard was made on behalf of the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Bescom) and the BBMP during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by G.B. Athri, a retired Wing Commander of the Indian Air Force, complaining about the danger posed to the public by transformers installed on footpaths and on the roadside. The court was informed that the joint coordination committee is headed by BBMP Special Commissioner (Projects) and comprises BBMP’s Chief Engineers of all the eight zones, the Chief Engineer (Road Infrastructure), Superintendent Engineer (Electricity), Bescom’s Chief Engineers of Bengaluru South, North and Central divisions, and head of the BBMP’’s Legal Cell. “”...if proper steps are not taken by both the authorities [BBMP and Bescom] for setting up the joint coordination committee and for making the functioning of the coordination committee very effective, the court will have to consider appointing an independent agency to examine whether the transformers placed on footways in Bengaluru city are posing any danger to the public health,” the court had said in its earlier order. It was following these observations made by the court that the joint coordination committee was set up by the authorities. The High Court was also informed that the next meeting of the committee is scheduled to be held on June 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/coordination-panel-collecting-details-of-transformer-locations/article34757234.ece
08 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Alumni link mango farmers with market||The University of Agricultural Sciences’ Alumni Association has again stepped in to help farmers in distress due to COVID-19 and lockdown. The association, which had lent a helping hand in marketing of grapes during last year’s lockdown, has this time chosen mango growers for direct marketing assistance. About 30 mango farmers have been identified by the Association for assistance in not just marketing, but also scientific method of harvesting, ripening and packaging. The Association had called for applications from interested farmers to utilise its assistance and has chosen about 30 farmers among them based on various parameters and logistics.  The association, which has a large number of reputed farm scientists and also earned the goodwill of residents’ welfare association during the sale of premium varieties of grapes last year, is now convincing RWAs to allow its members to buy mango directly from farmers without violating COVID-19 restrictions. The association began its direct marketing initiative of mango on May 10 on an experimental basis in Hollywood Town near the Kempe Gowda International Airport in Devanahalli. Bolstered by the good response, it took up sales in other areas like Sadashivanagar, Sahakaranagar, and Whitefield besides its own campus in Hebbal. “We have sold about 35 tonnes of Alphonso and Kesar variety of premium mangoes in the last two weeks. We have a target of reaching 100 tonnes of sales from Monday which marks the formal launch of the initiative,” said alumni association president K. Narayana Gowda. While it would act as a facilitator besides standing guarantee for quality, the farmers would sell their produce in the presence of the association office-bearers. “We will also provide orientation to farmers through short videos and literature in Kannada on scientific harvesting of fruit without damaging it and healthy methods of ripening. We will also give them packaging material with a capacity of 3 kg each worth Rs. 26 at free of cost. While we lend our brand by printing the association’s name on the pack, farmer’s name and contact details will also have to be written so that consumers can contact them again,” Dr. Gowda noted. Presently, farmers are collecting Rs. 80 to Rs. 100 a kg for Alphonso varieties.  Farmer Shirurappa Bisnalli of Gadag district, who managed to sell about one tonne of Ratnagiri Alphonso varieties of mango through the asociation, is happy over he getting market linkage. “I would have left the produce in the farm itself as there was no proper market access,” he said. Sadashivanagar Residents’ Welfare Association secretary Chaitra Mukund said: “What is very satisfying is the feeling of helping farmers during distress.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alumni-link-mango-farmers-with-market/article34757262.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Grace marks may be allotted to students of II PU||Grace marks may be allotted for second year pre university (II PU) students, who will be given marks/grades based on their SSLC and I PU marks. This is after the II PU examinations were cancelled due to the second wave of COVID-19 infections. R. Snehal, Director, Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE), told The Hindu that the department was planning to award overall grace marks to the total score. “This is because many students would have put in a lot of effort for the II PU board examinations. With the examinations cancelled, we want to make sure that their efforts are considered,” she said. The department decided to mull over this idea after parents and students highlighted that students do not tend to take the I PU examinations very seriously but work very hard for their II PU exams. B.R. Supreeth, principal of Oxford Independent PU College, said grace marks were inevitable. “The decision not to conduct the examination is a blunder. They have to allot grace marks so that injustice is not done to students,” he said. K.R. Manjunath, principal, MES PU College, BTM Layout said moderation may be a better idea than grace marks. “While grace marks means giving all students a few marks, moderation means inflating marks of students, so that the average marks remain high,” he explained. Six options On Monday, DPUE officials chalked out six different options of how II PU students can be graded for this academic year and how much weightage should be given for SSLC/class 10 marks, and how much for I PU marks. The officials had to spend a lot of time brainstorming how the marks will be calculated as SSLC students and CBSE/ ICSE students write different number of papers for their SSLC and class 10 examinations, respectively. “While SSLC students have three language papers, central board students appear for only two language papers. Students in SSLC only appear for three core subjects – science, social science and mathematics. Central board students, on the other hand, appear for many more core subjects, which includes physics, chemistry, biology, history and geography. So we will have to decide how to grade them,” a source in the department said. A source said that one of the six options that were being considered was giving equal weightage to class 10 and first PU marks by taking the average of the core subjects and the average of languages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/grace-marks-may-be-allotted-to-students-of-ii-pu/article34757238.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||28 children orphaned by COVID-19, says State govt.||As many as 28 children belonging to 21 families in the State have been orphaned as a result of COVID 19, according to data provided by the State government. Among these, 14 children were single children, while the remaining 14 have siblings. IAS officer K.P. Mohan Raj, who is the nodal officer for orphaned children in the State, said that all the 28 children were currently staying with their close relatives, including grandparents, aunts and uncles. “All these children have to be placed before the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the committee will decide where they have to be placed,” he said. The maximum number of children orphaned - four - are from Raichur district. However, many NGOs claim that the number of children who were orphaned during the pandemic is far higher than 28. Vasudev Sharma, executive director, Child Rights Trust (CRT) said, “Their relatives and family members are probably not coming forward as they are scared that the children may be put in government-run homes.” He added that there was a need for the government to recognise children who have lost even one parent due to the pandemic. The State government, last month, launched the ‘Mukhyamantri (Chief Minister) Bala Seva Yojana’ to provide financial assistance to children orphaned by COVID 19. There are also many children who have lost a single parent, and who have been surrenderedbefore the CWC. Nagarathna R., chairperson of CWC 3 in Bengaluru Urban, said recently, they had placed a 25-day old girl with a specialised adoption agency after the father came and surrendered her in front of the committee. “The mother had died due to COVID-19 and he said that he would be unable to take care of the baby. So we decided it would be best if they child is placed with an agency,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/28-children-orphaned-by-covid-19-says-state-govt/article34757248.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket busted||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials busted an international drug racket and, on Sunday, arrested two persons from Kerala who were allegedly smuggling drugs to Doha, Qatar, concealed in backpacks. Acting on specific intelligence, a team, led by NCB Bengaluru Zonal Unit, intercepted and seized 13 backpacks with 1.2 kg of hashish, which were in a consignment of 70 bags. Following the leads, the officials arrested R. Khan and his associate S. Hussain, and recovered 2.6 kg of hashish concealed in 195 small bags and travel pouches and was meant to be trafficked to Doha by courier, a release said. The accused have been booked under the NDPS Act. Preliminary investigation revealed that the syndicate is based in Kasaragod, and is involved in trafficking of hashish from India to Qatar, Amit Ghawate , Zonal Director, NCB, Bengaluru, said . Officials said this is in continuation to the seizure of substantial quantities of hashish already seized by NCB, Bengaluru in 2019 and 2020. “The present seizure is an indication that this syndicate, which was lying low for over a year due to restrictions on flight movement, has again commenced operations,” Mr. Ghawate said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/drug-racket-busted/article34757228.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four men booked for joy ride in ambulance||Police booked four employees of a private construction company who had set out on a joy ride in an ambulance on Saturday night. The ambulance belongs to the company. Based on a complaint filed by police beat constable Kiran, the ambulance was seized. A case was booked against the accused charging them under Section 188 (disobedience promulgated by government servant) and also under the Disaster Manager Act for violation of lockdown guidelines. The accused Ashok Parameshwar, 33, Ashish Kumar, 26, Nirmal Kumar, 53, and Arjun Aleka, 50, are employee of a construction company in Whitefield. They went out for a drive in the ambulance after work. ‘Misuse of exemption’ “It was not only violation of the lockdown, but the accused also misused the exemption given to ambulances for emergency situations,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-men-booked-for-joy-ride-in-ambulance/article34757231.ece
08 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mumtaz Ali Khan dead||Former Minister Mumtaz Ali Khan, 94, passed away here at his residence on Monday. He held the portfolio of Haj, Wakf and Minority Welfare in the B.S. Yediyurappa Ministry in 2008. As there was no legislator in the BJP from the minority communities, Prof. Khan was brought into the Cabinet. As he was not a member of the legislature, he was made an MLC. He had gone with Mr. Yediyurappa when the latter launched the Karnataka Janata Party. During his tenure as Wakf Minister, he is credited to have almost solved the year old problem with the ITC Windsor, which is a Wakf property. Prof. Khan was an educationalist and a publisher. Before entering politics, he taught sociology in the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru. As a teacher, he was known for his progressive thinking. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has condoled his death. In a statement here, he said that in the death of Prof. Khan, he had lost a good friend and a decent politician, who led a simple life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mumtaz-ali-khan-dead/article34757263.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Submit details of health policy, HC tells govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to submit details of its health policy, if any, as a litigant has sought a direction to the government to provide hospital facility in all gram panchayats in the State. A Division Bench issued the direction while hearing the petition filed by Gurunath Vadde, a resident of Aurad in Bidar district. Though the plea of the petitioner to have a hospital in every gram panchayat may not be a proper approach, the court observed that it is the obligation of the State to provide proper healthcare facilities even in rural areas in view of right to health guaranteed under the Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Apart from right to health, it is relevant to deliberate on the need of providing proper health facility in rural and remote areas of the State in the present context as COVID-19 has not spread to many rural areas, the Bench said,while adjourning further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/submit-details-of-health-policy-hc-tells-govt/article34757254.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dermatologists pitch in with Rs. 1 crore for COVID-19 relief||The State unit of the Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venereologists and Leprologists (IADVL) along with its sister associations has donated more than Rs. 1 crore worth COVID-19 relief material to be used in public health facilities in the State. It has supplied pulse oximeters, BP apparatus, oxygen cannulas, NIV masks and glucometers to 10 government medical colleges. It is also providing stretchers, wheelchairs and fogging machines worth Rs. 3 lakh to Victoria and Bowring hospitals. In the second phase, the association will spend Rs. 50 lakh to provide N 95 masks and pulse oximeters to all the 2,700 and odd PHCs across the State to cater to ground-level workers. “This is in addition to serving our members who are affected with COVID-19 where we are providing financial assistance,” said B.S. Chandrashekar, president, IADVL-Karnataka. He said the association along with its sister societies – Bangalore Dermatology Society, Karavali Dermatology Society, Mysore Dermatology Society and World Congress of Cosmetic Dermatology, has been actively participating in providing healthcare services to the community. Girish M.S., senior specialist and head of the Department of Dermatology at ESI Hospital, Rajajinagar, said all associations put together had earmarked Rs. 1 crore for COVID-19 relief work. The relief material was handed over symbolically at a programme organised by the association on the premises of BMCRI on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dermatologists-pitch-in-with-rs-1-crore-for-covid-19-relief/article34757249.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guards arrested for burglary||A gang of six persons from Nepal, who were working as security guards, were arrested by the Ramamurthynagar police for allegedly breaking into houses. The police recovered gold valuables worth Rs. 17 lakh from them. According to the police, the accused would recce various areas to identify locked houses. With the arrest of the gang, the police have recovered 340 grams of gold jewellery and silver articles, and solved five cases of burglary so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guards-arrested-for-burglary/article34757232.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘CCCs will be open till all get one dose’||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the head of the State COVID-19 Task Force, on Monday said all triaging centres and COVID-19 Care Centers would be kept operational till everyone received a dose of vaccination. Replying to a query, he said even if the number of COVID-19 cases declined, triaging centres and CCCs would remain functional till December. The vaccination drive is in progress and every day, six lakh people would be getting the jab in June. Dr. Narayan said that in June, the State would be receiving around 80 lakh vaccines and this would be further increased in the coming months. Around 51% of the people in the age group above 45 years have been vaccinated, he told presspersons after a meeting of the task force. On placement of orders for procurement of vaccines for Rs. 3 crore by the government, he said a decision would be taken soon since the Centre has decided to give vaccines to States for free. Other measures He said the Task Force also has taken a number of other decisions and they included keeping buffer stock of five lakh vials of Remdesivir, procurement of 25,000 vials for treating black fungus, integration of all apps with the War Room to monitor entire State’s pandemic management with seamless information flow. The government has been providing funds in the range of Rs. 2.5-3 crore for creation of 7,300 oxygenate beds in private medical college hospitals within three months and creation of 20 KL oxygen storage capacity in medical college hospitals.   Other measures The Task Force also has taken a number of other decisions and they included keeping buffer stock of five lakh vials of Remdesivir, procurement of 25,000 vials for treating black fungus, integration of all Apps with the War Room to monitor entire State’s pandemic management with seamless information flow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cccs-will-be-open-till-all-get-one-dose/article34757246.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||11,958 new cases, 340 deaths||Karnataka on Monday reported 11,958 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,07,481. Of these, 1,992 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 340 deaths, the toll rose to 31,920. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 27,299 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the total recoveries to 24,36,716. The State now has 2,38,824 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 9.08 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.84%. Testing As many as 1,31,553 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,03,075 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,07,32,003.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/11958-new-cases-340-deaths/article34757250.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Country still figuring out vaccination strategy: DKS||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Monday said the country was still figuring out the vaccination strategy and it could have saved lakhs of lives in the second wave if the BJP government had listened to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Reacting to Mr. Modi’s announcement on Central procurement of COVID-19 vaccines and free vaccination for all, Mr. Shivakumar tweeted: “India is still figuring out its vaccination strategy. Correcting its blunders. If we had got this right, if only the BJP had listened to Sri@RahulGandhiji, we could have saved lakhs of lives in the second wave. India needs to vaccinate one crore people a day to defeat the third wave”. In a press release, he alleged that “the BJP MPs & MLAs are pocketing Rs. 700 per dose of vaccine. They are looting and plundering the State while Congressmen are going beyond possibilities to facilitate people.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/country-still-figuring-out-vaccination-strategy-dks/article34757258.ece
08 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Operation to capture two wild elephants||The Forest Department will launch an operation on Tuesday to capture and radio collar two tuskers troubling people in parts of Alur and Sakleshpur taluks. The department took up this operation in the wake of recent deaths in elephant attacks in the district. Since January this year, six people have died in elephant attacks. Deputy Conservator of Forests K.N. Basavaraj, in a press release here on Monday, said that the department will involve tamed elephants and trained staff to capture two tuskers, now named Gunda and Mountain. Both will be radio collared. They have also decided to relocate Gunda to MM Hills and take Mountain to Kaveri Nisarga Dhama in Kodagu. The operation is expected to end by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/operation-to-capture-two-wild-elephants/article34757284.ece
08 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||10 COVID-19 deaths||Hassan reported 888 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 10 more deaths due to the infection on Monday. With that, the total number of cases increased to 91,801 and toll rose to 1,081. Among the dead, three are from Hassan, two from Channarayapatna, one each from Arkalgud, Arsikere, Belur, Holenarasipur and Sakleshpur taluks. So far, 62,632 have recovered from the infection and 10,909 are in treatment. Of these, 153 are in intensive care units. Of the fresh cases, 238 are from Arkalgud taluk, 155 from Belur, 150 from Hassan, 93 from Sakleshpur, 84 from Holenarasipur, 69 from Arsikere, 66 from Channarayapatna, 31 from Alur and two from outside the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/10-covid-19-deaths/article34757285.ece
08 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Online relay reading of Girish Karnad’s autobiography||To pay tributes to playwright and Jnanpith awardee Girish Karnad on his death anniversary on June 10, a Dharwad-based theatre group will attempt an unique initiative. ‘Abhinaya Bharati’ will hold an online reading of the autobiography of Karnad in Kannada Aadaadta Ayushya (Life moves on while playing).  The session scheduled to begin from 6 a.m. on June 10 will have participants joining in from the U.S., United Kingdom, and Germany apart from leading personalities from across Karnataka. Preparatory reading sessions have already been held and the participants will read 327 pages of the life of the multifaceted personality. The memoir is divided into 11 chapters named after places where Karnad spent his life. The relay reading session on Abhinaya Bharati’s Facebook page will begin at 6 a.m. It is likely to conclude around 1 a.m. on June 11. “We have given each participant 20 minutes to read an average of six pages. The starting line and ending line of their reading has been sent to them and as one finishes the next one will continue,” Arvind Kulkarni, president of Abhinaya Bharati told The Hindu.  Having conducted various theatre-related programmes on virtual platforms during the lockdown, the theatre group began the preparations last month. “After initial reluctance and doubts over its feasibility, many chipped in and now we have 55 readers who will read the autobiography one after the other,” he said. Along with Mr. Kulkarni, Vinayak Naik and Prajna Mattihalli will coordinate the live session. While technical support is being provided by Jyothi Dixit, Sumit Maitri, Vallish Shastri (U.S.), Jai Hanmanthgad (U.K.), Revati Shripati Manjanbail, and Basavaraj Donur will coordinate for Karnataka. Kannada film director and theatre personalities T.S. Nagabharana, Sripati Manjanbail, Suma Narasimhan will be among the participants. Vallish Shastri, Pawan Janakiram, Ravi Harapanahalli, Ballal, Kavya Kadame and others from U.S., Jai Hanumanthgad, Gauri Prasanna from U.K. and Dattatreya Hegde from Germany are among the readers .  The group is well aware of the technical issues that may crop up during the virtual programme. “We are prepared for it. If at all there is any hiccup, one of the coordinators will chip in and continue the reading,” Mr. Kulkarni, who is keen on giving a befitting tribute to Karnad, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-relay-reading-of-girish-karnads-autobiography/article34757260.ece
08 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Joshi says there was no signature campaign against Yediyurappa||Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has categorically denied reports on a signature campaign in the BJP to unseat Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and said that there was no talk at the national level about a change in leadership in the State. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Monday, Mr. Joshi said that as the media has been raising questions about attempts to unseat him, Mr. Yediyurappa has only answered that he is ready to quit if the party high command wanted him to. He said that he has been in regular touch with the Prime Minister and other senior leaders of the party on the issue of COVID-19 management and never was there any mention of changing the leadership in the State. “It is just a rumour,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that Mr. Yediyurappa is launching various development works and has given good governance in the State. Now, the priority is on checking the pandemic and saving the lives of people and Mr. Yediyurappa will continue as Chief Minister, he said. Meanwhile, Dharwad MLA Arvind Bellad declined to comment on the issue. He, however, said that it is just a rumour that a signature campaign was launched to change the Chief Minister. For funds release “A signature campaign has been launched by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa seeking release of funds for his department and not to change the Chief Minister,” he said. On the demand for lockdown relaxations, he said that it has become necessary now as the average positivity rate in the State has come down to 9%. However, lockdown could be continued in districts with a higher rate of positivity rate, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/joshi-says-there-was-no-signature-campaign-against-yediyurappa/article34757278.ece
08 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Death audit in Haveri within a week: Bommai||In the wake of high death rate among COVID-19 patients in Haveri district, a team of doctors and experts will be visiting within this week to conduct a death audit, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has said. Speaking to presspersons in Haveri on Monday, Mr. Bommai said that he has already written to the Health Minister on the need for sending the team and has also spoken to him personally on the issue. The Minister said that the positivity rate in Haveri is less than 5% even after a high number of RT-PCR tests being conducted. “However, the death rate is high in Haveri district. That is why it is important that a death audit is conducted so that it will help in taking precautionary measures in the coming days,” he said. Based on the death audit report, the requisite steps will be taken by the district administration, he said. Regarding relaxation of lockdown restrictions, the Minister said that a decision will be taken by the Chief Minister in consultation with senior Ministers and officials after assessing the situation in the districts. Already, various suggestions, including allowing industries to resume work, have been received.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/death-audit-in-haveri-within-a-week-bommai/article34757286.ece
08 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Vigilance squad sent to act on seeds being sold at high prices||Taking note of complaints about chilli seeds being sold to farmers at exorbitant prices in the black market, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa directed the Ballari district administration to conduct random raids on those agro traders indulging in malpractice and take stringent action against culprits. “Ours is pro-farmer government and exploitation of farmers cannot be tolerated. The Agriculture and Horticulture departments should swiftly act upon the complaints and revert back to me immediately. Those who are found guilty of selling seeds to farmers at inflated rates should be booked under relevant laws. The members of the vigilance squad need not be present in this meeting and you should right now conduct raids,” he told the officers concerned and sent the vigilance squad members to take up the task. Mr. Eshwarappa was chairing a meeting convened for reviewing the progress of work under his department in Ballari on Monday. Briefing about jobs offered to rural workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, Mr. Eshwarappa said that even those who returned from the cities to their native places during the COVID-19 situation are also being offered work under the scheme. “We are offering work to the rural population even during the lockdown to ensure that none was left wanting for income. The job scheme implementers have been clearly directed to ensure that the workers will maintain social distancing while carrying out work. Our target for last year was to have 13 crore mandays in the State and we achieved over 15 crore mandays,” Mr. Eshwarappa said. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer K.R. Nandini told the meeting that Ballari had already created 40.08 lakh mandays against the target of one crore mandays set for 2021-22 to occupy the top position in the State. “About 70,000 people have been given jobs under the scheme so for this year. As many as 7,369 works taken up under the job scheme have been completed and 13,781 are in progress. A sum of Rs. 106.71 crore as been spent to create 39.26 lakh mandays for these works,” she said. Parliamentarians Y. Devendrappa, Sanganna Karadi and Syed Nasir Hussein, legislators G. Karunakar Reddy, E. Tukaram, B. Nagendra, K.C. Kondaiah, M.S. Somalingappa, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Commissioner and Special Officer of the newly-formed Vijayanagar district Anirudh Sravan P. and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vigilance-squad-sent-to-act-on-seeds-being-sold-at-high-prices/article34757277.ece
08 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More flying squads to enforce lockdown guidelines||As COVID-19 test positivity rate is at 20.2% in Dakshina Kannada, the district administration will tighten lockdown guidelines by setting up additional check-posts and deploying more flying squads from Monday night, said Deputy Commissioner K.V .Rajendra here on Monday. Dr. Rajendra told reporters after a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority that stricter lockdown enforcement is required to curb unnecessary travel and ensure proper compliance with wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and other norms. If people do not want extension of the curbs, they should abide by lockdown norms and help contain the positivity rate. Of the 7,550 active COVID-19 cases, 6,003 persons are in home isolation and 1,119 are in hospital. The recovery rate stands at 91% and the case fatality ratio is at 1.19. Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Kumara said that Neriya village has more than 100 positive cases, where many residents of an ashram for mentally challenged persons have tested positive. More than 50 positive cases have been reported form 17 villages; 10-50 cases from 170 villages and less than 10 cases have come from 147 villages. Dr. Rajendra said that Belthangady taluk has reported more number of positive cases, after Mangaluru taluk. “Strangely, cases are coming from estates and other places where there is no crowding,” he noted. Steps have been taken to increase RT-PCR tests to around 6,000 per day. He said that symptomatic people and people with co-morbidities with no home care facility will be moved to COVID Care Centres. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar and Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane said that more number of check-posts will be set up to prevent needless long distance travel by people. Dr. Rajendra said that 10 flying squads to enforce wearing of masks, social distancing and other norms will be deployed in Mangaluru, while two flying squads each will function in each one of the five taluks. Mr. Kumara said that ward level task forces with NGO representatives have been set up in each one of the 223 gram panchayats to help in micro management of cases. No marriages and public programmes have been allowed in villages that have more than 50 positive cases. The administration will give commendation certificates to nine panchayats that have not reported new cases in the last fortnight. The Deputy Commissioner said that the pace of vaccination will pick up in a fortnight when sufficient stock arrives. On difficulty in booking slots for 45+ age group, he said that slots will open at 4 p.m. the previous day, if vaccines are available the next day.  Vaccination will pick up in a fortnight when sufficient stock arrives, says Deputy Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/more-flying-squads-to-enforce-lockdown-guidelines/article34757281.ece
08 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New road overbridge likely to be commissioned in three months||Work on a road overbridge above the Mangaluru-Mumbai railway line on Bondel-Vamanjoor Road connecting two important highways that remained stalled for about three years resumed recently. Southern Railway will complete erection of girders by Thursday and the overbridge will be commissioned in three months after ancillary works, including laying of approach roads, are ready. Bondel-Vamanjoor (Pachchanady) Road connects the Airport Road with the Mangaluru-Karkala-Solapur National Highway (NH 169) and it has been a key link for people who avoid entering Mangaluru on their onward journey. The Railways had dismantled the old overbridge to facilitate line doubling and electrification works between Mangaluru Junction and Panambur. It had provided a temporary level crossing facility about 300 m south of the old overbridge to facilitate vehicular movement. However, frequent closure of the level crossing gate to allow movement of trains had been affecting smooth flow of traffic in the region. According to officials in the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway, the construction wing has commenced work and it is expected to be completed shortly. The skewed pre-stressed concrete girder overbridge will be 27.97 m long as against the 9.25 m long old overbridge. The length was increased to facilitate line doubling and electrification works that have already been completed in the section. The new overbridge will be wider, 12 m to the older one, which was just 6 m wide thus resulting in enhancing the carrying capacity of the bridge. The width of the Bondel-Pachchanady Road varies between 6 m and 8 m at places. Girders will be launched after completely stopping movement of trains on Mangaluru Junction-Panambur/Thokur sections, while one girder has already been launched. All works, including preparatory works, launching of temporary girders and launching of pre-stressed concrete girders are progressing as per schedule in stages. Once work on the overbridge is completed, the Railways will close the level crossing gate (No 6A) located between Kulashekara and Jokatte in the section that was provided in 2017 for dismantling the old overbridge. The new overbridge is being built at an estimated cost of Rs. 5 crore and is funded by the Railways itself. Construction of approach roads, 150 m towards Bondel and 100 m towards Vamanjoor, is also part of the project. Deputy Chief Engineer Vinoth Kumar and Assistant Executive Engineer, Mangaluru, S. Anil Kumar, who is from the construction wing in Ernakulam, are overseeing the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-road-overbridge-likely-to-be-commissioned-in-three-months/article34757283.ece
08 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Artisans in dire straits as market shrinks for handicraft||Handicraft artisans across Karnataka are in dire straits having been rendered jobless by the virulence of the second wave of COVID-19 which has devastated the sector. Not only have major workshops and studios that engaged trained craftsmen shut down due to lack of orders, but there are no takers to clear even the existing stock of handicraft articles. The association representing the artisan community has appealed to the government to give them financial assistance to help tide over the crisis. But so far their requests have been greeted with a deafening silence. “The artisan community at Karakushalanagar in Mysuru has over 1,000 families specialising in different art forms but mainly wooden inlay works. They have reached a point where securing even two square meals a day is difficult and nobody is rendering them any assistance as orders have dried up and there is no work,” said S. Ramu, president, Karnataka State Handicrafts Manufacturers Association. At least 15% to 20% have taken to selling vegetables or entered the construction sector to work as daily wagers, he added. This issue was not addressed when a package was announced for different sectors in 2020 and the same repeated in 2021. “We met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and other Ministers but no body has responded so far,” he added. N. Kumar of the Karnataka Artisans’ Welfare Association said there were not less than 25,000 registered artisans across the State and this translates to around 1.5 lakh people who were dependent on their earnings for livelihood. “We have artisan community and townships in Channapatana, Bidar, Sagar, Kumta etc and the situation is dire in all these places,” Mr. Kumar added. Even if the State lifts the lockdown there is no glimmer of hope in the immediate future as handicrafts and furniture will be perceived to be a luxury in times of financial crunch wrought by uncertainty due to job loss. “The last finished handicraft article I sold was more than four months ago when the situation had slightly eased and there were signs of recovery. But even before the work could stabilize the second wave swept away the marginal gains that the sector had notched,” said Mr. Ramu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/artisans-in-dire-straits-as-market-shrinks-for-handicraft/article34757252.ece
08 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM to set up oxygen plant at Manasagangotri||The University of Mysore (UoM) has proposed to vaccinate all students who have opted to stay in its hostels on Manasagangotri campus in Mysuru and three PG campuses in Mandya, Hassan, and Chamarajanagar. In this regard, it has written to the Departments of Higher Education and Health, to provide vaccines for free to carry out the task for the safety of students. The University has also planned to immunise all faculty, non-teaching staff and their dependants. Interestingly, the University has launched a 24x7 helpline and groups of counsellors to monitor and promote mental health during and after COVID-19 infection. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Vice-Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar, who listed out the measures taken for the safety of students and faculty amidst the second wave of COVID-19, said the Syndicate has approved installation of a medical oxygen generation plant on the Manasagangotri campus to generate oxygen whenever the need arises in future.  Awareness videos The university staff and students have developed videos on COVID-19 disease, safety measures, and nutrition counselling for those affected by the pandemic for spreading awareness among the public. With the support of University Health Centre, a COVID-19 isolation centre was set up on the campus to nurse the affected employees and their family members. The health centre has been upgraded with adequate infrastructure and facilities for the benefit of students, staff and their dependants to treat COVID-19 patients.  Free education for orphaned children The University has already announced plans to provide free education to children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. About 25 students will get admission in undergraduate and postgraduate programmes through the initiative. Promotion of University Research and Scientific Excellence (PURSE) Phase-II programme has been funded by the Department of Science and Technology. The Central government will promote basic science research at the University through PURSE. The programme is being run at the Vignana Bhavan. Nine science departments are engaged in research. “Under this, our scientists are working on developing diagnostic tools and drug discovery to treat diseases of humans, animals and birds,” Prof. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uom-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-at-manasagangotri/article34757242.ece
08 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysore varsity develops rapid COVID-19 test kit||The University of Mysore, in association with a Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical company, has designed a rapid COVID-19 detection kit. Announcing this at a press conference here on Monday, former Vice-Chancellor of University of Mysore, K.S. Rangappa, and Vice-Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar said the kit has been developed in association with Lorven Biologics Pvt. Ltd. “We are sending the kit to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, for emergency approval,” said Prof. Rangappa, who headed the university’s research team. Prof. Rangappa said the kit is expected to be available at an affordable cost since it has been developed by a State university. “The unique feature of the kit is that a barcode strip is linked to an app. As soon as the barcode is scanned, the health status of the patients (whether tested positive or negative) is updated in the server thereby enabling the governing agencies to monitor the cases immediately. The recent technologies in molecular biology, nanotechnology and artificial intelligence were used in the development of the kit,” the team explained the research process in a press release. Using the kit, persons with COVID-19 symptoms can detect the infection using body fluids like sputum, nasal secretions and saliva. “It takes less than 10 minutes to detect whether the person is infected or not,” said Dr. Mohan. “We are hoping the kit will detect the mutated virus in case of subsequent waves,” said Prof. Rangappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mysore-varsity-develops-rapid-covid-19-test-kit/article34757244.ece
08 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sinduri hits out at ‘collusion’ of officer with politicians||Outgoing Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Rohini Sindhuri on Monday said it was “sad and unfortunate” that an officer had ‘colluded’ with a few politicians in the middle of the pandemic to target the Deputy Commissioner, who was responsible for the district’s disaster management situation. Although she did not name anybody, in view of the developments in Mysuru over the last few days, it was clear that she was holding outgoing Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag responsible for the act. Referring to Ms. Nag’s public reactions on her transfer from the post of DC, Ms. Sindhuri in a statement said “Getting me transferred should never have been the mission. Fighting the pandemic should be”. Speaking to reporters after visiting the DC’s office to meet her successor, Bagadi Gautham, she said she sympathised with Ms. Nag’s ‘insecurity.’ “It is wrong to say mission accomplished after removing an officer. It will be difficult to run the system if such things happen in a district or any organisation.” She also regretted the interference by a few persons. “We should have been allowed to work freely. Unnecessary interference by a few should not have been there.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sinduri-hits-out-at-collusion-of-officer-with-politicians/article34757241.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||TPR in Bengaluru Urban plummets to 4.91%||While five districts in the State had a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of over 15%, 11 had a TPR of less than 15% but still above the State average. Sources said it would be impractical to wait for unlocking till the State’s average TPR fell to under 5%. Although both the ascent and descent of TPR have been more rapid during the second wave, a strategy on unlocking in districts that have a low caseload should be chalked out now. The TAC, which met on Monday, reiterated that the existing testing strategy should continue till December. District-centric unlocking C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and tests in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said that as the disease cannot be uniform in all districts, graded relaxing of lockdown restrictions could be considered when the TPR is between 5% and 10% in a majority of the districts. “There should be a district-centric unlocking policy. Even when unlocking is considered, it should be in a graded manner with continued restrictions on public, social and religious gatherings, including weddings, till December. Inter-district transport and travel from high-risk to low-risk districts should also be regulated depending on the positivity rate in those districts,” Dr. Manjunath said. With the TPR in Bengaluru dropping, migrants who had moved out of the city will start returning. “However, it is important that they are tested while they are reporting to work in their sectors. This will help in isolating them in case they are infected,” Dr. Manjunath said. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta said the fall in TPR comes with more responsibility on every citizen in the city. “We have to ensure that the number of new cases remains low even after the lockdown restrictions are relaxed. People should continue following COVID-appropriate behaviour all the more now, otherwise it will not take long for the infection to flare up again like it happened in other countries. We have been testing over 60,000 samples every day and we will continue this as of now,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tpr-in-bengaluru-urban-plummets-to-491/article34757245.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Old to make way for new||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/old-to-make-way-for-new/article34757240.ece
08 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||803 new cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 803 COVID-19 cases and 1,535 recoveries on Monday. It also recorded 10 COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 11.76%. Of the fresh cases, 794 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of eight others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 803 cases include 112 reported from Alappuzha, 51 from Chennam Pallipuram, 34 each from Kayamkulam and Bharanikavu, 30 from Mararikulam South, 29 from Pathiyoor and 25 each from Muhamma and Thazhakara. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district fell to 14,336. On Monday, the police registered 28 cases and arrested 16 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 576 people for not wearing face masks, 303 people for violating physical distancing norms, and seven people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 162 vehicles. Kottayam As many as 464 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the day was 15.03%. With 60 cases, Kanjirappally reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kottayam with 50 cases. As many as 1,009 people recovered from the disease during the day. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 199 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 195 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 12.9%. The disease, meanwhile, claimed eight more lives in the district. With 773 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 5,696 active cases. ( With contributions from the Kottayam and Pathanmathitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/803-new-cases-in-alappuzha/article34757748.ece
08 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Scholarships: SNDP flays INL stance||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Monday derided the Indian National League (INL), an ally of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF), for bypassing Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan while expressing stance on the minority scholarship issue. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Natesan said the INL had sided with the Indian Union Muslim League on the scholarship issue. “The INL expressed its opinion even before the Chief Minister commented on the court verdict. It was not the right thing to do,” he said. Mr. Natesan said there were communities like Ezhava and Scheduled Castes in Kerala who received hardly any benefits. On the Kodakara black money heist, the SNDP Yogam general secretary said all political parties used to bring black money for election purposes. “The police seized the black money because the BJP supporters acted foolishly,” Mr. Natesan said. “The Congress is nowhere to be seen. Oommen Chandy’s time is up. Ramesh Chennithala has plunged into severe depression. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan is an outstanding person. He can perform well in theAssembly, but he is a big zero when it comes to activities outside the Assembly,” Mr. Natesan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/scholarships-sndp-flays-inl-stance/article34757746.ece
08 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fish centre renovation||The government will renovate the Chennithala fish landing centre with modern facilities. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, who visited the fish landing centre recently, said a new building would be constructed there. “An estimate of Rs. 2 crore for the construction of the building has been prepared. Additional funds will be provided to set up more facilities,” Mr. Cherian said. The new building, once completed, will house a fish centre, office room, cloak room and cold storage facility on the ground floor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fish-centre-renovation/article34757747.ece
08 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cases against fellers of rosewood trees||The Wayanad district administration has asked the police to register cases against those who felled centuries-old rosewood trees in the private land of 12 tribal families in Muttil South village. C. Muhammed Rafique, Deputy Collector (Land Assignment), said on Monday that the Deputy Superintendent of Police (special mobile squad) had been asked to take steps under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act as the perpetrators had procured the trees at low prices by misleading the tribespeople. The police had recently registered cases against 68 persons from whose plots the trees were felled as per a complaint of the district administration. According to the Forest Department, the lobby had felled 202 cubic metres of huge rosewood trees in 42 sites in Muttil South village at low prices by misinterpreting a government order. Probe sought The Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti, an environmental organisation, urged an investigation by a government agency into the felling of valuable trees in Wayanad. Its office-bearers said two contradictory orders of the Revenue Secretary regarding the felling of rosewood trees had paved the way for their massive plunder in the State. Only a probe by a government agency would reveal the conspiracy behind it, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cases-against-fellers-of-rosewood-trees/article34757434.ece
08 June 2021||Kannur,KERALA||3 killed in ambulance accident in Kannur||Three persons, including the driver of an ambulance, were killed when the vehicle crashed into a tree at Elayavoor here on Monday morning The accident happened around 5.30 a.m. when the driver of the ambulance that was going to Kannur with a patient lost control of the vehicle. The ambulance then crashed into a tree. Bijoy (45) was being rushed to a private hospital in Kannur a hospital at Payyavoor due to low oxygen level in his blood. Besides Bijoy, his sister Rejina (37) and ambulance driver O.V. Nidhin Raj (40) of Payyavur Chundakamparambu were killed in the accident. Another person, Benny, has been admitted to hospital with injuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-killed-in-ambulance-accident-in-kannur/article34757400.ece
08 June 2021||Kannur,KERALA||Administrative sanction for court complex||The Finance Department in Kerala has given administrative approval for the plan and estimate submitted for setting up a court complex in Kannur for the functioning of various courts. The State Public Works Department will take up the construction of the seven-storey building, which will be built adjoining the existing Principal Munsif Court. The total area of the proposed complex is 6,864 sq m. The State government has sanctioned the project worth Rs. 24.55 crore. Around 450 lawyers, more than 90 court employees and many arbitrators reach the courts daily. The design was prepared by the Public Works Department and the work will begin in August. The administrative approval was given after the project was submitted by Kannur MLA Ramachandran Kadannappally. Soon after the new government came to power, the MLA had a meeting with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Law Minister P. Rajeeve. The proposal for a new court complex was made as the functioning of the courts in Kannur became difficult due to lack of space. There are seven courts in Kannur, two munsif courts, a magistrate court, a mobile court, a sub-court and a family court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/administrative-sanction-for-court-complex/article34757401.ece
08 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Rs. 100 crore sanctioned for developing road||An amount of Rs. 100 crore has been sanctioned for the development of the Cherkala-Jalsoor road, one of the important inter-State highways in the district. C.H. Kunhambu, Uduma MLA, said the Cherkala-Jalsoor road had been included in the Rebuild Kerala project with German financial assistance. He said that Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) has informed that this road, which was constructed in 2012, can be taken over and developed by KSTP. The MLA said that the work would be tendered soon as per the terms of the OPBRC (Output and Performance Based Road Contract) under which the contractor would be responsible for maintaining the road completely for seven years. The Cherkala-Jalsoor Inter-State is the first macadam tarring road in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-100-crore-sanctioned-for-developing-road/article34757396.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Test positivity rate falls to 11.46%||Ernakulam recorded less than 1,000 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, when 968 people tested positive. Testing fell to 8,450 samples, and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.46% was registered. Of the tests done, 4,991 were RT-PCR. Six health workers have tested positive. Thrikkakara recorded 51 new cases, Edathala 48, Thripunithura 39, Kalamassery 35, Palluruthy and Vengola 33 each, and Fort Kochi and Mulavukad 29 each. The source of infection was unclear in 22 cases. A total of 2,546 recoveries were recorded and 582 people were discharged from treatment facilities. As many as 155 people were newly admitted to hospitals and other treatment centres. The district’s active caseload has fallen below the 20,000 mark, with 18,675 people remaining in isolation or under treatment after having tested positive. Under treatment Of those who are recovering from the infection, 13,782 people remain at home. At private hospitals, 1,460 people are admitted, while 570 people are recuperating in government hospitals. At first-line treatment centres, 450 people are being monitored, 287 are at second-line treatment centres and 1127 are in domiciliary care centres. As many as 418 people are recovering in intensive care units. Two patients are under treatment for mucormycosis, according to figures from the district surveillance unit. A total of 15 panchayats in the district have a TPR of 25% and 35 panchayats have a TPR of 20%, according to District Collector S. Suhas. In Kuttampuzha, 62 people tested positive recently, and 54 of them were shifted to the panchayat domiciliary care centre. Tests will be intensified in tribal areas and among migrant worker, according to the Collector. Local bodies have been directed to collect details of differently-abled people and bed-ridden patients for a vaccination drive geared towards such persons. Going by the State Health Department's COVID dashboard, 938 people have succumbed to the infection in the district so far. In local bodies Eight local bodies in the district have more than 500 active cases, going by figures from Monday. The Kochi Corporation area continues to have the maximum number of active cases with 4,082 people recovering from the infection. This is followed by Vengola with 717 active cases, Thrikkakara with 669, Thripunithura with 610, Elamkunnapuzha with 577, Kalamassery with 553, Chellanam with 535, Edathala with 520, Choornikkara with 462, and Karumaloor with 430 active cases. Test positivity rate calculated as a seven-day average is highest in Chellanam with a TPR of 48.19%, followed by Kottuvally with 44.8%, and Kumbalangi with 38.82%, as per figures from Monday. Chellanam also has the highest number of active cases per million. Seven local bodies in the district have TPR over 30%, and 12 local bodies have been seeing a TPR less than 10%, going by data from the surveillance unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-1146/article34757415.ece
08 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||CSML trying to complete projects||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is trying its best to complete pending road and allied infrastructure projects in Kochi and West Kochi, despite inordinate delay on the part of various agencies in relocating utility cables and pipelines, COVID curbs at worksites, and the inadequate availability of workers due to the pandemic, its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Jafar Malik has said. The Smart City proposal for Kochi has adopted retrofitting as the development strategy to transform Kochi into a sustainable, inclusive and economically-vibrant city of opportunities having efficient urban services, traditional hospitality, and smart governance. A bulk of these works under the Rs. 1,000-crore project are nearing completion in eight wards of the Kochi Corporation — three in the city hub and five in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry. Among the Rs. 1,000-crore worth projects, CSML has allocated Rs. 300 crore to develop smart roads and upgrade many others. In this, Rs. 200 crore is exclusively for roads and the remaining Rs. 100 crore for smart LED lighting and development of allied infrastructure. Resurfacing using dense bituminous macadam (DBM) is over on Shanmugham Road, Park Avenue Road, and DH Road. West Kochi hurdles The agency encountered countless difficulties during work at sites in West Kochi. Smart roads worth Rs. 30.31 crore are incomplete, since the contractor was unable to continue the work, following which CSML has sent a notice for termination of the contract and to re-tender it. A total of 53 other roads covering 14 km are being improved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/csml-trying-to-complete-projects/article34757410.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lack of inputs by local bodies hits pollution panel’s efforts||The lack of proper information from local bodies on solid waste management has hit the efforts by enforcement agencies to act against the shortcomings. In a report filed before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on June 3, the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) pointed out that the data collection process was affected due to the lack of timely inputs from local bodies. The local bodies had not provided evidence on the number of material collection and resource facilities in their jurisdiction, workers engaged for door-to-door collection or segregation of waste, and centralised or decentralised facilities for solid waste management, it said. The board said that a uniform format was being prepared to get convincing data on the solid waste management situation. It would be forwarded to all local bodies, according to the report. The Southern Bench of the tribunal had asked the PCB to collect the status report from the local bodies on issues related to legacy waste dumping sites and disposal mechanism in various local bodies. The government has asked the Department of Local Self-Government to forward the monthly status on solid and liquid waste management to the PCB in the format prescribed. It will be submitted before the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti. The board has been told to update the inventory on biomedical, e-waste and hazardous waste as required under the various rules concerned. The annual reports of the local bodies have to be scrutinised by the Department of Local Self-Government through Suchitwa Mission and Haritha Keralam Mission. It should also assess the details related to the legacy waste dumps and the proposed mode of action by the local bodies.  Local bodies have not provided evidence on number of material collection and resource facilities, workers engaged for collection or segregation of waste, and centralised or decentralised facilities for waste management||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-inputs-by-local-bodies-hits-pollution-panels-efforts/article34757411.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NATPAC to study city entry of Goshree buses||The National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) has agreed in principle to conduct a study on permitting buses from Goshree islands into the city, close on the heels of the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) making a request in this regard about a week ago. Around 200 buses, a bulk of them from North Paravur and Munambam, which ferry a total of over a lakh people from the islands and beyond into the city every day terminate their trips at High Court Junction now, since they are not permitted to operate in city routes. The commuters then have to take another bus or depend on other modes of transport to reach their destination, or the nearest Kochi metro station located two kilometres away at M.G. Road. “We requested NATPAC to conduct a survey-cum-study report, as part of steps being taken to ensure seamless commute in the city. The KMTA had prioritised the long-pending demand from islanders to permit buses from their region to operate to different parts of the city,” said Jafar Malik, CEO of KMTA. ‘Seamless integration’ “We have accepted the request, in principle, and will shortly reply to KMTA. Emphasis will be given to how best to integrate these many buses from the Goshree isles with Kochi metro. We hope to undertake the study using our funds. Seamless integration of different modes of commute finds prominent mention in the National Transport Policy Report of 1984,” said Samson Mathew, Director of NATPAC. “Our plan is to combine the study with a continuation of a study on Kochi city that we did for Town Planning Department,” he added. Official sources said a well-studied proposal had to be readied since the city’s narrow roads might not be able to accommodate about 200 buses from Goshree isles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/natpac-to-study-city-entry-of-goshree-buses/article34757412.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Forum criticises Punargeham project||The forced eviction of people living on Kerala’s coast in the name of relocating them to safer homes under the Punargeham project must be stopped, the Kerala Theera Samrakshana Vedi has demanded. The project launched by the State government in 2019 proposed that families living within 50 m of the high tide line could move away from the coast prone to flooding. It was contrary to the Fisheries Department’s project report that cautioned against forced eviction, said the coastal protection forum. According to the forum, the government now said that those who were unwilling to relocate from the coast would not be eligible for government help in case of damage to their houses. Those who avail the Punargeham project would get a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh, irrespective of the extent of land they owned. The forum said the decisions were made without consultations with stakeholders and would lead to the coastal population being left landless.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/forum-criticises-punargeham-project/article34757408.ece
08 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Lakshadweep lockdown to continue for 7 days||The Lakshadweep Administration has said that the complete lockdown on Kavaratti, Androth, Kalpeni, Amini, Minicoy and Bitra islands would continue for seven more days from June 7, in view of the test high positivity rate on the islands. In an order issued on Monday, District Collector S. Asker Ali said shops and establishments selling groceries, vegetables and other essential commodities would be allowed to open between 1 p.m. and 4 p.m.. The District Collector said that the COVID-19 situation had not yet stabilised. There were 1,005 active cases — 484 on Kavaratti; 16 on Agatti; 51 on Amini; 14 on Kadmat; 21 on Kiltan; 14 on Chetlat; 188 on Androth; 24 on Kalpeni; 123 on Minicoy and 70 on Bitra. The test positivity rate on the Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Androth, Amini, Minicoy and Bitra islands were high compared to other islands and there was high risk of the virus spreading further, the order said. A curfew was in place on all the islands to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lakshadweep-lockdown-to-continue-for-7-days/article34757414.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NGT seeks report from State on floodplains||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pointed out that most of the States have not yet taken steps to fix the floodplain or the buffer zone from water bodies and restrict construction activities near the banks of rivers and lakes. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member K. Satyagopal has stated that most of the present calamities like floods are man-made on account of not fixing floodplain of rivers, backwaters and other water bodies. Permitting construction in these areas will affect the free flow of water during the monsoon. It will not only affect the persons who had violated the natural flow of water, but also cause loss to the exchequer by way of providing relief to those responsible for the violations, it said. The Bench has made these observations while considering an application against the indiscriminate construction activities along the Chakkuvally lake in Kollam district. The Bench has directed the Principal Secretaries of Environment, Public Works and Irrigation in the State to submit their independent reports on the action taken by the government to protect the water bodies. The Kollam Collector has to submit a report on the construction activities along the Chakkuvally lake, according to the tribunal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ngt-seeks-report-from-state-on-floodplains/article34757741.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ensuring safety of women commuters||The KMTA  will lead a project to ensure safety of women commuters in the district, following deliberations at a meeting convened here on Monday by GIZ, a German agency. “The German agency had executed a similar initiative in Bhubaneshwar. We will shortly take up with KSRTC and other agencies the need to enlist an official who will be in charge of women’s safety,” said Jafar Malik, CEO of KMTA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ensuring-safety-of-women-commuters/article34757413.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||EC can probe poll-time bribery charges: Meena||The Election Commission of India (EC) can probe allegations of bribe payment to persons to contest or not to contest the elections, according to Teeka Ram Meena, Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Kerala. The commission can seek a report on such complaints either from the police or from the District Collector. If found true, action can be recommended under the Representation of the People Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Mr. Meena said. The stand of the CEO becomes relevant in the wake of the allegations that BJP State president K. Surendran had paid Rs. 10 lakh to tribal leader C.K. Janu to contest the Assembly election from Sulthan Bathery. Section 123 of the Act defines bribery as any gift, offer or promise by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate to any person to induce him to contests or not to contest, or to withdraw or not to withdraw candidature in an election. The receipt of, or agreement to receive, any gratification for contesting or not contesting, or for withdrawal or non- withdrawal of candidature would also amount to bribery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ec-can-probe-poll-time-bribery-charges-meena/article34757422.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||12 cases registered in drive against child porn||A total of 13 mobile phones and two laptops were seized and 12 cases registered by Kochi City Police, as part of P-HUNT - a State-level drive focused on people who view and forward porn videos involving children. The simultaneous inspections led by Ernakulam DCP Aishwarya Dongre and coordinated by eight ACPs with the help of the Cyber Cell and local police personnel, led to cases being registered against IT professionals, migrant workers and Ernakulam, Thrissur, Alappuzha, and Kollam natives. Cases were registered at Hill Palace, Thrikkakara, Kadavanthra, Ernakulam Central, North, South, Elamakkara, Udayamperoor, Palluruthy, and Palarivattom police stations. The seized items have been sent for detailed inspection at the Forensic Science Lab. Further action will be taken based on the results of the inspection. More such inspections will be done in the coming days. Unaccounted cash The Mulavukad police intercepted a Kannur native who was carrying Rs. 55 lakh unaccounted for currency. The currency was discovered following an inspection at Bolghatty Palace Junction. The seized currency will be produced in court. A probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-cases-registered-in-drive-against-child-porn/article34757416.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Vathuruthy bridge will be built: MLA||No stone will be left unturned in the ongoing efforts to realise an overbridge at Vathuruthy, Ernakulam MLA T.J. Vinod has said. People behind the propaganda that there was insufficient traffic through the stretch were living in a fool’s paradise, since a bulk of West Kochi residents used the stretch to reach the city. The bridge was long-awaited, especially by lakhs of people of West Kochi. The RBDCK would complete the project as was scheduled, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vathuruthy-bridge-will-be-built-mla/article34757417.ece
08 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||POC webinar on oceans||A webinar on oceans will be held at the Pastoral Orientation Centre, Palarivattam, on Tuesday as part of the World Ocean Day celebrations. The webinar, between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m., will be inaugurated by Cardinal George Alencherry, president of the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council. Bishop of Kochi Joseph Kariyil and Alappuzha Bishop James Anamparambil will speak at the webinar. Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian, Irrigation Minister Roshy Augustine and Leader of Opposition V.D. Satheesan will participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poc-webinar-on-oceans/article34757418.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||No nod to hike oxygen prices, govt. tells HC||The State government on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that it had not approved any increase in the price of medical oxygen being supplied to various hospitals in the State. The government, however, added that the price for medical oxygen was fixed by the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) under the Union Ministry of Chemical and Fertilizers. The submissions were made by the government pleader when a writ petition by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association against the hike in the medical oxygen came up for hearing. The government pleader submitted that the Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, had written to the NPPA saying that the government could not agree to the proposal to increase the price of medical oxygen. The petition The association, in its petition, said medical oxygen supply agencies had all of a sudden hiked the price and started demanding reimbursement under the head of “COVID mitigating expenses” and “additional transportation and handling expenses”.  The court posted the case for hearing on June 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-nod-to-hike-oxygen-prices-govt-tells-hc/article34757423.ece
08 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Appointed Law Secretary||V. Hari Nair was appointed as the Law Secretary of the Kerala government. Mr. Nair was serving as a District Judge at Alappuzha. He had also served as a district judge in Ernakulam and Kollam districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appointed-law-secretary/article34757351.ece
08 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||COVID puts drama artistes in dire straits||When the lockdown hit in April last year, it did not stop Pradeep Malavika, a professional drama artist-cum-producer from Vaikom in Kottayam, from pencilling in his schedule for the next festival season after a possible return to the stage in September. Bank loans But the target proved implausible as it once did. A latest production by the Vaikom Malavika Theatres had just begun its tour when the unprecedented lockdown came, which exposed a lot that was really fragile and difficult about the sector. The 59-year-old artist, who has been into professional drama since his school days, now has huge bank loans to repay and lives on with support from family members. Optimism is now in short supply among the hundreds of stage artistes like him, who have been caught up in the largest cultural shutdown in modern history. “One year is a ruinous amount of time to be shutdown, and there is no end in sight. All our stage artistes have been relegated to other menial jobs and we continue to wait anxiously for the perfect time to resume live entertainment,” he said. The professional drama sector, according to him, provides employment to at least 2,000 artistes directly and 20,000 others across 60 production teams. The average cost of a new production is worked out to be around Rs. 14 lakh and it requires a theatre group at least a couple of years with 150 shows a year for breaking it even. In his opinion, there has been a prescribed necessity for the drama artistes to live precarious financial lives for too long now. Contracts “But it still remains a competitive industry where contracts are often short and pay is poor due to a falling booking rates. Women artistes are the most to suffer as a majority of them do not have a second job and must have fallen through the cracks by now,” pointed out the senior artist, who also serves as the vice president of the Kerala Drama Workers Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-puts-drama-artistes-in-dire-straits/article34757743.ece
08 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Malankara association meet on Oct. 14||As part of electing the successor to Malankara Metropolitan and Catholicos of the East Baselios Mar Thoma Paulose II, a meeting of the Malankara Syrian Christian Association will be convened at the Parumala seminary in Pathanamthitta district on October 14. A decision to this effect was announced at a managing committee meeting of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church convened online here on Monday. Based on a suggestion by the Catholicos, an episcopal synod of the Church in April had already recommended kick-starting the proceedings. The Malankara association, an apex body comprising priests and laity representatives is authorised to elect the new head. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/malankara-association-meet-on-oct-14/article34757745.ece
08 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Entrepreneurs pin hopes on new coastal shipping plan||The move of the State government to give green signal for a much-awaited cargo shipping promotional programme connecting the Vallarpadam International Container Transshipment Terminal (ICTT)  with the Beypore Port has kindled fresh hopes among importers and exporters from northern Kerala districts. Entrepreneurs in the sector hope that they will be able to save a huge amount now being spent as road freight charges. Based on the latest ministry-level discussions, a blueprint will be prepared by the Kozhikode district administration to make Beypore port as a satellite port of the ICTT in the future. It is likely to be submitted to the Ministry of Ports within a week. The plan is to start trial operations by the end of June. Functionaries of the Kerala Exporters Forum say they have been working for the realisation of the proposal for many years, unable to bear the ever increasing road freight charges and unexpected hurdles on congested roads. If it becomes a reality, only one-third of the existing shipping cost will be required for container delivery, they point out. Even after the announcement of an operational incentive for cargo shipping by road, many entrepreneurs wanted the direct delivery of cargo by exploring facilities at minor ports. According to them, only the entry of multinational vessel operators along with the opening of container movement between minor ports will help take cargo shipping to the next level. A leading importer from Beypore says entrepreneurs in the sector were in a situation to pay about Rs. 30,000 as freight charge for the delivery of a single container from Kochi to Kozhikode by road. He said it was creating a huge loss. According to him, any fall in the existing transportation charges would largely reduce the product price and fetch its direct benefit to customers. A member of the Kerala Exporters’ Forum says the existing terminal handling charges also could be reduced to a great extent with the elevation of Beypore as a satellite port for the Vallarpadam container terminal. “Our forum has already assured the required support to the State government for completing the basic infrastructure development activities at the port,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/entrepreneurs-pin-hopes-on-new-coastal-shipping-plan/article34757407.ece
08 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Collector takes up complaints of poor connectivity by students||Complaints raised by a section of the students and teachers about poor internet connectivity and cable service in some of the rural areas in Kozhikode district have been taken up by the district administration. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao will soon convene a meeting of mobile operators and cable service providers to discuss technical issues and find a solution to the issue. The demand of the majority of students who are virtually out of digital classrooms is to increase the broadband connectivity in their remote villages where mobile signal strength is also very weak. Quality video streaming is inaccessible for such students as they are out of the quality 3G or 4G network coverage area. “It may be difficult to erect new mobile towers in remote areas or increase the current signal strength violating existing rules. The easy option is to increase the number of wired broadband internet connections,” says Nikhil Tom, a college student from Thamarassery. Though many are willing to take new connections with base tariff, there is no favourable response from many operators citing the heavy installation cost, he adds. Teachers from rural areas have also expressed their difficulties in conducting online classes owing to network issues. According to them, many are forced to use their mobile phone data for multiple devices at home, which will never meet the expected quality of a standard virtual classroom. They also point out that teachers and students from urban areas rarely face such technical challenges in virtual classrooms.  Study centres Meanwhile, officials with the Department of Education point out that efforts are on to resume the functioning of common study centres as a temporary solution in about 800 locations covering rural and coastal areas in Kozhikode district where students can easily attend digital classes. The Centres will be arranged in such a way to ensure physical distancing and other COVID-19 protocols, they add. District panchayat officials say the gadget challenge announced by the district administration and the Vidyasree project by the Kudumbashree Mission will address the concerns of many underprivileged students who are yet to have a smartphone or laptop. There are approximately 5,000 such students in Kozhikode district, they add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-takes-up-complaints-of-poor-connectivity-by-students/article34757402.ece
08 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||659 new COVID cases in Kozhikode, TPR 11.21%||With the Health Department confirming 659 more COVID-19 cases, the total number of patients undergoing treatment in Kozhikode district touched 14,292 on Monday. The test positivity rate rose from 9.55% to 11.21% even as intensive measures were in place to fight the pandemic. Of the newly confirmed cases, 645 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The source remained unknown in the remaining cases. No Gulf returnees figured in the updated list. One of the major relief factors was the discharge of 1,508 patients from hospitals and first-line treatment centres. Health Department officials said 6,008 samples were collected for lab tests on Monday. They also informed that the number of tests would be increased by conducting more mega camps with special focus on critical containment zones. Officials at the COVID-19 control room said about 62% of the total available beds in hospitals in the district was vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/659-new-covid-cases-in-kozhikode-tpr-1121/article34757405.ece
08 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Panel orders corpn. to repair roof of yard||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has asked the city corporation authorities to immediately repair the destroyed roof of the Njeliyanparamba waste dumping yard in the wake of a mass petition submitted by the local residents. The panel took up the issue after the local people complained that the delaying repair work of the yard was causing a huge pollution threat during rainy days. A judicial commission member also visited the spot for detailed inspection and asked the corporation Secretary to submit a report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panel-orders-corpn-to-repair-roof-of-yard/article34757397.ece
08 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Konni-Placheri road works to be completed by October||In a move expected to boost the development prospects of Konni, authorities are set to complete the work along the Konni-Placheri reach of the Muvattupuzha -Punalur road by October. Completion of the 30.16-km reach, according to officials, will also mark a crucial milestone in the proposed upgrade of the 82.13-km Punalur-Ponkunnam road under the Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP). On completion, it will be a 14-metre-wide stretch with 10-metre-wide DBM (dense bituminous macadam) and BC (bituminous concrete) tarring. The other day, Public Works Minister P.A.Mohamed Riyas had conducted a review of the project in Konni and issued strict directions to complete the work within the stipulated time. Avoiding the public-private partnership (PPP) mode, the upgrade of the Punalur-Ponkunnam road has been tendered in the engineering procurement and construction (EPC) mode by splitting the corridor into three reaches. The first reach is a 29.84-km-long stretch from Punalur to Konni, the second reach of 30.16 km is from Konni to Placheri while the final reach stretches over a distance of 22.17 km from Placheri to Ponkunnam. The total outlay for the project is Rs. 737. 64 crore and out of this, the allocation for the Konni -Placheri reach is estimated to be Rs. 279 crore. Of the total 30.16 km, about 13.06 km passes through the Konni Assembly constituency while the segment also accounts for 17 km of the 29.84 km stretch of road from Konni to Punalur. Meanwhile, the authorities have also kick-started work along the final reach, the outlay of which is estimated to be Rs. 221 crore. The opening of the road, will pave the way for the development of several locations across the Konni constituency including Eliyarakkal, Wakayar, Koodal, Kalanjoor and Idathara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konni-placheri-road-works-to-be-completed-by-october/article34757744.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Spirited bid in capital to ward off mosquitoes||The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation’s dry day challenge on Sunday, as part of initiatives to control vector-borne diseases, has garnered an unexpected response with photos of mosquito-source destruction activities from more than 48,000 households getting uploaded in the Smart Trivandrum mobile application in a single day. One more day Buoyed by the positive response, the civic body decided to extend the challenge to one more day. Unlike the dry day observances in the past, during which health officials from the ward-level provided data on the number of households in which the activities were carried out, the Corporation decided this year to make the people themselves part of it. City residents were asked to upload photographs of destruction of mosquito sources from their households, with a geo-tagging system to get accurate location-wise data. As on Monday evening, 48,159 households have participated in the challenge, with 32,184 of them uploading photographs and details on Sunday and the remaining on Monday. A total of 1,61,882 containers were destroyed, of which 75,261 ones had mosquito larvae. Parallel to this, the Corporation has also entrusted Kudumbashree volunteers to carry out surveys of dry day activities in each ward, with each ward being divided into 50 to 100 clusters. “Usually, this is an official-level activity, with the organising of meetings, distribution of pamphlets and source-destruction programmes. With this challenge, a large number of people are participating on their own. Since we had an extended spell of summer rain, water has collected in many places, leading to mosquito breeding. If a dengue breaks out along with the COVID-19 pandemic, it can lead to a dangerous situation if people get affected by both these diseases at the same time. So, it is important that the larvae are destroyed in all parts of the city,” says a Corporation official. Prizes too Since the challenge was announced on a trial basis, the Corporation was expecting a maximum of around 10,000 respondents only. The civic body also brought in an element of competition into the challenge, between various wards as well as the junior health inspectors. The ward which wins the challenge will get a cash prize of Rs. 25,000, while the wards placed second and third will get Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 respectively, which can be spent on sanitation activities in the respective ward. Harbour ward ahead The Harbour ward is ahead of the rest of the wards with 3,297 households becoming a part of the challenge, while the Vazhottukonam ward is second with 2,647 households and Poonkulam is third with 2,388 households. The Vellar ward has the least number of participants with 25 households. The data can be tracked accurately through geo-tagging and the details of the one who uploads. If the same photograph is uploaded from different accounts, it is discarded by the system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirited-bid-in-capital-to-ward-off-mosquitoes/article34757362.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Petrol price crosses Rs. 100 in State||Kerala joined the league of six States and Union Territories where the fuel price has breached the psychological Rs. 100-mark with premium petrol prices crossing Rs. 100 in several districts on Monday. With oil majors hiking the price of petrol and diesel by 28 paise per litre and 27 paise a litre respectively, the price of premium petrol crossed the Rs. 100-mark in Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Palakkad and Wayanad. The price of premium petrol went up to Rs. 100.20 in Thiruvananthapuram, Rs. 101.14 in the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border town of Parassala, and Rs. 100.24 in Sultan Bathery. With the revised price coming into effect, one litre petrol costs Rs. 97.29 and diesel costs Rs. 92.63 in Thiruvananthapuram and Rs. 95.41 and Rs. 90.86 respectively in Kochi. In Kozhikode, it is Rs. 95.68 and Rs. 91.03 for petrol and diesel respectively. Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Ladakh are the States/UT where the fuel price has breached the Rs. 100 mark. The hike is 21st in 37 days and 47th since January this year. Protests staged The fuel price hike and the price of petrol crossing the Rs. 100 mark have come in for widespread protest, as the people are battling the economic crisis due to COVID-19. Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi hit out at the government over the rise in petrol prices. “While paying the bill at the petrol pump, you will see the rise in inflation by the Modi government. The waves of the tax collection epidemic are continuously coming,” he said in a tweet. The DYFI organised protests and burned effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the capital. Youth Congress president Shafi Parambil said the fuel price hike was ‘tax terrorism.’ Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said the Centre and State should intervene to bring down the prices. Mr. Chandy said the State was charging Rs. 21.36 for petrol and Rs. 31.80 for diesel in addition to the Rs. 1 tax and 1% cess.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/petrol-price-crosses-rs-100-in-state/article34757352.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,481 persons test positive, 2,275 recover||The district recorded 1,481 COVID-19 cases and 2,275 recoveries as the number of active cases fell to 12,703 on Monday. While the dip in daily caseload has been attributed to low testing during the weekend, the test positivity rate remained largely stable at 14.93%. A total of 9,916 people were subjected to COVID-19 tests. Among the new cases, six health care workers have also tested positive. The source of infection was unknown in the case of 89 people. Forty-nine deaths reported between June 3 and 5 have been attributed to COVID-19. As a result, the death toll in the district grew to 2,112. The district administration placed 2,606 people in quarantine during the last 24 hours. The total count of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms stood at 61,756 after 4,530 people were permitted to conclude quarantine after completing the mandated period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1481-persons-test-positive-2275-recover/article34757356.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Amid barbs, House starts debate on revised Budget||The Assembly commenced the general discussion on the revised Budget for 2021-2022 on Monday with the treasury and Opposition benches clashing over politics, development and the second COVID-19 package. The legislators from the ruling Left Democratic Front said the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s welfare activities were well received by the people and that it would continue with the same in the second term by uniting the people. On the other hand, the United Democratic Front legislators said the government was trying to deceive the people by announcing a stimulus package. Initiating the discussion, Deputy Speaker Chittayam Gopakumar said the Pinarayi government was voted back to power as it stood with the people during the Nipah virus outbreak, floods and COVID-19 pandemic and for acting beyond the boundaries of caste, creed and politics. “The mandate for another five years was due to the confidence the people had in the government that it will address the issues,” Mr. Gopakumar said. CPI legislator P. S. Supal reminded the BJP that it would be in the same situation as the Congress if it did not shun negative politics. Thodupuzha MLA P. J. Joseph said the promise in the manifesto to increase the support price of rubber to Rs. 250 and the Idukki package of Rs. 12,000 crore were ignored in the Budget presented by Finance Minister K. N. Balagopal. UDF upbeat Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said the UDF would come back to power by correcting the mistakes and gaining more public confidence. The front would be in the forefront to expose the corruption of the new Pinarayi government, he said. “Do not think that the corruption carried out by the previous Left government can be washed away. None of the allegations have been dropped,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/amid-barbs-house-starts-debate-on-revised-budget/article34757425.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s fatalities cross 10,000 mark||The State reported 9,313 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 70,569 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The dip in testing over the weekend is reflected in the decline in case numbers on the day and this has been happening every Monday systematically in the State. The test positivity rate, however, shows a slight dip at 13.2% from Sunday’s figure of 14.27% Cumulative case fatality crossed the 10,000 mark on Monday to touch 10,157, when the State added 221 deaths, which occurred over the past few days, to the official toll on Monday. While the State takes consolation in the fact that the case fatality rate remains at 0.38%, the increase in absolute numbers, especially in the second wave of COVID, has been quite worrying. Active case pool The State’s active case pool dipped substantially to 1,47,830 patients on Monday with 21,921 patients reported to have recovered on the day. On Monday, 2,297 persons were hospitalised. While the daily hospitalisations have been going down, the total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe infection in hospitals in the State has been increasing for the past two days. From 35,231 total hospitalisations, the figure went up to 39,061 on Monday. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 26,42,395 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/states-fatalities-cross-10000-mark/article34757428.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Row over police ‘assault’ on students||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have instituted a probe into the alleged manhandling of four Plus One students by the police near Kattakada on Sunday. The incident occurred near a temple at Anjuthenginmoodu when policemen attached to the Kattakada police came into two jeeps and allegedly manhandled the students, aged 17 years, when they attempted to flee. Students’ stance They were taken into custody and let off later in the day. The students claimed they had gathered to attend online classes at a location near a temple where they usually met. Fearing prosecution for violating lockdown, they fled on seeing the police. However, they were apprehended and assaulted, allegedly with cable wires, by the police. The police also allegedly stomped on one student who had fallen on the ground. They were also accused of hurling abuses at the students’ parents. Police version However, the police maintained they had gone to the spot after receiving information that the youngsters were consuming drugs and watching pornographic content. They said they had to resort to forceful techniques after the students tried to flee. They, however, denied having manhandled them. Deputy Inspector of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, Sanjaykumar Gurudin ordered an inquiry and tasked the Kattakada Dy.SP with submitting a report on the incident. The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights have also launched a probe. Commission chairman K.V. Manoj Kumar recorded the statements of the youngsters and the police. He recovered a cable wire from the jeep of Kattakada police that was allegedly used to assault the students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/row-over-police-assault-on-students/article34757357.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Tetrapots’ may guard coastline||Searching for suitable technologies for guarding the State’s coastline against erosion, the Irrigation Department is looking at a concept which combines concrete tetrapods and mangroves. In its basic shape, the ‘tetrapot’ mimics tetrapods, the familiar four-limbed, concrete blocks that are piled along coastlines as a defence against waves. But tetrapots are more like flower pots as they have hollow spaces inside for planting mangrove seeds. Holes are provided in the structure so that the roots can spread downward to the seabed. Offering a natural green defence against erosion aside, the mangroves help to hold the concrete blocks in place on the seabed, says Alex Varghese, Chief Engineer, Irrigation and Administration. “We are planning to try out 100 tetrapots along selected locations along the coast,” Mr. Varghese says. These structures appear to be suited best to coastlines featuring shallow water. The department is planning to consult the social forestry wing to identify suitable mangrove species. With sea erosion emerging as a major challenge in recent years, the State government had announced coastal conservation measures estimated at roughly Rs. 5,300 crore over the next five years in the revised Budget. Technologies such as double-layered tetrapods, mangroves, rolling barrier systems, geocontainers and geotubes are to be employed for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tetrapots-may-guard-coastline/article34757349.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||College teachers to be trained in digital tools||The Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) is set to launch its second-phase training programme for teachers in techno-pedagogy. The council, which had trained 1,800 teachers last year, has been focusing on providing exposure on the use of digital tools. While the agency earlier imparted training on Information and Communications Technology (ICT) in outcome-based teaching, it now intends to conduct online workshops in digital portfolios on mission mode for 2,000 teachers within the next six months. Indicators Rajan Gurukkal, vice chairman, said that various schemes initiated by the University Grants Commission (UGC) in recent times were an indicator that teachers who were not adept at using web-based techno-pedagogic tools and creating technology-enhancing learning environment could become redundant. Higher education institutions that lacked an optimised learning management system with digital portfolios also could become superfluous in the times to come. According to him, teachers would cease to remain knowledge-providers of a teacher-centric and top-down teaching system, but facilitators in a student-centric and bottom-up learning system that is gaining traction at a rapid pace. Teachers would have to gain competency in using tools like Popplet, Padlet, Miro, Whimsical, Google Drawing, Concept-based, Mind-map, Infographic, Coggle, Wireframe, and Bubbl. He also asserted online learning could be made equitable and accessible only through bridging digital divide. “Undoubtedly, technology-enhanced learning widens the digital divide and makes higher education exclusively elitist. Confining education to a minority through centralisation and electronic sophistication is what corporates demand. We can fight this only through mitigating the digital divide and updating higher education technologically,” he said. “It is also vital we updated our institutions in techno-pedagogy and join hands to provide laptops and other devices to the marginalised. The failure to do so could result in our State universities and colleges getting pushed out from the mainstream,” he cautioned.  KSHEC to conduct online workshops for 2,000 teachers in six months||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-teachers-to-be-trained-in-digital-tools/article34757353.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More infectious variant likely during third wave||Health Minister Veena George told the Assembly here on Monday that it was possible that a more transmissible mutant virus variant could emerge in the third wave of COVID-19 in the State and that those who had not been vaccinated could be more susceptible to serious disease and death. The government was trying to get everyone vaccinated as fast as possible. Children, who had not been vaccinated at all, could remain vulnerable in the third wave and hence the government was paying special attention to augmenting paediatric treatment facilities across the State, she said. It was as part of the State’s preparation for the third wave that special measures were being taken to vaccinate all chronically ill and bed-ridden persons and those on palliative care. Steps were being taken to supply the vaccine to camps of migrant labourers as well, the Minister said. Spot registration Testing would be intensified and if new case clusters were discovered, strict restrictions in movement would be imposed to control disease transmission, Ms. George said, in reply to questions by Linto Joseph, C.K. Hareendran, N. K. Akbar and P. S. Supal. The government would facilitate spot registration at vaccination centres for those who need to travel abroad. Those travelling abroad would have to produce their visa and passport at the vaccination centre. All district medical officers had been instructed to make vaccines available to them, she added. Those travelling abroad did not require online registration on the CoWin portal, while for all other categories, online registration was compulsory for receiving vaccines. Vaccine for 60-plus Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said after a review meeting that the vaccination of the 60-plus age group has picked up pace in the State and that its attempt was to finish the entire process as soon as possible. As directed by the High Court, advocates and other court officials will be included in the priority category for vaccination. Private bus employees will also be included in the priority category. Mr. Vijayan said private hospitals would be given necessary help for carrying out the vaccination process. He directed that in all districts, private hospitals be involved in the vaccination process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-infectious-variant-likely-during-third-wave/article34757429.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Opposition walks out during question hour||United Democratic Front (UDF) legislators walked out of the Assembly during question hour on Monday accusing Speaker M.B. Rajesh of permitting the ruling front to table “loaded queries” to denigrate the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheeshan doubted whether the Speaker had followed the correct procedure by allowing three “leading questions” that accused the UDF of undermining the previous government’s attempts to mitigate the social distress and economic devastation caused by back-to-back natural disasters and the Nipah and COVID-19 outbreaks. Mr. Satheeshan said the ruling front’s questions were more like an accusation than a genuine query. He raised a point of order. Mr. Rajesh said he would rule on the point of order raised by the Leader of the Opposition later. However, the House’s rules did not give the Speaker any authority to remove a question raised by a legislator. Only the MLA who submitted the question had the authorisation to do so. Upset by the Speaker’s reply, Mr. Satheeshan led the Opposition benches in a walkout, telling Mr. Rajesh that “you (Speaker) are not protecting us (Opposition).” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who replied to the questions, steered clear of dwelling on the controversial portion of the query.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/opposition-walks-out-during-question-hour/article34757431.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KWA to increase its testing labs to 70||The Kerala Water Authority (KWA) plans to increase the number of water quality testing laboratories under it at the sub-district level to 70 during the current financial year. The modernisation of existing district and sub-district labs and the establishment of new labs are being taken up under the Centrally assisted rural water supply programme Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in which water quality monitoring and surveillance (WQM&S) form an important component. At present, Kerala has 32 sub-district labs and 14 district labs in addition to the State Referral Institute for Water Quality (SRI) at Nettoor in Ernakulam district. Many of the sub-district laboratories have been operating alongside the district laboratories. In modernising the Statewide laboratory network, the sub-district facilities are in the process of becoming separate entities, a KWA official said. “The idea is to have five sub-district-level labs in every district,” the official said. Allocation The Ministry of Jal Shakti Ministry has allocated Rs. 36.09 crore as Central grants-in-aid for WQM&S activities under the JJM during 2021-22. In May, the Centre had also approved the release of Rs. 451.14 crore as its share for the implementation of the JJM in Kerala during 2021-22. The JJM costs are shared 50:50 by the Centre and State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kwa-to-increase-its-testing-labs-to-70/article34757421.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Deposit dredged sand on eroded coast: Minister||The sand dredged from the harbour mouth at Vizhinjam should be deposited in the coastal erosion-affected stretch from Poonthura to Veli, Transport Minister Antony Raju has said. Mr. Raju has written to Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian seeking the formulation of a detailed plan in this regard. Sand bars Sand bars were being formed at Vizhinjam due to the northward currents. The Adani Group, which was constructing the Vizhinjam seaport, had agreed to dredge the accumulated sand, free of cost, the Minister said. Steps should be taken to ensure that the dredged sand was deposited along the stretches north of Vizhinjam that faced severe coastal erosion, he said. Three fishermen had been killed after fishing boats capsized reportedly after hitting the underwater sandbars on the night of May 25. Local fishermen had brought the issue to the notice of Mr. Raju and Mr. Cherian who visited the region on May 26. Subsequently, steps were taken to remove the accumulated sand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/deposit-dredged-sand-on-eroded-coast-minister/article34757359.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) MLA asked to pay fine of Rs. 2,500||CPI(M) legislator representing Devikulam A. Raja, who had erred in taking oath as MLA before the pro tem Speaker on May 24 and attended the House for five days will have to pay a fine of Rs. 2,500. In his ruling in the House on Monday, Speaker M. B. Rajesh said Mr. Raja’s swearing-in before the pro tem Speaker was ‘not in order’ and that he will have to pay Rs. 500 each for attending the House on May 24, 25, 28, 31 and June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-mla-asked-to-pay-fine-of-rs-2500/article34757424.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM welcomes Modi’s free vaccine programme||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to supply vaccines free of cost to States. Mr. Vijayan tweeted: “The Hon. Prime Minister’s declaration that the COVID-19 vaccine will be supplied free of cost to the States from June 21 is the most appropriate response at this hour. I am happy that our request has been positively responded to by the Prime Minister.” Global tender The State had earlier criticised the Union government for asking States to procure the bulk of the required vaccine shots through a global tender from the open market. In an open letter to the Prime Minister, Mr. Vijayan had pointed out that pharmaceutical majors were unwilling to negotiate with individual States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-welcomes-modis-free-vaccine-programme/article34757430.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strong rainfall likely from June 10||The west coast, including the State, can expect widespread rainfall from June 10 onwards, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. Although the southwest monsoon set in over the State on June 3, it is yet to gain strength in the State. Rainfall has been deficient by 22% between June 1 and June 7. A low pressure area likely to form in the north Bay of Bengal on June 11. Southwesterly winds over Arabian Sea are also likely to strengthen from June 10. Consequently, the weather agency has put Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki on yellow alert on June 10 and 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strong-rainfall-likely-from-june-10/article34757432.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KEAM programme on VICTERS channel||The KITE VICTERS educational channel will telecast a special programme at 8 a.m. on Tuesday and 9 a.m. on Wednesday to clear doubts relating to submitting applications for the KEAM (engineering and pharmacy) entrance examinations for admission to the professional courses. YouTube channel too The programme can also be accessed through the the VICTERS YouTube channel too, according to a statement by the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keam-programme-on-victers-channel/article34757354.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||University examinations postponed||All examinations conducted by universities, functioning under the Higher Education Department, which were scheduled to get under way on June 15, have been postponed. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu issued an instruction in this regard in wake of the government’s decision to extend the Statewide lock down until June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/university-examinations-postponed/article34757358.ece
08 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Crisis gives rise to many agri-enterprises||Agriculture and allied sectors are emerging as potential fields of entrepreneurship as the disruptions caused by COVID-19 have hit employment opportunities hugely. While loss of jobs and declining profits worry many, the pandemic has opened a vast field of opportunities in agribusiness, food processing and food delivery. Many youngsters are entering the field now, says Dr. K.P Sudheer, Head of the ABI KAU (Agri Business Incubator under the Kerala Agricultural University). “Kerala has many successful agri startups now. They are getting support from the government. Recently, 16 startups supported by the ABI KAU bagged a Central fund of Rs. 1.95 crore for pre-seed stage and seed-stage,” he says. A mobile veterinary service by Priya Prakasan, which provides a unique and innovative method of veterinary service delivery at the doorstep; Agromech innovations of Suresh P.V., who developed a reasonable solution to the problem of poultry growers with litter racking machine, and Kocoos Industries of Sijoy K.C., who developed a standardised coconut peeling machine are some of the startups, which received government grant. “The KAU ABI also links farmers and entrepreneurs. There are many farmers, who find it difficult to sell their produce due to lockdown restrictions. KAU ABI, established with financial and technical aid from Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sector Rejuvenation under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, is providing technical and financial support to emerging startups amidst the pandemic situation.” adds Dr. Sudheer. Temperature-controlled and vacuum frying-based innovations - Dr. Jackfruit India Pvt. Ltd of Manas Madhu and Crimz Food Products of Mr. Abhilash K. Khas; a black soldier fly based waste processing method by Jijo Paul of EVR Innovations Pvt. Ltd; gluten-free pasta and noodles from millet and tapioca flour from Bindu K. of Sankalp ATMA Group and dairy alternative coconut milk-based drink for the lactose intolerant and vegan population, developed by Aadrics Agro Products Pvt.Ltd of M/S Chithra K. Kumar are some of the other successful startups in the State. “Continuous lockdown creates opportunities for food e-retail systems. E-commerce and delivery-based sectors are booming at large. Recent studies by the CII reveal that by 2022, of the total retail market, food retail will form 70% of the business in India,” says Dr. T.P. Sethumadhavan, Deputy Director of the Animal Husbandry, and former Director of Entrepreneurship of the Kerala Veterinary Animal Sciences University (KVASU). Now, agriculture is moving towards agribusiness, the food processing sector with ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook segments are acquiring momentum across the country. “Production of animal protein sources like milk, egg, meat, and meat products emerge as potential measures to address food security and protein malnutrition. Policies and programmes related to this sector will be one of the thrust areas in the post-COVID phase. A lot of entrepreneurship opportunities exist in this sector,” says Dr. Sunil, Head, Meat Technology Unit of the KAVSU.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/crisis-gives-rise-to-many-agri-enterprises/article34757398.ece
08 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||BJP alleges bias in Kodakara black money case probe||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to damage the image of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) using the Kodakara black money robbery case, BJP State vice president A.N. Radhakrishnan has alleged. Addressing mediapersons here on Monday, he said the party will fight against this. “The Chief Minister is the captain of a quotation gang. The media is doing public relations work for him by hunting the BJP. “The police, investigating the case, are highly biased. The BJP will organise agitation across the State against this,” he said. “The LDF government, which turned autocratic with its huge majority, is violating all democratic principles. A faction in the police, which favours the Communist party, is investigating the Kodakara case,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-alleges-bias-in-kodakara-black-money-case-probe/article34757403.ece
08 June 2021||VILLUPURAM,KERALA||No place for Sasikala in AIADMK: former Minister||Former Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Monday said that the AIADMK was a cadre-based party and ex-interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala had no place in the party. Speaking to reporters at the party office in Villupuram, Mr. Shanmugam said that Ms. Sasikala is not a member of the AIADMK and had no links with the organisation. Replying to a question on Ms. Sasikala’s leaked audio clips hinting at her political return, he said that when MGR (M. G. Ramachandran) founded the AIADMK, he had made it clear that it was only the cadres and rank and file who were the pillars and formed the foundation of the organisation. Several prominent leaders in the AIADMK who had claimed to be the face of the party after MGR had become irrelevant over the course of time, he said. He said that Ms. Sasikala had come into contact with Amma (Jayalalithaa) as an aide at her house and had no connection whatsoever with the AIADMK. Even if several Sasikalas came up with claims of representing the AIADMK, the party would stand as a rock, Mr. Shanmugam added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/she-is-not-a-member-and-has-no-place-in-party-cve-shanmugam/article34757371.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||A different test||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-different-test/article34757717.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood concerns||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/livelihood-concerns/article34757750.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traders in turmoil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-in-turmoil/article34757719.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sea fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sea-fury/article34757713.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||United for Lakshadweep||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/united-for-lakshadweep/article34757715.ece
08 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCC chief demands COVID vaccine to all free of cost||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath has criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not announcing universal COVID-19 vaccination policy in his address to the nation on Monday. He took objection to the announcement that 25% of the vaccine doses would be administered through private hospitals for a price. “Universal vaccination is not a choice, but the rights of citizens and the Centre must take responsibility and procure the vaccine doses needed. It pains to listen to the Prime Minister, who does not speak anything about the suffering of the people or the loss of lives due to lopsided vaccination policy or handling of the public health infrastructure,” Mr. Sailajanath said. The Prime Minister should at least now listen to what Rahul Gandhi had suggested and not waste time in getting the free universal vaccination done funded by the government, he said and accused the NDA government of trying to do business with COVID vaccine by involving private players. Improve health infra in State: BJP Meanwhile, BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the Prime Minister announced free vaccination at government hospitals and supply rice and wheat for the BPL families till November free of cost. “The State government will now save money on this front as the Centre has taken the responsibility. The State government must spend the amount saved on improving the health infrastructure to face the possible third wave,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apcc-chief-demands-covid-vaccine-to-all-free-of-cost/article34757795.ece
08 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TANA, IRCS donate oxygen concentrators||The Telugu Association of North America(TANA) and Indian Red Cross Society(IRCS) have donated five oxygen concentrators to the Super Speciality Hospital, while the 1988 batch of the LRG School Alumni Association donated five concentrators to the JNTUA COVID Care Centre. Joint Collector A. Siri, IRCS chairperson Kapu Bharathi and Rayadurg MLA Kapu Ramachandra Reddy received the material at the 300-bed temporary hospital on Monday, Red Cross district field officer B. Ramesh said. At the JNTUA care centre, the machines were handed over to District COVID Nodal Officer Padmavathi in the presence of JNTUA Vice-Chancellor M. Ranga Janardhan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tana-ircs-donate-oxygen-concentrators/article34757775.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||States target case graph, extend lockdowns||Karnataka on Monday reported 11,958 new cases of COVID-19, of which 1,992 were from Bengaluru Urban. The State added 340 more deaths. There were 2,38,824 active patients, and the test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 9.08% from 1,31,553 tests, including 1,03,075 RT-PCR tests. Kerala extended the State lockdown till June 16. It reported 9,313 new cases on Monday, testing 70,569 samples. The day’s TPR, however, showed a dip at 13.2% from 14.27%. Cumulative COVID-19 fatalities crossed the 10,000 mark on Monday, at 10,157 deaths, when the State added 221 deaths from the past few days. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the State was yet to achieve the desired reduction in the transmission rate. The State would shut down entirely on June 12 and 13. The administration would allow only indispensable activity during the weekend. As per new regulations, ration shops and stores selling food, groceries, fruits, vegetables, milk, and dairy products could open between 7 a.m. and 7.30 p.m. There was no restriction on medical shops and fuel pumps. Andhra Pradesh reported the lowest single-day count of coronavirus infections and the lowest daily TPR in two months. On Monday, the State recorded 4,872 infections, the lowest in 54 days, and a TPR of 7.52%. Another 86 people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 11,552 . There were 1,14,510 active cases in the State. The State government extended the curfew by 10 days from June 10 to 20 with relaxation from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. from June 11. The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in a day in Tamil Nadu dropped below 20,000 after 36 days on Monday. There was a decline in the number of deaths as well. The State logged 19,448 cases and 351 deaths, taking its tally to 22,56,681 and toll to 27,356. The number of fatalities came down to under 400 after over two weeks. Vaccination coverage dropped to 28,763 on Monday, after officials cited shortage of vaccines in the State. The overall coverage stood at 97,35,420.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/states-target-case-graph-extend-lockdowns/article34757142.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Refrain from signature campaigns’||Internal bickering and confusion in the BJP over the issue of leadership change continued on Monday even as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked his party legislators to refrain from signature campaigns either in his favour or opposing him. His appeal on Twitter came a day after he publicly said that he would step down from his role if the party high command wishes him to do so. On Monday, legislators identified in his camp, not only met him, but also indicated a signature campaign to rally behind the veteran Lingayat leader. “At a time when people are struggling with the COVID-19 pandemic, every BJP legislator should focus on controlling it in their constituency. I appeal to all not to indulge in signature campaigns or issue political statements and instead help people,” Mr. Yediyurappa tweeted after his political secretary and Honnali legislator M.P. Renukacharya said he has signatures of 65 legislators with him in support of the Chief Minister. Sources close to the Chief Minister said Mr. Renukacharya, who met Mr. Yediyurappa in the morning, also asked him to be strong and not to issue statements that will portray him to be weak. Sources, however, said the signatures collected were old and were done when Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa approached the Governor to complain earlier. During the course of the day, about 15 legislators met the Chief Minister to express solidarity with him, while several others spoke to him on phone. Legislators demanded removal of Tourism Minister C.P. Yogeshwar, who publicly attacked the Chief Minister’s son B.Y. Vijayendra, sources said. Earlier, Mr. Renukcharya told reporters that the letter containing signatures of 65 legislators would be submitted to the party high command after the COVID crisis is overcome to prevail upon them to continue Mr. Yediyurappa as the chief minister. Turning his tirade on Vijayapura legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, he said that his statements are being used by the Opposition. "Though some leaders cannot even help the party win the neighbouring constituency, they speak about Mr. Yediyurappa," he added. Senior Ministers differ However, the signature campaign by Mr. Renukacharya did not find favour among senior cabinet ministers, who said it was not appropriate. While Revenue Minister R. Ashok in Bengaluru said that there is no reason for the signature campaign, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa in Ballari said that it was not in BJP's culture to have signature campaigns. "No one has asked for a signature campaign and the party high command will decide on the leadership issue. There is no need to give importance to the signature collection," Mr. Eshwarappa said. A close aide of a cabinet minister said that those who migrated to BJP in 2019, triggering the fall of H.D. Kumaraswamy led Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition and enabling the formation of the Yediyurappa government had expressed anxiety over the confusion. In the centre of controversy, Minister C. P. Yogeshwar, who tried to meet the party high command recently, refused to further talk. "I have expressed my pain where it matters. I have not spoken against the government. Mr. Yediyurappa is our leader and there is no doubt about it," he told reporters here. He refused to be drawn into responding to statements of other party leaders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/refrain-from-signature-campaigns/article34757138.ece
08 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC asks govt. to clarify decision on sale of land to JSW||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to clarify its decision related to sale of 3,677 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre, and submit documents related to decisions taken in this regard. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction on PIL petition filed by K.A. Paul, resident of Bengaluru. During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel pointed out to the Bench that it was widely reported in the media about the decision taken by the State Cabinet in April last week but the government was not responding to documents sought by the petitioner under RTI. The High Court, during May last week, had allowed the petitioner, who had filed another petition on the same issue without proper format, to file a fresh petition. Meanwhile, the government on May 27 had decided to put on hold its earlier decision to sell land at Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre to the company citing litigations pending on the issue both in the High Court and the apex court. Earlier, the government counsel told the Bench that the decision taken by the Cabinet cannot be implemented unless an official Government Order is issued while seeking time to take instructions from officials. The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the State government to clarify its decision related to sale of 3,677 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre, and submit documents related to decisions taken in this regard. A Division Bench issued the direction on PIL petition filed by K.A. Paul, resident of Bengaluru. During the hearing, the petitioner’s counsel pointed out to the Bench that it was widely reported in the media about the decision taken by the State Cabinet in April last week but the government was not responding to documents sought by the petitioner under RTI. The High Court, during May last week, had allowed the petitioner, who had filed another petition on the same issue without proper format, to file a fresh petition. Meanwhile, the government on May 27 had decided to put on hold its earlier decision to sell land at Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre to the company citing litigations pending on the issue both in the High Court and the apex court. Earlier, the government counsel told the Bench that the decision taken by the Cabinet cannot be implemented unless an official Government Order is issued while seeking time to take instructions from officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-asks-govt-to-clarify-decision-on-sale-of-land-to-jsw/article34757137.ece
08 June 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Minister Mumtaz Ali Khan passes away||Former Minister Mumtaz Ali Khan, 94, passed away here at his residence on Monday. He held the portfolio of Haj, Wakf and Minority Welfare in the B.S. Yediyurappa Ministry in 2008. As there was no legislator in the BJP from the minority communities, Mr. Khan was brought into the Cabinet. As he was not a member of the legislature, he was made an MLC. He had gone with Mr. Yediyurappa when the latter launched the Karnataka Janata Party. During his tenure as Wakf Minister, he is credited to have almost solved the year-old problem with ITC Windsor, which is a Wakf property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/former-minister-mumtaz-ali-khan-passes-away/article34757139.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protect LGBTQIA+ community: HC||Empathising with the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual and such others’ (LGBTQIA+) community, the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment to enlist non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that could provide counselling, monetary support, legal assistance and protection to them until a law could be enacted to protect them. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh ordered that the Ministry upload the details of the NGOs, along with their address, contact details and the services provided by them, on its website within eight weeks and revise the information periodically. Any person who faced an issue because he/she/they belonged to the LGBTQIA+ community could approach any of the enlisted NGOs for safeguarding their rights, the judge said. It was also ordered that the NGOs, in consultation with the Ministry, should maintain confidential records of such persons who approached them and the aggregate data be submitted to the Ministry bi-annually. Making it clear that the victims should be provided need-based relief, the court said the NGOs should also coordinate with the police with respect to offences committed against them. The court further ordered that appropriate changes be made to the existing government short stay homes, anganwadi shelters, Garima Greh (shelter home for transgender persons) for providing accommodation, food, medical care and recreational facilities to those from the community in need of such assistance. The Ministry was directed to create the infrastructural requirements within 12 weeks. Sensitisation programmes could also be conducted for all stakeholders, including police and prison authorities, judges, physical and mental health professionals, educational institutions, health workers, public and private workplaces, the judge said and directed Additional-Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan and Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram to file their compliance reports by August 31. The interim orders were passed on a writ petition filed by two young women who had fled from Madurai to Chennai because their parents were opposed to their relationship. After directing the Madurai police to keep their hands off the issue, Justice Venkatesh decided to pen down an elaborate judgment on the subject at the request of the petitioners’ counsel, S. Manuraj. Observing that his own upbringing had always treated the terms homosexual, gay and lesbian as anathema and that a majority of the society stood in the same position of ignorance, the judge said he underwent a psychoeducation session before penning his verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protect-lgbtqia-community-hc/article34757134.ece
08 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic spreads in Chittoor as 15 children test positive||Fear of a dreaded third wave is gripping Chittoor district after it emerged that 15 children under the age of 10 had tested positive for COVID-19 in the past 24 hours. Health officials confirmed on Monday that two children are currently on ventilator at the children’s hospital, an ancillary wing of the SVRR Government Hospital in Tirupati. Sources said the number of children being taken to testing centres is on the rise in the past few days. Though there were isolated cases of infection among children since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year, the number of children now testing positive is unnerving parents. District Medical and Health Officer U. Sreehari told The Hindu that an emergency virtual conference was held with medical officers at the mandal-level on Monday to take stock of the situation, keeping in view the threat of a third wave. Parents were advised to get their children tested for the virus immediately in case they showed any symptoms. It is observed that when the children are infected with the virus, they would be mostly asymptomatic and pose the risk of infecting their parents and other elderly family members. In spite of the lockdown strictures, many children in the age group of 5-12 are to be found actively meeting each other in their neighborhoods. News of COVID cases and casualties coming down across the country has led many people to drop their guard and allow their children to mingle with their friends in the evenings, which can prove to be risky, said doctors. Doctors also dismissed fears that prolonged wearing of masks would be dangerous for children. “With the threat of the third wave looming large, there should be no room for such silly theories,” said a senior paediatrician in Chittoor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panic-spreads-in-chittoor-as-15-children-test-positive/article34757777.ece
08 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate goes up to 92.33%||The recovery rate of coronavirus infection in the State has gone up to 92.33%, the health officials informed Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy during a review meeting at his camp office on Monday. The number of active cases also declined to 1.23 lakh when compared to 2.11 lakh on May 17. The health officials explained to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) for the coronavirus infection in the State declined to 10.73% by Sunday. As many as 1,753 ICU beds were available on June 6 when compared to 380 on May 15. The number of available beds with oxygen support facility that was 433 on May 17 has gone up to 8,701,” the officials said, adding that 90,553 people are in home isolation at present. Mucormycosis The State has recorded 1,551 black fungus infections till date and the disease has claimed 98 lives so far, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recovery-rate-goes-up-to-9233/article34757787.ece
08 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grameena bank posts net profit of Rs. 101 crore||Chaitanya Godavari Grameena Bank, a regional rural bank sponsored by Union Bank of India, has reported a net profit of Rs. 101 crore in the 2020-21 financial year. The bank’s audited financials were approved by the Board of Directors on June 5, 2021. “The bank achieved a growth rate of 23% with a total business of Rs. 12, 817 crore as on March 31, 2021. Deposits increased from Rs. 5,380 crore to Rs. 6,540 crore and advances increased from Rs. 5,037 crore to Rs. 6,277 crore,” said bank chairman T. Kameswara Rao. The bank reported gross NPAs of Rs. 68.69 crore and the gross NPA ratio stood at 1.09%. CGB has 222 branches in East and West Godavari districts. The bank had 59 ATMs and 239 business correspondents. The bank proposes to expand its branch network during the current year by opening 13 new branches, Mr. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grameena-bank-posts-net-profit-of-rs-101-crore/article34757187.ece
08 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Children to be given diet supplements||District Collector Vivek Yadav said that nutrition supplements would be provided to children through Anganwadi centres in the district. After inaugurating an exhibition of multi-nutrients at Revenue Kalyana Mandapam, Mr. Vivek Yadav said that the children would be provided nutritious food and awareness would be raised on consumption of eggs, meat and fresh vegetables and nuts in the backdrop of the possibility of a third COVID-19 wave affecting children. Joint Collector (VS/WS and Development) P. Prasanthi said that a blend of home-cooked food and nutritious diet would help children develop immunity. JC (Housing) Anupama Anjali said that parents should ensure that children are given nutritious diet. Later , Mr. Vivek Yadav reviewed the preparedness for an imminent third wave with the Health and Medical Department and said that paediatric wards should be set up at Area Hospitals, CHCs and teaching hospitals. Task Force Committee member T. Chandrasekhara Reddy gave a power-point presentation on the steps to be taken to increase preparedness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/children-to-be-given-diet-supplements/article34757188.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eatala formal entry into BJP either on June 13 or 14||Former minister for Health Eatala Rajendra is scheduled to pay another visit to New Delhi either on June 13 or 14 to formally join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of party national president J.P. Nadda, it is learnt here on Monday. Party sources said TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, who has been in constant touch with the ex-TRS leader, will be talking to the latter again on Monday night before finalising the time and date of the joining. Member of Parliament from Secunderabad and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, another key leader, instrumental in this latest entry into the party, will also be taken into confidence before finalising the plan. Mr. Rajender had already visited Delhi and had an initial round of discussions with the BJP leaders there on what lies in store for him if he joined the party. Apparently, the former minister is keen that Union Home Minister Amit Shah be present when he makes a formal entry but this has not yet been finalised considering his preoccupations. Party sources indicated that apart from Mr. Nadda, other leaders to be present could be general secretary Tarun Chugh, Mr. Kishan Reddy, Mr. Sanjay Kumar and Mr. Vivek Venkatswamy. It is quite possible Mr. Rajender would be taken to Mr. Shah’s office or residence later too. As far as the BJP is concerned, it would want him to resign from the Huzurabad Assembly constituency and contest on the party ticket in the subsequent byelection as it feels a victory could be the perfect launch for the blitzkrieg to be unleashed against the current ruling dispensation in the State. The former minister is presently in his Huzurabad constituency, holding parleys with his followers on the challenges ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eatala-formal-entry-into-bjp-either-on-june-13-or-14/article34757135.ece
08 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15-month-old undergoes surgery for black fungus infection||The doctors of the Government General Hospital (GGH), Kakinada have performed the Functional Endoscopic Sinus Surgery (FESS) on a 15-month-old boy, A. Janaki Nandan, who is suffering from Mucormycosis (black fungus) infection. A native of Penugonda village of West Godavari district, Janaki Nandan was admitted to the GGH for a week ago. “On June 3, the GGH doctors performed the surgery. Janaki Nandan is out of danger and recovering from the infection. He is believed to be the youngest boy to undergo the FESS surgery for the black fungus in the country as per the government records” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said on Monday. State-of-the-art facility Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said the GGH, Kakinada is equipped with the state-of-the-art medical infrastructure and expertise to treat Mucormycosis (black fungus) patients. By Monday, 92 patients suffering from black fungus were undergoing treatment at the GGH and the doctors have performed surgery on 21 patients soi far. Of the 92 patients, 73 were infected with the black fungus after they recovered from COVID-19. “As many as 152 black fungus patients from East and West Godavari districts have been admitted to the GGH, Kakinada till date,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and Mr. Muralidhar Reddy appreciated the efforts of the GGH-Kakinada doctors for the successful surgery. Those suffering from black fungus infection can undergo the test at the GGH, Kakinada.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-month-old-undergoes-surgery-for-black-fungus-infection/article34757789.ece
08 June 2021||KASARAGOD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court gives nod for case against Surendran||The Kasaragod First Class Judicial Magistrate Court on Monday granted permission to file a case against BJP State president K. Surendran. The court order came in connection with a petition filed by CPI(M) leader V.V. Rameshan, candidate in the Manjeswaram constituency during the Assembly elections, demanding the arrest of BJP leaders who allegedly paid money, gave mobile phone and promised other favours to a candidate to withdraw his nomination from Manjeswara. Apart from Mr. Surendran, the court allowed the case against two local BJP leaders. The police have been directed to file a case under Section 171B (bribery to sabotage elections) of the Indian Penal Code. Bribery disclosure K. Sundara, who had filed his nomination papers as BSP candidate in the constituency, had revealed that he was given money and mobile by BJP leaders. Mr. Rameshan approached the Kasaragod court as its permission was required to file the case. His lawyer said that if the FIR was registered, more cases could be filed based on Mr. Sundara's statement. Arrest An arrest could be made under Section 171B of the IPC alone, he added. Mr. Rameshan had lodged a complaint with the District Police Chief after Mr. Sundara disclosed that BJP leaders, including Sunil Naik, Suresh Naik and Ashok Shetty, visited his house on March 21 and gave an amount Rs. 2.5 lakh and a smartphone to withdraw his nomination. Mr. Ramesan also went to the Badiyadukka police station and gave his statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-gives-nod-for-case-against-surendran/article34757140.ece
08 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 82 cr. water pipeline for Kurnool: Mayor||Mayor B. Y. Ramaiah and Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji on Monday night announced that the State government had given the administrative sanction for the execution of a Rs. 82 crore project to bring drinking water from the Sunkesula Reservoir to the city. At a press conference here, the Mayor said it was a great achievement for the new Council to get this project for the city, which would very soon be the Judicial Capital of the State. “We as such have a scarcity of water to serve the far-flung areas of the city and this project will come in handy,” he added. Mr. Balaji said the State government issued G.O. No.266 dated June 7 (Monday) sanctioning Rs. 82 crore as the project estimate. A 23-km pipeline will be laid from the Sunkesula Reservoir to the Summer Storage Tank in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-82-cr-water-pipeline-for-kurnool-mayor/article34757779.ece
08 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lower fuel taxes’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday held protests against therise in fuel prices in front of petrol pumps in Kurnool. “The prices of petrol and diesel in our country are among the highest in the world, ” party’s district leader G. Ramakrishna said. Party leaders held placards demanding that petrol and diesel be brought under the purview of the GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lower-fuel-taxes/article34757778.ece
08 June 2021||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor to the rescue of crisis-hit zoos||A video featuring actor Darshan Thoogudeepa with an appeal to support the zoos of Karnataka that are badly affected by the COVID-19 pandemic has received good response from fans and others as Rs. 43 lakh donation has been received in just two days. The closure of all zoos due to lockdown resulted in zero revenue. All zoos, including Mysuru zoo and Bannerghatta Biological Park and smaller ones in Gadag Belagavi and other places, needed about Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 20 lakh daily for their maintenance. The annual maintenance of the zoos comes up to Rs. 60 crore. Out of the Rs. 43 lakh donation/adoptions of animals, Mysuru zoo got Rs. 23.81 lakh followed by Bannerghatta Biological Park Rs. 13 lakh. The second wave hit the zoos even before they could recover from the first. The zoos had again appealed to the public to adopt animals and donate to help them sustain, amidst the unprecedented crisis. Last year, the Mysuru zoo managed to raise Rs. 4 crore through public donations. The Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) had launched a mobile app to help people make donations. The app managed to collect Rs. 5 lakh last year. Mr. Darshan had visited the Mysuru zoo on the occasion of World Environment Day. ZAK member secretary B.P. Ravi said Mr. Darshan, who is an alumni of the Zoo Youth Club, volunteered to help the zoos by appearing in a video that was uploaded on the ZAK’s social media platforms. The video was shared on June 5 marking the World Environment Day. The video went viral and donations started pouring in. In two days, nearly 35,000 downloaded the ‘Zoos of Karnataka’ app, Mr. Ravi said. “Mr. Darshan was in the second batch of the youth club. We are thankful to him for being such a passionate supporter of the zoos of Karnataka,” Mr. Ravi said. The actor’s fans and others have donated amounts ranging from Rs. 50 to Rs. 5,000. The unique feature of the app, developed by young engineers of Chamarajanagar, is that the adoption certificate is generated online and shared to the donor’s mobile phone or email. Minister for Forest and Kannada and Culture Arvind Limbavali has thanked Mr. Darshan for his appeal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-to-the-rescue-of-crisis-hit-zoos/article34757151.ece
08 June 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Distribution of herbal preparation begins||The distribution of the herbal preparation by Ayurveda practitioner B. Anandaiah was launched in a decentralised manner from the Venkaiah Swamy temple at Golagamudi, near Venkatachalam, in Nellore district on Monday. The distribution of three variants of the herbal preparation was taken up amid tight security across the villages in Sarvepalli Assembly segment through volunteers after the inauguration of the medical camp by YSRCP MLA from Sarvepalli and the party’s district president Kakani Govardhan Reddy. The move came on the heels of the green signal given by the State government in the wake of the intervention by the High Court. As many as 20,000 packets of the herbal preparation was distributed on Monday, he said. “We will ensure distribution of the herbal preparation through a network of volunteers to 1.80 lakh families in the Assembly segment,” the MLA said. Meanwhile, followers of Mr. Anandaiah were jubilant as the Andhra Pradesh High Court gave its nod for the distribution of the ‘K’ variant of the herbal preparation that can reportedly cure viral diseases. The permitted variants of the preparation would be made available to patients at the COVID Care Centres across the district, Mr. Anandaiah said. Those seeking the herbal preparation from other districts would also be given if they approach him through NGOs to ensure distribution, after complying with COVID protocols, the MLA said. Police erected checkposts at Krishnapatnam and other places to prevent people from swarming the village. Barricades were put up on the Chennai-Kolkata highway under the supervision of Nellore Rural DSP Y. Harinath Reddy. Police had a tough time in preventing the crowds as people arrived to get the herbal preparation. Many entered the village through beaten tracks across farms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/distribution-of-herbal-preparation-begins/article34757791.ece
08 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases fall to 679 in Nellore, Prakasam||Continuing with the downward trend, new COVID infections fell to a little over 600 while 1,800-plus patients recovered in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours. However, COVID deaths continued unabated as 10 more patients, six in Prakasam district and four in SPSR Nellore district, succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Monday. With this, the toll rose to 1,691 in the region. So far, 858 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 833 patients in Prakasam have lost the battle against the viral disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh cases by 1,147. As many as 1,826 patients-- 1,243 in Prakasam and 583 patients in SPSR Nellore district-- recovered, bringing down the number of active cases to about 23,000. The recovery rate improved further to 89.37%. Meanwhile, Communist party of India (Marxist) State Secretary P. Madhu visited the COVID isolation centre set up by the Dachuri Rami Reddy Science centre in Ongole and assured the patients of best treatment for the disease. The Union and State governments were responsible for the large number of deaths during the second wave of coronavirus, he said. Religious events like Kumbh Mela turned out to be a hotbed of infections. . A team of doctors also took care of over 400 patients taking treatment at home in Prakasam district, said CPI(M) District Secretary P.Anjaneyulu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-cases-fall-to-679-in-nellore-prakasam/article34757781.ece
08 June 2021||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plastic pollution posing threat to ocean’s ecosystem in Vizag coast, say biologists||In September last year following the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic when scuba diver Subhash Chandran went for a dive off Rushikonda coast, he was aghast to see biomedical waste like surgical and cloth masks floating in the sea. Most of the waste was found at just about 100 metres from the shore and two metres deep. Over the next couple of days, he and his team removed more than 1,500 kg of waste from the sea bed. “The situation has only become worse every year,” says Mr. Subhash, founder of the scuba diving firm Platypus Escapes. So far, Mr. Subhash and his team of scuba divers have pulled out nearly 23,500 kg of garbage including plastics, cloth, bottles and other non-biodegradable materials from the seabed since they started their sea clean-up initiative in 2019. Back in December last year, another scuba diving team led by Balaram Naidu of Livein Adventures collected around 600 kg of plastic and biomedical waste from the seabed in Rushikonda coast. On World Ocean Day, scuba divers and biologists say how plastic pollution is posing a grave threat to the ocean’s ecosystem in Visakhapatnam coast, which has reported a decline in marine species population over the past decade. From rescuing marine species like the threatened Olive Ridley turtle entangled in broken pieces of fishing nets in the sea to moray eels and smaller varieties like butterflyfish struggling to escape out of polythene covers, Mr. Subhash has maintained a logbook of species rescued during his dives along with the quantity of garbage pulled out every time. “The issue is aggravated through open drainage systems flowing into the ocean and the litter on the beach. Vizag coast has many coral species like compact coral, fire coral, barrel sponge coral and tube coral which support species like barracuda, red snapper, moorish idol and parrot fish. This ecosystem needs to be protected by a sustained campaign,” says Mr. Subhash, who has been carrying out a similar seabed clean-up initiative in the Andaman island. Biologists say that plastic waste breaks down into tiny particles in the ocean, which are ingested by marine life and eventually end up in human food chain. “The plastic debris is seen in microscopic planktons, which are the basis of marine food chain and has entered the system of predatory fish species like sharks, tuna and snappers. The effect of pollution on marine ecosystem has worsened with biomedical waste. Oceans make up two-thirds of the earth’s surface and are a large carbon sink which should be protected through a deeper study and tourism guidelines,” says M. Ram Murthy, founder of Dolphin Nature Conservation Society. “Protection of the ocean ecosystem has to begin by a strong campaign to filter plastic waste from open drainages going into the sea and taking up personal responsibility to stop littering our beaches. It takes years of work to pull back the garbage from the sea,” says Mr. Subhash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plastic-pollution-posing-threat-to-oceans-ecosystem-in-vizag-coast-say-biologists/article34757803.ece
08 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) warns of stir against property, garbage taxes||Communist party of India(CPI) State Secretary P.Madhu on Monday took strong objection to the State government’s decision to hike property and garbage collection taxes at the behest of the Centre. Addressing the media here, he said it was unfortunate that the Union and State governments were indifferent to the plight of the people at a time when coronavirus had wreaked havoc. The tax to help civic bodies clear garbage from the streets would pose a burden for the denizens, he felt. The pandemic had deprived the jobs of millions of people and it was inappropriate to hike the taxes at this juncture, he said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should take note of the sufferings of the people and immediately withdraw the Government Order issued, failing which the CPI(M) would wage a stir, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-warns-of-stir-against-property-garbage-taxes/article34757782.ece
08 June 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steady decline in COVID cases in district||On Monday, the district recorded 189 COVID-19 cases, which is said to be the lowest in the last two months. From April to May, the district has seen an unprecedented increase in cases and has recorded over 75,000 cases within a span of about 60 days. The second wave has hit the district hard, but there appears to be a glimmer of hope, as since last one week, there has been a steady decline in cases. “ Since the last one week, the positivity rate is hovering around 13%, which is a steep fall from the 30% to 40% rate that the district was recording, in the last two months,” said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. According to him, going by the trend of the district COVID graph, it appears that the positivity rate may drop to 5% by June 15 and to 1% by June-end. Though it is too early to say that the curve is flattening, there is a positive trend and a lot depends on the enforcement of the partial curfew and behaviour of the people. Focussed testing method The district administration has adopted the focussed testing method, wherein they are targeting people who have come into contact with a positive case and people with fever and their family members. The idea is to identify them early to break the chain of spread, said Dr. Sudhakar. A few senior doctors at the CSR block in KGH and VIMS, say that the partial curfew should be continued for at least three to four months to break the chain of spread and to keep the possible third wave at bay.  Speaking about the possible third wave, the doctors say that it can be expected in two to three months, after the lifting of the partial curfew. “But it depends on how and when we are lifting the curfew and behaviour of the people. If people again become complacent and neglect appropriate behaviour, then the third wave is imminent and we do not know in which mutated form the virus will strike. People have to be cautious and the enforcement agencies have to enforce it firmly but with an element of politeness,” said the Principal of Andhra Medical College. The important factor in keeping the third wave away is vaccination. It all depends on how fast we vaccinate at least 50% of the eligible population, including the 18+ age group. “If we can inoculate at least 50% of the eligible population, including the 18+, which is close to 17 to 20 lakhs in the next two to three months, then we can ward of the third wave, by combining it with appropriate behaviour,” said Dr. Sudhakar. But according to the Health Department, the vaccination programming is not going as desired. Make vaccines free for those who cannot afford and chargeable to those who can pay, said a senior doctor from KGH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steady-decline-in-covid-cases-in-district/article34757805.ece
08 June 2021||TADEPALLIGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NIT student selected for international contest||A first-year Chemical Engineering student, Ritu Kumari, of National Institute of Technology (NIT), A.P., has been selected for the international-level Box Langadi competition after winning at the national-level game held at Khammam. NIT Sports & Games In-charge Kiran Tripati said the international event would be held in Nepal soon. University Director C. S. P. Rao and In charge Registrar Dinesh Sankar Reddy congratulated Ms.Kumari on her achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nit-student-selected-for-international-contest/article34757196.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP brought in unaccounted funds: CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday told the Assembly that the BJP had moved unaccounted-for money into the State during the 2021 Assembly election campaign. The Chief Minister was replying to a notice for leave of the Assembly to discuss an adjournment motion by Congress legislator Shafi Parambil, who demanded that the House discuss the case to ensure a “truthful” police investigation into the alleged movement and subsequent highway robbery of the “BJP’s unaccounted election funds” at Kodakara in Thrissur on April 3, merely three days prior to the Assembly election on April 6. Mr. Vijayan said the BJP had laid down a smokescreen of lies against the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to cloak its illegal influence-creation operation fuelled by unaccounted money. The Congress had amplified the BJP’s false messaging, parroting the lies spread by “unprofessional” Central investigators, he said, without specifying the UAE gold smuggling controversy that dogged the previous LDF government at the fag end of its term. ‘Crime against polity’ The Chief Minister said black money endangered the sanctity of the electoral process and derailed statutory and truthful accounting of election expenditure. “The Kodakara case was a grave crime against the polity in that sense.” The State police have arrested 20 persons and recovered Rs. 1.12 crore out of the estimated Rs. 3.5 crore stolen during the highway robbery. They have also seized 347 grams of gold bought using the loot and recorded the statement of 96 witnesses. The Enforcement Directorate had sought the details of the case. The State police complied on June 1. Satheesan’s caution Leader of the Opposition, V.D. Satheesan, cautioned the ruling front against using the Kodakara case to strike a detente with the BJP. He said the Central investigation into the gold case centred on the previous LDF government had sputtered and stopped after the hawala heist “involving” BJP leaders had surfaced. The Kodakara probe faced the risk of becoming a circus clown’s slapstick, Mr. Satheesan said. The Speaker denied the Opposition’s motion after he found the Chief Minister’s reply satisfactory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-brought-in-unaccounted-funds-cm/article34757146.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second wave impacted youth more in Kerala, says Minister||In the second wave of COVID-19 in the State, disease transmission is the highest among the younger and middle-aged population. However, mortality continues to be the highest amongst the elderly, especially the 81-90 age group. The younger population in the State in the 21-30 age group is affected more by COVID-19 in its second wave, Health Minister Veena George said in the Assembly on Monday. No comorbidities Though mortality continued to be higher amongst older persons, it was notable that 18% of the individuals who died of COVID-19 in April and May did not have any significant comorbidities. Citing official figures till May 31, she said 2,61,232 persons in the 21-30 age group contracted the infection, while in the 31-40 age group, 2,52,935 positive cases were reported. In the 41-50 age group, 2,33,126 were affected. But mortality was the highest in the 81-90 years age group, with 17,105 persons contracting COVID-19, of whom 502 persons succumbed to the disease. The mortality rate among this age group was 2.93%. The mortality rate among the 71-80 year age group was 1.94%. It was 1.55% in the 91-100 years group. Official figures indicate that the mortality rate has not gone up amongst the younger population in the second wave of COVID-19. Mortality has been high mostly amongst the elderly and those with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, heart and renal diseases, cancer and thyroid problems, Ms. George said. During the second wave, in the months of April and May alone, 13,89,695 persons contracted the infection, while there were 4,020 deaths. Mucormycosis According to official data, as of May 31, as many as 57 cases of COVID-associated mucormycosis were reported in the State. Of these, four persons were from Tamil Nadu. Six cases of mucormycosis unrelated to COVID have also been reported in the State. A State-level panel has been formed by including experts to conduct a detailed study the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-wave-impacted-youth-more-in-kerala-says-minister/article34757144.ece
08 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New plant subspecies found in Kerala’s wildlife sanctuary||Researchers from the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) and the University of Kerala have discovered a new plant subspecies in the Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary (SWS) in Kollam district. Named after Kerala, the sub-species has found mention in the latest edition of Abrahamia , an international journal of plant sciences, published by the Department of Botany, Kerala University. In the Ghats The flowering plant, Rungia longifolia subsp. keralensis , has been discovered from the Western Ghats by a team that comprised E.S. Santhosh Kumar and Sam P. Mathew of the JNTBRI, R. Jagadeesan of the Department of Botany at Kerala University, and A. Gangaprasad, Director of the Centre for Biodiversity Conservation that functions under the department. The sub-species belongs to the Rungia longifolia herb species, endemic to Sri Lanka and comes under the Acanthaceae plant family. It was initially spotted in the Shendurney Wildlife Sanctuary in February 2016 and later in the Braemore forest in September 2016. Fewer than 100 mature individuals were located from both places. According to Dr. Gangaprasad, 19 Rungia taxa have been found in the country. Of these, 15, including seven species and eight varieties, are endemic to the Western Ghats. The new subspecies, known to have pinkish white flowers, usually flower and bear fruit between August and February. Diverse variants He pointed out that the presence of such diverse plant varieties called for intensive conservation efforts in the Western Ghats, especially its southern parts. Research is being undertaken to ascertain the medicinal properties of the newly-discovered herb, Dr. Gangaprasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/new-plant-subspecies-found-in-keralas-wildlife-sanctuary/article34757148.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second wave in State may wane by July 16, says study||The second wave of coronavirus has been estimated to be contained by July 16 in Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal, according to a scientific study conducted by the SRM University-Andhra Pradesh. The study employed Susceptible–Infected–Recovered (SIR) model by taking the official statistics on the number of infected people and those who have recovered. The SRM team comprising Dr. Soumyajyoti Biswas, an academic, and B.Tech students Anvesh Reddy, Hanesh Koganti, Sai Krishna and Suhas Reddy used the data available by the State government and applied machine learning principles to study them. The waning time of for second wave of the pandemic have been estimated to be different for different States— May 27 for Uttar Pradesh, May 28 for Delhi, July 1 for Karnataka, July 13 for Maharashtra, July 26 for A.P. and Tamil Nadu, August 12 for Kerala and September 2 for West Bengal. How it works The date of containment has been calculated as the day when the sliding numbers touch 5% of the peak figures. “Our model has been validated by the actual dates in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. Delhi witnessed a peak of 28,935 cases on April 20 and 5% of it (1,490) was predicted to occur on May 28. Delhi registered 1,491, 1,072 and 1141 cases respectively on May 26, 27 and 28,” says SRM University (A.P.) Pro V-C D. Narayana Rao, who initiated the study. In an interview to The Hindu , he said Uttar Pradesh recorded similar figures of 3,179, 2,276, 2,014 and 1,864 on May 27, 28, 29 and 30 respectively against the estimation of 1,897, which was 5% of 37,944 cases witnessed on April 24. Emboldened by the precision in the estimation for the northern States, the SRM team has also come up with estimated waning time for other States. Telangana touched the peak figure 11,000 on April 20 and its 5% (550) is predicted to occur on June 21. “The estimation is meant to help the industry estimate the impact of the pandemic on business, aid the education sector in planning the academic calendar and the government assess its health infrastructure,” said Mr. Narayana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/second-wave-in-state-may-wane-by-july-16-says-study/article34757191.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Padmavathi Nilayam praised for its upkeep||Padmavathi Nilayam, which has been serving as a COVID Care Centre (CCC) since the outbreak of the first wave, won plaudits from the State COVID-19 headquarters for its impeccable maintenance and outreach services. The facility was reopened this April after the outbreak of the second wave. Against its installed capacity to house 1,100 non-critical COVID patients, the facility currently houses 697 persons. The State COVID-19 team, led by Nodal Officer Arja Srikanth that visited the centre, was all praise on coming to know that 6,705 patients have recovered from here, including 258 persons under the age of 18 years since its relaunch on April 4. During the first wave, the building had initially served for a month as a quarantine centre for non-COVID cases and was then converted into a CCC. The facility is known for the coordination among its 60 medical staff working in three shifts round the clock. Three specialist doctors are available for emergency services, and there is a 30-bedded block with oxygen supply and a diagnostic lab to conduct blood tests and X-ray scans. Daily yoga sessions are organised to strengthen the patients physically and mentally and the distribution of ‘Kabasura Kudineer’, the Siddha medicine approved by the Department of AYUSH, is given to the patients to boost their immunity. The TTD management has not only allocated the building for the COVID Care Centre, but is also supplying groceries needed to prepare food for the inmates. “Patients who left the centre after successful recovery, came back with donations in the form of masks, sanitisers, oxygen concentrators and medical equipment,” says the centre’s nodal officer S. Lakshmi. One of the best management practices here includes the ‘colour-coded internal spreadsheet’ meant to note down the vitals of the patients, which is updated from time to time with deep red to deep green colour to indicate the seriousness, helping the duty doctor make a quick assessment. “Floor-wise WhatsApp groups have been created where inmates can post their grievances and requests, which will be addressed immediately,” Ms. Lakshmi added. The State team appreciated the TTD management and Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan for their initiative in setting up the CCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/padmavathi-nilayam-praised-for-its-upkeep/article34757185.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘It is a preventive drug for COVID infection’||Government whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy formally launched the distribution of a herbal preparation among the residents of his Chandragiri constituency on Monday. The herbal preparation, promoted by Ayurveda practitioner B. Anandaiah, is available in 100 gram boxes and will be distributed free of cost to 1.60 lakh households as a ‘preventive drug’ for COVID-19. In the first phase, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy distributed the drug to 10,000 families at a programme in Thondawada village of Chandragiri mandal. Recomended dose Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said that the her bal preparation would help keep COVID at bay by boosting one’s immunity. “Half a teaspoon of the powder should be taken in the morning and evening before food,” he told the recipients. The dos and don’ts and usage instructions are clearly mentioned in a leaflet which is given along with with the box. Mr. Reddy said safety measures like physical distancing and personal hygiene should to be followed even after taking the drug.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/it-is-a-preventive-drug-for-covid-infection/article34757793.ece
08 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdies warned of banishment from dist.||The police department has issued a stern warning to the rowdy elements and said that they could face banishment from the district if they did not mend their ways. Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Ch.Venkata Appala Naidu launched a counselling programme across the police district on Monday, where officials in the Deputy Superintendent rank summoned the rowdy elements and explained to them the punishment they could attract if they continued to remain in their list. Rowdy sheets are opened on those participating in crimes like extortion, lawless behaviour, violence, physical attacks etc, which will continue to remain in the police records to track the person based on his criminal behaviour. “The sheet is closed based on your disciplined behaviour and continued clean track record. “If you don’t mend your ways, your family will bear the impact and face the consequences,” the rowdy sheeters were warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rowdies-warned-of-banishment-from-dist/article34757189.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State records lowest daily tally, test positivity rate in two months||The State has reported the lowest single-day tally of coronavirus infections and the lowest daily test positivity rate (TPR) in the past two months. In the 24 hours ending Monday morning, the State recorded 4,872 new infections, the lowest in 54 days, and a TPR of 7.52%. The peak daily test positivity rate of 25.81% was reported on April 23 and it came down from 21% to 7.52% in the last two weeks. As many as 86 people succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 11,552 . The cumulative tally increased to 17,63,211 and so did the total recoveries that went up to 16,37,149, including 13,702 in the past day. There were 1,14,510 active cases in the State. The overall test positivity rate (TPR) of 1.98 crore samples tested was put at 8.88% while the recovery rate remained at 92.85%. Kadapa sees zero deaths Nearly half of the daily fatalities were reported in four districts. Chittoor reported 13 deaths in the past day, followed by Guntur (10), Anantapur and Srikakulam (nine each). Vizianagaram and West Godavari reported seven deaths each, while Prakasam and Visakhapatnam recorded six deaths each. East Godavari, Krishna and Kurnool witnessed five fatalities each during the period, while Nellore reported four deaths. Kadapa reported zero deaths. For the first time in weeks, all districts reported single-day tally of fewer than 1,000 infections and more than half of the total new cases were from four districts —Chittoor (961), East Godavari (810), Anantapur (535) and Prakasam (447). They were followed by Kadapa (404), Guntur (374), Nellore (232), Kurnool (212), Vizianagaram (207), Visakhapatnam (189), Krishna (175), Srikakulam (166) and West Godavari (160). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,39,512), Chittoor (2,01,329), Guntur (1,54,344), West Godavari (1,46,959), Anantapur (1,45,195), Visakhapatnam (1,42,031), Nellore (1,21,446), Kurnool (1,18,034), Srikakulam (1,12,060), Prakasam (1,11,625), Kadapa (98,493), Krishna (93,055) and Vizianagaram (76,233).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-records-lowest-daily-tally-test-positivity-rate-in-two-months/article34757785.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination for mothers of children aged below 5||The State government has decided to prioritise vaccination of women who have children younger than five years of age, in view of the likelihood of a third COVID-19 wave sweeping the country within the next few months. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal has said that there are over 20 lakh mothers in the said category across the State, and they will be allowed to get vaccinated alongside people in the age group of 45+ . Mr. Singhal said 11% of the State’s population comprises children and adolescents aged below 20. Of them, 2.72% are in the age group of 0-10 years and 8.35% are in the age group of 11-20 years, he said. Similarly, 20.28% of the State’s population are in the 21-30 year age group while 21.29% of the population is in the age group of 31-40, he said. Mr. Singhal said paediatric infrastructure was being augmented across the State in order to be prepared for the likelihood of a third wave, during which children would be most vulnerable. Mr. Singhal said that all District Collectors were asked to make arrangements to vaccinate women who are mothers of young children, and added that 600 private hospitals were permitted to vaccinate them. Black fungus Meanwhile, the number of mucormycosis (black fungus) cases have increased to 1,623 in the State. Mr. Singhal said that the Central government provided 13,105 Amphotericin B injections so far, of which 1,225 were available while the remaining were used. “The State government has placed orders for 91,650 Amphotericin B injections and has already purchased 12,250 Posaconazole injections and 1.01 lakh Posaconazole tablets. The State has 68,543 tablets available,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-for-mothers-of-children-aged-below-5/article34757786.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi woman to speak at UN meet on World Oceans Day||Tadi Deepika, a native of Antarvedi in East Godavari district, has got an opportunity to represent India in a virtual meeting being organised by the United Nations Organisation (UNO) on the occasion of World Oceans Day-2021 on Tuesday. Ms. Deepika, working with an NGO on waste management in coastal villages, is one among 45 speakers from different countries participating in the online event aimed at reducing pollution in oceans. Speakers from different fields, including scientists, environmentalists, oceanographers, geologists, experts in solid waste management, marine biologists, volunteers, NGO representatives and others will participate in the World Ocean Day celebrations on June 8. Ms. Deepika will speak on how plastic waste was polluting the Bay of Bengal and posing a threat to marine species. “I am thrilled at getting an opportunity to speak in the global event on World Oceans Day. I will share my experiences and explain the role of human beings in protecting the oceans,” Ms. Deepika said. Congratulating Ms. Deepika, A.P. Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma on Monday said: “It is the responsibility of every person to save the water bodies and protect the environment. We should follow the example of Ms. Deepika in preventing plastic waste in water bodies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/antarvedi-woman-to-speak-at-un-meet-on-world-oceans-day/article34757195.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keeping children safe from COVID||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department, in association with NGOs, launched a campaign to protect children from COVID-19. As part of the campaign, Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and WD&CW Project Director K. Uma Rani on Monday launched ‘Prachara Radhams’ (campaign vehicles) and posters to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) State programme director P. Francis Thambi, World Vision India State manager Tabitha Francis and District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Vijay Kumar participated. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said the campaigning vehicles will go around towns and villages explaining to people the importance of ensuring a nutritional diet for children and pregnant women. “For the first time in the State, Prachara Radhams were launched in Krishna district to raise awareness on protecting children from COVID-19. Two ‘Kala Brundams’ will explain the dos and don’ts to the parents,” Mr. Francis Thambi said. The DCPO said 5,000 posters on COVID precautionary measures and the need for a healthy diet will be distributed among villagers. Ms. Uma Rani said the staff and NGO representatives deployed on the ‘Prachara Radhams’ will explain how the government is taking care of children orphaned due to COVID-19 and the procedure to hand them over to the WD&CW Department. “We request the family members and villagers not to hand over the orphaned children to private organisations and instead hand them over to the WD&CW Department for their all-round care,” said Assistant Project Director M. Prameela Rani. WD&CW protection officer (Non-Institutional Care) Y. Johnson participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keeping-children-safe-from-covid/article34757199.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Release ex gratia to staff who died of COVID-19’||Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Services Association submitted a memorandum to Panchayat Raj & Rural Development Commissioner urging him to take necessary steps to resolve pending issues that include releasing an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the families of employees who died of COVID-19 in the line of duty. Association chairman T.M.B. Butchiraju said the families spent lakhs of rupees for the treatment of their loved ones and now they were facing a huge financial crisis. Their other demands include: regrouping of Panchayat Secretaries into 3 categories instead of 5 categories; the Panchayat Secretary shall be considered DDO for drawal of salaries of village secretary functionaries; redesignating the post of Panchayat Secretary as Executive Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/release-ex-gratia-to-staff-who-died-of-covid-19/article34757192.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC nod for Anandaiah’s ‘K’ concoction||The High Court has cleared the way for the distribution of B. Anandaiah’s ‘K’ type herbal preparation on Monday. It directed the government to submit its report on the efficacy and safety aspect of the eye drops claimed to boost oxygen levels, by June 21, and posted the matter for that day for further hearing. The court has already given permission to ‘P’, ‘L’ and ‘F’ preparations on the basis of the report of the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences (CCRAS). The CCRAS said that though the herbal preparations were harmless, there was no evidence that they could cure coronavirus infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-nod-for-anandaiah-k-preparation/article34757149.ece
08 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 awareness drive vehicles flagged off||District Collector A.Md.Imtiaz flagged off a fleet of COVID awareness campaign vehicles in the city on Monday. One campaign vehicle for rural and one for urban areas were arranged by the Department of Women and Child Welfare and NGOs. Each vehicle has a team of folk artists who will go around and create awareness among the public regarding COVID safety norms concerning children. Mr. Imtiaz said that so far the government took over the responsibility of eight children who lost their parents to COVID. He said each of the children was given Rs. 10 lakh in the form of a fixed deposit in a bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-awareness-drive-vehicles-flagged-off/article34757186.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scientists, environmentalists express concern over water overflow from UCIL tail pond||Scientists and environmentalists expressed concern over water flowing from the Uranium Corporaion of India Limited (UCIL) tail pond in Tummalapalli in Kadapa district, here on Monday. Speaking at a webinar, former Energy Secretary E.A.S. Sarma said that due to rains in Kadapa water is overflowing from the tail pond of the UCIL into the adjoining agricultural fields in Tummalapalli and this water contains hazardous radioactive matter and will cause irreparable damage to the land, groundwater, water bodies and the existing banana and other plantations. Akula Lokesh, an affected farmer, said his banana field was in 6-foot deep uranium contaminated water from the tail pond. The total area inundated is around 30 acres at present, he said. Environmentalist Bolisetty Satyanarayana said in 2018 when his team visited the tail pond and the adjoining area and villages affected with the groundwater contamination, the situation was bad. K. Jayashree, from the Human Rights Forum, alleged that, “MLAs and MPs have done nothing to protect the environment and the farmers.” Babu Rao, a retired scientist from the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT, Hyderabad), alleged that the tail pond was unlined, which is against the norms. ‘Pay compensation’ “As per the norms, all tail ponds in uranium mining has to be lined with bentonite clay and polythene to avoid polluting groundwater, But it has been proved in a study that the tail pond is not lined and UCIL has been avoiding questions on this aspect. An expert committee in 2017, has pointed out nine major violations,” he said. Mr. Sarma also pointed out that the UCIL should immediately pay compensation to the farmers whose lands were contaminated and take steps along with the government to relocate the affected farmers, as farming activity can no longer take place in the surrounding villages. The experts also pointed out that cases should be filed against the UCIL which is responsible for protecting the environment and against the APPCB for being ineffective on this issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/concern-over-water-overflow-from-ucil-tail-pond/article34757783.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Working in tribal areas is a boon: ITDA PO||Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA) Project Officer Venkateswar Salijamula has described working in the tribal areas as a boon. Dr. Venkateswar was felicitated by officials and staff at a farewell organised at the ITDA office at Paderu on Monday on his transfer to Chittoor as Joint Collector (Housing). Responding to the felicitations, Dr. Venkateswar said that the works on provision of amenities like roads, drinking water, development of coffee plantations and improvement of basic infrastructure at hospitals gave him the maximum satisfaction. He said that the tribal area of Visakhapatnam was bigger than the State of Sikkim. He recalled having taken the advice of senior IAS officers like Somesh Kumar, Sai Prasad, District Collector V. Vinay Chand, who had all worked in the Agency area, apart from taking the guidance of D.K. Balaji. He explained that he had visited 210 panchayats in the 11 Agency mandals and initiated the construction of roads and provision of drinking water. He would forever cherish the distribution of RoFR pattas to the tribal people. A total of 86,000 acres of land was distributed to 55,000 beneficiaries, which was the highest in the tribal areas of the State. A total of 300 km of roads were constructed in the Agency in one year. He appreciated the dedication of Executive Engineer (Tribal Welfare) K.V.S.N. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/working-in-tribal-areas-is-a-boon-itda-po/article34757801.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Mahila chief terms police action on hospital staff as inhuman||Telugu Mahila State president and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member V. Anitha has termed the action of the city police on Lakshmi Aparna, an employee of a hospital, as ‘inhuman’. Speaking to the media here on Monday, she condemned the booking of cases against Ms. Aparna. Ms. Anitha said that Ms. Aparna had come to the city for work and had questioned the police for their ‘high-handed’ behaviour on the boy, who had come to pick her up after work. Ms. Aparna did not want the boy to suffer because of her, Ms. Anitha said. The Telugu Mahila leader deplored the behaviour of the police towards the girl. She said it was unfortunate that while on one hand COVID warriors were being felicitated for their dedication to duty in the pandemic situation, on the other hand incidents of these kind were hitting their morale. She questioned whether the common man has no right to question the actions of the police personnel. The TDP leader wondered whether this was the respect women should expect in the State and whether this was what was meant by ‘friendly policing’. She alleged that the police, who behaved in a high-handed manner with the girl, had booked cases on the victim. Condemning the action of the Circle Inspector for asking his staff to check whether the girl was under the influence of liquor, Ms. Anita asked the police whether they were planning to make the girl another Sudhakar (Dr. Sudhakar, anaesthetist, who died recently). The TDP leader also found fault with the Home Minister and the AP Women’s Commission for failing to react to the incident. She alleged that contrary to the claims of making Visakhapatnam as ‘executive capital’ of the State, it was being turned into a ‘rowdy rajyam’. She demanded that the Police Commissioner immediately respond on the issue, withdraw the cases booked on the girl and initiate disciplinary action against the police personnel, who allegedly behaved in a high-handed manner with Ms. Aparna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-mahila-chief-terms-police-action-on-hospital-staff-as-inhuman/article34757796.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three advanced light choppers inducted into Indian Navy||The induction ceremony of ‘322 Dega Flight’ squadron was held in the presence of Vice Admiral Ajendra Bahadur Singh, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command (ENC), with three indigenously built Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH) MK III flying into Naval Air Station, INS Dega, on Monday. With the induction of these Maritime Reconnaissance and Coastal Security (MRCS) helicopters, the ENC gets a major boost in enhancing its capabilities . These helicopters, built by Hindustan Aeronautics Limited are state-of-the-art flying machines and constitute a major step towards ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat’. The MK III helicopters feature an array of systems previously seen only in heavier and multi-role helicopters of the Indian Navy. These are fitted with modern surveillance radar and electro-optical equipment, which enable them to undertake the role of maritime reconnaissance in addition to providing long-range search and rescue, both in day and night. The MK III choppers are equipped with a heavy machine gun to undertake constabulary missions and a removable Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU) to airlift critically ill patients. The squadron is being led by Cdr S.S. Dash as the first flight commander. .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-advanced-light-choppers-inducted-into-indian-navy/article34757694.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six deaths and 189 new cases in district||The Visakhapatnam district recorded 189 new COVID-19 infections, the lowest in the last two months, on Monday morning With this, the total cases have gone up to 1,42,543 and the active cases have further slumped to 8,059. The district also recorded six deaths taking the total toll to 950. As many as 1,057 persons undergoing treatment were discharged or have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 1,33,534.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-deaths-and-189-new-cases-in-district/article34757806.ece
08 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four excise officials suspended for ‘misuse’ of cash||One Inspector, one head constable and two constables from the Prohibition and Excise Department, were suspended, here on Monday, for allegedly misappropriating to the tune of Rs. 35 lakhs from 14 retail liquor shops in the city limits. The suspended were identified as Naga Srinivas (Inspector), Kondaiah (head constable), Jairam and Ramanaidu (constables). According to Excise Superintendent B. Srinivasulu, the Inspector in collusion with the constables and supervisors at the shops, misappropriated the money during May 30 and June 4, by producing bank challans. But the misappropriation was caught during physical verification of stock and cash. “The cash shortage had come to our notice during reconciliation. We could recover about Rs. 7 to Rs. 8 lakh, but the balance is yet to be recovered,” Mr. Srinivasulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-excise-officials-suspended-for-misuse-of-cash/article34757807.ece
08 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spectacles, hats given away to constables||Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari has said that the job of traffic constables has become very tough in the COVID-19 period as they were forced to work in congested markets and other places. At an event here, she distributed spectacles, hats and glucose packets to police personnel to protect themselves from heat in the extended summer. Deputy Superintendent of Police L. Mohana Rao thanked SVN Opticals owner G. Srinivasa Rao who had provided 85 spectacles and hats to the constables. DSP P. Anil Kumar, I Town circle inspector J. Murali, II Town circle inspector Ch. Srinivasa Rao and YSRCP leader G. Eswar Kaushik were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spectacles-hats-given-away-to-constables/article34757799.ece
08 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Review meeting on development today||District in-charge Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao will review the developmental activities of the district at a meeting to be held at the Collector’s office here on Tuesday afternoon. Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani and Minister for Municipal and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana will also participate in the meeting. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal held a preparatory meeting on Monday to finalise the subjects for discussion. Planning for kharif season, procurement of paddy of rabi season, optimum utilisation of water resources and steps to be taken to control COVID-19 are expected to be discussed. Mr. Srinivas will review the activities of the Endowments Department after visiting Ramateertham temple on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/review-meeting-on-development-today/article34757800.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP’s phone is with forensic lab: CID||“The IO made the seizure invoking 102/165 Cr.P.C. which lay down the grounds for seizure by a police officer and the procedure to do the same. The cellphone was an important piece of evidence in the case since the said cellphone could contain evidence of the preparatory events to the commission of the crime and the role of the conspirators in the commission of the said crime,’’ said the release. Further, Mr. Raju had admitted that the iPhone 11 Pro Max mobile phone carried Airtel SIM with the number 9000911111. At that point, there was no way in which the Investigation Officer could ascertain what the actual number was and simply recorded what was told to him by Mr. Raju. The mobile phone in a sealed cover was forwarded to AP FSL on May 18 for preliminary analysis, dump data, image and the final report of the FSL maintaining proper chain of custody. A dump of the phone was submitted to the CID Court on May 27 and processed dump data (Image) was submitted to the court on May 31. “This being so, it appears from the media reports regarding the text of complaint made by the accused Mr. Raju to Delhi Police claiming CID seized his SIM with number 9000922222, completely contradicting his own statement made in the presence of independent witnesses while preparing the seizure memo on May 15,’’ said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mps-phone-is-with-forensic-lab-cid/article34757798.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Goodness of yellow||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/goodness-of-yellow/article34757198.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,710 villages prone to floods||With the onset of monsoon, Revenue Minister R. Ashok instructed all districts to be ready with action plans for management of floods and evacuation of people to safer places, in case of floods. Based on the last three years’ record of floods, the State Disaster Management Authority has identified 1,710 villages prone to floods. While 758 villages experienced high-intensity floods, 952 experienced medium-intensity floods, he said. The Minister held a virtual conference to review monsoon preparedness with Deputy Commissioners and officials of the Line Department on Monday and highlighted the importance of being well prepared to face monsoon months. He told officials to identify taluks and villages that are likely to face the threat of floods. Four National Disaster Response Force teams and more than 400 State Disaster Response Force teams have been deployed in the State, he said. The Minister suggested to officials to constitute committees, involving local village members, for management of floods and provide relief, and be ready with plans for establishment of flood management centres and helplines in each taluk that is likely to be submerged under waters during monsoon. The Centre has set aside Rs. 1,054 crore to the State under the State Disaster Response Fund and Rs. 316.4 crore had been released in the first instalment.  Mr. Ashok said the last date for submission of applications seeking regularisation of unauthorised construction of dwelling houses on government lands in rural and urban areas has been extended to March 31, 2022. Title deeds for regularisation of dwelling houses would be given before March 31, 2023. Illegal construction of houses on government lands would be regularised under Sections 94c and 94cc of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964. He said 8,57,640 applications had been received from farmers seeking title deeds for government lands on which they had been cultivating crops before January 1, 2005. Of them, 3,74,087 applications have been uploaded and the rest would be uploaded before July 31, 2021, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1710-villages-prone-to-floods/article34757256.ece
08 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL releases song for COVID-19 awareness||A song titled ‘Karona Pai Yuddaniki Singareni Siddham’ was released at the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) head office in Kothagudem on Saturday. Written by G. Sadanandam and sung by A. Shankar, the song highlights the SCCL’s efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19 in the coal belt and ramp up the fight against the virus. Arokyaraj has composed the music for the song, sources said. SSCL director (Finance, PAW, P&P) N. Balram and director (Operations) S. Chandrasekhar released the song which was brought out by the company’s Public Relations wing as part of a cultural campaign to spread awareness about COVID prevention and foster collective efforts to combat the pandemic. It was earlier reported that SCCL had taken up measures to contain the virus spread with tracing, testing and treatment by scaling up medical facilities and allocating Rs. 71 crore for the purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-releases-song-for-covid-19-awareness/article34757689.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Not possible to lead pre-COVID life though cases are declining’||A steady decline in the number of COVID-19 infections in Telangana has come as a respite amid the devastating second wave that made its presence felt around mid-April. However, enjoying a pre-COVID life would not be possible, asserts Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao. In fact, health officials have started making preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic. The highest number of daily cases in the State was recorded on April 26 this year when 10,122 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The number of active cases hovered around 80,000 a day in the first week of May. In the past week (May 31-June 6), around 2,000-2,500 cases have been detected on a daily average while the active cases stayed around 30,000. Dr Srinivasa Rao indicates that the cases will drop further over the next few days. He reiterated the importance of COVID-appropriate behaviour to prevent further waves. Though current data indicates drop in the cases, during the peak of first wave, 2,000-2500 cases were one of the highest daily numbers with most people observing safety precautions. Vaccination against the infectious disease is being advised as one of the important strategies to protect people or the disease taking on a severe form. Dr Srinivasa Rao and Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar, who participated in a vaccination drive held in Madhapur on Sunday, pointed out a worrying issue. They said that many people seem to have the misconception that vaccination against COVID-19 may not be necessary since cases are on the decline. They have urged people to get vaccinated at the earliest. Further, stating that some communicable diseases were eliminated with the help of vaccines, he says several families, including his, have lost their dear ones. Hence, vaccination against the infection is important as it provides a layer of safety to the beneficiary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-possible-to-lead-pre-covid-life-though-cases-are-declining/article34757680.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite desilting works on stormwater drains: Mayor||Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi has issued instructions to the GHMC officials to expedite de-silting of stormwater drains, and complete the nala-widening and development works soon. Review meeting During a review meeting with zonal commissioners and Engineering officials on nala widening and de-silting works on Monday, Ms.Vijayalakshmi said special focus should be on the areas which were badly hit during the torrential rains last year. Measures should be taken to see that the same situation is not repeated this year, she said. She directed officials to ensure completion of nala desilting works by month-end. She also asked them to complete preparation of detailed project reports for nala widening and development works planned with an expenditure of Rs. 858 crore, and invite tenders for the works. Details and phone numbers of the monsoon emergency teams should be shared with corporators and other public representatives. Corporators should be kept in loop about the desilting works and they should also be given the details of officials entrusted with the responsibility of removing fallen trees, she said. Complaints lodged through social media should be paid attention to and the issues thereof be resolved. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar asked the zonal commissioners to send the photos pertaining to nala desilting to the corporators and legislators after geo-mapping the coordinates. Already nala desilting works have been completed, and after every rain, the desilting should be taken up afresh, he said. Deputy Mayor Mothe Srilatha, Chief Engineer, Strategic Nala Development Programme Vasantha, zonal commissioners and engineering officials participated in the review.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-desilting-works-on-stormwater-drains-mayor/article34757440.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State struggling to mobilise resources for Rythu Bandhu||The State government is struggling hard to fulfil the promise of crediting the amounts assured under its flagship Rythu Bandhu, farmers’ investment subsidy scheme, from June 15 in view of the steep fall in the revenues on account of novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The investment subsidy scheme involves crediting of around Rs. 7,400 crore into the accounts of little over 60 lakh farmers between June 15 and 25 as assured by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. The government has decided to raise Rs. 2,500 crore open market borrowing through the Reserve Bank of India during the auction to be held on June 8, but it will still fall way short of the target of Rs. 7,400 crore required for the Rythu Bandhu. The State will exceed the target of Rs. 8,000 crore open market borrowings tentatively projected for the first quarter of the current financial year and the same had been submitted to the RBI ahead of the commencement of the financial year. Availing of Rs. 2,500 crore in Tuesday’s auction would take the total borrowings from April 1 till date to Rs. 8,500 crore. The State raised Rs. 6,000 crore in four instalments in the first quarter and it should opt for one more instalment of open market loans to fulfil the commitments under Rythu Bandhu. It may be recalled that the State government borrowed Rs. 12,500 crore during the first quarter ending June 30 last year owing to significant drop in revenue due to lockdown and the pace of economic activities remaining slow after the restrictions were lifted. Finance Department officials however remained tight-lipped when asked about the options before the State to raise funds to fulfil its commitments like Rythu Bandhu, implementation of the revised pay scales to all categories of employees effective April 1, but not materialised so far. The State’s finances improved markedly in April but the revenue realisation suffered a huge set back since the second week of May following the lockdown imposed from May 12. According to information available, the State was on course of achieving the targeted revenue through Stamps and Registrations and Goods and Services Tax during April. The State’s GST collection was Rs. 3,019.54 crore during April as against the Rs. 35,520 crore for the full financial year and the same was the case with the Stamps and Registration Department which reported Rs. 726.77 crore revenue against the budget estimates of Rs. 12,500 crore for the fiscal 2021-22. The Excise revenue was Rs. 1,036.9 crore during the month against the Rs. 17,000 crore budget estimates for the year while the State raised Rs. 1,925 crore through loans/borrowings in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-struggling-to-mobilise-resources-for-rythu-bandhu/article34757704.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Avoiding misuse of empty Amphotericin vials||In view of possible misuse of empty Liposomal Amphotericin-B injection vials, government hospitals in the State are peeling off the labels from the containers or destroying them after use. A similar strategy had been followed by hospitals before discarding vials of Remdesivir, considered a key drug in COVID-19 treatment, to prevent it from falling into the wrong hands. Earlier, the medicines vials were discarded as part of biomedical waste with the labels intact. Hospitals began to peel off labels from Remdesivir following reports of fraudsters filling saline or distilled water in the empty vials and selling them to desperate attendants of COVID-19 patients. Mucormyocsis patients are admitted at Government ENT Hospital and Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital. And patients with fungal infection who are COVID-positive are admitted to Gandhi Hospital. A few government medical colleges in other districts are also treating patients with the fungal infection. One of the important drug used in the treatment of the fungal infection is Liposomal Amphotericin-B which is in short supply. This raised concerns that the anti-fungal medicine too could be sold in black market. Each vial costs around Rs. 7,000. Private hospitals earlier prescribed 60 to 100 vials per patients. So, just the cost for the medicine runs over Rs. 4 lakh. If it is sold in the black market, the price could be astronomical. The medicine is administered free of cost at the hospital. COVID-19 nodal officer at Gandhi Hospital T. Prabhakar Reddy said they are peeling labels off of the empty Liposomal Amphotericin-B vials. The empty vials have to be returned and labels have to be pasted on case sheets of patients, before issuing new sets of vials. Superintendent of Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital V. Rajalingam also said they are destroying the empty vials. Around 70 patients were admitted at the government eye hospital, and half of them were operated. “Empty vials are returned to the superintendent,” said Manish Gupta, associate professor at the ENT Hospital. Private hospitals have to prepare a list of patients with the fungal infection, get approval for the medicines every day and source it from stockists. Doctors said since private hospitals staff have to visit stockists every day, they also have to be made to return empty vials with labels.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/avoiding-misuse-of-empty-amphotericin-vials/article34757678.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC to fully implement TS-bPASS by month-end||Full-fledged enforcement of TS-bPASS (Telangana State Building Permission Approval & Self-Certification System) in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area is likely to begin from this month-end or during the first week of the next month, replacing the existing DPMS (Development Permission Management System). TS-bPASS as a single window approval system for building permissions, is expected to reduce the hassles for applicants, by simplifying the process. The system was first implemented for structures built in plot sizes equal to or less than 500 square metres or 600 square yards. For the first time ever, self-certification was introduced, and no building plan was needed to be submitted to obtain permission. The applicants were to simply adhere to the setbacks mentioned by GHMC in the permission proceedings, violations of which would be penalised through a separate mechanism. Later on, the system was expanded to include plot sizes up to 1,000 square metres, and later 2,000 square metres. “As it was a new system, we were cautious before full-fledged implementation. We tested the waters starting with less complicated structures, and slowly expanded it to the higher plot sizes. From this month-end, all the structures irrespective of plot sizes will be brought into the purview of TS-bPASS,” a senior official from the Town Planning department informed. For structures in higher plot sizes, however, self-certification does not apply. The building plan drawings need to be run on an automatic online building plan scrutiny and approval system before the process for application begins. “A key is generated after the plan is approved in the online automatic scrutiny, which the user needs to enter in the application. This way, manual intervention in approval of building plans has been done away with,” the official said. Besides, as a rule, shortfalls in documentation may be raised only once in the whole process, he said. The applicant will be given enough time to address the shortfalls, after which the process will resume. In the earlier system, shortfalls were intimated as and when they arose, making it a long and tedious process before permissions were granted. Users were forced to make rounds of different offices where clearances were stuck. Though the complete transition to TS-bPASS was initially planned by March end, it has been delayed due to the situation created by COVID-19 second wave, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-to-fully-implement-ts-bpass-by-month-end/article34757438.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agri B-school in city ranked next only to IIM-A, IIM-L||The business school run by the National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE), an autonomous organisation of the Ministry of Agriculture, offering post-graduate diploma in Agri-Business Management has selected as the third best agri-business institutions in the country, only behind IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Lucknow. According to a press release issued by MANAGE here on Monday, the ranking is based on survey of more than 200 industry professionals, industry bodies and over 1,000 students from agriculture and allied streams by a consultant agency. The purpose of the survey was to understand the gap between top and bottom-ranking agri-business institutions. The institutions were ranked on the basis of parameters like infrastructure and facilities, faculty and corporate background, industry-oriented curriculum, innovation in pedagogy, fee structure, admission process, global exposure, industry interaction and others. The rankings were assigned by Agri B-School Survey-2021 conducted by the Agriculture Today magazine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/agri-b-school-in-city-ranked-next-only-to-iim-a-iim-l/article34757674.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||540 more students vaccinated on day 2||On the second day of COVID-19 vaccination for students set to travel overseas for higher education, 540 were vaccinated at Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Narayanaguda, on Monday. The State government initiated the special drive on Saturday. At least 7,000 have registered for the vaccination. Only Covishield is administered. Students had earlier raised concern that they would not be able to take the second dose if 12-16 weeks gap between two doses was to be maintained since they have to leave for foreign universities around July or August. The time interval between first and second dose of the vaccine for such students has been reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks. Permissions were received to make the changes in CoWin. IPM director K. Shankar said that around 1,400 students have been allotted slots on Tuesday. The officials are aiming to complete immunisation of the students with the first dose by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/540-more-students-vaccinated-on-day-2/article34757682.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ginning mills to be given more incentives: Minister||The plea of ginning mills in the State for more incentives would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy stated here on Monday. The ginning mills are already getting power subsidy. At a meeting held with the representatives of the ginning mills association the Minister stated that cotton was expected to be cultivated in about 75 lakh acres during the kharif (vanakalam) season this year and the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) had itself certified the quality of cotton produced in the State. Although Maharashtra was top in the extent of cultivation, Telangana was ahead in terms of production of the fibre crop, he noted. Stating that the government was committed to encourage ginning mills in the wake of increase in the extent of the crop the Minister said more incentives would be given to them after taking the matter to Chief Minster’s notice. He stated that the number of ginning mills was less than 100 before formation of Telangana, 350 new mills had come up during the last seven years and another 30 were under construction. In the past, the CCI and traders used to take the cotton purchased here to Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh but now there was no necessity. The ginning mills which were set up mostly in rural areas would provide direct employment to 100 and indirect employment to another 500 per mill, the Minister noted. Besides, the by-products of cotton such as oil, cake and solvents had also good demand at national and international level, the Minister stated. The government was also formulating cotton solvent policy to encourage the ginning mills. Stating that research was on developing cotton varieties which could be cultivated in rabi (summer) by withstanding high temperatures the Minister said if the research was successful it would be helpful to Telangana as the crop could be cultivated in the two seasons instead of paddy. To overcome the problem of labour in cotton cultivation the government was encouraging mechanisation and single-picking varieties would be very helpful for mechanised harvesting (cotton picking). The Minister assured that the suggestions and requests of ginning mills would be taken to the Chief Minister’s notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ginning-mills-to-be-given-more-incentives-minister/article34757698.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Paddy procurement crosses target, reaches 82 lakh tonnes||Paddy procurement during the ongoing 2020-21 rabi (yasangi) marketing season has surpassed the target of 80 lakh tonnes and has reached 82 lakh tonnes with another 3-4 lakh tonnes expected to arrive at the purchase centres. Chairman of the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy said here on Monday that they had crossed the target and the achievement was 101% already despite the adverse conditions, including the COVID-19 spread, lockdown and untimely rains, shortage of ‘hamalis’, lorries and drivers and disproportionate (lower) milling capacity. Compared to the last rabi season the paddy purchases were already 20% higher, Mr. Reddy said adding that the 82 lakh tonnes produce of the staple food crop worth Rs. 16,000 crore was purchased from about 12.5 lakh farmers through 6,962 procurement centres. Of the purchased paddy, 78 lakh tonnes had already been moved to mills overcoming various problems, he noted.  The procurement had crossed 100% in 19 districts, including Nalgonda, Nizamabad, Suryapet, Kamareddy, Karimnagar, Peddpalli, Warangal Rural, Mancherial, Nirmal, Sangareddy, Narayanpet, Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Rangareddy, Mahabubnagar, Rajanna-Sircilla, Siddipet, Medak and Jagtial. Mr. Srinivas Reddy said another 3-4 lakh tonnes of paddy was expected to arrive at the purchase centres over the next few days and the corporation was planning to complete the procurement exercise at the earliest keeping in mind the arrival of monsoon season. The Minister instructed the officials to shift the paddy purchased to mills immediately and upload the details on the online monitoring system. On supply of free rice through public distribution system during June, the current month, the corporation Chairman said 8 lakh units (persons in food security cards) were supplied 40 lakh tonnes rice so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/paddy-procurement-crosses-target-reaches-82-lakh-tonnes/article34757700.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS posts 1,933 new cases, 16 more die||The daily positivity rate of novel coronavirus infections in Telangana has further dipped to 1.45% as 1,933 cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Monday with the screening tests conducted were at 1,32,996. With 16 deaths reported on Monday, the total deaths in the State due to COVID-19 have reached 3,394. The cumulative positive cases in the State have reached 5,93,103 so far. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID-19 cases, as many as 3,527 infected persons were declared recovered taking their total to 5,64,303 so far. The active cases in the State were 25,406 as of Monday evening, including 11,836 undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining in home and institutional isolation. Of the tests done on Monday, 1,27,533 samples were tested in government facilities and the remaining 5,463 in private labs. Reports of another 1,356 samples were awaited. Containment zones The active micro containment zones increased to 243 on Monday with a highest of 78 in Nalgonda district, followed by 60 in Mahabubabad, 12 in Jagtial, 11 in Siddipet and 10 each in Karimnagar and Warangal Rural districts. In another 16 districts, the active zones were in single-digit numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-posts-1933-new-cases-16-more-die/article34757676.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Include COVID, black fungus treatment in Aarogyasri: Cong.||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has demanded that the State and Central governments include the treatment of novel coronavirus and black fungus infections in the Aarogyasri and Ayushman Bharat schemes so that poor people could get timely and free treatments. Speaking at ‘Satyagraha Deeksha’ organised in response to a call given by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) here on Monday, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said inclusion of the two dreaded infectious diseases would allow the poor and middle class families get treatment in private and government hospitals. He also suggested the State government to follow the directions of the High Court in dealing with the COVID situation and also ensure reimbursement of excess charges collected by the private hospitals to the families of patients concerned. He said the TPCC as also the Congress leaders had been asking the State government to include the two infections under Aarogyasri from the very beginning. On the diagnostic centres proposed to be established by the government, the TPCC chief sought to know why MRI and CT scan equipment was not included as their utility is higher during the present pandemic. Congress Legislature Party leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka criticised the State government for its inability to provide proper healthcare even seven years after formation of the State. Senior leader and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy said about 10 lakh people might have suffered the coronavirus infection in the State already although the official statistics speak differently. He demanded Rs. 50 lakh financial assistance to families to all COVID warriors who had lost their lives. Criticising the TRS government for not making proper allocations to healthcare for the last seven years, spokesperson of AICC D. Shravan said the allocation had been lesser than national average, and than the States having lesser revenue than Telangana. He stated that about 70% nurses posts were vacant in government hospitals but only 2,400 posts were filled during the last seven years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/include-covid-black-fungus-treatment-in-aarogyasri-cong/article34757696.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brar Squadron bags winner’s trophy in AFA inter-squadron drill||Brar Squadron bagged the winner’s trophy for the inter-squadron drill competition, marking the culmination of competitions in the schedule of training of 0trainee officers and flight cadets of Air Force Academy here on Monday. The Commandant’s Banner was conferred on the squadron, which displayed exceptional performance in various competitions such as sports, debate, quiz, crosscountry, drill and academics, conducted as part of the training in the preceding five months. The winning squadron is called ‘Champion Squadron’ for the next six months and cadets will have the privilege of wearing a lanyard on the shoulder over their uniform. AFA Commandant Air Marshal I.P. Vipin presented the coveted Commandant’s Banner for Spring Term 2021 to Squadron Cadet Captain Flight Cadet K. Joshi of Brar Squadron. Spring Term 2021 commenced in January this year for flying, engineering and non-technical branches. Soon after joining AFA, flight cadets are divided into four squadrons and the focus is on development of qualities of competitive spirit, Esprit-de-Corps, leadership and sportsmanship in them. Physical fitness and mental toughness are an integral part of military life, said the Commandant after presenting the trophies to the winning teams, a press release informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brar-squadron-bags-winners-trophy-in-afa-inter-squadron-drill/article34757686.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City firm launches anti-Black Fungus drug||Drugmaker SP Accure Labs has launched Amphotericin-B Emulsion, which is indicated for the treatment of Mucormycosis. It is an alternative drug for the fungal infection that is also known as Black Fungus, a release said. Marketed under the SPAMP-E 50 brand by the Hyderabad-based pharma firm, the MRP of the product is Rs. 5,400 per injection. An increase in number of people contracting Mucormycosis and the consequent demand for the drugs, used in the treatment, is a challenge the country has been grappling with for some weeks now. The release said Medihauxe Pharma, one of the largest distributors of life-saving drugs in the region, has been exclusively authorised to distribute the drug. “Currently, we have 10,000 vials of the medicine in stock which is sufficient to treat around 1,000 patients,” Medihauxe managing director P.Girish Bhat said. Meanwhile, another Hyderabad-based drugmaker, Celon Laboratories, which recently had announced the launch of Amphotericin B Emulsion said its product would be supplied in Telangana through Jaya Surgicals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-firm-launches-anti-black-fungus-drug/article34757683.ece
08 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Call MLAs, MPs meeting on new PCC chief’||Sangareddy MLA and senior Congress leader T. Jayaprakash Reddy has alleged that the party functionaries in New Delhi involved with Telangana Congress are ignoring his seniority deliberately and seem to be favouring only a few. In an interaction with the reporters here on Monday, he said it is unfortunate that his name was deliberately being sidelined by some leaders. “I have all the capabilities, seniority and the acceptance to lead the party in Telangana,” he said. AICC incharge for Telangana Congress, Manickam Tagore should find out my role in the Telangana movement and how I dared the then TRS chief and present Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the Congress MLA said. “Only I have the capacity and the ability to take on Mr. Rao politically and bring back the glory Congress enjoyed here,” he claimed. Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy demanded that a meeting of MLAs and MPs be called for the final selection of the new PCC chief as their opinions are of paramount importance to ensure that the party affairs are smooth. He however said he is a loyal soldier of the party and would abide by the decision of the high command. The MLA also objected to abuse of senior leaders on the social media by the followers of some leaders. Such behaviour is not the Congress culture and those who abuse anonymously should come forward for a discussion within the party, he said.  Congress party functionaries in New Delhi are deliberately ignoring my seniority. T. Jayaprakash Reddy, MLA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-mlas-mps-meeting-on-new-pcc-chief/article34757705.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drop plastic waste at IOC outlets for loyalty points||National oil marketing company Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) has rolled out a limited period campaign to reward customers depositing waste plastics for recycling at its select petrol bunks with loyalty points. Conceived around the World Environment Day theme of ‘Ecosystem Restoration’, the campaign will be run by the Indian Oil’s Secunderabad Divisional Office till June 10. Five company-owned, company-operated outlets of the company in HiTec City, Begumpet, Jubilee Hills, Madhapur and Kompally are participating in the campaign. Customers will be rewarded with XRPs (Xtrarewards) loyalty points worth Rs. 30 for one kg of plastic deposited. They can earn up to a maximum of Rs. 60, a release from IOC said. Customer depositing waste plastic will be issued a specially designed Eco Champion Certificate on the spot and given details of the Xtrarewards enrolment link, benefits of the programme, local alliances and exclusive redemption offers. Ecosystem Restoration pertains to assisting recovery of ecosystems degraded by activities like pollution, excessive use of plastics and deforestation, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drop-plastic-waste-at-ioc-outlets-for-loyalty-points/article34757684.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free COVID treatment at GVK-EMRI’s hospital||GVK EMRI has set up a 50-bed multi-speciality hospital at its 108 GVK EMRI headquarters located in Devaryamjal, Kompally. Free COVID-19 treatment would be provided at the hospital which has become operational from June 7. Chief operating officer of the ‘108’ services, P Brahmananda Rao said that the initiative was taken up to serve the poor, vulnerable sections of society. Currently, the hospital has a capacity of 30 oxygen beds, 10 non- oxygen beds and 10 ICU beds. While there are no charges for the beds, single-room accommodation would be charged. Doctors and nurses trained at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) would provide medical services. Critical case specialists on call are available along with a dedicated ambulance for transfer in case of high-end care. For admission, call on 9154213370. They are also planning to organise vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-covid-treatment-at-gvk-emris-hospital/article34757436.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free vaccination for film workers||The Chiranjeevi Charitable Trust of superstar Chiranjeevi on Monday started free vaccination camp for workers of Telugu film industry in association with Apollo Hospital. The vaccination will also be given free to Telugu film journalists. In November last year, the superstar Chiranjeevi had announced on social media about testing positive for COVID-19. The 65-year-old wss detected with the virus after he underwent testing as part of safety protocol before joining the sets of his upcoming movie, Acharya, he had informed his fans in the post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/free-vaccination-for-film-workers/article34757688.ece
08 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||AEOs told to record crop data correctly||Minister S. Niranjan Reddy has asked the field-level officials of the Agriculture Department to take up the crop booking exercise without any shortcomings this season. He was holding a virtual meeting with district agriculture officers and divisional agriculture officers on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/aeos-told-to-record-crop-data-correctly/article34757701.ece
08 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Pandemic pushes poor to marry off underage children in rural areas||The disturbing trend of reported increase in attempts to marry off underage girls by poor families in the rural areas — especially in the tribal habitations in Karepalli, one of the mandals hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic — has posed a major challenge to the government agencies involved in the curbing the menace of child marriages amid the trying pandemic times. The timely intervention of the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials prevented nearly 10 child marriages in Karepalli mandal alone in the past two months. Two child marriages were foiled by the ICDS staff in Venkatiya Thanda and Mekala Thanda in the mandal in a single day on Sunday. Sources said that a child marriage took place clandestinely in Dubba Thanda village limits on May 22. The Integrated Child Development Services officials served a show-cause notice on the field-level functionary of the village concerned for alleged dereliction of duty, sources added. The menace of child marriage has returned to haunt the rural areas in the mandal due to multiple factors such as closure of schools, loss of livelihoods and various socio-economic impacts of the pandemic. According to sources, some 20 child marriages were averted by the Integrated Child Development Services officials in association with the police and revenue staff in Karepalli, Enkoor and Kamepalli mandals under the Child Development Project office, Kamepalli, limits ever since the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic. The spurt in attempts of child marriages has prompted the government agencies and departments to ramp up efforts to curb the menace. When contacted, Kamepalli Child Development Project Officer Dayamani said the prompt intervention by the Integrated Child Development Services staff helped in stopping around 20 child marriages in the three mandals since April this year. “We have counselled both the families in each case against performing child marriages and obtained a written consent from them to this effect,” she said. Action is being initiated against those responsible for a child marriage in Dubba Thanda on May 22 under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, the CDPO said, adding that a campaign involving the field-level staff and the sarpanches and other elected representatives of the gram panchayats will be organised soon to step up collective efforts to prevent child marriages. The CDPO said pamphlets highlighting the penal provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and the devastating effects of child marriage will be widely circulated in the gram panchayats soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pandemic-pushes-poor-to-marry-off-underage-children-in-rural-areas/article34757446.ece
08 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Spurious chilli seed racket busted||Cracking the whip on errant seed dealers ahead of the kharif sowing season, the Enkoor police busted a spurious chilli seed racket and arrested eight members of an inter-district gang involved in the illegal trade. As many as 2,550 packets containing spurious chilli seed worth about Rs. 16.46 lakh, a car and a bike were seized from their possession. The kingpin of the gang G Chandrasekhar, the Managing Director of a Hyderabad-based unlicensed seed company, a native of Davangere of Karnataka, is at large. Among those arrested were eight errant seed dealers, four each from Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. The accused The arrested were identified as K Roshaiah, 37, of Enkoor, P Ravi Kumar, 43, Director of Farmson Seeds India Pvt. Ltd., of Khammam, G Murali, 38, and B Kishore, 31, of Raghunadhapalem mandal, K Srinivas, 55, of Khammam, P Srinivasa Rao, 39, of Thallada mandal, A Suresh, 44, of Julurupadu mandal, and R Mukesh, 35, of Chandrugonda mandal. Giving the details of the arrests here on Monday, Khammam police commissioner Vishnu S Warrier said the nine members of the gang were booked under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act. A special police team has been dispatched to nab Chandrasekhar, the kingpin of the gang, who is absconding. The provisions of the Preventive Detention (PD) Act will be invoked against those found selling spurious seed to farmers, the police commissioner warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spurious-chilli-seed-racket-busted/article34757710.ece
08 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two killed in road accident||In a ghastly road incident, two persons were killed and several shops were damaged at Narayanakhed when a four-wheeler lost control and hit them in the wee hours of Monday. According to Circle Inspector Ravinder Reddy, a vehicle passing through Ryakal road hit two women, including a municipal sanitation worker, killing them on the spot. The vehicle also damaged few shops on the road side. Police and municipal officials rushed to the spot and bodies were shifted to the government hospital for postmortem. It was stated that the driver was under the influence of alcohol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-road-accident/article34757707.ece
08 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Acquire land for distributory canals’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao wanted officials to acquire the required land for construction of distributory canals at the earliest so that farmers can enjoy the benefit of Kaleshwaram water in rainy season. He urged the public representatives to cooperate with the government in this regard and see that farmers stand to benefit at the earliest. The Minister has also announced that the double bed room houses constructed at Dubbak assembly constituency will be inaugurated by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao shortly. At a review meeting on development activities at Dubbak assembly constituency on Monday at Collectorate, Mr. Rao said that awareness must be created among farmers on the need to sacrifice land for digging of distributories. “These canals can benefit farmers for generations. Public representatives and officials need to take lead in convincing farmers to part with their lands. Politicians should come forward beyond the party lines,” said Mr. Rao. The officials were also instructed to complete all pending works of double bed room houses at Dubbak and get them ready for inauguration. Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, MLA M Raghunandan Rao, Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/acquire-land-for-distributory-canals/article34757709.ece
08 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Elderly couple starved to death||A man and his wife who allegedly neglected his parents, sheltered them under a tarpaulin shed and eventually starved them to death last month, were booked for culpable homicide here on Monday. The incident was investigated by Munagala police at Thummagudem village of Mothe mandal in the district, where the elderly couple Ramachandra Reddy, 90, and his 80-year-old wife Anasuryamma incidentally breathed their last on May 27. The final rites were performed silently. The incident which caused a shock among the villagers, who also suspected something fishy as the elderly couple died the same day, was reported to the police. The police later exhumed the bodies and a post-mortem was conducted. “The couple’s death was caused by lack of water and food,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/elderly-couple-starved-to-death/article34757435.ece
08 June 2021||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR sets electrification record||South Central Railway (SCR), which has completed 750-track-kilometres electrification in the last financial year (2020-21) taking advantage of the limited run of trains due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has now laid out a plan to duplicate the feat again this financial year since the second wave has stalled movement of trains again. Senior officials informed on Monday that identifying strategic sections and a focused approach helped complete the record task, almost double to the preceding year’s achievement paving the way for a smooth running of trains en route without detention. In fact, this has also helped in running the Oxygen Expresses quickly without any major interruptions. Of the total length of 6,424 track km of zone rail network, 4,014 track km stand electrified, which is about 62%. This includes 2,587 km electrified in Andhra Pradesh, followed by over 1,119 km in Telangana, 192 km in Karnataka, 108 km in Maharashtra and 7 km in Tamil Nadu. ‘Mission Electrification’ has resulted in electrification of 1,901 km in last five years with major sections like Bibinagar-Nadikudi section providing the shortest and vital connection between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Moula Ali-Ghatkesar first ever quadrupling in the zone helping in easing congestion in and around Secunderabad. Other sections are: Wadi – Guntakal section of Mumbai-Chennai route, Guntur-Guntakal section linking Amaravati with Rayalaseema, Guntakal-Kalluru section linking Rayalaseema region to Karnataka, Guntur-Tenali-Repalle sections connecting branch line with trunk route on main line, Obulavaripalle-Venkatachalam-Krishnapatnam, important rail link for freight trains. Significant portions of Peddapalli-Karimnagar-Nizamabad section (completed from Peddapalli upto Lingampet-Jagityal), Vijayawada to Bhimavaram town including Gudivada-Machilipatnam was completed, they explained. “We were able to provide seamless connectivity to trains between Chennai-Mumbai, Chennai-Vijayawada-Hyderabad, Bengaluru - New Delhi by completing strategic sections,” said General Manager Gajanan Mallya. This has helped in increasing the freight carrying capacity plus increase in the average speeds from 24-48 kmph too. Less trains movement helped engineers execute foot-to-foot surveys, designs, identifying locations for switching stations, maintenance depots, tower wagon sidings, etc., pertaining to civil, signal and telecom works. Pre-cast foundation blocks, mechanised foundation digging, mast erections and deploying large workforce in advance with machinery during pre-arranged traffic blocks helped in finishing the job, said Chief Public Relations Officer Ch. Rakesh.  Important sections in focus this year   Lingampet, Jagityal to Nizamabad: 650 km  Mudkhed to Adilabad: 250 km  Vikarabad to Parli: 200 km  Manmad to Adilabad: 400 km  Poorna to Akola: 250 km  Parbhini to Parli: 90 km||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-sets-electrification-record/article34757437.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Lock, stock and barrel||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lock-stock-and-barrel/article34757692.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Covaxin only for people who got it as first dose: Delhi govt.||The Delhi government on Monday informed the High Court that it has directed all government centres, private hospitals and nursing homes that Covaxin will only be administered to those in the 18-44 age group who had received it as first dose. It further informed that an additional 40,000 vials of Covaxin had been received on June 6. The court was hearing three pleas filed by persons who were finding it difficult to get the second dose of Covaxin after getting the first jab. 18-44 age group Justice Rekha Palli commended the proactive steps taken by the Centre and Delhi government to address Covaxin shortage, especially for people who had taken the first dose and were struggling to get a second dose before the six-week window expires. The HC was informed that the Delhi Chief Secretary issued an order on June 6 stating that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed all private hospitals and nursing homes functioning as COVID vaccination centres for Covaxin to inoculate only those in the 18-44 age group and eligible for a second dose during June. On June 3, the Health Department of the Delhi government had issued similar directions for government vaccination centres. One of the petitions, filed by advocate Kushal Kumar, sought direction to authorities to urgently provide a second dose of Covaxin to them as their allotted time period for the second dose is about to end. The plea said the allotted time period for the second dose of vaccine is between May 31 to June 14. Unable to book slot Another petition was moved by lawyer Ashish Virmani, who received the first dose of Covaxin on May 3 and since May 29 has been unable to book a slot for receiving the second jab, which has to be taken within six weeks of the first dose. Subsequently, he had to travel to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh to receive the second dose, advocate Pallav Mongia, representing Mr. Virmani, had told the court. A third petition, filed by Rajeev Parashar, stated he was administered the first dose of Covaxin on March 4 and the second dose has to be administered between June 1-15. Mr. Parashar, 35, said the Delhi government’s decision to put the vaccination drive for 18-44 age group on hold till June 10 puts him at significant risk of not getting the second dose in time. During the hearing, the petitioners stated there are many citizens whose six-week period will end on June 14. If they do not get the second jab in time then the whole exercise will be rendered futile, they added. The government counsel sought time to take instructions on this aspect and the HC posted the matter for further hearing on June 11. The HC also asked the counsel to examine whether slots for second dose could be increased. The Centre said the CoWin system sends automatic SMS to beneficiaries every third day — starting three days before the second dose due date — till the beneficiary books an appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covaxin-only-for-people-who-got-it-as-first-dose-delhi-govt/article34757654.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Metro services resume with 50% seating capacity||The Delhi Metro resumed services on Monday after nearly a month-long hiatus due to the lockdown in the Capital. Till 8 p.m., over 4.5 lakh passengers travelled across the network, according to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). Operations resumed with 50% seating capacity and commuters were not permitted to stand inside the coaches. Only 25 people were allowed inside each coach at any given time. “The passenger journeys performed on Monday was in view of drastically reduced capacity owing to adherence to guidelines issued by the government,” DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. Stations closed briefly On the first day of operations, around 15 stations were closed briefly during morning and evening peak hours, in a bid to ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour. Nine special flying squads were also deployed for random checks inside the trains for violations, officials said. “At least 84 passengers were asked to deboard for standing while travelling and 73 were penalised for not wearing masks. Around 106 passengers were counselled to follow social distancing and wear masks properly,” Mr. Dayal said. All norms and protocols imposed earlier will continue to be followed, officials said, while adding that entry to stations will continue to be restricted and gates will be shut temporarily if stations get crowded. Services on the Delhi Metro network were completely suspended from May 10 while prior to that, from April 19 to May 9 only people engaged in essential services were permitted to travel on the network, on production of valid identity cards. The Delhi Metro had announced that services would resume in a staggered manner. The network is expected to operate at full strength by Wednesday, DMRC officials said..||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/metro-services-resume-with-50-seating-capacity/article34757658.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital records fewest challans for COVID-19 violations in two months||The Delhi police fined 901 people on Sunday for violating various COVID-19 rules that include not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing. This is the lowest since March 28, officers said on Monday. At least 159 people were fined for not maintaining social distancing, they said. On June 5, 1,883 challans were issued and on June 4, 2,452 challans were issued. The police said that out of the total 901 challans, 742 challans were issued for not wearing face masks. According to police data, on March 28, 730 people were fined for not wearing masks and nine for not maintaining social distancing. On March 29, at least 920 people were fined for not wearing masks and 19 others for violating social distancing norms. “The police is continuously prosecuting people who are breaking rules and also sensitising them about COVID-19. The process of unlocking has started and we urge people to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. Use face mask while coming out of the house, maintain social distance and regularly sanitise their hands. People should not come out of their homes unnecessarily despite the fact that cases are declining,” Delhi Police Additional Public Relations Officer (PRO) Anil Mittal said. A total of 1,22,911 challans have been issued by the police from April 19 to June 6, the data showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-records-fewest-challans-for-covid-19-violations-in-two-months/article34757656.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Post-COVID facility inaugurated||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Monday inaugurated post-COVID care facilities at Ayurvedic Panchkarma Hospital in Prashant Vihar aimed at “speedy normalisation” post-treatment. “COVID patients take time to recover completely. These Ayurvedic hospitals can be helpful,” Mr. Jai Prakash said. In another development, South Delhi Mayor Anamika Mithilesh Singh and Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta gave away Rs. 10 lakh relief each to the next of kin of five SDMC employees who lost their lives in the line of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/post-covid-facility-inaugurated/article34757659.ece
08 June 2021||NOIDA,||FIR lodged over ‘illegal’ vaccine camp in Gr. Noida||Weeks after a vaccination drive was organised at a resident’s home in a Greater Noida residential society, the Gautam Buddha Nagar police on Monday said they had lodged an FIR against the organisers for holding the “illegal” camp. The police said the FIR was lodged based on a complaint of Additional Chief Medical Officer Neeraj Tyagi. Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri said the camp, organised on May 21 and 27 at the home of one Shubh Gautam, was “without permission”. He said 187 people had been administered vaccine which they were told was Covaxin. Some of those who were vaccinated were reportedly given certificates saying they received their jabs at the Naurangabad urban primary health centre in Aligarh, according to officials. The Hindu reviewed a certificate that confirmed this. Others received no confirmation, leaving them uncertain about the second dose. Shikhar Gaur, a 21-year-old college student, said he, along with his mother, received the jabs on May 27. But the CoWin portal did not show their status as being vaccinated with the first dose. He said the camp was held at the residence of Mr. Gautam and the participants were asked not to click any pictures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fir-lodged-over-illegal-vaccine-camp-in-gr-noida/article34757663.ece
08 June 2021||Noida,||Noida Metro to restart tomorrow||The Noida-Greater Noida Metro will resume services for passengers from Wednesday after a hiatus of over a month due to COVID-19 lockdown, officials said on Monday. The announcement comes close on the heels of Delhi Metro resuming services on Monday and Gautam Buddh Nagar also relaxing restrictions that were put in place due to the COVID-induced lockdown. “Due to partial COVID curfew, metro services on the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) network were suspended with effect from May 1,” NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari said. Keeping in view the night curfew and also to discourage people to move out due to the pandemic, trains will be operated from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. on weekdays, she said. As weekend curfew is still in practice, train services will not be operated on weekends, she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/noida-metro-to-restart-tomorrow/article34757662.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||First step towards normalcy||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-step-towards-normalcy/article34757661.ece
08 June 2021||Mumbai,||Cong. ploughs separate furrow in Maharashtra||Even as the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is putting up a united face to the opposition allegations, the internal tussle seems to be growing in the coalition, with the Congress’s bid to shine brighter than the allies. Three instances in last one month have seen the Congress take a stand contrary to the government or its allies. Party leaders, however, downplayed the differences saying the context for each is different and the Congress is committed to the government. In the first instance, the party’s Dalit leader and State Power Minister Nitin Raut strongly objected to the State government’s decision to deny reservation in promotion, saying the government resolution was contrary to what was discussed in the Cabinet meeting. Following this, three other Congress ministers — Tribal Development Minister K.C. Padvi, School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad and Mr. Raut held a meeting with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The issue was discussed in the Cabinet yet again. Though no final decision has been reached, Mr. Raut is adamant on seeking withdrawals of the said GR. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap, who has already announced that the party will contest all 227 wards in Mumbai in the upcoming civic polls, slammed the ruling Shiv Sena alleging corruption worth hundreds of crore in pre-monsoon nullah cleaning in the city. State Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Vadettiwar’s attempt to overpower Chief Minister office by announcing unlock rules directly hit the government’s top boss. Political observers see a well-defined pattern and strategy in the Congress functioning. “This is definitely not random. It’s well-thought of strategy to address core voter and keep party’s different identity intact,” said Abhay Deshpande, political commentator and senior journalist. He said the party needed to address the perception of Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar running the government. “Nobody can predict what will happen in next polls. It is important for the Congress to not play second fiddle and keep its base as well as identity intact,” he said. According to Ashish Dua, secretary, All India Congress Committee and in-charge of the Maharashtra unit, three incidents are not identical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-ploughs-separate-furrow-in-maharashtra/article34757341.ece
08 June 2021||Mumbai,||One killed in Mumbai building collapse||One person was killed after the wall of a house collapsed on an adjacent building at Bandra (East) in Mumbai on Monday. The incident occurred at 1.45 a.m. at Rajjak Chawl at Mehak Shop, Kherwadi Road. According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, 11 people were rescued by the fire brigade and another six by locals. All were sent to Bhabha and V.N. Desai Hospital. Riyaz Ahmad (28) was declared dead on arrival at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/one-killed-in-mumbai-building-collapse/article34757344.ece
08 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||IMD forecasts heavy rain in Konkan from June 9; CM takes stock||The India Meteorological Department on Monday warned of heavy rain in all the districts of Konkan region including Mumbai from June 9 to 12. Strong winds with a speed of 40-50 km per hour gusting to 60 km per hour have also been predicted. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the disaster management preparations and directed the district administrations to evacuate people from dangerous areas to safer places while ensuring that patient care should not be disrupted. He further said that NDRF and SDRF units should be deployed wherever necessary. “Some natural things are expected to happen in the rainy season and some things happen unexpectedly. We are preparing for the expected things, but the administrations should also prepare for unforeseen things,” the CM said. Heavy to very heavy rain has been predicted in Raigad district while isolated areas of Palghar, Thane and Mumbai may receive heavy rain. Fisherfolk have been warned against venturing into the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/imd-forecasts-heavy-rain-in-konkan-from-june-9-cm-takes-stock/article34757339.ece
08 June 2021||Palghar,||Three held for killing villager||Three people were arrested on Monday for allegedly killing a villager in Jawhar in Palghar district, the police said. Devram Nakre had gone missing on May 31 and his body was found in a forest on Sunday, Inspector Appasaheb Lengre of Jawhar police station said. “Three people were arrested after we found out that the victim had died due to an alleged relationship with the wife of one of the accused,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/three-held-for-killing-villager/article34757338.ece
08 June 2021||Pune,||RSS may sideline Modi if his popularity plunges further, says Congress leader||Holding the Centre accountable for the tardiness of the vaccination drive in the country, senior Congress leader and the party’s national panel spokesperson Anant Gadgil on Monday predicted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in real danger of being sidelined by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh if his popularity continued to plummet further. Mr. Gadgil, who is from Pune, drew an analogy with the ‘fate’ of BJP stalwart L.K. Advani, who at the height of his popularity, had been allegedly cold shouldered by the Sangh. The former MLC said the country was paying a heavy price for the Centre’s delusions and subsequent complacency of having thwarted the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and not preparing for a second. “The Sangh’s ‘Motibagh’ office in Pune is at a short distance from my residence, so I can claim to have closely studied the organisation. Let me say this, that the RSS is not an outfit to allow any single person to soar to the heights of popularity… it will make sure to clip his wings … given the lakhs of livelihoods ruined owing to the Prime Minister and the Centre’s gross mismanagement of the pandemic situation, there is every possibility of Mr. Modi’s popularity continuing to plunge thus. And in this event, the RSS is most likely to sideline him,” said Mr. Gadgil, the son of former Union Minister and veteran Congressman Vitthal Gadgil. Censuring Mr. Modi’s authoritarian style of functioning, Mr. Gadgil said it was unfortunate that the central leadership wilfully disregarded expert warnings and decided to permit unrestrained public gatherings earlier this year. “The sheer ‘immaturity’ in permitting the Kumbh Mela to take place and the Prime Minister’s campaigning for five State elections without regard for human life borders on the criminal. How can you not have a contingency plan or assume that the Indian public had some natural immunity to the virus?” said Mr. Gadgil. He said the massive confusion over the vaccination drives was a result of a fundamentally flawed planning of the vaccination process. “The rejection of foreign pharmaceutical companies into the Indian market early on has slowed down the pace of vaccination. This reliance on only two Indian vaccine companies has resulted today in not even 20% of our countrymen getting vaccinated,” the Congress leader said. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Congress under party president Nana Patole staged a State-wide protest against skyrocketing fuel prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rss-may-sideline-modi-if-his-popularity-plunges-further-says-congress-leader/article34757343.ece
08 June 2021||Thane,||Man accused of dacoity in U.P. arrested in Thane||A man wanted by the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force for a dacoity in that State was held in Thane on Monday, the police said. Abdul Rehman Sheikh (32) of Azamgarh in U.P. was an accused in a dacoity case registered at Phulpur police station, Thane Crime Branch Unit I senior inspector Krishna Kokni said. “The U.P. police alerted us about Mr. Sheikh hiding here. A joint team nabbed him near Thane railway station on Monday,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/man-accused-of-dacoity-in-up-arrested-in-thane/article34757337.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||China hosts ASEAN Foreign Ministers||China is hosting Foreign Ministers from the 10 ASEAN countries on Monday and Tuesday, with Beijing pushing for closer economic cooperation and aligning COVID-19 recovery efforts even as it looks to push back against the recent regional outreach of the Quad grouping. Chinese officials have in recent weeks stepped up criticism of the Quad — the informal India, Australia, Japan and the United States grouping — and of Washington in particular. During recent visits to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, China’s Defence Minister called on both countries to reject “military alliances” — a term that some Beijing are using to describe the Quad, but a label that the group rejects. China’s Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said in a statement the China-ASEAN Foreign Ministers meeting, in the city of Chongqing, would mark the 30-year anniversary of relations and also “focus on combating COVID-19, promoting economic recovery, [and] better dovetail[ing] strategic plans.” A vaccine passport connecting China and ASEAN countries is also being discussed. China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi will hold bilateral meetings with all the visiting Ministers, and also chair a meeting of the Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) with Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam. Economic cooperation Deepening economic cooperation, particularly following the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade deal, would be China’s focus, analysts in Beijing said, even as it grapples with disputes over the South China Sea. Recently, China and the Philippines have clashed over the presence of Chinese vessels near a disputed reef, while Malaysia alleged the intrusion of 16 Chinese aircraft into its airspace. The Communist Party-run Global Times on Monday blamed the U.S. for those tensions rather than China’s moves that prompted the protests from the Philippines and Malaysia. Countries “see clearly that quarrels on South China Sea are not the biggest threat to regional stability; it is the U.S., whose warships frequently sail through the sensitive waters and try to force ASEAN countries take sides to confront China,” the newspaper wrote. After the first Quad leaders’ summit held in March and the announcement of a regional vaccine initiative, many Chinese analysts framed ASEAN as a key space where Chinese and Quad initiatives may rub up against each other. China “cannot rule out the possibilities that Quad members will further rope in ASEAN members to counter China as Southeast Asia is of great significance to the U.S.’ Indo-Pacific Strategy,” wrote Yuan Zheng, senior fellow of the Institute of American Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. “Yet ASEAN will not easily take sides.” The framing of the Quad as “an Asian NATO” by Beijing has been criticised by the group’s members. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar in April described the using of words such as “Asian NATO” as “a mind game which people are playing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-hosts-asean-foreign-ministers/article34757071.ece
08 June 2021||Lima,||Fujimori leads in tight Peru presidential poll over Castillo||Right-wing populist Keiko Fujimori held a narrow lead on Monday in Peru’s presidential election, but the crisis-hit nation’s race was too close to call as votes were still being tabulated from countryside bastions of support for radical leftist Pedro Castillo. Ms. Fujimori had 50.2% of ballots to Mr. Castillo’s 49.8%, according to partial results from Peru’s electoral body, with about 90% of polling stations counted after voting on Sunday in a country battered by years of political turbulence. Whoever wins will take leadership of a nation in crisis, suffering from recession and with the worst coronavirus fatality rate in the world after recording more than 1,84,000 deaths among its 33 million population. Peruvians will also look to the winner to end years of political turmoil after four Presidents in the last three years, and with seven of the last 10 of the country’s leaders either having been convicted of or investigated for corruption. The head of Peru’s top electoral body (ONPE), Piero Corvetto, warned that many polling stations from rural areas — Mr. Castillo’s stronghold — had yet to be tallied. “They haven’t counted our votes yet,” Mr. Castillo told supporters on Sunday in Tacabamba, in the northern Cajamarca region where he lives. Mr. Castillo, 51, had earlier urged his supporters to “stay calm.” Ms. Fujimori, 46, also called for caution, saying: “Seeing how small the gap is, it is essential to maintain prudence and I say that for all Peruvians.” Both candidates promised to respect the results as they cast their own ballots on Sunday. “We’re not going to know (the winner) until the last vote” is counted, political scientist Jessica Smith said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fujimori-leads-in-tight-peru-presidential-poll-over-castillo/article34757073.ece
08 June 2021||Washington,||FDA conditionally approves controversial Alzheimer’s drug||The U.S.’s pharma regulator, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), made a much anticipated ruling on Monday, in conditionally approving the use of an Alzheimer’s drug, called aducanumab, the first such approval since 2003. The drug, which goes by the brand name Aduhelm, has been granted ‘accelerated approval’, meaning it will need to verify expected clinical benefits in a new trial. The drug’s approval had become controversial, with growing pressure from those impacted by the debilitating degenerative brain disease on one hand and opposition from many in the scientific community who were not convinced that the drug had demonstrated efficacy in trials, on the other. The FDA’s conditional approval on Monday took account of this. On Monday, Patrizia Cavazzoni, director of the FDA’s Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, wrote on the organisation’s website that “the data included in the applicant’s submission were highly complex and left residual uncertainties regarding clinical benefit.” Aducanumab is based on the amyloid hypothesis of the disease — that plaques made of beta amyloid peptide (a type of protein) form in the patients brain leading to cognitive decline and problems with thinking. The drug supposedly binds to beta amyloid molecules and removes them. The drug, a monoclonal antibody, is given monthly via injection to patients who suffer from early stages of Alzheimer’s. ‘No strong evidence’ The drug, developed by Biogen, a Cambridge (Massachusetts)-based company and Eisai Co., a Japanese company, was pulled out of two trials in 2019 after it was thought not to be working. In October of last year, Biogen said a high dose of the drug slightly slowed cognitive decline. A panel of experts — not part of the FDA — had ruled last November that the drug did not show “strong evidence” of working. Their decision was non-binding on the FDA. Other scientists and a think tank had said safety concerns around the drug did not outweigh any possible benefits, the New York Times reported. “The late-stage development program for Aduhelm consisted of two phase 3 clinical trials. One study met the primary endpoint, showing reduction in clinical decline. The second trial did not meet the primary endpoint. In all studies in which it was evaluated, however, Aduhelm consistently and very convincingly reduced the level of amyloid plaques in the brain in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. It is expected that the reduction in amyloid plaque will result in a reduction in clinical decline,” Ms. Cavazzoni wrote on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fda-conditionally-approves-controversial-alzheimers-drug/article34757081.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Maldives wins UNGA election, India seeks close cooperation||In a first for the Maldives, Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid was elected the President of the UN General Assembly for 2021-22, winning 143 votes or nearly three-fourths of the 191 countries that voted in the annual election, while his rival, former Afghanistan Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul, won 48. Mr. Shahid’s win was welcomed in particular in New Delhi, where Indian diplomats had been active behind the scenes in helping the Maldives canvass for him, after Maldives announced its candidate for the 76th General Assembly Presidency a year ago. Sources confirmed that given the close cooperation between both countries, Maldives is in discussions with the Indian mission for India’s deputy Permanent Representative at the UN Nagaraj Naidu to officiate as Mr. Shahid’s Chef de Cabinet. Maldives President Ibrahim Solih called the election win “resounding” and a “great honour for the Maldives”, while former President and Maldives speaker Mohammad Nasheed said it was a “great day” for small island states and for “climate vulnerable countries everywhere”. “This is a testimony as much to [Mr. Shahid’s] own stature as to the standing of Maldives. We look forward to working with him to strengthen multilateralism and its much-needed reforms,” said External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. As The Hindu had reported last week, India had made it clear to Afghanistan’s government that it would be unable to support Mr. Rassoul as it had declared its support for Maldives publicly in November, long before Afghanistan announced its candidature in January this year. The announcement had caused an awkward tussle within the Asia Pacific group, whose turn it is to take the Presidency of the General Assembly, and especially for India, which has close ties with both countries. Surprising development Sources said the announcement was a “surprising development”, and that it was important for Maldives to take the position that it has, unlike Afghanistan, never held before. “Both Maldives and Afghanistan have excellent ties with India and both candidates are friends of India. However, since India had already committed its support to Maldives at a time when no other candidate was in the fray, India voted in favour of Maldives,” the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/maldives-wins-unga-election-india-seeks-close-cooperation/article34757083.ece
08 June 2021||Bamako,||Mali strongman vows to honour poll commitments||Malian strongman Colonel Assimi Goita vowed to honour his country’s commitments and reaffirmed the goal of staging elections by next February as he was sworn in as transitional President on Monday following his second coup in less than a year. The ceremony in Bamako came after Col. Goita, who headed a coup last August, ousted the civilian President and Prime Minister of a transitional government on May 24. In doing so, he sparked diplomatic uproar and deepened fears of chaos in a country key to efforts to stem the jihadist insurgency sweeping the Sahel. “I swear before God and the Malian people to preserve the republican regime... to preserve democratic gains,” said Col. Goita. “I would like to reassure sub-regional, regional organisations and the wider international community that Mali will uphold all its commitments,” the coup leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mali-strongman-vows-to-honour-poll-commitments/article34757076.ece
08 June 2021||Mexico City,||Mexico President poised to hold majority in elections||President Andrés Manuel López Obrador’s party and its allies appeared poised to maintain their majority in Mexico’s lower chamber of the Congress, but fell short of a supermajority, as some voters boosted the struggling Opposition, according to initial election results. Electoral authorities released “quick count” results based on voting samples that allow estimates of the voting trends to determine the rough potential makeup of the Chamber of Deputies late Sunday. Mr. López Obrador’s Morena party will have to rely on votes from its allies in the Workers Party and Green Party, but together they were expected to capture between 265 and 292 seats in the 500-seat chamber. Morena alone was expected to win 190 to 203 seats. Significant decline That would signal a significant decline for the President’s party. In the current Congress, Morena has a simple majority, holding 253 seats on its own. It would also deprive the President of a qualified majority of two-thirds required to approve constitutional reforms. He appeared to acknowledge that new reality on Monday. He praised the election as “free, clean” and said Mexicans had shown a degree of political maturity “never seen.” The opposition alliance made up of the Institutional Revolutionary Party, National Action Party and Party of the Democratic Revolution were estimated to win between 181 and 213 seats. Those would be gains for those parties, which have often appeared rudderless in the face of Mr. López Obrador’s popularity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/mexico-president-poised-to-hold-majority-in-elections/article34757078.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Devastating pile-up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/devastating-pile-up/article34757080.ece
08 June 2021||Abuja,||Boko Haram leader ‘kills self’ in fight with rival jihadists||The Islamic State West African Province militant group said in an audio recording on Sunday that Abubakar Shekau, leader of rival Boko Haram, was dead. Shekau died around May 18 after detonating an explosive device when he was pursued by ISWAP fighters, a person purporting to be ISWAP leader Abu Musab al-Barnawi said in the audio.Reuters||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/boko-haram-leader-kills-self-in-fight-with-rival-jihadists/article34757075.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Connecting the dots to mitigate a third wave||After a long and painful month-and-a-half, confirmed cases of COVID-19 in India have been declining steadily for more than a month. Deaths have started to decrease as well. However, it is a long way down from an unprecedented peak of more than 400,000 daily cases, and the suffering will continue for weeks and months to come. It does, however, appear that the second wave of the novel coronavirus is abating. ‘R’ and determinants A simple epidemiologic concept can be used to better understand the second wave and help plan for a potential third wave. The reproduction number — often referred as R — is the average number of new infections arising from one infected individual. R fluctuates over time during an epidemic. When R is greater than 1, infected individuals infect more than one person on average and we observe increasing cases. When it is less than 1, cases are declining. It is not a perfect statistic, especially when cases are low, but it does provide helpful insights into how an epidemic is changing. What led R to increase earlier this year resulting in a second wave? R depends on four factors, summarised by the acronym DOTS: the Duration a person is infectious; Opportunities infected individuals have to spread infection to others; the probability Transmission occurs given an opportunity, and the average Susceptibility of a population or subpopulation. Because each factor is required for increasing cases, reducing any of them to 0 would extinguish an epidemic. This is not practical right now anywhere in the world. However, we should work toward decreasing these factors such that R remains as low as possible. It is also critical to consider the effect new variants have had on each of these four factors. Susceptibility, opportunities Let us start with S — the proportion of the population susceptible to infection. Susceptible individuals lack immunity derived through prior infection or immunisation. Results from a national seroprevalence survey done in December 2020 and January 2021 indicate that roughly 25% of the population had antibodies (https://bit.ly/3v0WSWY) to the virus that causes COVID-19. Estimates were slightly different depending on geography. And some surveys showed substantially higher exposure to the virus. Nevertheless, there was still a substantial susceptible population in most parts of the country at the beginning of 2021. Susceptibility can be reduced through immunisation. By the end-March, however, less than 1% of the total population had received two doses of the vaccine. Taken together, the right conditions were set for a potential second wave at the beginning of 2021. The next factor is the number of opportunities for transmission — or O in the DOTS. By January, there was a sense that India had made it through the worst of COVID-19. Many people were eager to get back to life and work, especially after a very challenging 2020. Social distancing had reduced and markets filled again with people. One salient characteristic of COVID-19 is that the disease is driven largely by superspreading, where many individuals are infected by a small number of individuals. Colleagues and I showed in research from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh (https://bit.ly/2T7Dpa9) that only 5% of infected individuals accounted for roughly 80% of all secondary infections. With this in mind, increased social mixing and large gatherings that took place in early 2021 also might have helped facilitate a second wave. Transmission, duration This brings us to T, or the probability of transmission. Not taking proper precautions can lead to increased transmission. There are no good national statistics on the proportion of people adhering to preventative measures. However, during my travels throughout India for work in early 2021, it was clear that few people were wearing masks while in public. In addition, new variants that are more transmissible have emerged. One new variant called B.1.617.2, or more recently known as the delta variant, is known to be much more transmissible — potentially twice as much (https://bit.ly/3pxqD0O) — than those circulating in 2020. This is demonstrated by the fact that it is the dominant variant in India and has emerged as the dominant variant in the United Kingdom according to data from there. Finally, the last factor in the DOTS equation is the duration of infectiousness or D. Emerging evidence (https://bit.ly/3fZufpa) suggests that the duration of infectiousness could be slightly longer with some new variants. More research is needed to confirm this. However, this could help explain why some variants are outcompeting others and could have contributed to the increase in R in India earlier this year. A third wave? What does this mean for a potential third wave? First, we need well-designed seroprevalence surveys to understand how much of the population remains susceptible and where they reside. The Government has planned a seroprevalence study in June in the same 70 districts where the first three rounds were conducted. There also remain questions about waning immunity and the potential for reinfections, which would affect how we calculate the proportion of the population that is susceptible. The new variants also complicate this equation, as they are able to partially evade immunity developed through infection or immunisation. Despite the need for more data, based on the existing evidence and out of an abundance of caution, we should anticipate that there could be a potential third wave. Luckily, DOTS provides us with a framework for preventing or mitigating a third wave. We need to drive down the factors that contribute to R wherever possible. And we need to work even harder to do this, because the new variants have skewed the equation such that R can more easily be pushed to be greater than 1. Some regions have implemented lockdowns, which substantially reduce opportunities for transmission. These are temporary solutions and should be used to focus on slowing transmission and scaling up other interventions. Mass gatherings have also largely stopped, which should help reduce opportunities for transmission. This is welcome news and should continue after the second wave. We can reduce the susceptible population by substantially increasing immunisation coverage. Currently only 3% of the population has received both doses. The Government is working hard to procure additional doses that are desperately needed. Mask use, ventilation Transmission can be reduced through increased use of face masks and improved ventilation. Research from neighbouring Bangladesh (https://bit.ly/3vVDBrr) indicates that providing free masks together with community monitors can help improve adoption. Last, if the duration of infectiousness is indeed longer, isolation and quarantining guidelines should be revisited to minimise potential exposure to others. The emergence of new variants means we need to take these interventions even more seriously. Connecting the DOTS, though, can help mitigate a third wave and the tremendous pain and suffering that have become all too common in recent weeks. Brian Wahl, PhD, MPH, is an epidemiologist and faculty member at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and a member of the Johns Hopkins India Institute COVID-19 Response Task Force. He has worked on public health issues in India for more than a decade||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/connecting-the-dots-to-mitigate-a-third-wave/article34757057.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Towards a stronger mental health strategy||Mental health issues are a major health challenge in the world today. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), there is a 10-25-year life expectancy reduction in patients with severe mental disorders. About 72% of member states had a standalone policy or plan for mental health in 2017. India introduced the National Mental Health Policy (NMHP) in 2014, and a rights-based Mental Healthcare Act in 2017, which replaced the Mental Healthcare Act of 1987. The NMHP, National Health Mission, National Adolescent Health Programme, and Ayushman Bharat have the necessary components to address the mental health issues of all sections of the population. But more needs to be done in the context of COVID-19, which has exacerbated mental illnesses everywhere. Mental health indicators Studies in The Lancet Public Health (2019) revealed that median mental health spending across the world was around 2% of the total government health expenditure in 2015. In the case of low-income countries, it was around 0.5% of their health budget; for lower-middle-income countries, it was 1.9%; for upper-middle-income countries, 2.4%; and for high-income countries, 5.1%. There was higher allocation in developed countries than in developing countries. Government expenditure on hospitals dealing with mental health issues as a percentage of total government expenditure on mental health is 1.3% in India; in developed countries, it ranges from 3% to 15%. In India, the share of mental hospitals per 1,00,000 population is as low as 0.01 in line with developing countries, according to the WHO. This may possibly be due to the lack of focussed attention given to mental health compared to other major diseases in India. In the distribution of mental health units in general hospitals (per 1,00,000 population) globally, in 2016, India was ranked 114 with just 0.03 units per 1,00,000 population. India was at the 99th position in the distribution of mental health outpatient facilities (per 1,00,000 population), with 0.18 units per 1,00,000 population. India was also at the 64th position in the distribution of mental health day treatment facilities (per 1,00,000 population). Residential mental health services, particularly community ones, are an important component for good quality mental health care. In most industrialised economies, there has been a growth of community healthcare facilities in line with the increase in patients with mental health issues. Research also shows that long-term patients with mental health issues are usually admitted to residential facilities. The distribution of community residential facilities globally for the median year 2016 showed India at the 58th position, with 0.017 units per 1,00,000 population among the WHO member countries. The people working in the mental health sector help us understand mental health issues better. Here, India was ranked 107 with 0.292 per 1,00,000 population. Nurses, social workers and psychologists working in the mental health sector (per 1,00,000 population) in India are 0.796, 0.065, and 0.069, respectively. The leading countries in each of these three areas have 150.3, 145.4, and 222.6 per 1,00,000 population. India’s ranking in this context among the WHO member countries was 97, 79 and 104, respectively. Mental illnesses Mental illnesses include anxiety disorders, psychotic disorders, mood disorders, substance use disorders, personality disorders and eating disorders. The majority of suicides in the world are related to psychiatric problems or to the illnesses listed above. Death by suicide is a complex phenomenon and not fully reported. Globally, the suicide rate was 10.6 per 1,00,000 population whereas in India, it was 16.3 per 1,00,000 in 2016. The suicide rate was higher among males compared to females. Mental health may not be the primary concern in developing economies like India as there may be other communicable and non-communicable diseases which may be more prevalent. There are also challenges regarding funding, delivery of mental health packages, lack of trained staff, etc. However, these challenges need to be considered more seriously in the wake of COVID-19 as mental health issues are widely prevalent among the Indian population due to lockdowns and related issues. Recent reports published in Lancet revealed that one in seven people in India had a mental disorder ranging from mild to severe in 2017. Also, the proportional contribution of mental disorders to the total disease burden had doubled between 1990 and 2017. Mental disorders include depressive and anxiety disorders, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. This situation was generally worse in the southern States compared to the northern States due to the nature of development, modernisation, urbanisation and other factors not understood yet. Depressive disorders were more prevalent among females than males which could be due to sexual abuse, gender discrimination, stress due to antenatal and postnatal issues and other reasons. Additional measures In order to further address mental health issues, India could reduce the treatment gap for mental disorders, increase the number of personnel in the mental health sector, work towards reducing discriminatory attitudes, and devise an integrated approach for detecting, treating, and managing patient needs. More counselling facilities, especially in rural areas, with special support for women through the provision of women doctors are needed. More telemedicine, telephone-based helpline numbers, and mental health apps could help. Communities and families have an important role in this regard and so do community-based programmes. School-based programmes on mental health can improve the mental health of children. More fund allocation for treatment of mental health, especially to those States in need of funds, could do wonders. The pandemic may be the best time to explore various policy options including creating online mental health awareness. There needs to be a road map for mental health awareness. This should include the traditional media, government programmes, the education system, industry, and social media. Media awareness and government involvement is already happening in India but both can improve. It is high time that industry and private sector companies set up counselling facilities. The application of big data and crowd sourcing ideas may help us in informed decision-making. Surjith Karthikeyan is an Indian Economic Service (2010) Officer. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/towards-a-stronger-mental-health-strategy/article34757068.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Cease the conflict and build the peace||The recent clashes between young Palestinians and Israelis in Jerusalem and in the occupied West Bank are a reminder of why it is so important to understand that the challenge of peace in that region of the world is actually the challenge for all of us who have been witnessing for the past 70 years a murderous and horrific conflict between Arabs and Jews. A common humanity The refusal to kill or to legitimate murder is the starting point where Palestinian-Israeli reconciliation can begin. The question is can Israelis or Palestinians imagine each other’s death and their shared responsibility for it? Can they perceive themselves as perpetrators of violence as well as its victims? Can an Israeli father or mother imagine that a Palestinian child is as precious as his/her own? Can a Palestinian feel the same sense of horror, disgust and sorrow when he or she sees the image of Israeli children blown up by rockets or suicide bombers? Forming an answer to these questions begins with Palestinians and Israelis recognising their common humanity and shared values beyond a continuous reinvention of their victimhood, and beyond a persistent tendency to blame the other. The moral courage to accept one’s wrongdoings can help stop the perpetuation and a deepening of a war between the two nations. Fearful men and women who cannot visualise a goal or goods beyond a mere instinct to survive cannot help the process of peace. A fearful person cannot love, have desire, or have hope. It is perhaps too much to hope that a community, a state or for that matter, even an isolated individual, can admit being wrong. But to hope is already a step forward and to do one’s best for such hope is a giant leap forward. There is no doubt in anybody’s mind that the clash between Israelis and Palestinians is a clash between two versions of the same lived experience. There are no good guys and bad guys in this conflict, as most people living outside this region tend to perceive it. We are talking about two nations that have been living with their shattered dreams and broken hopes. In a way, dying together, more than living together, has brought Israelis and Palestinians to share the same fate. They are burning in the same fire. So either each nation can run for its own life and let the other fade or both nations can try to fight the flames together. This is because neither Israeli Jews, nor Palestinian Arabs can find a national homeland anywhere else. This is why the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is neither a clash of cultures nor a clash of religious traditions, but a clash of intolerances and prejudices among two nations who share the same boat. For too many years an iron wall of hatred, violence and fanaticism has separated the world of Israelis from that of Palestinians. As a result, we have a traumatised and untrusting peoples on both sides. For much too long, the Palestinians and the rest of the Arab world have treated Israel as an infection that will simply go away. for their part, many Israelis have treated the entire Palestinian issue as no more than a vicious invention of a pan-Arab propaganda machine, aimed at undermining Israel’s legitimacy in order to destroy it. In terms of violence committed in the region, the major human rights violations are generally perpetuated by the Israeli military and various Palestinian militant groups that claim responsibility for killing civilians. However, the peoples of both countries are in broad agreement that it is never justified for an individual person or militaries to target and kill civilians. Grounded in reality Many young Israelis and Palestinians reject violence in the long run and favour non-violent forms of negotiation as the best approach to achieving self-determination and security. Is this an idealistic dream? Maybe. But perhaps idealism is the most realistic approach at this time, because non-violence is the solution most grounded in reality. As we have seen in the past 70 years, violence has not worked and submission to domination has been intolerable. Non-violence, it would seem, is the only alternative. This is the only strategy that can assure Israelis their security and Palestinians their state. The key requirement for any peace settlement is that violence must end. This does not mean that we have to be silent in an undignified way in face of the deaths of innocent civilians on both sides. It means that we need to launch a global movement of non-violent resistance to the violent policies of those who are against a coherent and proactive negotiating position. Wheel of victimisation The path to a workable peace — one with a Palestinian state alongside Israel, and both with internationally recognised borders — has been well known for long. But a succession of Israeli and Palestinian leaders have been reluctant to pick up the challenge. If each side has refused to understand the other, it is because each side has seen itself only as a victim. A sense of victimisation has accompanied both sides, with a justification and legitimisation of violence. There is doubt on whether there can be a partner to deliver peace. But how can we get out of this cycle of violence and how can the two sides reverse direction and start looking towards the future? No realist would believe that today there is a brilliant formula or shining piece of paper that will end the Palestinian-Israeli tragedy in our time. This is true, but the years and decades to come will be very challenging for both Israelis and Palestinians. Roughly speaking, Israel is caught in a dilemma. If it does not end the occupation and retreat, it will lose both its integrity as a Jewish democratic state and its international legitimacy. But if Israel does end the occupation and withdraw without a peace accord, it will be perceived by its neighbours as an act of weakness. To solve this dilemma, Israel must get its act together. It must reform its political system; it must come up with a government of wisdom and common sense. But it must do more than that. It must create a new, relevant narrative, which is a narrative of tolerance and dialogue. As for the Palestinians, they have no way of regaining their rights without the active participation of Israelis in their democratic effort. If there is a permanent agreement with the Palestinians on this issue, Israel will no longer be able to view its Arab citizens as permanently suspect and unofficial enemy agents. In the coming decades, Israelis will be confronted with a fundamental question — whether to ensure the peaceful transition towards an egalitarian society in which Palestinians are given the same rights as Jews. However, this does not mean that they have to artificially engineer solutions. On the contrary, it means that for one people to realise their dreams, another should not lose everything. It is time for Israel and Palestine to underline the renunciation of violence and murder as a moral imperative and an alternative course of action. But for that, they both need to understand that they are victims of the same fear, prejudice and intolerance. Undoubtedly, light and hope can only come from a non-violent dialogue between young Palestinians and Israeli youth. Ramin Jahanbegloo is Director, Mahatma Gandhi Centre for Peace, Jindal Global University, Sonipat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cease-the-conflict-and-build-the-peace/article34757060.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Belligerence and pushback||In May, in another brazen display of its ‘wolf warrior’ diplomacy, China issued a strange warning to Bangladesh, a nation that it has tried to cultivate assiduously over several years. While suggesting that China considers the Quad to be a minor anti-China initiative, the Chinese Ambassador to Bangladesh, Li Jiming, warned Dhaka that there will be “substantial damage” in bilateral ties between China and Bangladesh if the latter joins the Quad. It was an extraordinary statement by a diplomat in a host nation but it had all the chutzpah that Chinese diplomats think they deserve to embed in their seemingly non-diplomatic outpourings. Revealing fault lines As was expected, Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen promptly and publicly challenged the Chinese envoy’s statement, underlining categorically that Dhaka pursues an independent foreign policy. “It’s very regrettable… We are an independent and sovereign state. We decide our foreign policy,” he said. “They [the Chinese] can say what they want…We will listen to what they say. But we will decide what is good for us.” There was some attempt at damage control with Mr. Li reportedly trying to explain his remarks to Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen later in a meeting where he apparently said that he “did not mean to harm the ties between the two countries” and that his remarks were taken “out of context.” But the Chinese Foreign Ministry continued to target Quad “as a small clique against China” and said that “remarks expressing opposition to this mechanism are not about interference but about expressing opposition to small cliques and bloc politics. They also reflect the aspiration for maintaining regional peace and stability.” That China’s remarks would reverberate far beyond South Asia was expected and perhaps intended by Beijing itself. The spokesperson of U.S. State Department remarked, “What we would say is that we respect Bangladesh’s sovereignty and we respect Bangladesh’s right to make foreign policy decisions for itself.” This episode captures the emerging fault lines in South Asia and the wider Indo-Pacific in ways that are both revealing and challenging. As the tectonic plates in the Indo-Pacific shift, major players are making their moves and testing the waters. For all its attempts to play down the relevance of the Quad, Beijing realises that the grouping, with all its weaknesses, is emerging as a reality and there is little it can do to prevent that. It tried but failed. And so, it is agitated about Quad’s future role and its potential success in offering the regional states an alternative to its own strong-arm tactics. The Quad member states are busy in figuring out a cohesive agenda amongst themselves and there are no plans for an expansion. There is a desire to work with like-minded nations but that can only happen if the four members of the Quad can build a credible platform first. No one is sending out invitations to join Quad and no one has shown an interest. But Beijing wants to ensure that after failing in its initial attempt to prevent the Quad from gaining any traction, its message is well understood by other states who may harbour any desire of working closely with the Quad members to uphold a rules-based order in the Indo-Pacific. With its message to Dhaka, Beijing was laying down a marker that nations should desist from engaging with the Quad. Growing momentum of Quad Of course, this aggressive diplomacy is likely to have the opposite effect, but that is for the future. For the moment, it is enough for Beijing to showcase its public disapproval of a platform that has gained rapid traction. Beijing has failed to prevent nations from the West to the East from coming out with their Indo-Pacific strategies, it has failed to prevent the operationalisation of the Quad, and now it might be worried about other nations in the region thinking of engaging with the Quad more proactively. Even Bangladesh is planning to come out with its own Indo-Pacific strategy and Beijing has now warned Dhaka that a close cooperation with the Quad should not be part of the policy mix. This is just the beginning. As the Quad gains more momentum and the churn in the waters of the Indo-Pacific leads to new countervailing coalitions against China, Beijing’s belligerence can only be expected to grow. For many regional states in South Asia and the Indo-Pacific, it has been a smooth ride so far with China being the only game in town. For all the criticism China has heaped on the Quad’s members for trying to create an exclusive clique, it will be Beijing that is likely to demand clear-cut foreign policy choices from its regional interlocutors. And states are more likely to push back than become subservient to Chinese largesse. Harsh V. Pant is Director, Studies at Observer Research Foundation, New Delhi and Professor of International Relations, King's College London||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/belligerence-and-pushback/article34757064.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Students’ safety, first||A real leader examines every issue in a holistic manner to ensure that at the end of the debate, we emerge stronger and more united than ever before. The decision to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 exam is among the many decisions taken by the Prime Minister in the sphere of education in these times of unprecedented crises and challenges. Three criteria Every decision in public policy should pass certain objective criteria because there are always competing alternatives. If a decision is based on the criterion of empathy, it an excellent decision. If empathy is clubbed with rationality, the decision will pay rich dividends for all the citizens. The three criteria that were considered in the debate on cancelling the CBSE Class 12 exam were students’ career, their safety, and empathy. Regarding the first criterion, there is no denying that the CBSE Class 12 exam has a significant role in every student’s career graph and road map for life. Regarding the second criterion, the health and safety of our students is of the greatest importance and there should not be any compromise on this aspect. Though the numbers of COVID-19 cases are decreasing, some States are still under some form of lockdown. The Prime Minster has said that every single life is precious and the safety of our children is our biggest priority. Regarding the third criterion, I feel that all stakeholders must show sensitivity and empathy for our students. The Prime Minster has proved that leadership is all about empathy and the ability to connect with the people. He has always been there in Pariksha Pe Charcha with our students to inspire them with empathy. Democracy since the days of the ‘Janapada system’ of ancient India is all about consultative decision-making. When we met for the first time on the CBSE issue, the Prime Minister made it clear that a decision should be taken only after wide discussion. He used to repeatedly ask, was this issue widely discussed and debated by all the stakeholders in the country? Keeping in mind the spirit of wide consultation, a high-powered committee was formed under the chairmanship of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, with Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar and Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani as its core members. This was a pan-India consultation involving all the State Education Ministers, Education Secretaries and Chairpersons of State Education Boards. We discussed the road map and possible avenues for conduct of the Class 12 exam. The valuable inputs and suggestions received during the consultations were analysed using the three aforementioned criteria, by the Prime Minster and other Cabinet Ministers and senior officers of the country. Looking at the various criteria, dimensions, possibilities and scenarios, a decision was taken. A timely decision The decision to cancel the exam will help lakhs of students explore career opportunities in colleges and universities in the coming academic session. It will also help our students get aligned with the coming session and prevent loss of valuable time as well as academic losses. Some students who wish to take the exam will get adequate opportunities to do so in an improved scenario. We are completely committed to providing ample opportunities to merit-seeking students who wish to write the board exam. As Union Minister of Education, I would like to assure you that the Class 12 results will be formulated according to a well-defined and objective criterion in a time-bound manner ensuring merit and inclusivity. There will be comprehensive planning by the CBSE and the Ministry officials to formulate the mechanism that will accommodate all possible options of evaluation and quantification. The mental freedom and strength achieved through this decision will go a long way in contributing to the general well-being of students, families, society, and our country. Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ is Union Education Minister, Government of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/students-safety-first/article34757065.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||School ranks||The Union Education Ministry has been attempting to get States into a competitive mode in upgrading their school education system by recognising progress with a Performance Grading Index (PGI) that assigns them a score. It can be argued that countries and State governments use school education as a transformative tool most effectively where the political imperative is strong. The Centre’s effort with the PGI scoring system has been to try and nudge all States using a hall of fame approach. In the latest set of scores and grades for the pre-COVID-19 year, 2019-20, the Andaman and Nicobar islands, Chandigarh, Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu have performed the best, although they still fall short of the 951-1,000 points slab, the highest possible. It should be heartening to 33 States and Union Territories that their PGI scores have improved over the previous year, and in the case of Andaman and Nicobar, Punjab and Arunachal Pradesh, by a noteworthy 20%. Several middling States continue to make marginal progress, some have improved merely by tweaking their data, while Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh actually regressed, although the PGI scheme is now three years old. The score is derived using databases on 70 parameters such as access, equity, governance processes, infrastructure and facilities, and learning outcomes that are mostly self-reported by the States but vetted by the Centre, with National Achievement Survey data also being incorporated. On some parameters, such as uneven learning outcomes between students from deprived communities and others, bridging the gap earns a better score. The Centre, with its transparent scores and data for each parameter and sub-topic made available in the public domain, seeks to create a resource-sharing system that low-performing States can tap into. This initiative is laudable, but it can work only if governments and Opposition parties see value in strong and open school education, and work to strengthen access, equity and infrastructure by budgeting fees and funds for universalisation. It is such commitment that led Southeast Asia to carry out a renaissance in school education in the later decades of the last century, on the lines of Meiji-era Japan. India’s school system has to contend with not just patchy access and infrastructure, but major equity issues that have come to the fore during the pandemic. Clearly, the shadow of COVID-19 will persist over the education system for the foreseeable future, and further progress on all parameters will depend on bridging the gaps, particularly on digital tools, infrastructure and subsidies for access. The PGI scores show that the southern and western States are on firm ground to achieve this, while those in central India and parts of the east and Northeast are less resourced. What is evident from the Education Ministry analysis is that governance processes are the weakest link in some States. A new deal for schools can transform them as the Right to Education law envisages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/school-ranks/article34757049.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Fair wind||If everything aligns, India could see a third consecutive year of surplus rainfall. The IMD has said that monsoon rains will likely be 101% of the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm. In 2020, it was 109% of the LPA and in 2019, 110%. While the forecast 101% LPA is short of the rainfall received in these years and still within the range of what the IMD considers ‘normal’ rainfall, it is positive news because the current forecast is ‘above normal’ rainfall in the core agricultural zone. This zone includes States where agriculture is significantly rain-fed including Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. The IMD’s estimate of the distribution of this rainfall also suggests that except for the Northeast, where rainfall is expected to be ‘below normal’, other regions are expected to get above normal rainfall. A general pattern of the monsoon is that weakened rains over Northeastern India — which has a higher base rainfall than other parts of India — translate into stronger rainfall in Central India. Propitious rain this year is premised on forecasts from Indian and global climate models, veering towards no excess sea-surface temperatures at the Equatorial Pacific conditions. There are also ‘negative’ IOD (Indian Ocean Dipole) conditions over the Indian Ocean during the monsoon season, meaning warmer water and greater precipitation in the eastern Indian Ocean. Put together, they mean that these larger climate factors are, as of now, unlikely to have a significant influence over the prevailing monsoon. A good monsoon could aid agriculture which has been among the few bright spots in the Indian economy. Two good years of rains have boosted storage in the key reservoirs. However, the flip side of a forecast for a bounteous monsoon is the possibility of flash floods, landslides and disease outbreaks. In the last year and before it, the IMD had not, in June, warned about the exceptionally high rains. While three consecutive years of above normal rain are exceedingly rare, the IMD itself assigns a 22% probability of it occurring, which is just below the 40% probability of ‘normal’ rainfall. India is now moving to a system where medium range forecasts, or expected changes in monsoon or larger weather patterns over two weeks, are better captured by the monsoon models deployed. These inputs must be used by the Government to better prepare infrastructure in the eventuality that excessive rains can wipe out the potential gains for agriculture. It may also be worthwhile to encourage farmers to sow higher-value crops than only rice via the MSP route. The favourable tidings should not be an excuse to abandon caution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/fair-wind/article34757050.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The Bible has lost its hold’||The fact that the Bible has long lost its hold over the peoples of the West is frankly acknowledged by Mr. H.G. Wells. Writing in theSunday Timeson the salvaging of civilisation he says: “It has been the book that has held together the fabric of Western civilisation. It has been the handbook of life to countless millions of men and women. The civilisation we possess could not have come into existence and could not have been sustained without it. It has explained the world to the mass of our people and it has given them moral standards and a form into which their consciences could work. But does it do that to-day? Frankly, I do not think it does. I think that during the last century the Bible has lost much of its former hold. It no longer grips the community.” And according to him it has its lost hold because of those sundering eighteen centuries, because of profound changes in the methods and mechanisms of life, and because of the vast extension of our ideas by the development of science in the last century. In the opinion of Mr. Wells the Bible is not all that the West needs at the present day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-bible-has-lost-its-hold/article34757061.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Administration of evacuee camps||The West Bengal Chief Minister, Mr. Ajoy Mukherji, said here to-day [Calcutta, June 7] that the Army was not agreeable to take the entire charge of the administration of Bangla Desh evacuee camps. Mr. Mukherji, who discussed the issue yesterday at his residence with the Army Chief Gen. S.H.F.J. Manekshaw, said he was told that since the Army had many other jobs to perform it could not take the responsibility for administering the camps. He said the Centre had taken the entire financial burden. It would also lend the services of some senior Central officers. The State Government, however, would have to provide the major portion of the staff for running the camps as Bengali-speaking people would be helpful in the matter. He said that on the completion of construction of the camps outside the State, trains, trucks and aircraft would be transporting the evacuees there. Work on some camps in Bankura and Birbhum districts in the State was also in progress. He said accommodation of refugees had become the main problem with the onset of monsoon. The Government was experiencing extreme difficulty in procuring construction materials. Prices of articles were shooting up every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/administration-of-evacuee-camps/article34757062.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||NCLT approves Piramal’s DHFL offer||The National Company Law Tribunal on Monday approved the Piramal Group’s bid for bankrupt-DHFL, subject to certain conditions. The NCLT’s Mumbai-bench, chaired by H P Chaturvedi and Ravikumar Duraisamy, said the approval is subject to the final ruling from the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal and the Supreme Court’s judgment on Kapil Wadhawan in the matter. ‘More to FD holders’ In its order, NCLT asked DHFL’s Committee of Creditors (CoC) to consider giving more money to small fixed deposit holders under the approved resolution plan. “We are not remanding the plan back to CoC, we respect their commercial wisdom,” the bench said. NCLT also rejected former DHFL promoter Mr. Wadhawan’s plea to get access to a copy of the resolution plan. On May 25, the NCLAT had stayed the direction of NCLT asking the lenders of DHFL to consider the offer by Mr. Wadhawan. The appellate tribunal had also clarified that its order should not deter NCLT from deciding on approval for the resolution plan selected by the CoC. NCLAT’s direction had come on an urgent petition moved by the Union Bank of India on behalf of the CoC. On May 19, NCLT had asked the RBI-appointed administrator of DHFL to present the settlement plan offered by Mr. Wadhawan to the CoC. In January, the CoC voted to accept the Piramal Group’s Rs. 37,250 crore offer under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). ‘Positive trendsettter’ Welcoming the NCLT ruling, the Piramal Group said, “This is one of India’s largest IBC proceedings, and the very first in the financial sector. In that regard, it is an important and positive trendsetter for the future. The approval from NCLT is a significant milestone in DHFL’s resolution and an affirmation of the sanctity of the IBC process”. Last year, Mr. Wadhawan had made his settlement offer. The offer was rejected by the CoC, citing lack of credibility and the valuations attached to the proposed asset sales. Mr. Wadhawan had proposed repaying lenders by selling assets. In November 2019, RBI had referred DHFL — then the third-largest pure-play mortgage lender — for resolution under the IBC. DHFL had gone bankrupt with more than Rs. 90,000 crore in debt to various lenders, including banks, mutual funds and individual investors who kept fixed deposits with the company. DHFL’s shares would be delisted from stock exchanges post acquisition by Piramal Capital and Housing Finance, sources told PTI. ( With inputs from Lalatendu Mishra in Mumbai )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-approves-piramals-dhfl-offer/article34757045.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Second wave may delay resolutions, increase haircuts’||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic may again delay resolutions under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and increase haircuts for lenders, though realisations for financial creditors is likely to improve under the Code in FY22, ICRA said in a report. Stating that realisation for financial creditors from the resolution under the IBC fell to Rs. 26,000 crore in FY21 — almost a quarter of the realisations in FY20 — it said financial creditors may realise about Rs. 55,000-60,000 crore in FY22, largely driven by the expected resolution of a large housing finance firm. This is likely to be DHFL. “The pandemic has increased operational challenges for the various parties involved in a corporate insolvency resolution process, which resulted in limited cases yielding a resolution plan,” ICRA said. “Further, the suspension of new proceedings under the IBC for the entire fiscal resulted in a sharp slowdown in the resolution process,” it added. “The increase in the resolution amount in FY22 would depend on the expected resolution of a large housing finance company which is awaiting the NCLT’s approval but is also under litigation in the higher courts,” said Abhishek Dafria, VP and group head, Structured Finance, ICRA. In FY22, realisations would depend on successful resolution of 8-9 big-ticket accounts, ICRA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-may-delay-resolutions-increase-haircuts/article34757031.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Heightened stress could delay bank privatisation: Fitch||The Centre’s plan to privatise two public sector banks this year could face delays on account of higher stress levels in banks’ balance sheets due to COVID-19, as well as political hurdles in effecting necessary legislative changes, Fitch Ratings said on Monday. The government has announced an ambitious disinvestment target of Rs. 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22, which includes the sale of two banks, yet to be officially identified from the dozen public sector entities in the sector. “The bold move to privatise state-run banks faces risk from political opposition and structural challenges including heightened balance-sheet stress due to the pandemic, which is likely to keep bank performance subdued for the next 2-3 years,” Fitch said in a note. Arguing that investors’ appetite for government-owned banks is muted due to ‘structurally weak governance frameworks’ and ‘persistently weak performance, reflected in significant asset-quality problems’, the ratings agency said that larger banks have generally ‘compromised’ financials. ‘Resistance from unions’ Investor interest might be especially muted in banks prohibited by the central bank from pursuing fresh loans and new branches under the prompt corrective action framework. “There could also be more resistance from the trade unions this time around, who will be against the safety-net withdrawal of state ownership. Success of the plan would also require sufficient interest from investor(s) willing to acquire large stake(s) in state-owned banks and run them,” it added. State-owned banks have been more active in extending relief and forbearance measures announced by the authorities than their private peers, Fitch noted, stressing this would make it more difficult to assess stress levels at these banks. Work culture differences and more ‘bureaucratic’ organisational practices at public sector banks also pose a challenge. “Similar challenges and the absence of meaningful investor interest resulted in the state ultimately having to sell its majority stake in IDBI Bank to LIC in 2019, which has somewhat been privatisation in letter but not in spirit. “However, this could change in 2021 if both government and LIC are able to divest a majority stake in the bank to an external investor, as it may be indicative of broader investor appetite in state banks with adequate loan-loss reserves,” it concluded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/heightened-stress-could-delay-bank-privatisation-fitch/article34757033.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘MSMEs, retailers need to adapt to home delivery’||Micro, small and medium enterprises and retailers need to adapt to the home delivery model at the earliest to leverage the anticipated pent up demand for consumer goods over the next three months, according to a survey by LocalCircles. A majority of 66% respondents said their top criteria for deciding the mode of buying will be contactless home delivery and adherence to social distancing over the next three months. About 13% voted for convenience, 3% for price, 15% for supporting small businesses and 1% for ‘other’ reasons. “The survey received more than 40,000 responses from citizens residing in 303 districts of India,” LocalCircles said. The survey added that one in three households would need to purchase a gadget. On the must-have products they needed as households in the next three months, 33% respondents said they required equipment such as laptop and mobiles for work from home or other activities, 23% wanted appliances such as ACs, coolers, fans and whitegoods and 22% needed home appliances, bedding and furnishings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/msmes-retailers-need-to-adapt-to-home-delivery/article34757039.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Central Bank Q4 loss tapers to Rs. 1,349 crore||Central Bank of India’s net loss narrowed to Rs. 1,349 crore in the fourth quarter from a loss of Rs. 1,529 crore a year earlier, due to improved performance. For the year ended March 31, net loss narrowed to Rs. 888 crore from Rs. 1,121 crore in the previous year. Net NPA improved to 5.77% in FY21 from 7.63% in FY20. Gross NPA improved to 16.6% (18.9%). The bank made a provision of Rs. 3,262 crore in Q4 towards NPA, compared with Rs. 1,583 crore a year earlier. Slippage ratio improved to 4.40% in FY21 (6.02%). However the Q4 figures worsened to 3.91% (0.28%)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/central-bank-q4-loss-tapers-to-rs-1349-crore/article34757029.ece
08 June 2021||CHENNAI,||MRF Q4 profit halves, to pay Rs. 150 dividend||Tyre major MRF’s standalone net profit halved to Rs. 317 crore for the fourth quarter ended March from the year-earlier period. However, the FY20 Q4 profit of Rs. 669 crore included Rs. 451 crore in deferred tax. Revenue from operations rose by almost 31% to Rs. 4,738 crore. The board declared a total dividend of Rs. 150 per equity share (1500%) for FY21 to mark its 60th Annual General Meeting. On Monday, the board declared a final dividend of Rs. 94 per share and a special dividend of Rs. 50 per share. Earlier, it had paid two interim dividends of Rs. 3 each. MRF said it hoped in a month or two the situation in India will turn more stable, enabling the business to return to normalcy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mrf-q4-profit-halves-to-pay-rs-150-dividend/article34757040.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Banks to shift Rs. 89,000-crore NPAs to NARCL||Banks have identified about 22 bad loans worth Rs. 89,000 crore to be transferred to the National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd. (NARCL) in the initial phase, according to Union Bank of India MD and CEO Rajkiran Rai G.  “The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) has asked lead banks to call for meetings and keep an approval ready so that as soon as the ARC is formed, they can start the process,” Mr. Rai, who is also the chairman of IBA, told reporters. “I think the assessment in the first phase was of 22 accounts of about Rs. 89,000 crore for the system.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/banks-to-shift-rs-89000-crore-npas-to-narcl/article34757041.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Tata Digital to invest upto $75 million in CureFit||Tata Digital Ltd., a 100% subsidiary of Tata Sons, has entered into an MoU for investing up to $75 million (Rs. 547 crore) in CureFit Healthcare, a health and fitness company, subject to approvals. CureFit founder and CEO Mukesh Bansal will join Tata Digital in an executive role as president. He will also continue in his leadership role at CureFit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-digital-to-invest-upto-75-million-in-curefit/article34757028.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Union Bank of India Q4 profit at Rs 1,330 cr||State-owned Union Bank of India on Monday reported a standalone net profit of Rs. 1,329.77 crore for the March quarter 2020-21. The lender incurred a net loss of Rs. 2,503.18 crore in the year-earlier quarter. Union Bank said that the results were not comparable as they included operations of the erstwhile Andhra Bank and Corporation Bank.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/union-bank-of-india-q4-profit-at-rs-1330-cr/article34757044.ece
08 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Shuttlers ramp up preparations ahead of the Games||B. Sai Praneeth, who will lead the men’s singles challenge in badminton at the Tokyo Olympics next month, and the men’s doubles pair of R. Satwiksairaj and Chirag Shetty, shifted base from the Gopi Chand Academy to the Gachibowli Indoor Stadium here to train under their coaches Agus Dwi Santoso and Mathias Boe. Gopi visits venue Chief National coach P. Gopi Chand also got a first glimpse of champion shuttler P.V. Sindhu training at the indoor stadium today, after she moved over from his academy in February. Sindhu claimed she had shifted here because she wanted to acclimatise by training in a bigger stadium where the conditions will be similar to the Games’ competition venue. Sindhu has been training alone over the last four months with Korean coach Park Tae Sang and sparring partners from the Suchitra Academy, where she was doing fitness training under M. Srikanth Verma. It was later indicated that this move was facilitated by the support staff, though it took more than three months for the other Tokyo-bound shuttlers to follow suit. With the Olympics scheduled next month, the contingent is ready to step into the next zone of training to be strong medal contenders. New flooring mat A new flooring mat was laid adjacent to the court where Sindhu has been training, and as things stand it is not yet clear whether there will be mixed training sessions or not. A stadium official also informed The Hindu that there was a suggestion by the players to switch on the AC so that they can train with the drift factor, which will again be a key issue when they compete at the Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shuttlers-ramp-up-preparations-ahead-of-the-games/article34757202.ece
08 June 2021||Paris,||Djokovic survives a scare to make quarterfinals||Novak Djokovic went from a big deficit to his best tennis on Monday at Roland Garros, erasing a two-set deficit and grabbing 13 games in a row in a dominant display before his opponent stopped playing because of an injury. The result officially goes into the books as a retirement by Lorenzo Musetti, a talented 19-year-old from Italy making his Grand Slam debut. The score when he quit showed Djokovic ahead 6-7(7), 6-7(2), 6-1, 6-0, 4-0. It took Djokovic more than two sets and two hours to get going in the right direction at Court Philippe Chatrier, but once he did, it became a one-way journey. That included a 19-point run for him bridging the end of the third set and start of the fourth. Musetti, so good at the outset with his one-handed backhand and tremendous touch, is hardly used to this best-of-five-set format at the majors and he sought treatment from a trainer after the fourth. This was the second five-setter of Musetti’s career — he won his third-rounder that way — while Djokovic improved to 34-10 when going the distance. Djokovic wound up 9 for 9 on his break-point chances and with a 53-30 edge in winners. Greece’s Maria Sakkari demolished last year’s runner-up Sofia Kenin 6-1, 6-3 to reach the last eight of a Grand Slam for the first time. The World No. 18 needed just 68 minutes to defeat the fourth-seeded American. Sakkari broke Kenin six times as the 2020 Australian Open winner committed 32 unforced errors and served nine double faults. If Coco Gauff keeps playing like this, she’s going to go from teenage prodigy to Grand Slam champion in a hurry. The 17-year-old American completely overwhelmed Ons Jabeur in a 6-3, 6-1 victory to become the youngest woman to reach the quarterfinals at any Grand Slam tournament in 15 years. Rohan Bopanna and his Croatian partner Franko Skugor lost their men’s doubles quarterfinal. The 41-year-old Bopanna and Skugos went down 7-5, 6-3 to the Spanish duo of Pablo Andujar and Pedro Martinez in a match that lasted one hour and 17 minutes.   Nadal in last eight  Rafael Nadal defeated Jannik Sinner 7-5, 6-3, 6-0 to reach the quarterfinals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-survives-a-scare-to-make-quarterfinals/article34757166.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA Ethics Officer to ‘look into’ complaints of Rajput, Kulkarni||Two months since two of the three members of last year’s Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) complained about its unfair dissolution, the Ethics Officer of the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) has acknowledged the complaint, thus kick-starting the procedure to address the grievance. In April, former India opening batsman Lalchand Rajput and former India pacer Raju Kulkarni, both being a part of the last year’s CIC, had filed a formal complaint to newly-appointed MCA Ethics Officer (retd.) Justice Vijaya Tahilramani.  The Hindu understands that on Monday Justice Tahilramani wrote to both of them and promised to “look into” the complaints with the lockdown restrictions in Mumbai having been relaxed. Interference alleged Alleging interference from office-bearers while appointing coaches and selectors, the duo, including chairman Rajput, in their separate complaints had sought an interim stay on the MCA’s decision to relieve them from CIC. They had also requested all the coaches’ and selectors’ appointments to be stayed pending inquiry. Since then, the MCA reconstituted the CIC and the new committee, headed by former India batsman Jatin Paranjape, has appointed former Mumbai captain Amol Muzumdar as head coach for the forthcoming domestic season. Interestingly, former MCA president Ravi Savant has filed a petition in the Bombay High Court, alleging the dissolution of the previous CIC on February 18 as “mala fide, arbitrary and without any authority”. Savant confirmed that the petition has been listed for hearing on June 10. Dissent At least two apex council members — Ajinkya Naik and Unmesh Khanvilkar — have also expressed dissent over being kept in the dark while appointing Muzumdar. The duo in a letter to joint secretaries Sanjay Naik and Shahalam Shaikh have alleged that the MCA apex council was kept in the dark and wasn’t consulted before announcement of the head coach last week.  Sanjay Naik and Shahalam Shaik have alleged that the MCA apex council was kept in the dark on head coach appointment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-ethics-officer-to-look-into-complaints-of-rajput-kulkarni/article34757734.ece
08 June 2021||London,||Robinson’s indiscretion comes home to roost||England fast bowler Ollie Robinson has been suspended from international cricket pending an investigation into racist and sexist tweets he posted in 2012-13. Robinson will not be available for the second Test against New Zealand starting on Thursday, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) said on Sunday. Robinson made his Test debut in the first match of the series at Lord's, taking seven wickets and hitting 42 in England's first innings. The tweets he posted when he was 18 and 19, which were racist and sexist in nature, resurfaced during the first day of the Test and Robinson was close to tears as he issued an apology after stumps.  “In regards to the stuff that's happened off the field, it's not acceptable within our game. We all know that. He addressed the dressing room straightaway. He obviously spoke to you guys and other media outlets straight away, fronted up to it," skipper Root said after the drawn first Test. "He showed a lot of remorse. You can see it's very genuine from how he's been around the group and the team," Root said. The skipper said that he was shocked and didn't know initially how to react. Root acknowledged that this was a lesson for one and all and that it started right at the top. After the first day's play at Lord's last week, Robinson had regretted posting the tweets and apologised. Apology "I deeply regret my actions, and I am ashamed of making such remarks. I would like to unreservedly apologise to anyone I have offended, my teammates and the game as a whole in what has been a day of action and awareness in combating discrimination from our sport."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/robinsons-indiscretion-comes-home-to-roost/article34757161.ece
08 June 2021||Doha,||Chhetri’s strikes sink Bangladesh||India recorded its first win in FIFA World Cup qualifiers in six years after talisman Sunil Chhetri struck twice for a 2-0 win over Bangladesh in the joint preliminary round match here on Monday. Chhetri’s double moved him on to 74 international goals — above Lionel Messi (72) and one goal shy of entering world football’s all-time top 10 Chhetri first found the back of the net in the 79th minute to keep his team on course for entry into the third qualifying round of the 2023 Asian Cup. Starting the match on the bench, second-half substitute Ashique Kuruniyan delivered a cross from the left for Chhetri, after a long run and from a tight angle, headed in brilliantly from behind Topu Barman at the Al Sadd Stadium. It was Chhetri again as he rounded off his night with another fine strike in extra time (90+2) after receiving the ball from Suresh Singh from the right flank. The double strikes meant India registered its first win in what was turning out to be one of its worst World Cup qualifying campaigns in many years. It was also its first victory in World Cup qualifiers away from home in 20 years. A confident India found itself pressing in the opposition half after Chhetri’s 73rd goal in international football and the move worked for beleaguered coach Igor Stimac as the captain scored his and the team’s second just before the final whistle. Despite being ahead, India looked to add to its tally with both Ashique and Chhetri linking up well, even as most of the Bangladesh players moved up in search of an equaliser. With his two goals, Chhetri, international football's second highest scorer among active players, more than made up for the fumble in the 63rd minute when the unmarked captain missed a free header after a fine ball from Brandon Fernandes.  The result:   India 2 (Chhetri 79, 90+2) bt Bangladesh 0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetris-strikes-sink-bangladesh/article34757159.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Riya Bhatia looks ahead with confidence||It comes naturally for most of us to find fault with the world. It takes some effort to sport the right attitude, introspect and find a way forward. Being reduced to the role of a reserve, despite being ranked second best in the country behind Ankita Raina, for the Billie Jean King Cup World Group play-off match against Latvia, the 23-year-old Riya Bhatia responded well by working on improving her game in tournaments around the world. “Probably, I wasn’t good enough to be part of the team this time. I am working on improving myself so that I can make my country proud in future,” said Riya, who had made the doubles final of a $25,000 event in Portugal with Gabriela Ce of Brazil. She was part of the national team when it had qualified for the World Group play-off, for the first time ever. Thus, it hurt more, to be left out. As if to make a point, Riya beat the former top-50 player, one of the towering personalities of Asian women’s tennis, Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan, in a tournament in Latvia, recently. “It was raining in Liepaja. We had to start our match on really wet courts, with just an extended warm up. It was cold, tough to move, and favourable for the more experienced Akgul. I just focused on being consistent and tried the things that I had been working on, in training,” recalled Riya. Practising yoga and kriya regularly, Riya is categorical about fitness being, “the most important part in tennis”. “Yoga plays an important part in our lives, both physically and mentally. I was lucky to be part of the Art of Living course. It has been a boon for me, especially during all the uncertainties caused by the pandemic,” said Riya. A proud member of the ‘Indian Oil family’, Riya has been competing in Abu Dhabi, Egypt, South Africa, Dubai, Portugal, Spain apart from Latvia this season, thanks to the support of her parents. “I have been travelling alone for a long time now, as it is very expensive. My family is definitely cheering me from home, no matter where I am in the world,” Riya said. “I am working on all aspects of my game, as there is tremendous scope to improve, to reach the next level,” the 357th ranked Riya stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/riya-bhatia-looks-ahead-with-confidence/article34757640.ece
08 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Have always thrived under pressure: Sachin Baby||Unlike many cricketers, Sachin Baby enjoys responsibility. The pressure of captaincy sits lightly on his shoulders and it brings the best out of him. No wonder he is Kerala’s most successful cricket captain after having led the State to a historic semifinal appearance in the Ranji Trophy in 2018-19. In the previous season under his captaincy, Kerala ended its long wait to reach the knockouts, making the quarterfinals. “From the time I started playing I have enjoyed taking responsibility. I have led the Kerala under-15 and under-19 teams and it was natural progression for me to lead the senior team. Even when I wasn’t leading the senior side, in my subconscious mind I was the leader. “I have always thrived under pressure and scored a majority of my runs when I was captaining the side. This is something which I have learnt from Virat Kohli,” said Sachin Baby during an online interactive session with the trainees of SAI-MCG. Praises Whatmore However, Sachin Baby said Kerala’s success in 2017-18 and 2018-19 seasons under him was a culmination of team work and hard work. He praised former Kerala coach Dav Whatmore for instilling self-belief. “Dav backed the players and there was no fear of failure and the players invariably reposed their faith. We had some outstanding individual performances in those two seasons,” he said. Sachin Baby, who was part of the RCB squad in the IPL, said the Bengaluru side had enjoyed one of its better starts and the side had the wherewithal to continue the good show when the tournament resumes in September. “Virat led from the front and gave additional responsibility to some players like (Glenn) Maxwell. And overall we had more bowling options this time which is one of the reasons for our good start,” he added. Uncertain season Sachin Baby sympathised with the current set of junior cricketers who missed their entire season last year and are facing the prospects of another uncertain season due to the pandemic. He suggested a tweak in age categories and wanted the State associations to convince BCCI to do the same to protect the players future. “The under-19 category is very important in a player’s career. I am aware some of you have missed out on selection. “Yes, I think it will be nice if the age-categories are tweaked so that the players get another chance. The State bodies should convince the BCCI about this,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/have-always-thrived-under-pressure-sachin-baby/article34757391.ece
08 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Wrestling federation to request UWW to expedite Malik’s case||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) is willing to request the United World Wrestling (UWW) to expedite the hearing of 125kg freestyle wrestler Sumit Malik’s doping case. Even though Malik’s chances of competing in the Tokyo Olympics looks slim after he tested positive for banned substance methylhexaneamine (MHA) and was provisionally suspended for six months by the UWW, the WFI is waiting for the wrestler to complete the formalities related to his ‘B’ sample test by June 10. Considering the current travel and visa restrictions due to the pandemic, Malik — who tested positive in competition at the World Olympics qualifier in Sofia where he bagged a quota place last month — is likely to give his consent for ‘B’ sample test without travelling abroad. The WFI is well aware that Malik’s participation in the Olympics is remote. Still, the National federation would like to see all the eight Olympics-qualified Indian wrestlers compete in Tokyo. “The wrestler concerned wants the hearing process to be completed quickly. After we get the result of his ‘B’ sample test, we can request the UWW to expedite the hearing process and complete it as soon as possible,” WFI assistant secretary Vinod Tomar told The Hindu on Monday. The matter of a fine On the UWW norm to impose a fine of Rs. 16 lakh on the National federation for a failed dope test, Tomar said the fine would be applicable only if Malik was found guilty. “The UWW imposes a fine on the National federation for a doping violation. We pass it on to the wrestler who fails the dope test. “In case he/she is not able to pay the fine, then we impose a life ban. The same procedure will be followed here if Malik is held guilty,” said Tomar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wrestling-federation-to-request-uww-to-expedite-maliks-case/article34757211.ece
08 June 2021||Paris,||Indian women eye Tokyo ticket||The Indian women’s archery team, led by former World No. 1 Deepika Kumari, reached here on Monday to compete in their final Olympic qualification event on June 20. The women’s trio of Deepika, Ankita Bhakat and Komalika Bari will have to finish in the top-3 to clinch the last available berth for the Tokyo Olympics which begins on July 23. Mandatory quarantine “The Indian women archers are going through a mandatory 10-day quarantine. “They went ahead of the men’s team because of the Olympic qualifiers,” Archery Association of India assistant secretary Gunjan Abrol said. While the men’s team had secured the Olympic berth during the 2019 World Championships, India so far has an individual quota among women, achieved by Deepika at the Continental Qualifiers in Bangkok two years ago. “The men’s recurve and compound teams will leave India on Tuesday,” Abrol said. A week after the qualification event, both the teams will compete in the third stage of the World Cup.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-eye-tokyo-ticket/article34757212.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||TTFI plans camp for Olympic contingent||The Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) is planning a training camp for its Olympic contingent in Sonepat from June 20, trying to make up for a far from ideal Games build-up amid the COVID-19 pandemic. With the second wave of COVID-19 ravaging the country, the four Tokyo-bound players — Sharath Kamal, G. Sathiyan, Manika Batra and Sutirtha Mukherjee — have been restricted to individual training since qualifying in March. “The preparations have not been ideal but you could not help it amid the pandemic. We are now awaiting SAI’s approval for the 15-day camp. It should come in a day or two. “A total of 12 players and four support staff will be part of the camp. The players have trained in DPS Sonepat earlier also, so they are comfortable with the facility,” TTFI advisor M.P. Singh said. Sathiyan not to travel Barring Sathiyan, who wants to continue training with coach S. Raman in Chennai and avoid travel, the other Olympic-bound paddlers will be be part of the camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ttfi-plans-camp-for-olympic-contingent/article34757216.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Railways to monetise 15 sports complexes||Facing a cash-crunch owing to rising maintenance costs, the Railway Board has identified 15 sports facilities across the country for “techno-economic studies for commercial development.” In a letter addressed to the vice-chairman of the Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) last month, the Railway Board confirmed entrusting 15 stadiums. All concerned Zonal Railway general managers are directed to furnish the relevant documents to the RLDA. These facilities are, Railway Sports Complex in DLW (Varanasi), Chennai, Kolkata, Raebareli, Maligaon in Guwahati, Kapurthala and Secunderabad; Indoor Stadium at Parel in Mumbai and Patna, Railway Stadium in Bhubaneswar, Bahala in Kolkata and Mahalaxmi in Mumbai; Cricket Stadium at Yelahanka in Bengaluru and Lucknow; Gorakhpur Stadium in Gorakhpur.  Effectively, this move will see Railways selling off these facilities to private players thereby ending all sporting activities. Last week, the All India Railwaymen’s Federation (AIRF) wrote to the chairman, Railway Board, protesting the move. In a letter dated June 3, the AIRF pointed out that these Railway Sports complexes and stadiums/indoor stadiums were located in the heartland of the cities and were used by sportspersons and sports enthusiasts besides Railwaymen, both serving and retired.  Effectively, this move will see Railways selling off these facilities to private players thereby ending all sporting activities||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/railways-to-monetise-15-sports-complexes/article34757219.ece
08 June 2021||Kozhikode,||Ubaid likely to join Sreenidhi FC||I-League champion Gokulam Kerala’s goalkeeper C.K. Ubaid is all set to join Sreenidhi FC, which will make its I-League debut next season.  The Hindu has learnt that Ubaid, who played a significant role in Gokulam’s stunning triumph at the recently-concluded I-League, will soon complete the formalities of joining the Visakhapatnam-based team. He is likely to be with Sreenidhi on a two-year contract. Ubaid had joined Gokulam in 2019 after a two-year stint with East Bengal. In his maiden season with the Kozhikode-based club, he hit the headlines with his sterling performance at the Durand Cup, which Gokulam went on to win. It was his superb saves in the shootout in the semifinal against East Bengal that took the Kerala team to the final. At Sreenidhi, Ubaid will reunite with Spanish coach Fernando Santiago Varela, under whom he had trained at Gokulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ubaid-likely-to-join-sreenidhi-fc/article34757393.ece
08 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers end Mavericks’ campaign||Kawhi Leonard finished with 28 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists as Los Angeles Clippers beat Dallas Mavericks in game seven 126-111 on Sunday to punch the ticket to the second round of the NBA playoffs. Home win, finally Clippers withstood a 46-point performance from Mavericks star Luka Doncic to take the Western Conference series 4-3, finally cashing in on home advantage after the road team had won each of the first six games. Marcus Morris scored 23 points and Paul George tallied 22 for the fourth-seeded Clippers. The Clippers advanced to the second round to face top-seeded Utah Jazz with game one on Tuesday in Salt Lake City. The Clippers are the sixth team in NBA history to lose the first two games of a series at home and win a series. Doncic continued his superb play in the series despite playing with a sore neck suffered in game four. He added 14 assists and seven rebounds. Dorian Finney-Smith had 18 points and 10 rebounds and Kristaps Porzingis finished with 16 points and 11 rebounds for the Mavericks., who had a chance to close out the series on Friday in game six but lost 104-97. At Philadelphia, Trae Young scored 35 points and Atlanta Hawks held off a late rally to beat the 76ers 128-124 in the opening game of their second-round series.  The results:   EC semifinals: Atlanta Hawks 128 bt Philadelphia 76ers 124 (Hawks lead series 1-0).   WC first round: Los Angeles Clippers 126 bt Dallas Mavericks 111 (Clippers win series 4-3).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clippers-end-mavericks-campaign/article34757208.ece
08 June 2021||Baku,||‘A humbling experience for Mercedes’||After a second disastrous race, Mercedes has been left agonising over its biggest crisis since it began dominating Formula One. For the first time since the 2018 Austrian Grand Prix, Mercedes failed to pick up a point on Sunday as Valtteri Bottas limped in 12th in Azerbaijan while reigning champion Lewis Hamilton crawled home 15th. In the previous race, in Monaco, Hamilton was seventh and Bottas did not finish. “We can’t continue losing points like we did in Monaco and here. It’s just not acceptable,” team principal Toto Wolff said on Sunday. Despite its lack of speed compared to Red Bull, Mercedes only missed out on victory in Baku because of a slow pit stop and a braking error by Hamilton when he was trying to regain first place at the end. “A humbling experience,” said Hamilton on the team website. “It’s one of the toughest moments I’ve had for a while —one moment we had all the points and the next we had none but for sure, we’ll regroup and come back.” Emotional Wolff was visibly more emotional than usual in a video press conference after he race. He said that he and Hamilton were “destroyed”. “It’s really painful...we had one hand on the trophy and Max was not scoring any points. “It is not only the incident at the end that frustrates, it is overall not meeting our expectations, all of us together — Lewis, the engineers, myself, everyone in the team. “It’s the frustration that dominates. For him, victory was so close and then it was gone. For me, as a leader, we just have to be the best we can be.” “In Monaco and here we didn’t have a car that was competitive, full stop. We have underlying issues —we are not getting the car in a happy window for the tyres. We know the deficit and we know we have gaps which we simply have to overcome,” Wolff said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-humbling-experience-for-mercedes/article34757218.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Borg resets the clock||On June 7, 1981 the legendary Bjorn Borg played his last-ever match at the French Open, beating Ivan Lendl over five sets (6–1, 4–6, 6–2, 3–6, 6–1) to win the last of his six titles in Paris. Forty years on, on the same date in 2021, Leo Borg, his 18-year-old son, made his singles debut in the junior event at Roland Garros and notched up a win, beating French player Max Westphal, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. Leo was at the centre of a media storm back in 2019 when he was handed a wild card entry to the Junior Championships at Wimbledon, an erstwhile citadel of his father. Two years on, he can hold his head high.  He is currently the 23rd best junior in the world and made his ATP qualifying debut in April this year at Marbella, Spain, losing to Evgeny Donskoy. Last July, he joined the Rafael Nadal Tennis Academy in Mallorca. “I am getting there and people are judging me more on my tennis and not simply focusing on me being Bjorn Borg’s son,” Leo told itftennis.com earlier this year. “Before, they were possibly just comparing me to my dad. I didn’t care about it because that’s normal to do, but now I think people are recognising me more and not necessarily seeing my dad.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/borg-resets-the-clock/article34757155.ece
08 June 2021||MUMBAI,||IPL: BCCI in a dilemma over finalising fixtures||More than a week after formally passing a resolution to schedule the remaining half of the suspended Indian Premier League (IPL) in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is in a quandary over finalising the fixtures of the tournament. Given the short window available between the conclusion of India’s Test series in September and the scheduled beginning of the T20 World Cup in mid-October, the BCCI had targeted September 20 to October 10 as the window for hosting the remaining 31 games. However, with an overlap of the IPL with other domestic leagues and international games looking inevitable, the BCCI is hoping to be allowed to push the final to October 14 or 15. It will facilitate the BCCI to let the participants in the Caribbean Premier League take part in a majority of the IPL matches after playing the final on September 19.  A slightly relaxed schedule, with fewer double-headers, may also result in big-ticket overseas cricketers being allowed to participate in the IPL by their respective boards. The BCCI had earlier planned playing 10 double-headers, thus resulting in every team having to play at least six games in a fortnight in the extreme heat of the UAE. Apprehensive Sensing a danger of breaking down ahead of a World Cup, many players and boards had been apprehensive about the IPL. Hence, the BCCI is trying to reduce the double-headers in a bid to attract maximum participation. Such a move will mean the International Cricket Council will either have to push the start of T20 World Cup by almost a week or let the World Cup qualifiers clash with IPL Playoffs. The latter scenario will not be suitable for the broadcaster as it is set to beam both the events in the Indian subcontinent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ipl-bcci-in-a-dilemma-over-finalising-fixtures/article34757163.ece
08 June 2021||LONDON,||‘Will be quite cool to go out for the toss with Kohli’||Fierce rivals on the pitch and close friends off it, New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson thinks it would be “quite cool” to walk out for toss alongside his Indian counterpart Virat Kohli in the inaugural World Test Championship final starting June 18 in Southampton. “...we have played against each other at so many different levels and competitions and have known each other fairly well. So, it will be quite cool walking out there, doing the toss and having a bit of contact in the first WTC final,” Williamson told the ICC's official website when asked about his rivalry with India captain since their under-19 days in 2008. “Yeah, they have got a fantastic attack. Brilliant, obviously a brilliant side. Throughout we have seen the depth they have as well, certainly saw that in Australia as well. “A lot of strengths in their fast bowling and spin department. So yeah, a brilliant side, ranked right up the top, which is fair enough and an exciting opportunity for us to be involved in the final taking on the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-be-quite-cool-to-go-out-for-the-toss-with-kohli/article34757170.ece
08 June 2021||Washington,||McLaughlin scorches 400m hurdles||American Sydney McLaughlin set this year’s world-best time in the 400m hurdles winning in 52.83 seconds at the Music City Track Carnival in Nashville, USA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mclaughlin-scorches-400m-hurdles/article34757206.ece
08 June 2021||PARIS,||Krejcikova’s tears of joy and relief||Barbora Krejcikova reached her first Grand Slam quarterfinal at the French Open on Monday but only after locking herself in the physio’s office, thinking she didn’t want to play. “I woke up and I just felt really bad. I don’t know why or what for and half an hour before the match, I didn’t even want to step on the court,” said the 25-year-old. “I had to lock myself in the physio room and I had to talk to my psychologist. actually — I was actually crying. “She told me if you can overcome this, what you feel right now, it’s going to be a huge win. Win or lose on the court, it’s going to be a personal win.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krejcikovas-tears-of-joy-and-relief/article34757156.ece
08 June 2021||London,||First Test ends in a draw||England batted slowly and carefully on Sunday to hold out against New Zealand on the final day of the first Test at Lord’s. After England had advanced to 170 for three in 70 overs in its second innings, a draw was agreed upon by both captains in the two-Test series opener.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/first-test-ends-in-a-draw/article34757157.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||India’s white ball tour of Lanka from July 13 to 25||India will play three ODIs and as many T20Is in Sri Lanka between July 13 to 25, broadcaster Sony Sports announced on Monday. Sony announced the schedule via social media. The ODIs will take place on July 13, 16 and 18 while the T20Is will be played on July 21, 23 and 25. The venues for the the games are yet to be announced. It will be a rare occasion when two India squads will be playing in different countries at the same time. The Virat Kohli-led side will be preparing for the five-match Test series against England at the same time.   The schedule:   ODIs: July 13, 16 & 18; T20Is: July 21, 23 & 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indias-white-ball-tour-of-lanka-from-july-13-to-25/article34757162.ece
08 June 2021||Chandigarh,||Milkha and wife improving, says family||There is continuous improvement in the condition of sprint icon Milkha Singh and his wife Nirmal Kaur as they battle COVID-19 in the Intensive Care Units of separate hospitals here, read a statement from their family on Monday. “Milkha Ji continues to improve and his condition is stable. However he is still in the ICU. Mrs. Nirmal Milkha Ji is stable and improving. She is battling hard,” read the statement issued by the family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-and-wife-improving-says-family/article34757164.ece
08 June 2021||Berlin,||Osaka pulls out of Berlin tournament||Naomi Osaka has pulled out of next week's Berlin WTA grasscourt tournament in the wake of her controversial exit from the French Open, organisers confirmed on Monday. "We have received notification that Naomi Osaka cannot start in Berlin. After consulting her management, she will take a break," said a spokesman for the Berlin tournament, which starts June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/osaka-pulls-out-of-berlin-tournament/article34757168.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 08:12 IST,||Sudoku — June 8, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-8-2021/article34757848.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||The don from Madurai||Eyebrows were raised when Tamil film Jagame Thandhiram was acquired by Netflix earlier this year. The film’s director Karthik Subbaraj and actor Dhanush have been outspoken proponents of supporting theatres, and the film was labelled one of Kollywood’s sure-shot attempts at reviving the pandemic-ravaged industry. However, the second COVID-19 wave well and truly put paid to any chance of Jagame .... having a simultaneous theatrical and Netflix launch, and now, fans eagerly wait to watch the action-thriller from the safety of their homes. The storyline follows Dhanush as Suruli, a gangster from Madurai, who is initially recruited by, and then crosses paths with Peter (James Cosmo), a politically-affluent honcho in London. But it is not guns and gore throughout; the film also explores themes of xenophobia, cultural shifts, and also what the meaning of ‘home’ is to different people. Also starring the likes of Joju George, Aishwarya Lekshmi and Kalaiyarasan among others, Jagame Thandhiram is set to premiere on June 18. Ahead of its release, director Karthik Subbaraj, producer S. Sashikanth, and music composer Santhosh Narayanan join us for a virtual chat. Excerpts: The film has, unwittingly so, landed in the middle of the theatres versus digital platforms debate. How challenging was it to make that call at a time like this?  Sashikanth : For now, it’s more in terms of what is possible, as the industry is in survival mode. Maybe later, there will be a discussion on how theatres and platforms co-exist. But currently, filmmakers and producers need to be in this understanding together that the circumstances are an exception to the rule. As a producer, I have to think about the best way to take my product across to the maximum number of people. I have a high-quality product, and Netflix is a great fit for it. So I’m not looking at the negative aspects of a non-theatrical release, and am instead focussing on the fact that world-class homegrown content is reaching out to the same audience that is watching Narcos or House of Cards . Jagame... is a quality production from Tamil cinema to the rest of the world. Santhosh, songs like Bujji and Rakita … are chartbusters, but what can you tell us about your background score for a film that flirts between continents, cultures and aesthetics?  Santhosh : My first film with Karthik was Pizza , and that in itself was like a dream. I would call it one of my most favourite scores. But I wanted Jagame … to steer away from what I’ve done for him earlier. We had a lot of groundwork to do, as well as study the cultural aspects of the two countries involved. It was imperative that we stayed as rooted as possible to the themes that we are showcasing in the movie. Obviously, one part of the film is set in rural Tamil Nadu, so there was a lot of extensive research undertaken there. We did a lot of pre-production work in terms of the score, and laid out what kinds of sounds we might end up using. Karthik, the most iconic character to come from your staple of films is probably the gangster Assault Sethu from Jigarthanda . Is there any point of reference between Suruli and Sethu?  Karthik : Suruli and Sethu are poles apart. While Sethu was the quiet, serious type, Suruli is loud and boisterous. Dhanush’s character, in fact, is inspired by some people I know in real life. They are part of small-time gangs, but are incredibly funny and affectionate, and loyal to their parents and friends. It was this kind of personality on which I modelled Suruli. How did you rope in James Cosmo, known for his work in international projects likeBen-Hur (2016), Wonder WomanandGame of Thrones?  Sashikanth : Karthik was very clear that, on-screen, Dhanush had to go up against somebody big, not just in terms of star quality, but also acting chops. We wanted the villain to have a clear screen presence and possess a certain kind of heft. What James Cosmo has done is just phenomenal; I think all those years of being a trained professional actor really comes through. Karthik, how have the events of the recent past affected you creatively in your writing or thought process?  Karthik : As a writer, I actually want to forget this time entirely. I definitely don’t want to bring this experience or mood into my writing as it makes me sick. Even recently, I was part of an anthology for another platform ( Putham Pudhu Kaalai ). Even though it was about stories in lockdown, I wanted it to be humorous and not serious or sad. Everyone wants to come out of this as soon as possible and forget this nightmare. Finally, could you talk about the underlying themes in the film?  Karthik : Jagame ... started off as a gangster story initially, where two explosive personalities face off against each other; one from the Western world and one from Madurai. After that, the script demanded we go to a foreign land and shoot there; we didn’t travel to London just for the sake of fancy locations. The themes explored in the film are real and relevant. I can’t give away too much, but it hinges on the line: What do you call home? Most of us are lucky to say that this is the land we belong to. But there is a different world, where it is tough for many people to even identify what their idea of ‘home’ is, where they come from and most importantly, where they belong. Jagame Thandhiram is about that perspective.  Jagame Thandhiram streams from June 18 on Netflix||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-don-from-madurai/article34757310.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Like father, like son||When 24-year-old Vasudev Krishna, son of popular singer Unnikrishnan, sings superhit Tamil tracks from the ‘90s like ‘Poovukul Olinthirukkum’ ( Jeans ) or ‘Ennavale’ ( Kaadhalan ), the most common compliment is: ‘You sound just like your dad.’ “Certain musical nuances are similar,” he admits candidly, over a telephonic interview, “In one particular scale, our voice tones are the same. But the similarity doesn’t really bother me.” Vasudev does want to create a niche of his own and attempt a radically different style of singing, but that is for later. For now, he is happy doing covers and sharing screen with his father and sister (Uthara Unnikrishnan) on musical collaborations. Their official YouTube channel was started as a lockdown activity a year ago, but has now, with more than a lakh subscribers, gained a considerable following among music lovers. “We always used to do small renditions and send to our close family and friends, who kept suggesting we take it up in a bigger way. The lockdown in 2020 gave us that opportunity.” Family notes They have rendered together multiple songs, notable among them are ‘Manidhan Enbavan’, ‘Kannama’ and ‘Yeh Raat Bheegi Bheegi’. Vasudev’s rendition of ‘Nilave Ennidam’ and ‘Jeevan Se Bhari’ along with his father have earned much appreciation. “It has been a great learning curve. Working in our home studio and recording these numbers have taught me about the various musical elements that I need to improve upon. Shooting them as videos helped me understand how to present them visually. As I am not professional at mastering or sound engineering, I go with whatever sounds good to my ears.” Vasudev picks up musical tips not just from his popular singer-father but also from his sister Uthara, who bagged a National Award in 2015 for her rendition of G.V. Prakash’s ‘Azhage’ ( Saivam ). “She listens to a lot of Western music; whenever we go for a drive, I make her play stuff and get an idea of what’s happening.” Just beat it! Vasudev had a rather interesting debut in the film industry. His first song was a classical melody composed by actor Simbu, for the 2017 film Sakka Podu Podu Raja starring Santhanam. He has also sung numbers in EP Ko 306 and Vishamakaran , but is candid to admit that he needs more experience. “I have not done live shows, nor have I yet worked with multiple composers. I’m hoping to do more of that,” says Vasudev, who spent the last few months listening to Sid Sriram hits, ‘Enjoy Enjaami’ and Anirudh’s fast-paced songs, among others .  The 24year-old is currently pursuing his Master’s in Automobile Engineering, but says that music, which has been an integral part of growing up, will surely feature in his future plans. “At the moment, we are working on three evergreen M.S. Viswanathan songs for our channel,” reveals Vasudev, who is trained in Hindustani music under Bengaluru-based vocalist Nagaraj Rao Havaldar, “I hope to improve my abilities and keep my passion for music going.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/like-father-like-son/article34757311.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Malcolm in the middle||Not many people know Malcolm Gladwell has been credited by former U.S. President Barack Obama as the person who inspired him to start podcasting. Bring this up with Gladwell – author-podcaster-journalist, whose new book The Bomber Mafia is out now – and he chuckles over a video call, “President Obama once liked my podcast [Revisionist History] and he called me to lunch in Washington D.C., and I said it was an incredible way to reach people. It’s hardly a novel suggestion because he’s a man of great following, has an incredible voice and an interesting take on the world. And sure enough, he is very successful at it!”  The Bomber Mafia (Penguin India), he says, was created to be an audiobook first and foremost. The historically-based book dives into a squad of vibrant U.S. Air Force pilots – including General Haywood S. Hansel and Curtis LeMay – who wanted to ‘reinvent war’ in idealistic ways using pinpoint bombing, to avoid mass casualties on battlefields. The audiobook’s “conversational” format is quite immersive with archival clips, sounds and music of the 1930s era. “The digital revolution made a lot of media forms less formal, breaking down a lot of barriers,” he explains. Gladwell is the co-founder of podcast and audiobook house Pushkin Industries, known for its deep dives into psychology, literature and other ‘grey matter’ topics. Leave it to Gladwell to take on fairy tales — specifically The Little Mermaid, of which he has been sharply critical — for his next season of his renowned podcast Revisionist History. He will be taking up 90 minutes to explore a fan fiction of sorts. “We will take the characters created by Disney and Hans Christian Andersen and do our own version, which is, despite my criticism, done out of love. That’s an affirmation of the power of storytelling.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/malcolm-in-the-middle/article34757308.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Kannada film '777 Charlie' traces the bond between a man and his dog||Tamil actor Bobby Simha makes his Kannada film debut in 777 Charlie , which will also feature Sangeetha Shringeri, Danish Sait and Raj B. Shetty. The teaser of the film was released on June 6, to coincide with actor Rakshit Shetty’s birthday. Rakshit has produced the film. Director Kiran Raj says, “This project has taken five years to complete. A dog named Charlie plays an extremely important role and we had to cover its journey from pup to adult. The pandemic and lockdown also contributed to the delay.” The film explores the bond between the protagonist and his dog. “We could not shoot for long hours as Charlie would get distracted easily. We did not want to use VFX as we wanted to capture Charlie’s natural expression.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/kannada-film-777-charlie-traces-the-bond-between-a-man-and-his-dog/article34757309.ece
08 June 2021||June 08 2021 00:00 IST,||Chulbul Pandey gets an animated makeover||Actor Salman Khan’s iconic character Chulbul Pandey has got a new avatar with Dabangg - The Animated Series , on Disney+Hotstar VIP. A reimagination of the Bollywood franchise, the action-comedy series chronicles the day-to-day life of police officer Chulbul Pandey who strives to keep the city safe. He is joined by his younger brother Makkhi, who is new to the police force and attempts to emulate his older brother. Produced by Cosmos-Maya and Arbaaz Khan Productions, Dabangg - The Animated Series is aimed at kids and fans of the franchise. In a press release, Salman Khan said, “Chulbul Pandey is a very special character for me because of the love that audiences have showered on him, and the movie, for over 10 years. Animation has opened up yet another dimension for this character.” The first eight episodes of season 1 are now streaming in Hindi, Tamil and Telugu on Disney+ Hotstar VIP, with new episodes set to be released regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/chulbul-pandey-gets-an-animated-makeover/article34757312.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal announces campaign to vaccinate 45+ at local booths||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday announced the Delhi government’s “Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination” campaign, which will see block-level officers visit citizens’ homes across the 280 civic wards in the city to allot vaccination slots. In 70 civic wards Addressing a digital briefing here, Mr. Kejriwal said government teams will encourage citizens above 45 years to get vaccinated at local polling booths in 70 civic wards on a rotational basis till the entire city is covered. E-rickshaws will be arranged to carry citizens to polling booths. After those above 45 years of age are vaccinated in four weeks, the government will carry out a similar drive for the 18-44 years category. “Our aim is that within four weeks, every person above the age of 45 years will get vaccinated. I believe there will be no shortage of vaccines given that the Central government is providing the vaccines for 45+,” he said. According to the CM, there were about 57 lakh citizens aged above 45 in Delhi of whom 27 lakh had been administered the first dose. He said very few people were turning up for the jabs, due to which, the government has decided to go to the people instead. “The polling centers are within walking distance so people can easily walk to these centers. The scheme is going to start today [Monday] in the 70 civic wards of Delhi,” he said. There were 272 civic wards in Delhi but there were two Assembly segments, which did not have any ward; assuming four wards each in these segments, Mr. Kejriwal said, there were 280 wards, which needed to be considered. “Every week this initiative will be carried out in 70 wards. These booth-level officers, for the next two days, will visit every house. Then they will give vaccination slot to people above the age of 45 years who are yet to be vaccinated so that they can come to the polling station at a specific time,” he said. “We will see whether those who were given the slots have turned up. For those who do not turn up, the booth-level officers will go to their houses again. They will make two rounds and try to convince them to come and get vaccinated,” he also said. In this manner, Mr. Kejriwal said, the government planned to cover the city within four weeks; after 2 to 3 months, he said, another round would begin at polling centers for the second dose. “When we receive sufficient amounts of vaccines for those between 18-44 years, then in the next two rounds we will vaccinate the youth of Delhi within two months,” he said.  Our aim is that within four weeks, every person above the age of 45 years will get vaccinated Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-announces-campaign-to-vaccinate-45-at-local-booths/article34757329.ece
08 June 2021||JAIPUR,||No State asked for paid vaccination, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had made an “unsuccessful attempt” to blame the State governments while announcing centralised procurement of vaccines against COVID-19 and their free supply to States. “No State had suggested making payment from its budget for vaccinating the people of 18 to 44 years of age,” he said.  ‘Wrong decision’ While affirming that Mr. Modi was forced to withdraw his “wrong decision” because of the strong public sentiments as well as the Congress’ campaign for free universal vaccination, Mr. Gehlot said the Prime Minister should tell the nation as to which States had asked for paid vaccination. “I don’t know of any State government which raised such a demand. It seems the Prime Minister’s advisers have fed him wrong information,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. He said he had himself raised the issue at a video-conference meeting with Mr. Modi on April 23 and requested him to ensure free vaccination for all, including those of 18 to 44 years, by the Centre. “Der Aaye Durust Aaaye (better late than never),” Mr. Gehlot said, and added that several State governments, including Rajasthan, had to approach the Supreme Court for seeking directions to the Centre to float global tenders for procuring vaccines and supply them to the States. The Congress leadership and the entire Opposition had raised the voice against the Centre’s wrong vaccination policies, he said.  Higher rates The vaccination exercise in Rajasthan was halted several times in the absence of sufficient number of doses. The global expression of interest issued by the State government for urgent procurement of vaccines last month did not yield the desired results, as the interested companies quoted much higher rates than the market prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-state-asked-for-paid-vaccination-says-gehlot/article34757651.ece
08 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Oppn. in Punjab corners Cong. govt.||Amid controversy over the sale of COVID-19 vaccine by the Punjab government to private hospitals, the Opposition parties are making the most to corner the Congress government ahead of the Assembly polls due early next year. While the principal Opposition, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), held a sit-in protest outside the residence of State Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali on Sunday, the members of the Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday staged a protest outside Mr. Sidhu’s house, demanding his dismissal over ‘vaccine scam’. The Health Minister, however, hit back accusing both the SAD and AAP of involving in theatrics and asking the parties to stage their protests (dharnas) outside the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But I know you cannot do that as Sukhbir and other Akalis are too scared of Modi, and AAP and Kejriwal are the ‘B’ team of the BJP,” he said. ‘Dismiss Minister’ Former Deputy Chief Minister and SAD president, Sukhbir Singh Badal, who led the protest, demanded dismissal of Mr. Sidhu over the alleged ‘vaccine scam’. “If by June 15, the Health Minister is not dismissed, the SAD would gherao the residence of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh,” he said. “We will continue to strive to ensure justice to the people of Punjab in the vaccine scam....This amounts to playing with lives and is reprehensible. If the Health Minister is not dismissed, we will approach the Governor as well as the courts for justice,” said Mr. Badal. ‘File a case’ AAP members had also demanded that Mr. Sidhu be sacked from the Cabinet and a criminal case registered against him. Facing criticism from several quarters, the State government had last week decided to withdraw its decision of providing one-time limited COVID-19 vaccine doses to 18-44 age group people through private hospitals. The Opposition parties, however, are in no mood to relent. Mr. Sidhu said the SAD and AAP were fighting a battle for survival and competing to outdo each other. “Both the parties have lost their relevance in the State,” he said. On the issue of supplying vaccines to private hospitals, Mr. Sidhu said, it was a government decision taken in good faith. Meanwhile, Capt. Amarinder directed the Director General of Police to register cases under the Disaster Management Act against the Opposition leaders and workers who have been staging ‘dharnas’. He termed these acts ‘irresponsible and utter violation of the curbs in place in the State in view of the pandemic spread’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/oppn-in-punjab-corners-cong-govt/article34757320.ece
08 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Jaipur Greater Mayor, three councillors suspended||The Congress government in Rajasthan has suspended Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation’s Mayor Somya Gurjar and three municipal councillors on charges of manhandling the local body’s Commissioner during a discussion on payment of dues to a garbage collecting firm which was on strike. Ms. Gurjar and two of the suspended councillors were elected on the BJP ticket in the local body poll held in November last year. The State government has also decided to conduct a judicial inquiry into the matter involving the alleged attack on Municipal Corporation’s Commissioner Yagya Mitra Singhdeo. The Local Self-Government Department issued the orders for suspension late on Sunday night. Department’s Special Secretary Deepak Nandi said since the continuance of the Mayor and the three councillors in office could influence the judicial inquiry, they had been suspended with immediate effect.  2 councillors from BJP The three suspended councillors were Paras Jain and Ajay Singh Chauhan (both from the BJP) and Shankar Sharma (independent). The incident happened on Friday last, when Mr. Singhdeo went to the inner room in the Mayor’s office to discuss the issue of payment of dues to the firm engaged in door-to-door garbage collection. The councillors allegedly abused and attacked Mr. Singhdeo in the presence of Ms. Gurjar when he suggested that the firm’s workers be convinced to collect the garbage by paying them an amount for fuel in their vans, in view of the Rajasthan High Court’s recent order. The councillors allegedly exerted pressure on the Commissioner to give an order for alternative arrangements. Will fight for justice: BJP The Opposition BJP reacted sharply to the suspension orders and said it would “fight for justice”. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the suspension of elected Mayor and councillors would lead to the fall of the Congress in the State. “Vinash Kale, Vipreet Buddhi (As doom approaches, the mind goes awry),” Mr. Poonia tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jaipur-greater-mayor-three-councillors-suspended/article34757648.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Lowest daily cases in over three months||Delhi reported 231 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours — the lowest in more than three months —taking the total cases to 14,29,475, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The lowest number of cases before this was reported on March 2 — 217 cases. Also, the test positivity rate (TPR) fell to 0.36%. The last time the TPR was less than this was 0.31% on March 7. A TPR of 0.36% means that less than one person out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests is now positive for the virus. Also, 36 deaths were reported, and the total number of deaths stood at 24,627. A total of 63,610 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 13,99,640 people have recovered and there are 5,208 active cases. AAP MLA Atishi on Monday said that the Delhi government received 40,000 doses of Covaxin on Sunday. “For the last two weeks, there no vaccination drive happening for the youth in the government schools about which people were worried. Especially those who got Covaxin in May and was supposed to get the second dose within a span of 4 to 6 weeks,” Ms. Atishi said. Only for second dose “We are happy to tell you that 40,000 doses of Covaxin have been sent to us for the age bracket of 18-44 years. With this, we are only going to vaccinate those who had received the first dose of Covaxin in May,” she said. The total number of vaccines administered in Delhi has reached 56,67,221, of which 12.85 lakh people have been vaccinated with both doses. Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the government is working on revamping several existing hospitals to increase the number of beds and also building new hospitals. He made the comment while inspecting ongoing revamp work at the Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital and Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lowest-daily-cases-in-over-three-months/article34757326.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC refuses to stay order letting private schools charge fees||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to put on hold its May 31 order allowing private unaided schools in the Capital to collect annual and development charges from students for the period after the lockdown ended. A Vacation Bench of Justice Rekha Palli and Justice Amit Bansal said, “We are rejecting the stay application”. ‘Give money to schools’ “Don’t be just a populist government. Give money to schools also. They also need money to run the schools. They have to pay taxes also,” the Bench added. The High Court also issued notice to the Action Committee of Unaided Recognised Private Schools, which represents over 450 schools here, on the appeals of city government, students and NGO ‘Justice for All’ challenging the High Court’s May 31 order. The court will hear the case again on July 12. On May 31, the HC had quashed orders issued by the Department of Education, Delhi government on April 18, 2020, and August 28, 2020, restraining the private school unaided schools from collecting annual charges and development fees beyond the lockdown period and deferring it till physical opening of the schools. The Delhi government contended the May 31 order failed to appreciate the powers of the Department of Education to pass such an order. It’s counsel contended that the order was erroneous and prayed for staying the operation of the verdict. The Delhi government has contended that its orders of April and August last year were issued in larger public interest as due to the COVID-19 lockdown people were in financial crisis. The private schools, represented by senior advocate Shyam Divan, opposed the stay application on the ground that the Delhi government had no power to interdict private contracts between schools and students’ parents. The private schools said the order had noted there was no allegation of schools indulging in profiteering in this case and in the absence of such allegation, there could be no interference by the Delhi government. Advocates Khagesh Jha, representing NGO Justice for All and various parents, argued the private schools were asking for paying charges for something which is not being provided to the students and the schools have started harassing the parents by asking to deposit money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hc-refuses-to-stay-order-letting-private-schools-charge-fees/article34757665.ece
08 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Test positivity rate stays below 10% for second day in Odisha||The test positivity rate (TPR) in Odisha remained below 10% for a second straight day on Monday, indicating improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the State. TPR is the number of  positive cases identified for every 100 tests. Health experts attributed the fall in TPR, which was once hovering around 23% in Odisha, to lockdown restrictions and growing awareness among people about the contagion. In the past 24 hours, Odisha conducted 67,178 tests, of which 6,118 turned positive for coronavirus. The TPR stood at 9.10%. Similarly, 71,973 samples were tested in the previous 24 hours on Sunday. As many as 7,002 persons tested positive. The TPR was 9.72%. The TPR that swung between 15% and 23% last month dropped below 10% for the first time on Sunday.  Recovery rate improves The recovery rate has also jumped above 90% in June, with daily recoveries exceeding daily cases consistently for the past few days. This has led to a sharp drop in active cases. The number of active cases, which crossed the one-lakh mark in May, has dipped to 76,750. According to the Public Health Department, the data indicated that the peak of the second wave had passed in the State. The daily fatalities, however, do not correspond to the downward trend in positive cases. For the past one week, the State has been averaging daily deaths over 35. The State reported 41 deaths on Monday, with the overall death toll crossing 3,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/test-positivity-rate-stays-below-10-for-second-day-in-odisha/article34757649.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Exams fail to dampen DU students’ initiative||A collective of students from across Delhi University has managed to feed over 1,630 out-of-work daily wagers and labourers, over the series of lockdowns in the Capital since the second wave wreaked havoc. Thanks to funds generated via online crowdfunding. Efforts move online With the exams round the corner, their visits to distressed workers have been restricted for the better part of this month. However, their efforts have moved online and they continue to bear their new-found responsibility towards distressed workers by making digital payments to neighbourhood shop owners as and when required. The ‘Feeding the Workers in Delhi’ initiative has seen the collective assist everyone from a family in Sangam Vihar, who lost their source of income during the pandemic even as they welcomed a child last May, seek regular medical treatment despite the circumstances to workers at Azadpur Mandi, Wazirpur and other areas where daily wagers earn just Rs. 4 for lifting 50 kg of weight. “During distribution, we keep in our mind that ration should be ensured to the most needy first. Our priority consists of specially abled, elderly, widows, families who lost their earning member and people who lost their jobs during the pandemic. For need assessment, we take help of trade unions or local community leaders,” said Roshan Pandey from the Delhi School of Social Work (DSSW). The biggest challenge they faced during the drive, according to Ankur Agraj from DU’s Law Faculty, was that of supply. “We are a student collective which solely depends on generosity of our online donors. We never have enough to give kits to all those who need it. The problem of joblessness is a big one. The government is not doing enough,” he said. The initiative has been tremendously affected by the Delhi University’s Open Book Examinations (OBE), said Ananya from DSSW, with many students from Delhi who are part of the initiative in the final-year of their respective courses, making it difficult to visit workers in distress. “We cannot stop assisting those in need. Given our exams, we have begun making online payments to shopkeepers on behalf of workers as and when they buy essential items from them till the time we can take up the distribution drive ourselves,” Mr. Pandey added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/exams-fail-to-dampen-du-students-initiative/article34757323.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Parents of infected children may be allowed inside hospital||An expert committee formed by the Delhi government to formulate action plans ahead of a possible third wave is considering whether parents should be allowed inside hospitals if their children get admitted with COVID-19. The committee is also considering a plan to train more healthcare workers to handle intensive care units (ICUs) for children, said sources privy to the development. The committee is yet to make a final decision. It  will come up with a report in the next two weeks regarding treatment procedure for children affected with COVID-19 and other preparations. On Saturday, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said children will need different types of equipment for treatment. He also said a paediatric task force was formed on Friday to give its recommendations separately. On May 27, the Delhi government formed an expert committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary Satya Gopal. The first objective of the committee was to devise a plan for handling a possible third wave with a focus on the “needs of children of the city”, as per an official order. The committee met at least twice and also had a meeting with the Chief Minister on Friday. “Members of the committee suggested that parents of children affected with COVID-19 should be allowed inside the hospitals. This is because a four or five-year-old child will keep crying if they do not see their parents. If allowed, the parents will have to wear PPE kits,” a source privy to the development said. The source said the committee is yet to fix an age cap but currently, the committee is considering to allow it for children below 14 years. Members of the committee have also suggested that there should be a pool of trained personnel to work in NICU (neonatal intensive care unit) and PICU (pediatric intensive care unit) in case of a third wave. “Beds can be increased if there is a fresh wave, but doctors, nurses, and even nursing orderlies have to be trained to handle children. So, the committee is also mooting to train a group of healthcare workers before the third wave to deal with children,” another source said. Panel on helpline The committee has also discussed the possibility of a different helpline number or a separate section of the main helpline number, where family members can call in case of an emergency for children. On Monday, the Delhi government said the department of women and child development along with the Health Department are together preparing a roadmap to tackle the third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parents-of-infected-children-may-be-allowed-inside-hospital/article34757334.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. keeping people away from ambit of Ayushman Bharat scheme’||Terming it the world’s largest healthcare insurance scheme with 50 crore citizens entitled to benefits of Rs. 5 lakh a year, the BJP on Monday demanded why the Delhi government was keeping the people away from the ambit of Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme. “If Delhi had also implemented it, some 72.78 lakh people would have benefited so far. In the absence of a proper healthcare system, Delhiites went through a harrowing time,” Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged. Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that scores of Delhi’s citizens died during the second COVID wave but could not avail of adequate treatment. “The fact is that 32 government and 49 private hospitals in Delhi are listed under this scheme but sadly people could not get treatment at these hospitals,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari said had the Ayushman Bharat scheme been in force, Delhiites whose parents are in U.P., Bihar or other States could have been treated in the Capital and vice-versa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-keeping-people-away-from-ambit-of-ayushman-bharat-scheme/article34757332.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sisodia thanks Supreme Court for its ‘intervention’ on vaccination drives||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday thanked the Supreme Court for its “intervention” on vaccination drives in the country. This comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that States will be provided free COVID vaccines from June 21. Mr. Sisodia said it was done after the Supreme Court’s intervention and blamed the Centre’s policies for which States could not buy doses directly. “We express our gratitude to the Hon’ble Supreme Court that after the court’s intervention, free vaccine will be available to people of all age groups across the country. If the Central government wanted, it could have done this long ago, but due to the policies of the center, neither the States were able to buy the vaccine nor the Central government was giving it,” Mr. Sisodia said in a tweet in Hindi. SC on Centre’s policy On June 2, the Supreme Court questioned the Centre’s policy of paid vaccination for 18-44 age group, saying it is “prima facie, arbitrary and irrational”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodia-thanks-supreme-court-for-its-intervention-on-vaccination-drives/article34757336.ece
08 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Prime accused in Asif murder case arrested||The prime accused in the Asif murder case was arrested on Monday, the Nuh police said. Thirteen accused have been accounted for in the murder case so far. Acting on a tip-off, an SIT led by DSP (Headquarters) Sudhir Taneja arrested Rohit alias Kala. He was on the run after the murder. The police said the accused was being interrogated and would be produced before the court to seek his police remand for further interrogation and recovery of weapons used in the commission of crime. Asif, a resident of Nuh’s Khera Khalilpur, was returning home from a medical store on May 16 evening with Rashid and his friend Wasif in a car when the accused allegedly waylaid them at Atta village and kidnapped him. He was later found dead at Nangli village in Sohna. Keeping in view the gravity of the matter, the SIT was constituted for a thorough probe into the matter and the arrest of the accused. Mr. Taneja said the remaining accused would be arrested soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/prime-accused-in-asif-murder-case-arrested/article34757325.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. protests outside pvt. vaccine site||The Delhi Congress on Monday protested outside a drive-in vaccination centre against the Delhi government’s policy of setting up private sites instead of giving shots to all. The workers along with party chief Ch.. Anil Kumar gheraoed Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who had come to inaugurate a drive-through vaccination centre at Akshardham. The party alleged that the government was busy inaugurating premium drive-through vaccination centres, which would help the private players make huge profits. Mr. Kumar said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has been fooling the people of Delhi and telling them lies by promising them free vaccination. “A large number of people are still waiting for their second dose even two months after getting their first jab. The Delhi government has run short of vaccines, while vaccines were available in abundance in private hospitals and drive-through vaccination centres, though these centres charge over Rs. 1,600 per dose,” Mr. Kumar said. He alleged that the government has been a total failure in managing the pandemic as well as the vaccination drive. Several Congress workers were detained during the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cong-protests-outside-pvt-vaccine-site/article34757331.ece
08 June 2021||Srinagar,||Bomb scare in Srinagar||A Bomb Disposal Squad (BDS) of the security forces was rushed to the busy Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) office on Monday evening after a suspicious object was found in its vicinity. “The BDS is on the job and is ascertaining the nature of the object,” an official said.  Traffic stopped Traffic was stopped in the area, a high security zone with the buildings of the SMC and District Police Lines housing the offices of senior police officers adjacent to each other. The operation of the BDS was on when this report was being filed. Earlier in the day, security agencies were tipped off about the presence of explosives in Saimoh area of Tral in South Kashmir's Pulwama district. On Sunday, explosives were also defused in Srinagar's Chanapora area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bomb-scare-in-srinagar/article34757647.ece
08 June 2021||Agartala,||Board exams: Tripura govt. seeks opinion||The Tripura government has sought opinion from parents and experts to take a decision over holding of secondary and higher secondary examinations in the State amid the pandemic. State’s Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath has said that he will chair a meeting here on June 14 where opinions and suggestions will be thoroughly discussed. “Senior officials of the tribal autonomous district council, prominent psychiatrists and former Education Ministers will be invited at the meeting. After the meeting we will declare a final decision”, Mr. Nath told newsmen on Monday. ‘No ex-parte decision’ The Minister clarified that the decision on holding or not holding the exams will depend on opinions of parents of the students and notable persons who will be attending the meeting. He further said that the State government will not take any ex-parte decision in this pandemic situation. Parents can send their suggestion to the relevant segment of a new Tripura Board of Secondary Education website TBSE.gov.in from tomorrow.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/board-exams-tripura-govt-seeks-opinion/article34757652.ece
08 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two held for killing man during robbery||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly killing a man during a robbery attempt in Dwarka’, the police said on Monday. DCP (Dwarka) S.K. Meena said the accused have been identified as Yogesh Sharma alias Lala (28), who is involved in 12 cases of robbery and Arms Act among others, and Rohit alias Bawla (22). They also tried to kill the victim — Udayvir Singh’s — wife Vidhya Devi. On May 2, two persons entered Singh’s house with the intention to rob them and choked him to death. “Sharma knew that Singh was rich and planned to rob him along with his friends — Rohit and Bablu. They entered his house on the pretext of asking for a room on rent. The accused then killed Singh. They could not find cash in the house and soon fled the spot,” Mr. Meena said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-held-for-killing-man-during-robbery/article34757335.ece
08 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi’s WCD dept to collect data on children who lost one or both parents to COVID||Delhi’s Women and Child Development department will collect data on children who have lost one or both parents to COVID so that they can avail the benefits by the government, officials said on Monday. The data will be collected with the assistance of the health department, said WCD Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhis-wcd-dept-to-collect-data-on-children-who-lost-one-or-both-parents-to-covid/article34757327.ece
