09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre places fresh orders for 44 cr. COVID-19 vaccine doses||The Centre has placed fresh orders for 44 crore vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin, which will be available from August-December. It has also placed an order for 30 crore doses from Hyderabad-based Biological E for its in-development protein subunit vaccine. “All together 74 crore doses have been secured for use from August onwards,” Dr. V.K. Paul, Chairman, National Empowered Group on Vaccination, said in a press statement on Tuesday. Until July, 53 crore vaccine doses — including 23.5 crore already administered — were expected from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. If all the estimates were to come to fruition, it would mean 127 crore doses could be available, enough to ensure India’s estimated population of about 94 crore gets one dose of vaccine. However, a lot depends on the speed at which vaccines are disbursed. After a lacklustre May that saw vaccine stocks and immunisation plummet, the number of daily doses have started to rise after May 29, touching over 30 lakh on several days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-places-fresh-orders-for-44-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses/article34765097.ece
09 June 2021||GUNTUR,||Govt. to hand-hold small vendors||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that small and petty vendors will be hand-held by the government so that they do not fall prey to money lenders who charge them exorbitant interest for hand loans. The State government credited Rs. 370 crore to 3.7 lakh small traders towards interest-free loans, under the second phase of Jagananna Thodu scheme. Mr. Jagan said that small and petty vendors, artisans needn’t approach private parties for loans, as they can take loans from banks under Jagananna Thodu scheme to cater to their working capital. Although 9.05 lakh beneficiaries were identified for the scheme, in the phase-1, only Rs. 535 crore was disbursed by the banks to 5.35 lakh beneficiaries, despite the government offering to pay the interest. In order to resolve this, the State government has decided to extend financial assistance to remaining 3.7 lakh beneficiaries through Sthreenidhi Credit Cooperative federation and APCOB covering all the eligible beneficiaries by sanctioning loans in rural and urban areas, the Chief Minister said, adding that Rs. .49.77 crore was being borne by the government under the scheme towards paying interest. “Jagananna Thodu scheme will bring a change in the lives of small and petty vendors, as the government is relieving them from paying heavy interests, and if they repay the loan amount in the given timeline, the State government shall reimburse the interest directly to the beneficiaries’ accounts, and further, they will be eligible to take the next loan,” said Mr. Jagan. The Chief Minister said vegetable vendors, fruit vendors, small shopkeepers, pushcart vendors, and traditional artisans were eligible to apply for the scheme and if any eligible person was not covered in this scheme, they could still apply through volunteers, and upon verification, they would be provided with the scheme benefits in a month or two. Also, they can call the 1902 toll-free number to get enrolled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-to-hand-hold-small-petty-vendors/article34765050.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Ensure no break in studies of children hit by pandemic’||The Supreme Court has ordered the States and the Union Territories to ensure there is no break in the education of children orphaned due to COVID-19. “The State governments/Union Territories are directed to make provisions for continuance of education of the children both in government as well as in private schools,” a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose ordered. The order, published on Tuesday, came after amicus curiae, advocate Gaurav Agrawal, voiced concerns that these children may have to discontinue their education because of lack of funds, and familial care. Mr. Agrawal had recommended the court to intervene and direct the States to make sure that the children impacted by the pandemic continue in the same school. He said the States should be asked to pass directions that even children studying in private schools should continue in the same institutions for at least the next six months until some further arrangements could be worked out. “We accept the suggestion made by the amicus curiae. The State government/Union Territory administrations should ensure that there is no break in the education of children who have become orphans or lost either parent during the pandemic,” the Supreme Court ordered. The Bench said it would examine other issues related to COVID-19 impacted children, including protection of their property rights of the children, their further education and employment opportunities and special care to be taken in respect of the girl child. These issues would be taken up in the next hearing on June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ensure-no-break-in-studies-of-children-hit-by-pandemic/article34765089.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown extended by 10 days in Telangana||The State government has extended the lockdown by 10 more days from Thursday but, at the same time, the relaxation was also increased by four hours up to 5 p.m. The present relaxations from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. will continue on Wednesday when the current spell of lockdown expires. Grace period Like at present, when people are being allowed to return home by 2 p.m., the government has also allowed a grace period of one hour after 5 p.m. from Thursday to let them reach their destinations. Shops and business establishments will close by 5 p.m. The lockdown should be implemented strictly from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m., a meeting of the Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ordered the police. The Cabinet, however, decided that the present relaxation hours from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. will continue in pockets of State where the COVID-19 pandemic went unchecked. They included Assembly constituencies of Sattupalli, Madhira, Nalgonda, Nagarjunasagar, Devarakonda, Munugode and Miryalguda.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-by-10-days-in-telangana/article34765553.ece
09 June 2021||Kolkata,||Interning doctors protest paltry stipend||Interns at West Bengal’s first privately-run medical college — 132 of them — are protesting over the amount they receive as monthly stipend, saying the sum was a pittance compared to what their counterparts in other institutions earned. “This month we received Rs. 7,016. How do you expect us to survive on this amount, that too when we have to spend for personal protective equipment and transport from our own pocket?” asked an intern at Kolkata’s KPC Medical College — also serving as a prominent COVID-19 hospital — who did not want to be named but who was a part of the sit-in they staged on Monday. “All we want is our stipend to be on par with the colleges under WBUHS (West Bengal University of Health Sciences). A fair adjustment to our current structure will be beneficial not just for us but also for batches to come,” the intern said, adding that the stipend had not changed for the last three years. The matter had precipitated now because their expenses had shot up due to the pandemic. “Travelling in crowded buses and trains is very risky, especially when we have elderly parents and relatives back home. At the same time, due to the lockdown, the cab companies have hiked their rentals by almost three times,” the intern said. He said the protest would continue without affecting their duties. While the medical college authorities could not be reached for comments, it is learnt they would be talking to the protesting doctors on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/interning-doctors-protest-paltry-stipend/article34765199.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||I thank Your Honour, schoolgirl tells CJI||A 10-year-old Kerala schoolgirl has written to Chief Justice of India (CJI) N.V. Ramana, saying how “happy and proud” she felt to see the Supreme Court make vital interventions to alleviate the sufferings of her fellow citizens in the grip of the pandemic. “I am happy and feel proud your honourable court has moved orders for supply of oxygen and saved many lives. I understood your honourable court has initiated effective steps in bringing down COVID-19 and death rate in our country, especially in Delhi. I thank Your Honour for this. Now I feel very proud and happy,” Lidwina Joseph, a Class V student from Thrissur in Kerala, wrote in the letter that the Supreme Court received towards May-end. Lidwina said she got the news from The Hindu, adding that she had been “much worried” about the deaths caused by the virus. The handwritten letter, in the form of a scroll, is accompanied by a colourful illustration showing a bespectacled judge using his gavel to give the coronavirus a knock on its head. A portrait of the Mahatma hangs from a wall behind the judge. Chief Justice Ramana replied to Lidwina, saying “I have received your beautiful letter along with a heart-warming illustration of the judge at work”. He conveyed that she was impressed by the way she kept track of the happenings in the country. He particularly took note of the student’s concern for the well-being of her compatriots. “I am sure you will grow up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards nation-building,” he said. Chief Justice Ramana also sent her a signed copy of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-thank-your-honour-schoolgirl-tells-cji/article34765101.ece
09 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Free rice offer boosts vaccination drive||An administrative circle in Arunachal Pradesh has scaled up vaccination among those above 45 years of age with a free rice offer. Rumours about COVID-19 vaccines causing impotency and microchips being injected through them have deterred many in the Northeast, specifically those above 45 years, from taking the jab. Requests and threats have not worked in districts such as Baksa in Assam, which have among the lowest vaccination coverage in India. Tashi Wangchuk Thongdok, the circle officer of Yazali in Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, hit upon the idea of giving 20 kg of rice free to each person aged 45-plus who came forward to get inoculated. The offer worked. More than 50 persons turned up on Monday for vaccination despite heavy rain. “We have been working on various strategies to improve the vaccination coverage in the Yazali circle. We wish to continue giving away free rice until we achieve 100% coverage by June 20,” Mr. Thongdok, a 2016-batch officer of Arunachal Pradesh Civil Service, said. He thanked two local activists — Taba Nagu and Lich Birbal — for donating the rice for distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/free-rice-offer-boosts-vaccination-drive/article34765523.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Steps soon to bridge digital divide: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government and private sectors will work in tandem to bridge the digital divide that has disadvantaged schoolchildren from needy families in online learning during the COVID-19 pandemic. Answering Opposition queries during the question hour in the Assembly on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said a significant number of school students could not afford computer, television or smartphone. The government would accord priority to address the issue. Many others, especially tribal children, lived in remote localities with no access to the Internet or mobile phone network coverage. Some families could not afford the Internet. “The government would not leave them behind.” The government was in discussion with service providers to extend the State’s mobile and Internet coverage network. Cable television operators and corporates had agreed to support the government’s initiative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/steps-soon-to-bridge-digital-divide-cm/article34765236.ece
09 June 2021||SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT GUWAHATI:,||Offer of free rice gives a boost to vaccination drive||An administrative circle in Arunachal Pradesh has upped its vaccination among the 45-plus with a free rice offer. Rumours about impotency and microscopic tracking devices injected through the serum against infection by the novel coronavirus have had many in the northeast, specifically among the 45-plus, avoiding the COVID-19 vaccination. Requests and threats have not worked in districts such as Baksa in Assam, among the lowest in India in vaccination coverage. Tashi Wangchuk Thongdok, the circle officer of Yazali in Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, hit upon the idea of giving 20 kg of rice free to each person above 45 years who comes forward to get inoculated. The offer worked. More than 50 turned up on Monday for vaccination despite heavy rainfall. “We wish to continue giving away free rice until we achieve 100% by June 20,” Mr. Thongdok, a 2016 batch officer of Arunachal Pradesh Civil Service, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/offer-of-free-rice-gives-a-boost-to-vaccination-drive/article34765200.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,||HC permits release of 1.51 lakh seized vehicles||In a partial relief to owners of around 1.51 lakh motor vehicles seized for violation of the recent lockdown norms across the State, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday permitted the jurisdictional police to release the vehicles by collecting a tentative fine amount as deposit. However, the release of vehicles is subject to the final outcome of the prosecution launched against the vehicle owners under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code before the jurisdictional magistrate courts. While the owners of around 1.37 lakh seized two-wheelers will have to pay a tentative fine of Rs. 500 each, the owners of 7,400 seized four-wheelers will have to pay Rs. 1,000 each, and the owners of around 7,100 other types of vehicles will have to pay Rs. 2,000 each, apart from executing a bond as required under Section 102(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. While exercising the powers under Section 102(3) of the Cr.PC for releasing the seized vehicles to the owners, the police will also have to impose a condition that the vehicle owners will not violate the conditions of the lockdown again, the court said. A Special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on an application filed by the State government.  The tentative amounts collected can be treated as deposits and can be appropriated towards the payment of fine, if ultimately fine is imposed on the owners by the jurisdictional magistrates, the Bench said. The government, in its application, had sought authorisation for the jurisdictional police to release the seized vehicles as such a large number of vehicles could not be transported to the jurisdictional courts. It also cited difficulties in finding proper accommodation for safe custody/parking of the vehicles. In normal course, the vehicles owners will have to file applications for the release of the vehicles before the jurisdictional magistrate or wait till the case is finally adjudicated. The vehicle owners were mainly booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC, and conviction under this law can attract imprisonment of up to six months or fine, or both. Conviction under Section 51(1(b) (punishment for obstruction by refusing to comply with directions) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, can do the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-permits-release-of-151-lakh-seized-vehicles/article34765130.ece
09 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Report sought on charge that KIMS doctors are skipping hospital work||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil has sought a detailed report from KIMS Director Ramalinga Antaratani on the issue of some doctors of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) being accused of skipping work in hospital and proceeding to private hospitals to treat patients. This follows a sting operation by a television news channel. Meanwhile, KIMS Doctors Association (KDA) has submitted a memorandum to the KIMS Director urging him not to take any action based on the sting operation, which, they said, was carried out with a malice intent to defaming KIMS doctors who have been working even beyond shifts in the wake of the pandemic. In the sting operation carried out by the television channel, some doctors are seen registering their attendance through biometric device and subsequently, leaving the hospital premises either to go home or attend to work in private hospitals. During Health Minister K. Sudhakar’s visit to Hubballi and the subsequent review meeting, elected representatives had brought to his notice that while most of the doctors and para medical staff at KIMS Hospital were working sincerely, some were skipping work and had continued to do so with impunity. During the meeting, they had also demanded dismissal of such doctors who were negligent towards their duties despite drawing huge salaries. Amid all these developments, the KIMS Director [Dr. Ramalingappa Antaratani] has said that notices were being issued to 11 doctors against whom allegations of skipping work had been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/report-sought-on-charge-that-kims-doctors-are-skipping-hospital-work/article34765157.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,||34 districts have no vaccines, says Minister||Only two to three districts in Tamil Nadu have stocks of COVID-19 vaccines, while the remaining 34 districts have no stock, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Tuesday. “We have so far received nearly 1.01 crore doses, of which 97.35 lakh doses have been administered. We have 23,000 doses in hand. Of them, Chennai has 16,000 doses, followed by about 4,000 doses in Coimbatore... About 3 lakh-3.5 lakh doses were wasted during the first wave,” he told reporters. For June, the State should receive nearly 42 lakh doses from the Centre’s pool, of which 5.5 lakh had already been supplied, he said. “We should receive another 36.5 lakh doses. The Centre released a supply schedule today [on Tuesday].” The 5.5 lakh doses that were received earlier were distributed to districts in 10 hours. In the last three days, these doses were administered, including in tribal areas, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/34-districts-have-no-vaccines-says-minister/article34765318.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Long-distance RTC services from today||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will on Wednesday partially resume the long-distance bus services suspended since April 8 following the second wave of COVID-19-induced lockdown in the State. The services will be demand-based along National Highway, State Highways, and M.C. Road adhering to the pandemic protocol, Transport Minister Antony Raju said here on Tuesday. Travellers will be allowed on the sanctioned seats and online reservation can be made throughonline.keralartc.comand Ente KSRTC app. Timings and fares can be accessed through the website and app and from the depots of the KSRTC. The long-distance services will be in addition to the Buses on Demand (BoND) services and ordinary special services being operated for hospital staff and teachers attending valuation camps of SSLC and Plus Two examinations. As many as 50 services will operate on Wednesday. There will be no long-distance services on June 12 and 13 in view of the government’s directive for strict enforcement of the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/long-distance-rtc-services-from-today/article34765233.ece
09 June 2021||GUNTUR,||‘Include infrastructure cost in PMAY’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to incorporate the cost incurred towards creation of basic infrastructure in the Housing Colonies under Navaratnalu-Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY), as the meagre grant Rs. 1.80 lakh provided for individual houses will not be sufficient. The State government has allotted Rs. 30,000 per unit . The State plans to construct 30 lakh houses within the next year. In a letter addressed to Mr. Modi on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan said the programme would address housing shortage among the underprivileged household categories (EWS), including the slum dwellers, by ensuring a pucca house to all eligible households by the year 2022, when the nation completes 75 years of Independence. In the last seven years, 308.2 lakh houses were sanctioned with a release of total Central assistance amounting to Rs. 2.99 lakh crore. The Government of Andhra Pradesh had acquired 68,381 acres of land and allotted house sites at the rate of one cent in urban areas and 1.5 cent in rural and urban development authority areas, to 30.76 lakhs beneficiaries spread across 17,005 greenfield colonies at an estimated cost of Rs. 23,535 crore. “However, the objectives of the PMAY programme will not be fulfilled without development of basic infrastructure in these greenfield colonies. The State government has already spent Rs. 23,535 crores in providing house sites to all eligible beneficiaries under PMAY programme. Hence, I request you to include the project component of providing basic infrastructure in the PMAY programme,” Mr. Jagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/include-infrastructure-cost-in-pmay/article34765091.ece
09 June 2021||ONGOLE,||Exams will be held after COVID subsides: Suresh||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday accused the TDP of playing ‘politics’ over the conduct of SSC and Intermediate examinations. Allaying the fears of students, their parents and teachers, the Minister said the government was not in a hurry to hold the examinations at a time when the second wave of coronavirus was raging. “However, the government is against cancellation of the examinations. The situation is gradually improving. The examinations will be conducted only after the COVID situation is brought under control fully,” said the Education Minister. Referring to TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh, who has been demanding cancellation of the examinations, the Minister said the MLC was not taking into account the future of the students. Mr. Suresh distributed cheques to some beneficiaries of the ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme. He asked officials to set up helpdesk to facilitate sanctioning of interest-free loans to beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/exams-will-be-held-after-covid-subsides-suresh/article34765093.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nepal stops distribution of Patanjali’s Coronil kits||Nepal’s Department of Ayurveda and Alternative Medicines on Monday stopped distribution of Coronil kits that were gifted by the Patanjali group of Indian yoga teacher and businessman Ramdev. Kathmandu’s order cited that proper procedures were not followed while procuring the 1,500 kits of Coronil that Patanjali claims are useful in dealing with the COVID-19 infection.  Move to ‘delink’ The issue has drawn attention as it is being interpreted as a move to delink the leading Madhesi political families from the Indian group. The latest order of the Government of Nepal says, the tablets and nasal oil that are part of the Coronil kit are not equivalent to medicines to defeat COVID-19 virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nepal-stops-distribution-of-patanjalis-coronil-kits/article34765099.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Maoists say police killed Gaddam Madhukar||Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Tuesday alleged that Telangana police were carrying out a false campaign that its activist Gaddam Madhukar alias Shobh Rai died of ill health after being arrested in Warangal and admitted to Osmania General Hospital here, when actually the police “murdered him”. In a statement issued by Dandakaranya South Sub-Zonal bureau, the party condemned the “killing of Madhukar by police”. The bureau’s official representative Samatha said the party appealed to all democratic activists not to believe such propaganda by the police. Thirty-eight-year-old Madhukar hailed from Kondapally village of Bejjur mandal in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. He joined Sirpur squad of Maoists at the age of 16 in 1999. The party’s official representative said Telangana police had themselves declared that Madhukar was caught on June 1 when he was going to a hospital. Five days later, they announced that he died of COVID-19. The CPI (Maoist) representative charged the police with subjecting Madhukar to torture from June 1 to 6 without extending him any medical treatment. This was the second such murder in a fortnight, the statement said alleging that party’s People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) platoon commander Gangal was killed by the police in a similar fashion earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maoists-say-police-killed-gaddam-madhukar/article34765547.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,||Woman, son and astrologer sentenced to life for murder||The Udupi Principal District and Sessions Court on Tuesday convicted three, including hotelier K. Bhaskar Shetty’s wife Rajeshwari Shetty (51) and their son Navaneeth Shetty (22), of the murder of the hotelier in 2016 and sentenced them to life. Principal District and Sessions Judge J.N. Subramanya passed the conviction order in the morning and pronounced the sentence in the afternoon. The accused, including astrologer Niranjan Bhat (26), were convicted of the crime and sentenced under Sections 302 (murder) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). They were also sentenced to four years rigorous imprisonment for the offence under Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC. All the sentences will run concurrently. The judge acquitted Raghavendra, car driver of Bhat family, of the charge of destruction of evidence. Bhaskar Shetty and his wife Rajeshwari Shetty were running Durga International Hotel in Udupi and owned several fixed assets in Udupi besides operating seven supermarkets in Saudi Arabia. The convicted were charged with murdering Bhaskar Shetty in the latter’s house in Hayagreevanagar, Indrali in Udupi, on July 28, 2016. Later, the body was shifted in a car to Bhat’s residence at Nandalike near Karkala where it was burnt in a Homa Kunda using petrol. A few days later, Bhat, with the help of Raghavendra, transported the body residues to a river about 15 km away from his house and threw them into the water. Mr. Subramanya said that the prosecution was able to prove beyond doubt on the basis of circumstantial evidence that the accused murdered Bhaskar Shetty over an illicit relationship between Rajeshwari Shetty and Niranjan Bhat. For this reason, Bhaskar Shetty intended to donate his property to charity and give a portion of it to his mother. Complaint On July 29, Bhaskar Shetty’s mother Gulabi Shedthi filed a complaint with the Manipal Police stating that her son had gone missing since 2 p.m. the previous day and suspected that he may have been murdered. Police Inspector Girish, who investigated the case, arrested Rajeshwari Shetty, Navaneeth Shetty, Niranjan Bhat, Srinivas and Raghavendra. Criminal Investigation Department’s Deputy Superintendent of Police S.T. Chandrashekar and his team took up further investigation on August 18, 2016. Special Public Prosecutor Shantharam Shetty examined a total of 78 witnesses, including L. Purushothama, Assistant Director at Forensic Science Laboratory in Bengaluru, who carried out the DNA examination of blood-stained material and bone recovered by the police and concluded that it was that of Bhaskar Shetty. The prosecution submitted 270 documents, while the accused in their defence produced 17 documents. As many as 131 material objects were produced. On Tuesday, Rajeshwari Shetty and Raghavendra were present in person in court, while Navaneeth Shetty and Niranjan Bhat were produced virtually from Bengaluru Central Prison through video conference. The judge said that Rajeshwari Shetty will be lodged in the Bengalaru Central Prison where Navaneeth Shetty and Niranjan are already lodged. As Rajeshwari Shetty expressed before court that she is facing a threat to her life, the judge directed the police and the local jail authorities to provide protection to her during her transit and stay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/woman-son-and-astrologer-sentenced-to-life-for-murder/article34765159.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,||II PU scores won’t determine CET eligibility or ranks||The State government has decided that the II pre-university scores will not be used to determine eligibility to write the Common Entrance Test (CET). The II PU marks or grades will not be considered while allotting CET ranks for engineering, architecture, farm science, and naturopathy and yoga courses either. At a press conference on Tuesday, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the decision was taken in light of the cancellation of the II PU exam. Shortly after the government announced that students would be marked or graded based on their performance in the SSLC and I PU exams, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar wrote to the Deputy CM to not consider the II PU scores for CET. No minimum eligibility CET-2021 will be held on August28, 29, and 30, and registrations will be open on June 15. Mr. Narayan also said that this year, the government was doing away with minimum eligibility marks, which vary depending on the course. In the past, for instance, engineering aspirants had to have scored a minimum of 45% (40% for SC/ST/OBC) in PCM subjects to be eligible to sit for CET. This year, II PU and Class 12 students applying for all professional courses can write CET as there will be no minimum score criteria. The Minister also reiterated that only CET marks would be considered to issue a rank. “An official communication on this will be sent immediately to the respective councils, including the All Indian Council for Technical Education, the National Testing Agency, and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research,” he said.  Screening method  While the State government has waived the minimum marks criterion for II PU students who wish to give the entrance test, it is considering introducing an alternative screening mechanism based on how they score in CET itself. A minimum eligibility criterion may be introduced for admission into professional courses through CET, said Mr. Ashwath Narayan, adding that it would be along the lines of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ii-pu-scores-will-not-determine-cet-eligibility-or-ranks/article34765133.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Govt. approves PRC with 30% salary hike||The Cabinet approved recommendations of the First Pay Revision Commission of TS with a hike of 30%, as announced by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the last session of State Assembly, with effect from June 1. The notional benefits will be paid from July 1, 2018, monetary benefits from April 1, 2020 and the cash benefits would be paid from April 1, 2021. The hike in salaries will apply to regular government staff, contract and outsourcing employees and pensioners. The arrears payable to pensioners from April 1, 2020 to May 31, 2021 would be paid in 36 instalments. The Cabinet also approved digital survey of agricultural lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-approves-prc-with-30-salary-hike/article34765551.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,||CET for B.Sc. students?||The government is considering making CET mandatory for pure science candidates hoping to secure admissions into Bachelor of Science programmes. While students say this will be unfair, government sources say it will be one way to screen candidates, given that all II PU students will be passed this year.page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cet-for-bsc-students/article34765131.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mammoth task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mammoth-task/article34765198.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Price cap on jabs at private hospitals||The maximum price chargeable for Covishield is Rs. 780, for Covaxin Rs. 1,410 and for Sputnik V Rs. 1,145, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Centre said it would continue to give the “highest priority” to healthcare workers for vaccination.Page 10||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/price-cap-on-jabs-at-private-hospitals/article34765095.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Mammoth task||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mammoth-task/article34765525.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||New Election Commissioner appointed||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed Anup Chandra Pandey, a retired Uttar Pradesh-cadre IAS officer, to the post of Election Commissioner. The Law Ministry notified the appointment late on Tuesday evening. Following the elevation of Sushil Chandra as the CEC, the position of an EC was vacant since April 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-election-commissioner-appointed/article34765531.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU in list of top 1,000 varsities||JNU has entered the top 1,000 of the QS World University rankings for the first time, as its new undergraduate engineering programme now makes it eligible for the rating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jnu-in-list-of-top-1000-varsities/article34765530.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||State reports 10,891 COVID cases, 295 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 10,891 fresh COVID-19 cases and 295 deaths and added 407 previously unreported fatalities, while 16,577 patients recovered from the infection, the State Health Department said. The State’s caseload rose to 58,52,891, while the death toll increased to 1,01,172.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-reports-10891-covid-cases-295-deaths/article34765652.ece
09 June 2021||Pune,||Pune fire: homicide case lodged against owner||A day after 18 workers, were killed in a fire at a chemical plant in Pune, a case of culpable homicide was registered against one of its owners on Tuesday. Fire safety measures such as emergency exits had not been taken at the plant, the police alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pune-fire-homicide-case-lodged-against-owner/article34765653.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rengma Nagas demand autonomous council||The Rengma Nagas in Assam have written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding an autonomous district council amid a decision by the Central and the State governments to upgrade the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council into a territorial council. The Rengma Naga Peoples’ Council, a registered body, said in the memorandum that the Rengmas were the first tribal people in Assam to have encountered the British in 1839, but the existing Rengma Hills was eliminated from political map of State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rengma-nagas-demand-autonomous-council/article34765201.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Active COVID cases fall below 5,000 in Delhi||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with active cases falling below 5,000 on Tuesday, said a health bulletin released by the government. The city reported 316 new cases over 24 hours, taking the total to 14,29,791.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-covid-cases-fall-below-5000-in-delhi/article34765527.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Involve RWAs in vaccine drive, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to “seriously consider” involving Residents’ Welfare Associations in organising vaccination drives within their respective colonies. “The Centre should seriously consider this proposal at the earliest,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/involve-rwas-in-vaccine-drive-hc-tells-centre/article34765528.ece
09 June 2021||Srinagar,||Ladakh reserves all jobs for local residents||All jobs in the Union Territory of Ladakh have been reserved for local residents, stated an order issued on Tuesday. “No person shall be qualified for appointment to the service unless the person is a resident of the UT of Ladakh,” read the order issued by L-G R.K. Mathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ladakh-reserves-all-jobs-for-local-residents/article34765529.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New norms for digital content||The Education Ministry has laid down new guidelines for producing digital education resources for children with disabilities, after a year in which the COVID-driven shift to online education has spotlighted the lacunae in such resources. However, the PDF document containing the guidelines does not even follow its own rules, making it partially inaccessible to the visually challenged, says an activist, raising concerns about effective implementation. Guidelines released The guidelines, released by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Tuesday, are based on four guiding principles, stipulating that all resources must be perceivable, operable, understandable and robust for disabled students. They recommend that all textbooks be made digitally accessible in a phased manner, so that they are available in multiple formats such as text, audio, video and sign language with turn-on and turn-off features. Det ailed technical standards have been provided. The closure of regular schools and learning centres due to COVID-19 has led to special difficulties for many disabled children. For instance, a recent study by the Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy showed that more than half of the NCERT textbooks available on the government’s virtual education platform DIKSHA were not accessible for visually impaired students. Supplementary content The guidelines provide strategies to produce supplementary content for varying disabilities, including students who face visual and hearing challenges, those on the autism spectrum, those with intellectual or special learning disabilities, and those with multiple disabilities. They note that learning activities must include audio, visual and tactile experiences, while evaluation must be multimodal. Ironically enough, while the guidelines call for the use of image descriptions wherever pictures are used in order to be accessible to visually challenged students using screen readers, this is not even followed by the guidelines document itself, according to Muralidharan, secretary, National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled. “So much for a document that talks of e-accessibility,” he said. “As guidelines they are very comprehensive and cover all aspects ... Concerns of each disability are identified and solutions worked around them. How far they would be implemented is something that we will have to see. The taste of the pudding will lie in its eating.” The guidelines do include an implementation roadmap. The next steps are the nomination of an expert technical team to update the DIKSHA platform, followed by training and development of prototypes of the accessible digital textbooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-norms-for-digital-content/article34765009.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||On vaccines, India always quick on the uptake||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Monday presentation of India’s vaccination history is at odds with the facts. “If you look at the history of vaccinations in India, whether for smallpox, hepatitis B or polio, you will see that India would have to wait decades for procuring vaccines from abroad. When vaccination programmes ended in other countries, it would not have even begun in our country,” he claimed. India, even before Independence, was among the countries that indigenously manufactured vaccines a few years within their discovery, historical records suggest. While there have been several challenges to the uptake of vaccines, their availability was the least of the problems. A vaccine for smallpox, as a history of vaccination in India published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR) by Chandrakant Lahariya in 2012 said, was first administered to a three-year-old Indian, in 1802, a mere four years after English physician Edward Jenner published the result of his experiments on inoculating subjects with a cowpox virus. The smallpox vaccines were imported until 1850, but preserving the liquid lymph solution was a challenge. This led to institutes in India researching ways to increase lymph supply with early success by 1895. The first animal vaccine depot was set up in Shillong in 1890, from where it started to be produced. While vaccination never ceased in India once it began, it had varying popularity. There was hesitancy, opposition from ‘ tikadaars ’ (who performed variolation) and those actually administering vaccines charged a small fee contributing to its fluctuating uptake. “The vaccination coverage went down and in 1944-45 in India, the highest numbers of smallpox cases in the last two decades were reported. As soon as World War II ended, the focus was brought back on smallpox vaccination and cases decreased,” Dr. Lahariya said. “In 1947, India was self-sufficient in the production of smallpox vaccines.” It took until 1971 to eradicate the virus in South America and 1975 in Asia (and India) and 1977 in Africa. The challenge, said Dr. Lahariya, was not a lack of access to vaccines, but social and economic factors surrounding vaccination. The history of polio vaccination in India is more complicated. “India was also the pioneer-leader in polio research — epidemiology, vaccine-prevention — and in the manufacture of both Oral Polio Vaccine [OPV] and Injectible Polio Vaccine [IPV]. India’s lead position was squandered in later years due to short-sighted policies and capricious decisions, a blot in our history of public health,” write T. Jacob John and M. Vipin Vashishta in the 2013 edition of the IJMR . The Pasteur Institute of India developed and produced, for the first time in India, an indigenous trivalent OPV in 1970. It was not until 2006 that IPV was licensed for manufacture in India. It was only due to the use of a combination of both kinds of vaccines, concerted sustained campaigns and inadequate attention by governments to boost vaccine production that it required until 2011 to eliminate polio. Again, it was not because India was unable to make those vaccines. The Prime Minister also claimed that since 2014, the Mission Indradhanush programme had increased the percentage of children covered under vaccination from 60% to 90%. The latest round of the National Family Health Survey, which provides data only from 17 States and five Union Territories, showed that none of the States had achieved 90% vaccination coverage. The Health Ministry released data on this on December 2020 and was expected to provide data from the remaining States by May this year. A vaccine against the bacterium causing plague was made by Waldemar Haffkine at the Grant Medical College, Bombay, in 1897 that he first tested on himself and later on on the inmates of the Byculla jail. A Plague Laboratory was set up in 1899 and in 1925, it was renamed the Haffkine Institute. Several vaccine institutes came up in different provinces of the country, including the 1948 BCG (for tuberculosis) Laboratory in Guindy, Madras. These institutes enabled the manufacture of vaccines for diptheria, pertussis and tetanus in India, before 1940.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-vaccines-india-always-quick-on-the-uptake/article34765020.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Take action against illegal adoption: SC||The Supreme Court has directed the States and the Union Territories to take stringent action against private individuals and NGOs who invite people to illegally adopt children orphaned by the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose, in an 18-page order published on Tuesday, directed the government to step in and prevent private entities from revealing the identities of affected children, usually on social media, and inviting people to adopt them. “The State Governments/Union Territories are directed to prevent any NGO from collecting funds in the names of the affected children by disclosing their identity and inviting interested persons to adopt them. No adoption of affected children should be permitted contrary to the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015,” the court ordered. CARA involvement It was illegal to invite strangers to adopt children, already traumatised by their personal losses, without the involvement of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA), a statutory body under the Women and Child Development Ministry, it said. “Invitation to persons for adoption of orphans is contrary to law as no adoption of a child can be permitted without the involvement of CARA. Stringent action shall be taken by the State Governments/Union Territories against agencies/individuals who are responsible for indulging in this illegal activity,” it observed. The order came after the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), on Monday, raised the alarm on a spate of complaints about illegal adoption of COVID-19 orphans through private individual and organisations. “Social media posts are circulating that children are up for adoption. This is plainly illegal and violates the Juvenile Justice Act,” advocate Shobha Gupta, for intervenor ‘We the Women of India’, made an impassioned plea. NCPCR statistics show that 3,621 children were orphaned, 26,176 children lost either parent and 274 abandoned between April 1, 2021 to June 5, 2021. The court is hearing a suo motu case on the plight of children impacted by the pandemic. Child trafficking Advocate Gaurav Agrawal, amicus curiae , said cases of child trafficking have been going up. The government should intervene to care and protect children orphaned, abandoned or whose families have lost their earning members. The court said lack of knowledge about the rights of children under the Juvenile Justice Act had led to many falling victim to efforts at illegal adoption. It directed the Centre, States and the Union Territories to give wide publicity to the provisions of the 2015 Act at regular intervals so as to make the general public, children and their parents or guardians aware of such provisions. It ordered the States and the Union Territories to continue with their efforts to identify children in need of care and protection after March 2020 and upload their details on the NCPCR database in order to provide them welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-action-against-illegal-adoption-sc/article34765040.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Crackdown on fake medicines||More than 1.1 lakh web links, including websites and online marketplaces, have been taken down in an operation involving the police, customs and health regulatory authorities of 92 countries against the sale of fake and illicit medicines and medical products. Code-named “Operation Pangea XIV”, the exercise was coordinated by Interpol. Indian agencies also participated in the operation, said an official of the Central Bureau of Investigation that is the nodal body for the Interpol in the country. The operation resulted in 1,13,020 web links being closed down or removed, the largest since the first “Operation Pangea” conducted in 2008, the arrest of 277 suspects and seizure of potentially dangerous pharmaceuticals worth over $23 million. It showed that criminals were continuing to cash in on the huge demand for personal protection and hygiene products due to the COVID-19 pandemic. More than half of all the medical devices seized during the operation from May 18 to 25 were fake and unauthorised COVID-19 test kits. In the United Kingdom, apart from the seizure of some three million fake medicines and devices worth over $13 million, the authorities removed more than 3,100 advertising links for the illegal sale and supply of unlicensed medicines, and shut down 43 websites, Interpol said in a statement on Tuesday. A person in Venezuela was arrested for developing an e-commerce platform on WhatsApp to sell illicit medicines. “In Italy, authorities recovered more than 500,000 fake surgical masks as well as 35 industrial machines used for production and packaging,” said the statement, adding that globally, about nine million medical devices and illicit pharmaceuticals were seized. “As the pandemic forced more people to move their lives online, criminals were quick to target these new ‘customers’,” said Interpol Secretary General Jürgen Stock. During the operation, searches of about 7.10 lakh packages led to the discovery of fake and illicit drugs concealed amongst a range of legitimate products, including clothes, jewellery, toys, food and baby products. “In Qatar, officials discovered 2,805 nerve pain tablets hidden inside tins of baked beans,” said the Interpol. The seized items included hypnotic and sedative medication, erectile dysfunction pills, medical and surgical devices like COVID test kits, masks, syringes, catheters, analgesics/painkillers, anabolic steroids, antiseptics and germicides, anti-cancer medication, anti-malarials and vitamins.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crackdown-on-fake-medicines/article34764996.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Over 88,000 new cases recorded||India recorded 88,747 new COVID-19 cases and 2,128 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,90,84,204 cases and 3,53,463 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 18,023 new infections, followed by Kerala (15,567) and Maharashtra (10,891). Maharashtra recorded 702 new casualties on the day, followed by Tamil Nadu (409) and Karnataka (179). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the health bulletins of the respective States. Nearly 18.73 lakh samples were tested in the country on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday). India’s average daily test positivity rate (positive cases identified for every 100 tests) continues to decline. It was 3.8% on June 7 compared with 8.6% recorded a week before. Nearly 33.64 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday, which is nearly 19.74 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 5.84 lakh more doses than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 27.8 lakh on June 7, which is more than the 23.92 lakh recorded a week before (May 31).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-88000-new-cases-recorded/article34765044.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rengma Nagas demand autonomous council||The Rengma Nagas in Assam have written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah demanding an autonomous district council amid a decision by the Central and the State governments to upgrade the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council (KAAC) into a territorial council. The Rengma Naga Peoples’ Council (RNPC), a registered body, said in the memorandum that the Rengmas were the first tribal people in Assam to have encountered the British in 1839, but the existing Rengma Hills was eliminated from the political map of the State and replaced with that of Mikir Hills (now Karbi Anglong) in 1951. Narrating its history, the council said that during the Burmese invasions of Assam in 1816 and 1819, it was the Rengmas who gave shelter to the Ahom refugees. The petition said that the Rengma Hills was partitioned in 1963 between Assam and Nagaland at the time of creation of Nagaland State and the Karbis, who were known as Mikirs till 1976, were the indigeneous tribal people of Mikir Hills. “Thus, the Rengma Hills and Mikir Hills were two separate entities till 1951. Karbis have no history in the Rengma Hills. People who are presently living in Rengma Hills are from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. They speak different dialects and do not know Karbi language of Karbi Anglong,” the memorandum said. RNPC president K. Solomon Rengma told The Hindu that the government was on the verge of taking a decision without taking them on board and thus they had written to Mr. Shah and Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. “How can they do this? We have been writing to them for many years. The KAAC population is around 12 lakh and the Karbis constitute only 3 lakh, the remaining are non-Karbis, including the Rengma Nagas, whose population is around 22,000. We are also demanding a separate legislative seat for Rengmas,” he said. The National Socialist Council of Nagaland or NSCN (Isak-Muivah), which is in talks with the Centre for a peace deal, said in a statement on Monday that the Rengma issue was one of the important agendas of the “Indo-Naga political talks” and no authority should go far enough to override their interests. More than 3,000 Rengma Nagas were forced to relocate to relief camps in 2013 after several people were killed in a series of attacks following a call given by a Karbi insurgent group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rengma-nagas-demand-autonomous-council/article34765013.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Maintain vigil over private hospitals’||The Supreme Court was worried about the role of private hospitals in COVID-19 vaccination, saying whether they would prefer profit over public health. The court’s anxiety is real and present as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech on Monday revealed that private hospitals would retain their capacity to buy 25% of vaccine stock from the manufacturers. The court had advised the government to maintain a strict vigil over private hospitals in a May 31 order. It had raised apprehension that private hospitals would sell vaccines they procure at higher prices unless they were “regulated stringently”. It had reminded the government that private hospitals, though they provide public health service, have “profit” at the core of their existence. A Bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat said, “Further consequences of vaccination by private hospitals under the liberalised vaccination policy relate to a simple issue at the core of their existence: that while they provide a public health service, they still remain private, for-profit entities. Consequently, they may sell the vaccine doses procured at a higher price, unless regulated stringently.” Transparency issue The court was also worried about transparency. “Private hospitals also may not sell all their vaccine doses publicly through appointments on Co-WIN, but rather sell them for lucrative deals directly to private corporations who wish to vaccinate their employees,” it said. The Bench pointed out that many, especially those who live in small cities and villages, have limited access to private hospitals. “Private hospitals are not equally spread out across a State/UT and are often limited to bigger cities with large populations. As such, a larger quantity will be available in such cities, as opposed to the rural areas,” it stated. However, the court clarified that it was not against private hospitals playing a role in the vaccination drive. It accepted the Centre’s point that they would reduce the burden on government facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maintain-vigil-over-private-hospitals/article34765038.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath lauds India-Sweden ties in defence production||There is lot of scope for Swedish and Indian defence industries for co-production and co-development and Indian industry can also supply components to Swedish industries, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday. “On behalf of Government of India, I would like to extend an invitation to a delegation at highest level from Sweden to India and have a glimpse of Indian defence industries and defence industry corridors,” Mr. Singh said at an India-Sweden defence industry webinar. Welcoming the recent understanding by India and European Union to resume negotiations on a free trade agreement, Swedish Defence Minister Peter Hultqvist said one area with potential for deepening defence industry cooperation was among Small and Medium Enterprise businesses. An MoU was signed during the event between Society of Indian Defence Manufacturers and Swedish Security and Defence Industry Association to promote bilateral defence industrial relations.  I would like to extend an invitation to a delegation from Sweden to have a glimpse of Indian defence industries. Rajnath Singh, Defence Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-lauds-india-sweden-ties-in-defence-production/article34764998.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinars to provide expert career guidance to students||Hindustan Institute of Technology & Science (HITS), in association with The Hindu Group, will host a series of webinars focusing on providing expert career guidance to students from Classes 10, 11 and 12. The virtual sessions will have speakers who are subject matter experts from academia, and industry representatives. The webinars aim to offer concise and insightful information on courses that students can consider. The webinars will also explore trends in higher education and the industry that will help students choose streams that align with their personal expectations and resonate with the rapidly evolving industry requirement. Health sciences On June 11, a webinar on ‘Career in Allied Health Sciences: Current Trends and Future Prospects’ will be held at 11 a.m. At 4 p.m. on the same day, a webinar on ‘How a Liberal Arts education helps promote interdisciplinary learning’ has been scheduled. On June 16 at 4 p.m, a webinar on ‘Technology is changing the legal field and what students need to do to adapt’ will be held and a webinar on ‘Why sustainability must be a part of management education’ has been scheduled for June 18 at 4 p.m. To register for the webinar series, log on to bit.ly/THHITS1 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinars-to-provide-expert-career-guidance-to-students/article34765006.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cong. income dips; AAP, CPI(M), NCP post increase in 2019-20||The Congress saw its income decrease by over Rs. 200 crore from 2018-19 to 2019-20, the financial year in which the 2019 Lok Sabha election was held, while the Aam Adam Party (AAP), the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), the CPI(M) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) all reported an increase in receipts over the previous year’s. The parties’ annual audit reports for 2019-20, which were published by the Election Commission (EC) on Monday, showed that the Congress went from having a surplus of Rs. 448.11 core in 2018-19 to a deficit of Rs. 315.94 crore. Its income decreased from Rs. 918.03 crore in 2018-19, which was the financial year in the run-up to the Lok Sabha election, to Rs. 682.21 crore in 2019-20. In its report, the AAP declared an increase in income from Rs. 19.31 crore the previous year to Rs. 49.65 crore in 2019-20, while its expenditure rose from Rs. 16.1 crore to Rs. 38.8 crore. The Shiv Sena’s report showed a decrease in income from Rs. 135.5 crore in 2018-19 to Rs. 111.4 crore, of which Rs. 40.98 crore came from electoral bonds. The Nationalist Congress Party’s income increased from Rs. 8.15 crore to Rs. 50.71 crore, as did its expenditure from Rs. 8.84 crore to Rs. 24.99 crore. The CPI(M)’s income went up from Rs. 100.96 crore to Rs. 158.62 crore and its expenditure from Rs. 76.1 crore to Rs. 105 crore. The BJP’s annual report was yet to be published by the EC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-income-dips-aap-cpim-ncp-post-increase-in-2019-20/article34765016.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adopt a transparent policy in allocating vaccines: Congress||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the reversion to the centralised procurement of COVID-19 vaccines from June 21, the Congress on Tuesday asked the government to adopt a transparent policy in allocating vaccines to the States and spell out a road map of meeting its own deadline of fully vaccinating 100 crore citizens by December. The Congress reiterated its demand for free universal vaccination, whether these vaccines are administered in a private hospital or a government one, and questioned the government’s decision of continuing with the policy of allowing the private sector to obtain 25% of the vaccine production. Addressing a virtual press conference, former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh claimed that 50% of the vaccines meant for the private sector had been “grabbed” by nine major hospital groups with presence in metro cities and that was a “dangerous situation” as it affected supply to smaller hospitals in non-metros and small towns. The government should also do away with the procedure of registering oneself in the CoWIN app and set up walk-in vaccination for all categories.  “This government is headline-driven and not deadline-driven,” Mr. Ramesh said. “The government must work out a transparent allocation formula in consultation with States for providing vaccines, as we have seen that BJP-ruled States have been favoured by the Central government in the past in allocation of vaccines and medicines,” he alleged .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adopt-a-transparent-policy-in-allocating-vaccines-congress/article34765023.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘25% of vaccines for private hospitals is a licence to loot’||The Centre’s failed vaccine policy has not been fully reversed, the CPI(M) Polit Bureau said in a statement here. By reserving 25% of vaccines for the private sector, the party said, the government was providing them with a licence to loot. The party demanded an immediate withdrawal of this clause, too, to bring in 100% universally free vaccines. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau said the Modi government had been forced to withdraw its “liberalised vaccine policy” for three reasons — a strong opposition, pushback from States and the Supreme Court’s criticism. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s efforts to lay the blame at the door of the State governments, the party said, was condemnable. The “liberalised vaccine policy” was a unilateral decision made by the Centre. “However, the failed vaccine policy has not been fully reversed. The government has chosen to continue the dual pricing policy. As much as 25% of vaccine production is still reserved for the private sector. This is nothing but a licence for loot by private manufacturers to make super profits,” the statement said. And this 25% diversion of vaccines, the CPI(M) said, came at a time of acute vaccine shortage. This would “dilute and weaken” the need for universal vaccination, essential to prevent a third wave of COVID-19. The Centre must procure all the vaccines manufactured in India and bought globally, and distribute it to States in consultation with them, the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-of-vaccines-for-private-hospitals-is-a-licence-to-loot/article34765026.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon session of Parliament likely to begin in July: Minister||The monsoon session of Parliament is expected to begin on schedule in July, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said on Tuesday. As per norms, the session is held in the second or third week of July. The last session of Parliament was curtailed and ended sine die on March 25 and under the Constitutional norms, the next session has to be held within six months. This period ends on September 14. Three sessions have been curtailed since the pandemic began in March last year. First of these was the Budget session of 2020. The winter session last year was also cut short. Last year, the monsoon session, which usually starts in July, began in September. “I am hopeful that the Parliament session will be held as per its normal schedule in July,” Mr. Joshi told PTI. However, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkiah Naidu did not share Mr. Joshi’s optimism. At an oath-taking ceremony of the newly elected members, Mr. Naidu, said, “Oath and affirmation has been arranged now because convening of the next session may take some time.” Sources said with the COVID-19 spread under control and the possibility of a third wave in the coming months, the government did not want to postpone the session to September. The monsoon session, sources said, would be short. Most MPs have got at least one dose of the COVID vaccine. However, the COVID-19 protocol followed in the last three sessions, including members sitting in galleries to maintain physical distance, is expected to continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monsoon-session-of-parliament-likely-to-begin-in-july-minister/article34765028.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. caps prices of COVID-19 vaccines at private hospitals||The Centre has capped the prices at which vaccines will be sold at private hospitals. With a ceiling of Rs. 150 that hospitals can charge per dose as ‘service charge’ and a GST of 5%, the maximum price chargeable for Covishield is Rs. 780, for Covaxin, Rs. 1,410 and for Sputnik V Rs. 1,145, the Union Health Ministry said in an order on Tuesday. The State governments would be entrusted with ensuring that these price barriers were not breached and if, in future, vaccine prices fell, it would influence the maximum cap. The high price of COVID-19 vaccines at private hospitals is “unacceptable”, and the revised vaccination policy will see reductions, said V.K. Paul, Chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19, on Tuesday. Dr. Paul’s remarks came a day after the Centre announced a revised vaccine policy from June 21 in which everyone above 18 will be eligible for free vaccines at government centres and State governments will no longer need to compete to buy vaccines. Addressing a press conference, Dr. Paul said, “It is unacceptable that hospitals charge Rs. 1,600 or even Rs. 4,000 for vaccines that cost Rs. 600. They must limit their price. Earlier it was Rs. 100 and we felt that there is a need for it to be increased. We are confident that this will encourage more hospitals, across the country and not just big cities, to come forward for administering vaccines.” Though vaccines would be available to all the Centre would continue to give "the highest priority" to healthcare workers, Dr. Paul added. Currently, nearly 9,000 private hospitals across the country are involved in the vaccination programme, and the government expects more of the 25,000-30,000 hospitals across the country to be more involved in the programme.  Private hospitals have, however, expressed reservations over the changed norms. The larger hospital chains that dominate vaccine procurement say the price is too low given the higher costs the hospitals incur, and the government should aim to reduce the vaccine prices for the private hospitals as well. “The cap of Rs. 150 will not cover the additional costs incurred for such off-site vaccination camps which involve substantial costs... We urge the government to consider a higher charge,” Fortis Healthcare said in a statement on Monday following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address.  It is unacceptable that hospitals charge Rs. 1,600 or even Rs. 4,000 for vaccines that cost Rs. 600 V.K. Paul Chairman, NEGVAC||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-caps-prices-of-covid-19-vaccines-at-private-hospitals/article34765036.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||JNU enters list of top 1,000 universities||Jawaharlal Nehru University has entered the top 1,000 of the QS World University rankings for the first time, as its new undergraduate engineering programme now makes it eligible for the rating. It debuted at the 561-570 ranking band in the rankings, which only rate institutions offering both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Overall, there are 22 Indian institutions in the top 1,000 list compared to 21 last year, with the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) in Guwahati, Kanpur, Kharagpur and Madras making major strides in rankings. However, some institutions are still worried that the rankings do not accurately reflect the quality of education in India, as they are largely dependent on international perception factors. IIT Bombay maintained its position as the top Indian institution for the fourth consecutive year, although it fell five places in the global rankings to the joint 177th position. IIT Delhi (185th rank) overtook the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore (186th rank), giving India three institutions in the world’s top 100. IISc was also declared the world’s top research university by the indicator of most citations per faculty member, when adjusted for faculty size. The citations per faculty metric were also key to the 75 rank jump by IIT Guwahati and the 73 rank jump by IIT Kanpur, according to QS regional director Ashwin Fernandes. Commercial pressure However, one IIT director, who did not wish to be named, alleged that this year’s improvement in scores was simply a manipulation of numbers by the rankings agency, driven by commercial pressures. Of the 35 Indian institutions in the rankings, 20 have improved on academic reputation this year. “Half of the score comes from reputation indicators which are based on perception, rather than any objective methodology. They cannot afford too much unhappiness, or they may face a boycott like the THE [Times Higher Education rankings], so they manipulate the numbers. It does not reflect the quality of Indian education in any real sense,” said the director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jnu-enters-list-of-top-1000-universities/article34765011.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Centre places orders for 44 crore vaccine doses||To be able to administer at least a single dose to all adults by December, over 9 crore people need to be inoculated per month The government has earmarked Rs. 35,000 crore towards vaccine procurement. Until May 28, it had ordered 28.5 crore doses for Rs. 4,488 crore according to data from the Health Ministry. Biological E said it had got permission from India’s Drug Controller on April 24 to begin phase-3 trials in India. The Phase III clinical study to be conducted in 15 sites across India would evaluate the extent and nature of immunity and safety of Biological E’s SARS-CoV-2 COVID-19 vaccine in about 1,268 healthy subjects in the age range of 18 to 80 years. It is intended to be part of a larger global Phase III study, the company said in a statement. Biological E has successfully concluded the Phase I/II trials of the vaccine candidate, which began in India in November last year. Data from the Phase I/II trial suggested that the Covid-19 vaccine was “safe, well-tolerated, and immunogenic,” according to a company statement. The vaccine candidate has an antigen developed by the Texas Children’s Hospital Center for Vaccine Development and in-licensed from BCM Ventures, Baylor College of Medicine’s integrated commercialisation team, and Dynavax Technologies’ advanced adjuvant, CpG 1018TM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-places-orders-for-44-crore-vaccine-doses/article34764999.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Nepal stops distribution of Patanjali’s Coronil kits||The latest order of the Government of Nepal says, the tablets and nasal oil that are part of the Coronil kit are not equivalent to medicines to defeat COVID-19 virus. While pointing at shortcomings of the kits, Nepalese officials pointed to the recent statements against Coronil by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), which has challenged Mr. Ramdev to prove the efficacy of his products to deal with the COVID-19. Nepal is the second country after Bhutan to stop distribution of Coronil kits. Bhutan’s Drug Regulatory Authority has already stopped distribution of Coronil in the kingdom. However, Nepal remains close to the Patanjali group as the organisation maintains a large production facility and distribution networks in Nepal. It is not yet clear if the ban on the distribution will be limited to the particular consignment or get expanded to cover Coronil kits across the country. Controversy on Monday’s order also sparked controversy within the Government of Nepal as the Coronil kits were received during the tenure of previous health minister Hridyesh Tripathi and the minister in charge of women and child development, Juli Mahato. Soon afterwards, Ms. Mahato and her husband Raghuvir Mahaseth tested positive drawing attention to attention to their support for Patanjali group. The latest order is being interpreted as an attempt by Oli government to distance itself from the Patanjali group as it is perceived to be close to Ms. Mahato’s brother, industrialist Upendra Mahato. Mr Mahato is one of the biggest industrialists of Nepal and is widely known to be a partner of Patanjali group in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-stops-distribution-of-patanjalis-coronil-kits/article34765000.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||I thank your Honour, schoolgirl tells CJI||Chief Justice Ramana replied to Lidwina, saying “I have received your beautiful letter along with a heart-warming illustration of the judge at work”. He conveyed that she was impressed by the way she kept track of the happenings in the country. He particularly took note of the student’s concern for the well-being of her compatriots. “I am sure you will grow up into an alert, informed and responsible citizen who will contribute immensely towards nation-building,” he said. Chief Justice Ramana also sent her a signed copy of the Constitution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/i-thank-your-honour-schoolgirl-tells-cji/article34765001.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Ensure that there is no break in studies: SC||The Bench said it would examine other issues related to COVID-19 impacted children, including protection of their property rights of the children, their further education and employment opportunities and special care to be taken in respect of the girl child. These issues would be taken up in the next hearing on June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ensure-that-there-is-no-break-in-studies-sc/article34765014.ece
09 June 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal BJP speaking in different voices||A month after the Assembly election, the rift in the West Bengal unit of the BJP is out in the open, with leaders speaking in different voices on crucial issues, including Article 356. On Tuesday, the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari met Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J.P. Nadda in Delhi. Mr. Adhikari said the situation “is far worse than what is required for the Centre to impose President’s Rule under Article 356”. But party leader Rajib Banerjee on social media said if at “every stage the party tries to scare people by pointing at Delhi and the ghost of Article 356, the people of West Bengal will not take it well”. Mr. Adhikari and Mr. Banerjee were Ministers in the Trinamool government and had joined the BJP before the Assembly election. The State BJP held a meeting in Kolkata under the leadership of Dilip Ghosh. Mr. Ghosh had a tough time explaining why Mr. Banerjee and party leader Mukul Roy did not participate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-bjp-speaking-in-different-voices/article34765024.ece
09 June 2021||Lucknow,||Probe ordered into ‘mock drill’ by Agra hospital||The Agra district administration launched a probe after the owner of a private hospital was heard in a video allegedly claiming how the hospital shut down oxygen supply for five minutes on April 27 as part of a “mock drill” to see which patients would survive and which would not. Twenty-two patients “started turning blue, while 74 others survived”, the owner of Paras Hospital, Arinjay Jain, can be heard saying in the video. Mr. Jain, whose face is not visible, says there was acute shortage of oxygen on the day and claims they were told that even the Chief Minister could not arrange oxygen for them. He says they started discharging patients. While some were willing to listen, others did not. This is when he decided to conduct the “mock drill”. “We did a mock drill at 7 a.m. and identified 22 patients. We realised they would die. We shut it [oxygen] down for five minutes. They started turning blue.” Agra District Magistrate Prabhu N. Singh, after conducting a preliminary probe, said there were no deaths due to lack of oxygen in the hospital. He also said an FIR would be lodged against Mr. Jain for trying to spread “fear”. The hospital would also be sealed with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-ordered-into-mock-drill-by-agra-hospital/article34765048.ece
09 June 2021||Srinagar,||Ladakh reserves all jobs for region residents||All jobs in the Union Territory (UT) of Ladakh have been reserved for the residents of the region, according to an order issued on Tuesday. “No person shall be qualified for appointment to the service unless the person is a resident of the UT of Ladakh,” reads the order issued by Lieutenant-Governor R.K. Mathur The new recruitment rules are mentioned in the Clause 11 of the Union Territory of Ladakh Employment (Subordinate) Service Recruitment Rules, 2021. The move has met a long-pending demand of the people of Ladakh, after it was carved out as a UT on August 5, 2019. “It was our demand since the bifurcation of J&K almost two years ago. It’s a welcome move,” Chief Executive Councillor, Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Kargil, Feroz Ahmed Khan told The Hindu . He said the order has come very late as many unemployed youths have crossed the upper age limit in the past two years. “We will also demand age relaxation for fresh recruitments,” Mr. Khan said. He said there should be similar laws on land too. “At present, the State land of the UT comes under twin elected councils, Leh and Kargil. However, private land does not have any protection.” Mr. Khan said till the Centre meets the demand of the Sixth Schedule for the UT, it should also grant legislative powers to the twin councils.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ladakh-reserves-all-jobs-for-region-residents/article34765532.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Supremacy of Devi||Adi Sankara has many hymns in praise of Goddess Devi who is hailed as the Supreme power Shakti. As in the Saundarya Lahari, in the Gowri Dasakam, the acharya emphasises the inseparableness of Siva and Shakti, and shows that Gowri, the consort of Siva, is the embodiment of the Supreme Shakti, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. She is the essence of Sat-chit-ananda swaroopa, the very Nirguna Brahman who is praised in the scriptures. This aspect of Her is not within easy reach to all, except for those sages and yogis steeped in deep meditation. They strive to reach the state of dhyana through practices of yoga such as ‘pratyahara.’ This is a mental exercise by which one gains control over the mind, senses and intellect to get rid of feelings of kama, krodha, lobha, moha, mada, matsarya, etc This leads to chitta suddhi and helps in single-pointed meditation on Devi. Devi grants supreme bliss in the inner beings of such people who strive to meditate on Her. But out of compassion to all beings, she is also the essence of Saguna swaroopa when she is easily accessible to Her devotees. The acharya sees Her as the effulgent brightness of innumerable rising suns which is symbolic of Her power to dispel the darkness of ignorance that is the greatest hurdle for the salvation of humanity. She is the very cause of srishti, stiti and laya, characteristic of creation. Just as the veil of Maya is cast on the world when we begin to believe in the external reality, she can remove the same to reveal the Absolute Truth. Devi alone is able to grant moksha or liberation. When one pays obeisance to Her with love and devotion, she confers many blessings and benefits both for attainment of worldly goals, happiness and peace in this world as well as for salvation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/supremacy-of-devi/article34765031.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi ration shops urged to use ePoS||Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey has written to the Delhi government, urging it to resume the use of electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) machines at ration shops, so that the One Nation One Ration Card scheme can be implemented in the State. In a time of COVID-related distress, the scheme would be of immense help to an estimated 10 lakh migrant workers in Delhi who have ration cards in their home States but are unable to access subsidised foodgrains in the capital, Mr. Pandey wrote in his letter to Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-ration-shops-urged-to-use-epos/article34765007.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘High number of Cong. MLAs joined BJP’||The highest number of MLAs who switched parties in the recent Assembly elections left the Congress and joined the BJP, according to a report released by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) on Tuesday. The ADR report said the highest number of MLAs who changed parties were from the Congress (20 or 39.22%) of the total. Fifteen All-India Trinamool Congress MLAs, or 29.41% of the total MLAs, who switched parties left to contest elections. “In the recent Assembly elections 2021, 20 [39.22%] out of 60 recontesting MLAs who switched political parties joined the BJP, followed by 17 [33.33%] MLAs who joined AITC and 7 [13.73%] MLAs who joined Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam,” it said. Out of the 60 recontesting candidates in the five Assembly polls, the maximum number (eight or 13.33%) left the Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/high-number-of-cong-mlas-joined-bjp/article34765017.ece
09 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Group seeks action against NRC head||A minority organisation has asked the Union Home Ministry to take action against Hitesh Dev Sarma, Assam’s Coordinator for the National Register of Citizens (NRC), for “biased activities” and failure to issue rejection orders to those excluded from the updated list of citizens. In a letter to the Ministry’s Secretary on June 7, the All Assam Minority Students’ Union said bias had prompted the NRC Coordinator to file two applications in the Supreme Court on May 11 seeking reverification of the list of citizens published in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/group-seeks-action-against-nrc-head/article34765018.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Union seeks compensation for pilots||As nearly 21 pilots have succumbed to COVID-19 during the second wave, a welfare association has moved the Bombay High Court demanding that it determine suitable compensation in case of death of a pilot operating flights under the government’s Vande Bharat Mission. In its PIL plea, the Federation of Indian Pilots sought an interim ex gratia of Rs. 10 crore for all those who have lost their lives in the line of duty due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/union-seeks-compensation-for-pilots/article34765037.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,||U.S. firm pays $15 million for Covaxin rights||Ocugen Inc, the U.S. partner for Bharat Biotech’s COVID-19 vaccine, announced the payment of $15 million upfront to the Indian drug maker for extending the vaccine rights to Canada. In a regulatory filing, Ocugen said it had agreed to pay another $10 million within a month from the commercial launch of Covaxin in Canada. Bharat Biotech on June 3 said it had agreed to expand the agreement with Ocugen Inc to commercialise the jab in Canada. The two firms have entered into an agreement to co-develop, supply and commercialise Covaxin for the U.S. market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/us-firm-pays-15-million-for-covaxin-rights/article34765042.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||HC cancels caste certificate of Amravati MP Navneet Rana||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday cancelled the caste certificate issued to Amravati Lok Sabha member Navneet Kaur Rana, saying it was obtained fraudulently using fabricated documents, and directed her to surrender it within six weeks. A Division Bench of Justices R.D. Dhanuka and V.G. Bisht also imposed a cost of Rs. 2 lakh, which she needs to pay to the Maharashtra Legal Services Authority in two weeks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-cancels-caste-certificate-of-amravati-mp-navneet-rana/article34765203.ece
09 June 2021||Aurangabad,||Maha: 1,504 children lost one or both parents to COVID-19 in Marathwada||At least 1,504 children have lost one or both their parents to COVID-19 so far in Marathwada region of Maharashtra, an official said on Tuesday. The State government had ordered a survey to trace children orphaned in the pandemic. The survey was undertaken through Asha workers, local governing bodies, Health Department and other government agencies, which had the data of COVID-19 cases, the official said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maha-1504-children-lost-one-or-both-parents-to-covid-19-in-marathwada/article34765204.ece
09 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha to start unlock process in phases||Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday said the State government was contemplating starting the unlocking process in districts registering a decline in COVID-19 infection rate. He also asked the administration to ensure a foolproof preparation for the possible third wave. He was reviewing the prevailing corona situation in the State. While expressing satisfaction over the decline in cases in certain districts, he said the State was yet to get out of the impact of the second wave.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-to-start-unlock-process-in-phases/article34765208.ece
09 June 2021||Guwahati,||Assam to replicate Bharat Ratna, Padma awards||The Assam government has instituted a series of annual awards similar to the Bharat Ratna and Padma awards entailing a slew of benefits for the awardees. The decision in this regard was taken at a Cabinet meeting headed by Chief Minister Himanta Biswas Sarma on Tuesday. While the Asom Ratna would be presented to one person who has made a significant contribution to society, the Asom Bibhushan would be presented to three, the Asom Bhushan to two and the Asom Shree to 10 persons every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-to-replicate-bharat-ratna-padma-awards/article34764994.ece
09 June 2021||Jaipur,||Rajasthan farmers get more time for crop loan repayment||In a major relief to the farmers during the COVID-19 pandemic, Rajasthan has extended the last date for repayment of crop loans for the rabi season in 2020-21 from June 30 to August 31. The State government has also decided to speed up disbursement of short-term loans for the kharif crop cycle, bringing benefits to lakhs of farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-farmers-get-more-time-for-crop-loan-repayment/article34765002.ece
09 June 2021||Srinagar,||Will fight for special status not against delimitation: Farooq||National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said his party would continue to strive for J&K’s special status and was not against the ongoing delimitation process. . “The method adopted is not in tandem with the procedure,” he said. Party vice-president Omar Abdullah also asked the workers “to remain steadfast in their resolve to fight for the right cause”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-fight-for-special-status-not-against-delimitation-farooq/article34765004.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maratha quota: Uddhav requests PM Modi to take steps to lift 50% ceiling||A delegation led by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to lift the 50% cap on reservation to ensure Marathas and OBCs continue to get benefits. “We presented all the facts and the steps needed to be taken for the same. He intently heard us and we are hopeful that positive steps will be taken,” said Mr. Thackeray told journalists after a 90-minute meeting with Mr. Modi. He was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan. Mr. Chavan heads the State Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. “The Centre has moved the apex court on this issue. But merely giving rights to the State to grant reservation will not be enough as the reservation ceiling limit is fixed at 50%. That needs to be changed and we appealed to him that the Centre should argue this point in the SC,” Mr. Chavan said. He said the scrapping of political reservation of the OBCs is also a result of 50% cap as it was mentioned in the court order. The delegation also raised the issue of reservation in promotions that was being delayed due to court orders. Mr. Thackeray said the delegation, which was also joined by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, discussed 12 subjects with Mr. Modi and submitted a detailed letter of demand to him. The Chief Minister said he was happy with the discussion. “Yes, I had a personal meeting with him without delegation as well. Even though we are not politically together, we do share personal relations. I was officially meeting him as the PM of the country. There was nothing wrong in meeting him. It was not as if I was meeting Nawaz Sharrif. What is wrong in it?” he said. The delegation discussed the issue of shifting of the Metro car shed in Aarey colony, pending GST compensation worth Rs. 24,306 crore to Maharashtra, and a new Beed model for the effective implementation of crop insurance scheme, among other matters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maratha-quota-uddhav-requests-pm-modi-to-take-steps-to-lift-50-ceiling/article34765015.ece
09 June 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat BJP MLAs, party leaders to meet on June 15||The Gujarat BJP has convened a legislature party meeting on June 15. All MLAs from the party have been asked to attend. Members of the State parliamentary board, State party chief C.R. Paatil and other top office-bearers of the party will also be present. “We have called the meeting of all legislators to brief them about the measures the government has taken during the pandemic second wave and also about the vaccination drive launched across the State,” Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said in a statement. Mr. Patel said no meeting of the party’s office-bearers and legislators had been held for two months and, hence, this meeting. Meanwhile, sources from Delhi said party general secretary in-charge of Gujarat Bhupender Yadav will be coming to the State for three days from June 11 and will hold organisational meetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-bjp-mlas-party-leaders-to-meet-on-june-15/article34765021.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||4 take oath as RS members||Four Rajya Sabha members — two elected from Kerala and two nominated members, including Swapan Dasgupta — took their oaths on Tuesday. Mr. Dasgupta returned to complete his tenure after having resigned ahead of the West Bengal election, where he contested on BJP ticket. The other nominated member was senior lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani. The two members from Kerala were senior journalist John Brittas and CPI(M) leader V. Sivadasan. Administering the oath, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, said holding a public office was a 24/7 responsibility, which entailed a never-ending accountability towards the citizens of the country. He also advised the members to maintain high standards of conduct in public life befitting the decency, dignity and decorum of this ‘House of Elders’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-take-oath-as-rs-members/article34765030.ece
09 June 2021||Patna,||Bihar lifts lockdown from June 9; night curfew to continue||The Bihar government on Tuesday announced that the lockdown will be lifted from June 9. However, night curfew will continue from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. Government and private offices can open with 50% strength till 4 p.m., but malls, schools, colleges, religious places and cinema halls will remain closed. Shops will be allowed to remain open till 5 p.m. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar cautioned people to avoid crowded places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-lifts-lockdown-from-june-9-night-curfew-to-continue/article34765034.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||Piramal Foundation, NITI Aayog unveil COVID home care drive||Piramal Foundation, in association with NITI Aayog, on Tuesday unveiled a campaign to provide COVID home care to 20 lakh citizens staying in rural areas. The Foundation, which has been working in 25 districts to provide COVID care to senior citizens, has now expanded its scope of work to 112 back- ward districts. The ‘Surakshit Hum Surakshit Tum Abhiyaan’ will be rolled out in these 112 aspirational districts to assist the administration in providing home-care support to patients who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Most of these districts are in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Maharashtra, officials from the Foundation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/piramal-foundation-niti-aayog-unveil-covid-home-care-drive/article34765041.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Railways to run 100 more trains in next 5-6 days||The Indian Railways are making all efforts to ramp up passenger services and will begin running 100 more trains in the next five or six days to meet the increase in demand, Railway Board Chairman and CEO Suneet Sharma said on Tuesday. The Railways are currently running 889 Special Mail Express trains on an average daily. “We want to normalise services as soon as possible... we had operationalised about 1,500 trains before the second wave of the pandemic. However, due to the pandemic and restrictions on movement in various States, we faced challenges,” Mr. Sharma said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-to-run-100-more-trains-in-next-5-6-days/article34765045.ece
09 June 2021||Lucknow,||Now, Akhilesh says he will take the jab||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who had said he would not get vaccinated for COVID-19 as he did not trust the “BJP’s vaccine”, announced he would get the shot following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement of reverting to centralised procurement of vaccines. “I was against the ‘BJP’s tika ’ but welcome the ‘ tika of the Indian government’. I will also get the vaccine shots and would appeal those who could not get vaccinated due to shortage of vaccine to get the shots,” Mr. Yadav said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-akhilesh-says-he-will-take-the-jab/article34765047.ece
09 June 2021||Bhopal,||M.P. CM’s new OSD quits after row over his tweets||A newly appointed communication adviser to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Tuesday that he would not take up the post after some BJP leaders flagged his past tweets criticising the Hindutva ideology. “I have decided to not accept the responsibility offered to me by @chouhanshivraj ji and have communicated my inability to the CM,” Mumbai-based Tushar Panchal said in a tweet from the handle @tushar. It could not be ascertained if it was Mr. Panchal's own Twitter account, but a State BJP leader confirmed that he has refused to accept the post.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mp-cms-new-osd-quits-after-row-over-his-tweets/article34765533.ece
09 June 2021||Chandigarh,||SAD hits out at govt. for case against its leaders||A day after the Punjab police booked its leaders and workers on the charge of violating COVID-19 curbs, the Shiromani Akali Dal hit out at the Congress-led Punjab government on Tuesday for “suppressing” the voice of those standing by the people in this hour of crisis.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-hits-out-at-govt-for-case-against-its-leaders/article34765534.ece
09 June 2021||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Textile shop fined||A team of revenue officials levied a fine of Rs. 10,000 on a textile showroom that was kept open in violation of the lockdown rules in Aruppukottai on Tuesday. The officials, led by Aruppukottai Tahsildar, S. Ravichandran, went around the town to implement the lockdown norms as lot of shops had opened violating the relaxed lockdown norms. “We found 14 customers and 10 employees, many of them without masks, inside the showroom,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shop-fined/article34765619.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai sees sharp drop in cases, but 3 zones stand out||From a peak of over 7,500 cases a day in mid-May, the number of COVID-19 cases reported daily in Chennai has consistently and sharply declined to less than 2,000 now. In the past two weeks, the average number of cases reported daily declined by 34% in the city. However, the decline was not uniform across all the zones. While a majority of them reported a sharp decline, Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar saw only a marginal drop. As against the 34% decline in cases reported in the city, the cases in these three zones dropped by only 8%, 10% and 16% respectively. In absolute figures, while the average number of cases reported daily in these three zones together was 485 during May 25 to 31, it dropped to 429 during June 1 to 7. In contrast, in the Anna Nagar zone, the average number of cases reported daily reduced by nearly 50% to 168 last week from 309 the earlier week. The three zones stood out even when cases per lakh population reported in the past two weeks were considered. (Refer to the second chart in the accompanying infographic). It may be noted that the three zones were among the worst affected during the first wave, and have reported relatively fewer cases per lakh population during the second wave when compared to other zones. However, these thickly populated zones reported roughly the same number of cases over the past two weeks, indicating the need for greater focus on bringing down the numbers, especially considering the lockdown relaxations that have come into force. Teynampet, Adyar, Valasaravakkam, Madhavaram and Kodambakkam were the other zones where the percentage of decline was lower than the city’s average. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the city was not letting down its guard and was, in fact, ramping up surveillance, including in the three zones of concern. “Our tests have not come down. In fact, they have gone up to around 32,000 even when cases are declining. In addition to this, we have increased surveillance by asking private hospitals, scan centres and pharmacies to report on people with COVID-19 symptoms,” he said. He highlighted that the testing strategy of the GCC was very focused, with the testing of primary contacts and contacts from government offices and private hospitals who are likely to come in touch with more people. Noting that the test positivity rate was very low even in the three zones of concern, he said the GCC was targeting some areas in these zones for vaccination as well.  Our tests have not come down. In fact, they have gone up to around 32,000 even when cases are decliningGagandeep Singh BediGCC Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-sees-sharp-drop-in-cases-but-3-zones-stand-out/article34765484.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh infections dip to 18,023||The daily tally of fresh COVID-19 cases dipped to 18,023 in the State on Tuesday, However, the number of people who died of the infection crossed 400 again as the State registered 409 fatalities. The new cases took the State’s tally to 22,74,704 while the toll rose to 27,765. As many as 31,045 people were discharged after treatment while the number of active cases continued to fall, reaching 2,18,595. Only Coimbatore, Erode and Chennai had more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases each. Nevertheless, the number of deaths were high in a few districts that reported fewer cases. Coimbatore reported 2,439 new cases, followed by Erode with 1,596 cases and Chennai with 1,437 cases. Tiruppur’s daily count fell below 1,000 as 995 people tested positive for COVID-19. In Salem, 975 people tested positive for the infection. Coimbatore reported more deaths than Chennai. A total of 44 persons died in Coimbatore while 42 died in Chennai. There were 25 deaths in Salem, while Dindigul and Tiruvallur districts recorded 22 deaths each. There were 18 deaths each in Tiruppur and Tiruchi, and 16 each in Chengalpattu and Kanniyakumari. Of the 409 people (150 in private and 259 in government hospitals) who died, 107 had no co-morbidities. This included a 23-year-old woman from Vellore, who was admitted to a private medical college and hospital on May 24 with complaints of fever and cough for seven days and difficulty in breathing for three days and died on June 6 due to acute respiratory disease syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The number of active cases dropped to 26,751 in Coimbatore while there were 18,969 active cases in Tiruppur. Chennai’s active caseload came down to 16,709. In Erode, 14,284 people were under treatment. As many as 1,70,112 samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the count to 2,90,62,609.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-infections-dip-to-18023/article34765490.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to launch Singara Chennai 2.0||With Chief Minister M.K. Stalin back at the helm, the Greater Chennai Corporation is all set to launch Singara Chennai 2.0. When Mr. Stalin was the Chennai Mayor 25 years ago, he had launched Singara Chennai, which was discontinued largely due to the three subsequent AIADMK governments. Even when the DMK was in power for five years from 2006-11, the focus was more on urban development through the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNRUM). On Tuesday, a meeting was held by Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi to finalise proposals for the second phase of the Singara Chennai initiative, which has different themes — city beautification, heritage, culture and arts; accessibility and inclusivity; education, health and wellness; transport and mobility; e-governance and innovation; and rethinking urban spaces. The city’s beautification includes ‘Project Blue,’ a comprehensive development of its many beaches. The city will get an underwater aquarium and aqua zones for water sports, officials said. The beachfront development will cover six locations, including Tiruvottiyur and Uthandi, covering 21.6 km of coastline. Biorock technology will be used for the generation of coral reefs. Water and viewing decks for the differently abled will be developed along the beaches. The Corporation is planning to conduct public consultation for redevelopment of the Anna Tower Park as part of Singara Chennai 2.0. The park is expected to get a giant wheel, sources said. Beautification of flyovers, subways and roundabouts in the city will also be taken up. Heritage landmarks, such as the Maadi Poonga and the Victoria Public Hall, will get makeovers. The Corporation will also develop an art district in the city. The civic body plans to launch e-vehicles as feeder services. A science, engineering, technology and mathematics park for students to learn basic principles will be developed in the city. A pet park, science park and multi sports complex will be developed as part of the project. The civic body will augment the helpline 1913, and launch a community radio for residents. All Corporation schools will get smart facilities and higher education support. “Singara Chennai 2.0 will give primacy to ecology, culture, lifestyle and infrastructure. The purpose is to redesign and redevelop the city as a global destination for livability and sustainability,” an official said. Area improvement projects for the Egmore and Guindy railway stations are expected to be taken up under the project. Public buildings will get urban forestry on the premises to increase greenery. The civic body will conduct consultation meetings with residents before implementing the projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-launch-singara-chennai-20/article34765325.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges 12 CMs to press Centre for MSME loan moratorium||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin wrote to 12 Chief Ministers on Tuesday calling upon them to once again come together to press for a moratorium on loan repayment for MSMEs and small businesses impacted by the second wave of COVID-19. In letters to his counterparts in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal, Mr. Stalin said in April-May last year, when the nationwide lockdown was announced by the Centre, a moratorium was offered on repayment of loans for such borrowers. “However, in April-June this year, when lockdown was imposed based on local conditions by the respective States, similar relief to borrowers is not being provided for. I have taken up this issue with the Government of India with a request to provide a moratorium on repayment of loans. I request all the States to write to both the Union Finance Minister and the Governor, Reserve Bank of India, to prevail upon them to offer moratorium on repayment of loans for at least the first two quarters of 2021-2022 to all small borrowers with outstanding up to Rs. 5 crore in view of the lockdown induced by the second wave of COVID-19,” Mr. Stalin said. Pointing out that the MSMEs and small businesses were the mainstay of the economy and employment generation, Mr. Stalin said the absence of such relief measures would force many businesses to close, and this would lead to widespread economic distress. Calling upon the Chief Ministers to show their collective strength and to actively take up the issue with the Centre, Mr. Stalin said all State governments should come together “on the pressing issue of asymmetry in treatment of borrowers, particularly MSME units and small borrowers”. He took a dig at the Centre’s earlier policy on vaccination, where it shifted the responsibility to procure and administer vaccines to the State governments, and said the collective efforts of the State governments forced the Centre to reverse that policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-urges-12-cms-to-press-centre-for-msme-loan-moratorium/article34765496.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 acres of land identified in Guindy for new hospital||A four acre parcel of land was identified on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy, for the new multi super speciality hospital, according to Ma. Subramanian, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare. The Minister conducted an inspection at the King Institute campus on Tuesday to identify land for the new hospital. The campus, which is spread over 47 acres, is home to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and the National Institute of Ageing. Last week, the State government had announced that the multi super speciality hospital would come up on the campus at a cost of Rs. 250 crore. This, according to the Minister, will be a boon for the residents of south Chennai. The Minister said the King Institute was established in 1899. The institute had been functioning with 12 departments and 250 staff. In addition to this, the National Institute of Ageing was set up with 650 beds. This was converted into a COVID-19 hospital last year. “A four-acre unused piece of land is available adjacent to the hospital. This has been identified by the Public Works Department, and they will prepare the design,” he said. Additional manpower The State government is appointing 2,000 doctors, 6,000 staff nurses and 3,700 paramedical staff. Appointment orders were being issued in all districts. About 70 doctors received their orders at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. “Earlier, doctors were outsourced through an agency. Now, we have taken up direct recruitment through the respective District Collectors and deans of medical college hospitals. This will ensure that they will get the full salary. Of the 2,000 doctors, 1,485 doctors have joined so far,” Mr. Subramanian said. “In some parts of Tamil Nadu, relatives of patients who died of COVID-19 have attacked doctors, staff and damaged hospitals. This is worrying,” the Minister said. He warned of police action against persons involved in such attacks. He also cautioned private hospitals of action under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act if they charge patients in excess of the rates stipulated by the State government for COVID-19 treatment and improper implementation of the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4-acres-of-land-identified-in-guindy-for-new-hospital/article34765476.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Don’t use saliva to separate covers: HC||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to issue appropriate instructions to restaurants, eateries, bakeries, grocery stores and so on asking their employees not to use saliva to separate food covers or blow into the covers to open them. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan, who feared that such common practice of vendors might end up acting as a super spreader of COVID-19. Appreciating the litigant for coming up with a good suggestion, the Chief Justice told his counsel that, many a times, people tend to touch their tongues with their fingers while separating the covers used for packing food items and also blow into them in their attempt to open the covers. “The State government should take note of the suggestion and create awareness or issue instructions to all businesses where such practices may be in vogue to encourage the management to educate the employees so that they refrain from continuing with the practice,” the first Division ordered and adjourned the case by four weeks for submission of a report. The court asked Advocate-General R. Shunmugasundaram to make sure that the government filed a report, after a month, listing the steps taken by it in this regard. The petitioner was directed to serve copies of case papers on the office of the Advocate-General so that he could follow it up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-use-saliva-to-separate-covers-hc/article34765492.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||L&T sets up oxygen plant at Ponneri||Larsen and Toubro (L&T) has started supplying oxygen to a government hospital at Ponneri in Tiruvallur district from a plant with a capacity of 500 l a minute. In a release, the company said it was in the process of commissioning five more plants for various government hospitals. L&T has been distributing oxygen plants, ventilators, mobile X-ray units and oxygen concentrators as part of its COVID-19 relief work, under its Corporate Social Responsibility initiative. It supplied ventilators, mobile X-ray units and oxygen concentrators to government hospitals in Madurai, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli, Virudhunagar, and COVID-19 Care Centres in the city. These equipment are valued at Rs. 8.5 crore, the release said. The Council for Leather Exports (CLE), Ranipet Tannery Effluent Treatment Company Limited, and the association of leather units at Pallavaram donated Rs. 1.6 crore to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). The amount was presented to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin by CLE chairman P.R. Aqeel Ahmed at the Secretariat on Tuesday. Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association president M. Balachandran presented a cheque for Rs. 78 lakh. The AV Group, represented by A. Anbuselvan, gave a cheque for Rs. 54 lakh. The Tamil Nadu Bricks and Tiles Manufacturers Association gave Rs. 50 lakh. The Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University donated Rs. 41 lakh. Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University contributed Rs. 8 lakh. The sum was presented by Vice-Chancellor G. Sukumar and T.S. Jawahar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries. Tecton Engineering has donated 100 oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lt-sets-up-oxygen-plant-at-ponneri/article34765497.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of mucormycosis patients crossed 1,000: Minister||Tamil Nadu requires 35,000 vials of Amphotericin B for the treatment of mucormycosis but it has received only 3,060 vials of the anti-fungal medication, according to Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian. “The number of people affected by mucormycosis has crossed 1,000 in the State. The Chief Minister has written to the Union Health Minister, seeking allotment of 35,000 vials of the drug. We are distributing the 3,060 vials according to the severity of the disease and the requirement,” he told reporters at the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. A 150 bed ward to treat patients suffering from mucormycosis was opened at the Government Stanley Medical College. The ward consists of 150 oxygen beds, including 40 intensive care unit beds with ventilator and an operation theatre. A digital information board displaying the health status of in-patients was inaugurated by Chepauk-Triplicane MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin in the presence of Mr. Subramanian. He also flagged off eight battery cars, bought at a cost of Rs. 55 lakh under the North Chennai Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme. He received 75 oxygen concentrators of 5 l capacity from Sunil Paliwal, Chairman of the Kamarajar Port Limited, according to a press release. Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments P.K. Sekar Babu, MPs Kalanidhi Veeraswamy and Dayanidhi Maran, Royapuram MLA R. Murthy and Stanley Medical College Dean P. Balaji were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-mucormycosis-patients-crossed-1000-minister/article34765501.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||157 persons detained under the Goondas Act in past 5 months||As many as 157 persons were detained under the stringent provisions of the Goondas Act over the past five months. “This year — from January 1 till June 5 — the Goondas Act was invoked against 101 accused, arrested on charges of murder and attempt to murder or causing public nuisance, 29 suspects of theft, chain-snatching and robbery, 12 cyber law offenders, 12 drug peddlers, one smuggler of PDS rice and two persons who hoarded the life-saving drug Remdesivir,” a senior police officer said. Seven accused, including two cyber law offenders, were detained under the Goondas Act this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/157-persons-detained-under-the-goondas-act-in-past-5-months/article34765320.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schoolteacher arrested for sexually assaulting girl students||The All-Women police, Kilpauk, on Tuesday arrested a 51-year teacher of a reputed school for sexual assault. He was remanded in judicial custody. The accused was identified as Anand, who was a commerce teacher in the school. On May 27, the school management issued a circular informing staff and parents of the suspension of the postgraduate teacher of commerce following allegations of sexual harassment that were circulated on social media. The school management referred the issue to an internal committee for inquiry. After complaints were lodged with the Tamil Nadu State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (TNSCPCR), Anand was summoned to appear before it on June 10 for an inquiry. Recently, a woman, who studied in the school in 2014, formally lodged a complaint against the teacher for sexually assaulting her. Anand was then arrested by the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/schoolteacher-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-girl-students/article34765323.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former CM's appeal on death certificates||AIADMK co-coordinator and Leader of the Opposition Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday urged the authorities to have death certificates issued for persons who died of COVID-19 with the exact reason of death mentioned. Referring to the Supreme Court's direction on Monday on the identification of children left in distress by COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami urged the authorities to ensure that children, who were rendered orphans following the death of their parents on account of COVID-19, were provided with all the assistance of the government, apart from ensuring that the last rites for the deceased were performed in tune with the COVID-19 safety protocol. Meanwhile, party coordinator O. Panneerselvam, in a letter, appreciated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his announcement on vaccination and for extending the free ration scheme till Deepavali. The decisions would be beneficial to States such as Tamil Nadu, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-cms-appeal-on-death-certificates/article34765477.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SC residents of Tindivanam village allege discrimination in temple||Around 500 Scheduled Caste residents of Vizhukkam village, near Tindivanam, allege that they have been threatened not to enter the Selliamman Koil in the village by members of the dominant backward caste community. The SC community members demanded that those belonging to the non-Dalit communities, who are preventing them from entering the temple, should be booked under the Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Act. In a petition submitted by a resident named Irusammal, addressed to the Chief Minister, the Home secretary, the DGP and the district administration on June 7, she said it had been a tradition for the community to worship in the temple and offer cloth, flowers and fruits to the deity during festivals. “In the last three years, the temple festival did not take place as it was being renovated. The Scheduled Caste people collectively gave Rs. 1,00,000 to a person who is an administrator in the temple. However, former panchayat president Annamalai refused to accept the donation to the temple and the kumbhabhishekam was performed on April 29, without any information to the people in the colony,” the petition claimed. Ms. Irusammal alleged that some people said during the kumbhabhishekam function that a fine of Rs. 2,000 would be levied against people from the colony. She alleged that non-Dalit villagers and those involved in the management of the temple had organised a purification ceremony on May 1, which was headed by a Brahmin priest, after the Scheduled Caste villagers went to the temple with their offerings on April 30. The aggrieved villagers did not file a police case immediately as the non-Dalit villagers tried to negotiate a compromise through local businessmen, said the petitioner. “However, when we sought clarity on worshipping in the temple on June 6, they told us that Annamalai and a few non-Dalit villagers had stated that we [SC members of the village] should not enter the temple,” the petition said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-residents-of-tindivanam-village-allege-discrimination-in-temple/article34765481.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Less than 15,000 people get vaccinated||With a majority of the districts running out of COVID-19 vaccines, Tuesday’s vaccination coverage dropped to 14,928. The vaccination was held only in 556 sessions — 466 for Covishield and 90 for Covaxin — across the State. As many as 8,306 people in the 18-44 age group, 4,343 people in the 45-59 age group and 1,214 senior citizens were among those who got vaccinated. With this, 97,50,348 people have got vaccinated in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/less-than-15000-people-get-vaccinated/article34765491.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for cutting cake using machete||The police on Tuesday arrested six youth for allegedly cutting a cake using a machete in Kannagi Nagar. Recently, the group celebrated the birthday of one Sunil in a residential apartment in Kannagi Nagar. A video of the celebration went viral on social media and mobile messaging networks and Yageshwaran, a resident of the same area, lodged a complaint in this regard. Following this, the police traced Sunil, 19, a resident of Kannagi Nagar. His friends had ordered a cake and had made him cut it with a machete. The police said since they played loud music during the celebration, they were booked for creating public nuisance. A video of the celebration was shared with the City Police Commissioner’s Office on WhatsApp. So far, the police have arrested Sunil and five of his friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-cutting-cake-using-machete/article34765322.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Penalty for late registration of births, deaths waived||The State government has waived the penalty for delayed registration of births and deaths in the State, with retrospective effect from January 2020 on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. In a statement, the government said Chief Minister M.K. Stalin announced the decision to waive the penalty of Rs. 100 if births and deaths are registered between 21 and 30 days late and Rs. 200 if it is registered between 30 days and one year and Rs. 500 beyond that as mandated in The Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969. “It was brought to the attention of the Chief Minister that people have been affected due to the pandemic and this penalty will cause hardship to them. The Chief Minister has announced that the penalty will be waived and the government itself will take on the loss of revenue,” the statement said. Based on this, registration of all deaths and births from January 1, 2020, will be eligible for penalty waiver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/penalty-for-late-registration-of-births-deaths-waived/article34765494.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside preventive detention order against BJP functionary||The Madras High Court on Tuesday set aside an order passed by the Coimbatore Collector on February 11 detaining Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary R. Kalyanaraman under the Goondas Act. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and R. Pongiappan quashed the detention order on the usual ground of delay in considering a representation made by the detainee to revoke the detention order. In the detention order, the Collector had referred to a criminal case booked against the party functionary in 2018 for making disgraceful statements against Islam and Prophet Mohamed. He repeated the offence this year and got booked in another case. He was also arrested on February 1, the Collector had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-sets-aside-preventive-detention-order-against-bjp-functionary/article34765186.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reconstituted SDPC in T.N. holds first meeting||The State Development Policy Council (SPDC), which was recently reconstituted by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, held its first meeting at the Ezhilagam complex in Chennai on Tuesday. SDPC Vice-Chairperson J. Jeyaranjan chaired the meeting, and it was attended by all members of the panel. The Vice-Chairperson and the new members also called on Mr. Stalin at the Secretariat. As per the subject allocation, Mr. Jeyaranjan has been allocated agriculture policy and planning, while full-time member R. Srinivasan would be in charge of plan coordination. Details of allocation to part-time members are as follows: M. Vijayabaskar (Education and Employment) and Sulthan Ahmed Ismail (Land Use). Deenabandu (Rural Development and District Planning), T.R.B. Rajaa (Agriculture Policy and Planning), Mallika Srinivasan (Industries, Power and Transport). J. Amalorpavanathan, G. Sivaraman and Narthaki Nataraj have been allocated Health and Social Welfare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reconstituted-sdpc-holds-meeting/article34765480.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Guidelines for Class 11 admissions issued||The Tamil Nadu School Education department has issued guidelines for admissions into class 11. The class 10 board exams for these students were cancelled owing to COVID-19 and the State had said that guidelines would be formulated based on which students would be awarded results. In the guidelines for admissions, the School Education Commissioner has said that if government and government-aided schools get more applications than the number of seats that they have, they can increase the student intake for each stream by 10% to 15%. If the number of applications is very high for a particular stream, schools have been asked to conduct an exam with 50 questions for these students based on the subjects and allot their preferred choice of subject streams based on the marks they score in it. Depending on the restrictions in place with regard to COVID-19, classes for students of class 11 can begin from June 3, the guidelines state.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guidelines-for-class-11-admissions-issued/article34765185.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Disaster helpline launched||Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Tuesday said the public can call 9445869848 for alerting government agencies about disasters in their areas. In a statement, Mr. Ramachandran said people could alert agencies through the Citizen's Corner on the portal of the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA). The mobile app, TNSMART, and social media accounts of the SDMA were being used to alert the public. Alerts from the India Meteorological Department and the Central Water Commission were shared. The helpline 9445869848 would work 24 hours, in addition to the existing 1070 line.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/disaster-helpline-launched/article34765488.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Poor artistes get financial relief||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday provided 11 indigent artists with financial assistance, kicking off the scheme to provide 1,000 indigent artists with financial relief. Through this scheme, 500 artists, each for 2018-19 and 2019-2020, in financial distress will be provided relief. The government has increased financial assistance provided to artists from Rs. 2,000 a month to Rs. 3,000 a month. Around 6,800 classical artistes and rural artistes will benefit from the scheme, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/poor-artistes-get-financial-relief/article34765493.ece
09 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TPR fluctuates even as Coimbatore shows dipping daily caseload||While daily caseload of COVID-19 is seeing a gradual decline in Coimbatore district, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) has been fluctuating as per the statistics released by the Health Department and the district administration. The fluctuation of TPR was in accordance with the changes in the number of tests carried out. In the last eight days in June, the district’s TPR saw an increase on three days even when the number of new COVID-19 cases reported on those days registered a decline from the previous day. The district recorded the TPR 27.77 % on June 2 when 11,020 samples were tested. The TPR increased to 31 % on June 3 and to 33.84 % on June 4 when the number of samples tested also reduced to 9,611 and 8,303 respectively. A senior official involved in COVID-19 monitoring in the district claimed that the number of tests varied on different days due to various reasons and not because the sample collection was reduced deliberately so as to reflect a decline in the number of positive cases. Meanwhile, sources at different hospitals treating COVID-19 patients said that the inflow of patients had reduced when compared with the situation a week ago. “Some beds including O2 beds have been vacant in the last two-three days,” said the chairman of a private hospital. K. Kolandasamy, former Director of Public Health, Tamil Nadu, said that patients seeking hospital care was the visible indicator of the severity of the pandemic situation. “If the number of patients getting admitted to hospital see a decrease, it can be considered as an indicator of actual decline of cases,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tpr-fluctuates-even-as-coimbatore-shows-dipping-daily-caseload/article34765510.ece
09 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Drones keep an eye on Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Anamalai landscapes||Fear loomed over the quarters of tea workers near Valparai, around 100 km from Coimbatore, on June 4 after a 60-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant. The estate workers feared that the lone elephant might return to the residential areas. Though the anti-poaching watchers of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) are known for their innate skills in tracking wild elephants, Forest Department officials chose to deploy a drone to monitor the lone tusker which moved towards a tough terrain. “The elephant was monitored by the drone for a few days and until we ensured that it retracted to the forest. We are continuing vigil in the area to avoid further human-elephant interactions,” says E. Prasanth, Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF), Pollachi Division of ATR. The drone was also used for surveillance when the Department received complaints of leopard movements. “The drone can be flown upto 1.5 hours using an additional battery. It has a 10 km range and can withstand wind up to 50kmph. The ‘return to home’ feature enables the drone to return to the operator before the battery gets completely drained,” he adds. Drones were purchased for ATR, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Gudalur Forest Divisions as the Department wanted to stop the practice of hiring them along with handlers for major operations. “One forest guard each from all the seven forest ranges of Coimbatore Division and three from Tiruppur Division were given training by Skywalk Drobotics Academy in Coimbatore initially. A total of 10 staff from Gudalur, the Nilgiris and Pollachi Forest Division of ATR were trained later,” says M. Senthil Kumar, ACF, Coimbatore Division. Drones were introduced to explore how the modern technology could be used to improve efficiency in conservation, says I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle) and Field Director (in-charge) of ATR. “We have trained 20 forest staff who are now experts in handling drones. The aerial monitoring is used for regular perambulation, anti-poaching drives, surveillance of large mammals like elephants and also to check illegal activities like tree felling. Drones can reach where the staff may not be able to reach due to the difficult terrain,” he says. The cost of training the staff and purchasing drones was found through ecotourism activities. “This is a good model of in situ conservation financing where proceeds from sustainable ecotourism projects finance conservation activities of the divisions,” adds Mr. Anwardeen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drones-keep-an-eye-on-nilgiris-coimbatore-anamalai-landscapes/article34765503.ece
09 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns medical shops||Collector S. Nagarajan warned medical shops to not sell anti-viral drugs without prescription, note down patient details and appealed to people to not buy drugs without medical advice. In a release issued here on Tuesday, he said as the initial symptoms of COVID-19 infection was similar to any other viral infection like phlegm, cough and increased body temperature, people tend to take paracetamol without medical advice to only suffer damage to lungs and then go to hospital. Drug stores should also note down the details of persons buying azithromycin, ivermectin, doxycycline, paracetamol and steroids and verify prescription. Drug stores should maintain proper records of the availability of such medicines and inform either the district administration or the Corporation the details of persons for whom the medicine was bought. Under no circumstance should the drug stores sell the aforementioned medicines or life saving medicines without prescription, the Collector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-warns-medical-shops/article34765513.ece
09 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination||FICCI FLO Coimbatore joined hands with Chandran’s Yuva Foundation to conduct a drive-through vaccination here. It was available only for those who had registered in advance through the FLO COVID vaccine Google form. Each car was assigned a help buddy to assist those who got vaccinated. The programme was beneficial for senior citizen and physically disabled. FICCI FLO Coimbatore members have also donated a 100l pm oxygen generator worth Rs. 25 lakhs to ESI hospital. A total of 350 people received the vaccination, according to a press release. According to another press release, real estate developer Casagrand has announced free vaccination for all its employees and their dependents in Chennai, Bengaluru and Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination/article34765512.ece
09 June 2021||COIMBATORE/UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||56 captive elephants tested for COVID-19||The Forest Department on Tuesday collected swab samples for COVID-19 tests from 56 captive elephants at two camps in the districts of Coimbatore and the Nilgiris. The samples will be sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh. The decision to test the elephants came after nine Asiatic lions at the Vandalur zoo tested positive for COVID-19, and one of them died of the infection. Rectal swabs taken Rectal swabs were taken from 28 elephants each at the Kozhikamuthi camp at the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) in Coimbatore and the Theppakadu camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris. ‘Trunk wash’ samples were also taken to check for herpes and tuberculosis, said A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer of the Coimbatore Forest Division. Forest Minister K. Ramachandran inaugurated the lifting of the samples at the Kozhikamuthi camp at Top Slip. The Forest Department said in a statement that the Minister had ordered the lifting of samples. At the MTR, the samples were collected by Veterinary Assistant Surgeon K. Rajesh Kumar, while Dr. Sukumar led the process at the ATR. Dr. Sukumar said the samples were collected in compliance with the procedures prescribed by the Central Zoo Authority. MTR Field Director K.K. Kaushal told The Hindu that all the elephants at the Theppakadu camp were healthy and did not show signs of any illness. He added that 52 elephant men and ‘kaavadis’, caring for the elephants, were being vaccinated on a priority basis. The feeding time had been staggered, and the elephant men were being let into the camp only after their temperature was checked. Officials said that so far, the view worldwide had been that elephants were not susceptible to COVID-19. But the screening was being done as a precaution. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director, ATR, said 425 of the total 475 staff members of the tiger reserve, permanent and temporary, had been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/56-captive-elephants-tested-for-covid-19/article34765499.ece
09 June 2021||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Three juvenile offenders held||A team of police from Coimbatore arrested three juvenile offenders after they had eloped with three minor girls on a two-wheeler here. They arrested a person who had given space for the offenders to hide in his dwelling and seized 200 grams of ganjas on Tuesday. The three boys had cultivated friendship with three girls in Thudiyalur, Coimbatore. On May 27, they left home on three bikes. As the girls never returned home, the parents lodged a complaint. Sub-Inspector Neela and team rushed to Thommiarpuram in Dindigul and nabbed them. The person who had given space for the offenders was identified as Mohamed Ali Jinnah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-juvenile-offenders-held/article34765618.ece
09 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps taken to declare RT-PCR test results within 24 hours’||Steps were taken to declare real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test results within 24 hours in the district, said Collector C. Kathiravan here on Tuesday. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru along with Minister for Housing and Rural Development S. Muthusamy and Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Swaminathan held a meeting with officials at the Collectorate to review the steps taken to control the infection spread in the district. The officials explained various measures taken in the Corporation, four municipalities, and 42 town panchayats including distribution of vegetables and essential commodities in the containment zones. Mr. Kathiravan told the Ministers that door-to-door fever survey was held across the district and swab samples were taken from persons with symptoms on the spot in the Corporation limits. Steps were taken to declare swab test results within 24 hours until which the person was asked to be in isolation. “If a person tests positive, he is taken to the screening centre and CT scan is taken. Based on the report, he is sent to the hospital or asked to be in home isolation or sent to the COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC),” he added. MPs, MLAs and officials participated in the meeting. The Ministers also inspected the work on modernisation of the textile hub on Gani market premises at Rs. 62.60 crore and held discussions with officials. They also visited the CCC at a private college in Thindal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-taken-to-declare-rt-pcr-test-results-within-24-hours/article34765506.ece
09 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Most calls to COVID-19 war room were on oxygen-supported beds’||Of the over 4,700 calls the district-level unified commanding centre (UCC), which serves as COVID-19 war room, received in the last three weeks, most of the queries were related to availability of oxygen-supported beds and vaccine. The UCC was started at the Corporation office on May 17 to provide information on availability of beds, triaging COVID-19 positive patients and solving queries related to home isolation. Equipped with 24 staff from the Atachayam Trust round the clock and monitored by officials from revenue and health department, a total of 4,798 calls were received from May 17 to June 8, of which action was taken on 4,581 calls. When the district saw a spike in everyday cases in the third and fourth week of May, the war room received an average of 400 to 550 calls, which significantly reduced to 71 calls on Tuesday. Of the total calls, 1,384 callers sought availability of oxygen-beds, 826 calls were related to bed availability and home quarantine, while 785 callers sought details on availability of vaccine and vaccination centres in their area. Other calls received were, 473 calls related to COVID-19 Care Centres, 415 calls for medication, 417 calls for screening, 116 calls for insurance, 88 calls were for seeking details on ICU availability. “Action was taken on 95% of the calls,” said trust founder P. Naveen Kumar, who added that staff faced difficulty in managing callers seeking oxygen-bed availability from May 17 to 20. Maximum number of calls received on a day was on May 18 with 556 calls followed by 545 calls on May 19 which dropped to 71 calls on June 8, he added. The public can contact 80569-31110, 82206-71110, 82207-91110, 87542-31110, 87543-81110, 87547-31110, 88703-61110, 88705-41110, 88705-81110 and 88706-91110 to reach the UCC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/most-calls-to-covid-19-war-room-were-on-oxygen-supported-beds/article34765509.ece
09 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Trade associations to close their shops at 1 p.m. from today||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu said grocery shops associated with ten trade associations in the Corporation limits will function only from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. from Wednesday. In a petition to the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Erode Town, they said, “since COVID-19 positive cases continue to be on the rise, the members agreed to reduce the working hours.” Shops in Karungalpalayam, Ashokapuram, Periya Agraharam, R.N. Pudur, Periya Semur, Surampatti, Manickampalayam, Moolapalayam, Veerappan chatiram and Moolapattarai will function till 1 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-associations-to-close-their-shops-at-1-pm-from-today/article34765507.ece
09 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Preparations on for marriage of rape victim with accused||A week after a complaint of sexual assault on a mentally challenged woman was lodged, preparations are on to get her married to the accused at Mettapalli village in Uthangarai An FIR filed by the Singarapettai police had excluded rape, but invoked various other sections, compounding the allegations of omission made by the Association for the Differently-abled against the police. The 28-year-old woman of a village in Singarapettai was allegedly abused sexually and impregnated by the accused. The victim, with 70% mental disability, and her mother had lodged a complaint with the police with the help of TARATDAC (Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of the Differently abled and their Caregivers).  Arbitration  However, it had come to fore, through the accounts of the victim’s family members and the panchayat president that arbitration between the families was carried out at the office of the Uthangarai Deputy Superintendent of Police. “In the presence of the police, the victim’s mother said they wished to get the woman married to the accused and drop the complaint, and the victim too agreed to it before the police” said Panchayat president Chinnathayi Nanjappan told The Hindu . “The DSP was present on the first day, and the next day he was relieved. Two inspectors present. When the police said they would have to take action as per law, the wife and the family of the accused insisted they would marry the accused to the victim,” said Ms. Chinnathayi. The account was corroborated by the victim’s cousin. TARATDAC has questioned the handling of the case by the police for allegedly allowing illegal arbitration between the families of the victim and the accused at the DSP’s office. While, Singarapetttai police had registered an FIR invoking IPC Sections 417 (cheating), 493 (cohabitation by deceit), 503(1) (criminal intimidation), 506(1)(punishment for criminal intimidation), and Section 312 (inducing to miscarriage)read with 109 of IPC, the police have omitted rape. S. Namburajan, State Secretary, TARATDAC, questioned the police over the attribution of “consent” to a mentally challenged victim, while omitting the section on rape. While the accused is yet to be arrested, preparations are on for the marriage, according to the panchayat president. TARATDAC has petitioned the Director General of Police for action against the police, alleging delayed response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/preparations-on-for-marriage-of-rape-victim-with-accused/article34765184.ece
09 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for sexually harassing, blackmailing minor||Three men were arrested on Tuesday in connection with the sexual harassment and blackmailing of a minor girl at Pochampalli here. According to the police, Chandraganesh (32), a driver, had sexually abused the 17-year-old girl and videographed the abuse. The accused and his friends Jeeva (20) and Ramesh (39) started blackmailing the victim, threatening to circulate the video if she refused to sexually engage with them. Complaint Following this, the victim informed her parents, who lodged a complaint with the All Women Police Station. The three accused were arrested and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-sexually-harassing-blackmailing-minor/article34765187.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen generators set up in GHs||Government Hospitals in Madurai are increasing their oxygen generation capacity as oxygen shortage is reported across the country. The district administration, with the contribution from private organisations as part of their Corporate Social Responsibility, has made arrangements to set up oxygen generators at Government Rajaji Hospital, Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur, Government Hospitals at Melur, Vadipatti and Tirumangalam. Currently, the preliminary works for setting up the oxygen generator at the Trauma Care Centre block of the GRH is under way. M. Kalyana Sundaram, Professor, Department of Anesthesiology, Madurai Medical College, said that three oxygen generators are proposed to be installed in the hospital. He explained that these generators will use pressure swing absorption technology, where the atmospheric oxygen will be utilised to produce medical oxygen. The three plants will have the following capacities: 1,000 litres per minute (LPM), 500 lpm and 250 lpm. The GRH has an oxygen plant that can store up to 26 kilo litres of liquid oxygen. “When the COVID-19 positive cases were at peak, there was also a surge in the oxygen requirement at the hospital. Liquid oxygen was brought from Kerala and other states to meet the requirement,” he said. But, setting up an oxygen generator will address the issue as oxygen can be easily generated using atmospheric oxygen. It is more cost effective as compared to using liquid oxygen, he added. S. Gandhimathinathan, Resident Medical Officer of Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine, said that an oxygen generator with a capacity of 500 lpm will be set up at the hospital. “This will be highly useful even after the end of the pandemic to treat patients suffering from tuberculosis and other infectious diseases,” he added. Similarly, work is under way to set up oxygen generators at Government Hospitals in Melur, Tirumangalam and Vadipatti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-generators-set-up-in-ghs/article34765262.ece
09 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Death sentence referred to HC||The death sentence awarded by Pudukkottai Mahila Court to a 52-year-old man for sexually assaulting his minor daughter and murdering his second wife has been referred to the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for confirmation. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and G. Ilangovan ordered notice on the referred trial and adjourned the hearing. The man was said to have sexually assaulted his daughter for two years from 2017. When his second wife objected to his act, he planned to murder her and hacked her to death while she was grazing cattle in 2019. The Mahila Court sentenced him to death. He was also convicted under various sections of the POCSO Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/death-sentence-referred-to-hc/article34765612.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three idols stolen||Three brass idols were stolen from a Lord Shiva Temple in Katchaikatti under Vadipatti police station limits. According to the priest of the private temple, E. Thiruvenkadam (58), who was sleeping inside the temple, found that the lock was broken open and the idols of Lord Nataraja, Goddess Sivakami and Manickavasagar were missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-idols-stolen/article34765617.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||365 new COVID-19 cases||Madurai recorded 365 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 68,684. A total of 1,348 persons got discharged and the active cases are 9,671. Seven deaths were recorded on Tuesday, increasing the district's toll to 988. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Tuesday reported five more COVID-19 deaths with five female patients succumbing to the viral infection. All the deceased were aged more than 50 years. Death toll has increased to 470. The number of positive cases came down further with only 341 persons having tested positive on Tuesday. However, after 485 patients got discharged, the number of active cases came down to 4,486. Total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district stood at 41,223 with a discharge of 36,267 patients till day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/365-new-covid-19-cases/article34765264.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police working under severe stress: HC||Taking a serious view of an incident where a group of persons travelling in an auto rickshaw in Tiruchi without following COVID-19 protocol abuse the police when questioned, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court said the court was not going to be lenient on threats to police when they were performing their duty during a pandemic situation. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said police were already functioning under severe stress due to the pandemic situation. Everyone should realise their responsibility since the virus was taking away lives of innocent persons. After all, the police were only performing their public duty. When they questioned someone moving around during the total lockdown, the person was expected to answer the police. Police could not be subjected to abuse and threat by anyone and such acts must be dealt with sternly, the judge said. The court was hearing the anticipatory bail plea of Kaja Hussain of Tiruchi. The main allegation made against the accused and four others was that they were travelling in an auto-rickshaw without following the COVID-19 protocol and when they were questioned by the police, they abused and prevented them from doing their public duty. The court directed the petitioner to file an affidavit in the Registry expressing regret for the incident and give an undertaking that he would not involve himself in any such activity in future. He was directed to pay a compensation of Rs. 10,000 to the Advocate Clerks Welfare Association, Madurai. The case was posted for reporting compliance to June 14. It directed the police not to arrest the petitioner in the meantime. The court was informed that three of the accused in the case were arrested and remanded in judicial custody. Two other accused were absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-working-under-severe-stress-hc/article34765700.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TNCCI hands over cheque||Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry President N. Jegatheesan handed over cheques for Rs. 4.50 lakh to Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan here on Tuesday. The money was contributed to the two crematoriums for free cremation of covid bodies. In a press release, he said three organisations announced that they will fund it at Thathaneri and Moolakarai for a month from June 3. TNCCI is one among the three organisations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncci-hands-over-cheque/article34765263.ece
09 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 131.25 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,044 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.70 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 796 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,189 mcft. Sathaiyar dam recorded a rainfall of 15 mm and Kodaikanal 1 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday. The water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 133.45 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 614.12 cusecs and 1,204.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 86.50 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 145 cusecs and 600 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34765265.ece
09 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. logs 6 deaths, lowest in many weeks||The Union Territory recorded six COVID-19 deaths, the lowest fatality numbers in several weeks, and 545 new cases on Tuesday. Puducherry registered all the six deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 1,644. The patients, all male, were in the 56 to 85 age group, and four of them had no underlying morbidity. The new cases, which were detected from 9,092 tests, were from Puducherry (400), Karaikal (112), Yanam (24) and Mahe (nine). The test positivity rate was 5.99%, case fatality rate 1.49% and recovery rate 92.02%. With 938 patients getting discharged in the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 7,147. Of this, 1,115 patients were in hospitals and 6,032 in home isolation. The cumulative caseload in the Union Territory aggregated to 1,10,106 cases against 1,01,315 recovered patients. Meanwhile, 96 healthcare workers, 58 frontline personnel and 5,112 members of the public took their vaccination shots across the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-logs-6-deaths-lowest-in-many-weeks/article34765482.ece
09 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Extend fishing ban by fortnight’||Fishermen associations in Rameswaram have urged the Tamil Nadu government to immediately administer COVID-19 vaccine to all fishermen. Tamil Nadu Coastal Mechanised Boat Fishermen Welfare Association general secretary N.J. Bose, at a meeting on Tuesday, moved a resolution stating that fishermen should venture into sea from July 1 though the annual fishing ban comes to an end on June 14. Briefing reporters, Jesu Raja, a fishermen association leader, said that a large number of fishermen had tested positive for COVID-19 during the second wave and some of them died. It would be welcome if the government administered the vaccine for the fishermen on priority. The meeting, he said, discussed the 45-day annual fishing ban period, which comes to an end on June 14. While they can venture into the sea from June 15, the fishermen decided to postpone the fishing activities by at least a fortnight, Mr Jesu Raja said and added that when the fishermen reached shores with the catch, there may be a crowd in the markets to buy them. “We are apprehensive that the virus may again spread due to this. It would be better to postpone the date of lifting the ban from June 15 to July 1,” he added. The meeting thanked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin for announcing Rs. 20 lakh each as compensation to the families of 21 fishermen who were missing since Tauktae cyclone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extend-fishing-ban-by-fortnight/article34765621.ece
09 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Telemedicine app launched||The Salem Corporation has launched a telemedicine video call application to help residents consult doctors from the comfort of their homes. The android application ‘Salem Corporation V-Med’ will help people reach out to doctors through video call and get necessary medical advice. According to Corporation officials, a separate centre has been set up for this purpose at the Salem Corporation office and two doctors have been deployed for the purpose. At present, public could use the service from 10 a.m to 6 p.m. Salem Corporation Commissioner N.Ravichandran said the medical records of the caller would be registered in the application and it would be referred by doctors whenever the user calls doctor for consultation. After consultation, the prescription for medicine or any other tests advised by doctors would be sent to the registered mobile number and e-mail provided by the user. The officer said they were planning to link doctors at the Urban Primary Health Centres through the applications and also bring in various specialists for consultation. Mr. Ravichandran along with City Health Officer K.Parthibhan and other senior officials reviewed the functioning of the centre on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/telemedicine-app-launched/article34765519.ece
09 June 2021||Staff ReporterMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector checks COVID care centres, PHC, fever camp||Collector Aneesh Sekhar inspected the COVID-19 preventive measures undertaken at Madurai North and Vadipatti blocks, here on Tuesday. He monitored the COVID-19 Care Centre at Paravai, Primary Health Centre at Samayanallur, fever camp at Oomachikulam, and COVID-19 Care Centre at Vadipatti. He inspected the regulated market at Vadipatti where Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business department organises secret auctioning of coconuts. Madurai market secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani said that more than one lakh coconuts were sold through secret auction at the regulated market on Tuesday. The coconuts were sold for more than Rs. 10 lakh benefitting 26 farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-checks-covid-care-centres-phc-fever-camp/article34765259.ece
09 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||State govt. has fixed crop loan target at Rs. 11,500 crore, says Minister||Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy on Tuesday said the State government had fixed Rs. 11,500 crore as target for crop loan disbursement through Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Societies. Disclosing this to reporters here on Tuesday after chairing a meeting with officials of cooperative financial institutions at the Collectorate, the Minister said crop loan requirement of farmers in delta districts would be met irrespective of the crop — kuruvai or samba — they would like to cultivate. Stating that the financial position of cooperative financial institutions was good, Mr. Periyasamy said all 23 societies had registered profit and primary agriculture cooperative banks had Rs. 63 crore. He pointed out that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had instructed that the existing practice of allocating 30 of the loan amount for new members be dispensed with and all farmers approaching the societies for financial assistance be enrolled as members and their requirement fulfilled. Instructions had been issued to Cooperative officials to ensure that financial needs of all farmers were fulfilled. Referring to the outstanding amount to be disbursed to sugarcane growers from mills, he said the issue would be brought to the notice of the Chief Minister and action would be initiated. Steps would be initiated for sale of fertilizers at a price less than in the open market through the societies. Also, officials had been directed to find out whether the loan waiver scheme already announced had been implemented properly and audit the jewel loans issued by cooperative institutions. Farmers’ plea to include crop loans issued in 2015-16 and restructured subsequently in the waiver scheme would also be looked into, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-has-fixed-crop-loan-target-at-rs-11500-crore-says-minister/article34765696.ece
09 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI asks Centre to ensure adequate supply of vaccines to Tamil Nadu||CPI cadre on Tuesday staged demonstrations across Thanjavur district urging the Centre to ensure adequate supply of COVID 19 vaccines to Tamil Nadu as sought by the State government. Holding the Centre responsible for the death of lakhs and lakhs of people during the second wave of COVID-19, they claimed that the Union government ignored the warning issued by WHO and, as a result, lakhs of people were made to wait for treatment at hospitals. Condemning the Centre for its failure in ensure availability of liquid medical oxygen in adequate quantity, the demonstrators indicted it for the shortage of vaccines. They also condemned the Union government for not granting permission to the Tamil Nadu government to generate liquid medical oxygen and manufacture vaccines in the State. The demonstrators raised slogans demanding immediate release of outstanding GST revenue due to the State and reduction in Central taxes on petrol and diesel to bring the retail price of petrol to Rs. 50 per litre and diesel to Rs. 40 per litre. Similar demonstrations were held in Tiruchi, Pudukottai and other parts of central region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-asks-centre-to-ensure-adequate-supply-of-vaccines-to-tamil-nadu/article34765708.ece
09 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Four police personnel suspended||Four police personnel attached to Thiruchitrambalam Police Station have been suspended on charges of selling ‘impounded’ liquor bottles. A total of 434 liquor bottles were reportedly seized by Thiruchitrambalam police on May 8 from a person who stocked them for sale in ‘grey market’. After letting off the hoarder with a warning, the police personnel sold the seized but unaccounted liquor bottles to another person. Upon receiving information about the clandestine activity, senior police officials ordered an inquiry and verification of CCTV footage revealed that the information was true. The suspension orders were issued to Inspector of Police Anitha Gracy, Sub-Inspector Rajmohan, Special SI Duraiarasan and Head Constable Ramamurthy on Sunday, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-police-personnel-suspended/article34765706.ece
09 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Relax restrictions to enter Kerala: Tamil Nadu plantation owners||Kerala Cardamom Growers’ Union has urged the Idukki Collector to relax restrictions for plantation owners in Tamil Nadu to travel to their estates across the border in Kerala. Its secretary C. Sadhasiva Subramanian said that a majority of owners of cardamom plantations in Kerala resided in Cumbum in Tamil Nadu. They travelled 25 to 30 km daily to take care of their plantations at various places in Idukki district. Both the State governments had restricted movement of people and vehicles. With the number of positive patients on the decline, the Tamil Nadu government had relaxed the restrictions. The Idukki Collector too may permit them to travel to their estates. Now, they faced difficulties at the checkposts, as they were asked to produce COVID-19 negative certificate issued 48 hours prior to their travel. It was difficult to get such a certificate as vaccination centres and laboratories were crowded. The presence of plantation owners was needed at the estates as the have to oversee watering, pruning and other such works. The workers would need guidance on these matters. If right decisions were not taken at the right time, they will incur huge losses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relax-restrictions-to-enter-kerala-tamil-nadu-plantation-owners/article34765613.ece
09 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Finance firms told not to harass borrowers to repay loans||Following complaints from the public and members of self-help groups about harassment by private finance firms and micro finance firms to repay loans with interest as per the schedule, a meeting that was organised here on Tuesday by Collector K. Senthil Raj has resolved not to harass borrowers. After the lockdown derailed the functioning of private companies, manufacturing units and farming operations since March 2020, those who had availed loans from the private finance firms and micro lending firms are struggling to repay the borrowings with the interest due to job loss. However, the borrowers are under extreme pressure from the moneylenders. They submitted petitions to Dr. Senthil Raj appealing to him to buy more time to repay the loan. When he met the bankers and representatives of commercial banks, private finance firms and micro finance companies on Tuesday, those who represented the banks informed the Collector that they had never pressurised the loaners to repay their borrowings after the pandemic-induced lockdown came into force. As the representatives of the private finance firms and the micro finance companies too claimed that they did not force the borrowers to settle the loan as per the schedule, the Collector, who was not ready to buy their explanation, told them in clear terms that the life of the borrowers, mostly members of SHGs, labourers, farmers, farmhands etc. had been in deep trouble after the outbreak of the pandemic. The participants assured the Collector that they would not compel the borrowers to comply with the loan conditions and for scheduled repayment. In Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, the beedi rollers, who are main borrowers from the micro financing companies, were suffering a lot at the hands of these firms during the pandemic situation. Collectors V. Vishnu and G.S. Sameeran have instructed these firms not to harass the borrowers considering the adverse pandemic situation prevailing now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/finance-firms-told-not-to-harass-borrowers-to-repay-loans/article34765616.ece
09 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||3 held with ration rice||The police have arrested 3 persons for attempting to smuggle 1.60 tonnes of ration rice. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, vehicle check near Vilaathikulam was intensified on Tuesday following information that a few unidentified persons were buying ration rice from the public. As the police picked up Muniyasamy and Shanmugam, both from Sayalkudi in Ramanathapuram district, and Kathirvel of Karuppayoorani in Madurai district, all travelling in the cargo autorickshaw, they told the police that they were taking the ration rice for preparing poultry feed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/3-held-with-ration-rice/article34765620.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||West Boulevard Road is bursting at the seams||With the repening of hardware, electrical and furniture showrooms on West Boulevard Road in the city — where traders of Gandhi Market are also functioning temporarily — the stretch is now in the grip of unprecedented chaos. Until Sunday, when the intensive lockdown was in force, the road was mainly used by vegetable and fruit traders and customers. In order to prevent overcrowding at Gandhi Market and to check spread of COVID-19 virus, Tiruchi Corporation closed the market about a month ago and shifted retail and wholesale operations to West Boulevard Road. While wholesale traders were allowed to utilise West Boulevard Road from Kamaraj Arch to Vellamandi corner in the night, retail trade was allowed between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. With the State government permitting standalone shops to transact business from Monday, most of the hardware, electrical and construction material showrooms have resumed trading. Since the opening of business houses, the road is witnessing severe congestion and chaotic conditions. According to a rough estimate, about 5,000 traders, workers, load men and customers visit the temporary market daily. The road bustles with the arrival of lorries transporting vegetables and fruits from different parts of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The unloading activities take place all through the night along with wholesale trading. A section of traders continues the trading activities in the day time too along with retail traders. On the other hand, the permanent shops on the road too get a steady stream of customers. It is said that they do brisk business as they have opened after a gap of nearly a month. The reopening of business houses and vegetable trading on a busy road has led to chaos, confusion, unregulated movement of vehicles and traffic snarls. It has forced permanent traders to urge the district administration to close the temporary market. “The volume of traffic and movement of people have more than doubled due to opening of the temporary vegetable market. Vegetable traders set up shops in front of our showrooms. After business hours, they leave the road littered with garbage. The market should be shifted immediately,” says R. Ramesh Kamak, a trader on West Boulevard Road. Traders also complain of a rise in rodent menace ever since the temporary market started functioning on the road, posing problems to shopkeepers. “It has become a big menace. The rats damage highly valuable items, thereby causing financial loss to us,” adds C. Ramesh, a furniture trader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/west-boulevard-road-is-bursting-at-the-seams/article34765705.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Record online classes, IG tells school heads in central zone||Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, V. Balakrishnan has asked school heads and principals to record online classes conducted for students as per a direction of the State government and examine the video footage by involving Parent-Teacher Associations. At an online meeting with heads of around 255 schools in central zone on Monday, Mr. Balakrishnan asked them to strictly adhere to the government’s guidelines while conducting online classes and advised them to ensure the safety of students. The meeting was organised in the wake of complaints that some teachers were sexually harassing students while conducting online classes and to ensure that such acts did not take place in the zone, a police press release here said. It was emphasised during the meeting that school authorities should fully record online classes and maintain the video footage. They and a couple of members of the Parent-Teacher Association should examine the footage. It was also conveyed to the school heads to share the phone numbers of police with students to enable them lodge complaints pertaining to sexual harassment. Such complaints would be duly inquired and a case would be booked against teachers found indulging in such acts under the POCSO Act. Stern action would also be initiated against them. The school heads should also ensure that teachers taking online classes conducted themselves in a dignified manner and students attended them without any fear or hesitation. Instructions were given to police officers dealing with crime against women and children to coordinate with school authorities and take steps to ensure the safety of students attending online classes. Mr. Balakrishnan also notified the names and telephone numbers of Woman Inspectors of Police of each district in the central zone to lodge complaints relating to sexual harassment of students. Complains can be lodged with the following officers in the zone: Contact numbers Inspector Yashodha, Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Tiruchi 94981-77954; Inspector Rashia Suresh, Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Pudukottai 94981-58812; Inspector Sivasankari, Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Karur 83000-54716; Inspector Azeem, Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Perambalur 94981-06582; Inspector Sindhunathi, District Crime Records Bureau, Ariyalur 94981-57522; Inspector Kalaivani, All Women Police Station, Vallam, Thanjavur 94981-07760; Inspector Sri Priya, Anti Child Trafficking Unit, Tiruvarur 94981-62853; Inspector Revathy, District Crime Records Bureau, Nagapattinam 94981-10509 and Inspector Chitra, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Mayiladuthurai 94981-57810.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/record-online-classes-ig-tells-school-heads-in-central-zone/article34765714.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvai paddy on 4,500 hectares||Kuruvai paddy cultivation is expected to be taken up on about 4,500 hectares (ha) in canal-irrigated delta areas in the district. Sources in the Agriculture Department said kuruvai paddy cultivation would be on the normal area in the district and would primarily be taken up in Lalgudi block where over 4,200 ha was expected to be covered. The rest of the areas would be in Andhanallur and Manachanallur blocks. Department officials said farmers in Lalgudi block had begun preparations and some in filter point areas had started to raise nurseries. N. Veerasekaran, coordinator, Ayyan Vaical Pasanatharar Sangam, said farmers in Ayyan, Peruvalai and Panguni canal areas had started preparations, including raising of nurseries, over the past few days. Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has appealed to farmers to take to liquid bio-fertilizer produced by the bio fertilizer manufacturing unit in Tiruchi. By using liquid bio-fertilizers, farmers can reduce application of chemical fertilizers by about 20-25%. They have a shelf life of up to one year. The liquid bio fertilizer is produced using advanced technology and machinery under the National Agriculture Development Programme. About 34,800 litres of liquid bio-fertilizer will be distributed to Tiruchi district, said M. Murugesn, Joint Director of Agriculture, in a press release. This apart, about 15,200 litres will be supplied to Kallakurichi district. The liquid fertilizer will be available for Rs. 150 for 500 ml, which is adequate to cover an hectare. The unit produces seven different types of liquid bio-fertilizer including azospirillum for paddy. The fertilizers will be distributed through agricultural extension centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kuruvai-paddy-on-4500-hectares/article34765699.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers shed hesitancy||Teachers of government and government-aided schools in the district seem to have largely shed vaccine hesitancy and wish to take part in immunisation drive. Last month, the School Education Department, under the guidance of the district administration and the Health Department, conducted special camps at the block-level for administering the vaccine to teaching and non-teaching staff. Since the turnout of teachers was not along expected lines, the initiative undertaken through the special camps was extended to the public. In order to motivate teachers to get themselves immunised against the infection, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi initiated a special camp at Syed Murtuza Government Higher Secondary School in the city. So far, a little more than 5,600 out of 13,000 teaching and non-teaching staff in government and government-aided schools have been vaccinated against COVID-19. Once the supplies are streamlined, the percentage of vaccinated teachers will go up from the present extent of 45% to more than 60%, in a matter of a week or two, Chief Educational Officer R. Arivazhagan said. In the previous exercise, the response was good in Thuraiyur and Manapparai blocks. The turnout is expected to be high in all blocks for subsequent special vaccination camps, Mr. Arivazhagan said. Citing the havoc wreaked by the pandemic on children’s education across the globe, UNICEF has laid emphasis on vaccinating teachers on priority basis, once frontline health personnel and high-risk populations are vaccinated. The reasoning of UNICEF has been that vaccinating teachers and protecting them from the virus will pave way for teaching in person, and for keeping schools open. According to UNICEF, the assumption that closing schools may slow the spread of the disease is unsupported by evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-shed-hesitancy/article34765701.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||St. Joseph’s College donates Rs. 20 lakh to the needy||St. Joseph’s College on Tuesday handed over Rs. 20 lakh financial assistance to 900 economically backward families and to 100 of its COVID-affected students in Tiruchi and neighbouring districts. S. Inigo Irudayaraj, MLA, Tiruchi East, handed over the benefits to 10 families. For all other beneficiaries, the amount of Rs. 2,000 per family would be credited over the next two days, Principal Rev. Fr. M. Arockiasamy Xavier said. Joseph Institute of Management, St. Joseph’s Alumni Association and Jesuit Management mobilised the amount together for distribution to the needy. The U.S Chapter of St. Joseph’s Alumni extended support to 200 families from 20 villages with its Rs. 4 lakh contribution. The beneficiary families were identified through SHEPHERD outreach activities in 63 villages and 16 slum areas in Tiruchi, Karur and Pudukottai districts by field coordinators in consultation with panchayat leaders, ward members and local contact persons. Beneficiaries mostly comprised widows, orphans, semi-orphans, people with disabilities, and deserving poor in below poverty line category. The college, Fr. Arockiasamy said, through its Empowerment Centre identified about 100 students affected by COVID-19 to receive financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 each, which would be credited to their bank accounts. During the first wave of COVID-19, the college reached out to transgenders in Tiruverumbur, Palakarai and Vayalur areas and provided them with financial assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/st-josephs-college-donates-rs-20-lakh-to-the-needy/article34765703.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||LJD functionary dies in Tiruchi||B. Hemanathan, 56, State general secretary of Loktantrik Janata Dal, died here on Tuesday. A resident of Srirangam, Mr. Hemanathan was admitted to Government Hospital in Srirangam last week. As his health condition deteriorated, he was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where he died on Tuesday afternoon, family sources said. He was the president of Arangama Nagar Nala Sangam and vice-president of Renga Kootturavu Pandaga Salai. He was a prominent activist in the lobbying to find a solution to the dispute between residents of Srirangam and Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple with respect to ownership of properties around the shrine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ljd-functionary-dies-in-tiruchi/article34765698.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||73 deaths in delta districts||The central districts recorded 73 deaths on Tuesday. Out of eight districts, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Perambulur and Ariyalur registered fatalities in double digits. Tiruchi district topped the table with 18 patients succumbing to the virus followed by Thanjavur with 13 casualties. Perambulur and Ariyalur recorded 11 and 10 deaths. While the virus claimed six deaths in Karur, there were seven casualties in Tiruvarur. Nagapattinam and Pudukkotai registered four deaths each. According to a medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, the central districts registered 2,678 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The maximum number of cases was registered in Thanjavur district with 770 patients testing positive for the virus followed by 490 cases in Tiruchi district and 446 cases in Nagapattinam. The count was 324 in Tiruvarur and 193 in Pudukkotai. There were 195 fresh cases in Karur, 145 in Ariyalur and 115 in Perambulur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/73-deaths-in-delta-districts/article34765711.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre artiste passes away||Veteran theatre artiste and Kalaimamani awardee T.N. Mangalam passed away after a brief illness in the city on Monday evening. She was 72 and is survived by her husband and two sons. Starting off as a child actor in stage plays in her native village of Meensurutti at the age of 11, Ms. Mangalam made her career in Tiruchi as a theatrical performer and behind-the-scenes worker in productions for several decades. Besides performing in over 7,000 plays, she also worked as a voice-over artiste and in her later years as a make-up expert for Bharatanatyam dance programmes. Ms. Mangalam was conferred the State’s Kalaimamani award in recognition of her contribution to the performing arts in February this year. A lifetime member of South Indian Artistes’ Association, she also performed supporting roles in two Tamil films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theatre-artiste-passes-away/article34765713.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||CPI criticises Centre for poor supply of vaccine||The Communist Party of India cadre staged a demonstration here on Tuesday in protest against the poor supply of COVID-19 vaccines by the Union Government. Led by CPI’s Tirunelveli district secretary Kasi Viswanathan, they staged a demonstration near their party office in Sindhupoondurai in Tirunelveli Junction and raised slogans against the Centre.  They said the beedi rolling industry, which was feeding a few lakh workers in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts, should be allowed to resume operation as these families were starving. They organised similar agitations in Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts also. Ramanathapuram The Centre should immediately bring down the fuel price by cutting down the excise duty and also ensure that vaccine was available across the State. Staging a demonstration in as many as 11 different locations here in the district on Tuesday, the members demanded the Centre to take steps to open the new facility near Chengalpattu as it could produce vaccines. The plant, which was built at a cost of over Rs. 500 crore, remained a non-starter. This is highly condemnable, the CPI district secretary S Muruga Boopathi said. Demonstrations were held in Paramakudi, Kamudi and Rameswaram. Dindigul The members staged demonstrations in as many as 50 locations by adhering to physical distancing urging the Centre to take steps to either import or step up domestic manufacturing and supply the vaccines on a war-footing. The district secretary A.P. Manikandan led the agitation in Dindigul CPI office, while other leaders and cadres staged demonstrations in Gujiliamparai, Palani Pappampatti, Vadamadurai, Natham, Oddanchatram and Kodaikanal respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-criticises-centre-for-poor-supply-of-vaccine/article34765615.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||20 being treated for mucormycosis||Even as the number of fresh COVID-19 cases is coming down in the district and 650 beds in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital’s COVID-19 ward are consequently vacant, 20 patients are undergoing treatment for mucormycosis in the TVMCH on Tuesday. The number of new COVID-19 cases in the district that reported 1,107 cases on May 9 last, has fallen below 200 now, thanks to various measures taken by the district administration. Of the 1,120 samples taken in the Tirunelveli Corporation area, only 14 of them tested positive on Tuesday, much to the relief of the residents and health workers. Consequently, the number of patients undergoing treatment in the TVMCH has come down significantly. Of the 1,200 beds in the TVMCH, including 940 oxygen-supported beds, only 540 patients are undergoing treatment now. At the same time, 20 patients, who have recovered from the viral infection, are undergoing treatment for mucormycosis. “There is no need for panic as we’ve got sufficient stock of medicine to treat these cases,” says M. Ravichandran, Dean, TVMCH. Doctors and other health workers are much worried about the recent relaxation in the lockdown that has allowed everyone to come out at will even for unnecessary purposes. “At a time when vaccine shortage has seriously paralysed the vaccination against COVID-19, the lockdown relaxation allows everyone to come out of their place. This will only jack-up the number of cases once again and sure to trigger the ‘third wave’ in near future,” warns a doctor attached to the TVMCH. Doctors and the health workers want the police to take the lead in effectively checking the misuse of lockdown relaxation by the residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-persons-being-treated-for-mucormycosis/article34765611.ece
09 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Positivity rate down to 8.11% in Tiruppur Corpn. limits’||The COVID-19 positivity rate in Tiruppur Corporation limits has come down from 54% in May to 8.11% following decline in new cases, claimed Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Tuesday. He reviewed the construction work carried out by the Corporation under the Smart Cities Mission and chaired a review meeting with officials from the Corporation and district administration to take stock of the COVID-19 preventive measures in Tiruppur. He told mediapersons 1,035 new cases were reported in the Corporation limits on May 21 and the city saw its highest positivity rate of 54%. However, the positivity rate came down to 8.11% on Monday with only 275 new cases in the Corporation limits due to the preventive steps undertaken, he said. As many as 46,753 persons received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine in the Corporation limits and that the available stock of vaccine doses had been exhausted, Mr. Nehru said. “The Chief Minister is trying to procure additional doses, which is expected to arrive this week,” he added. According to a release, Mr. Nehru inspected the construction works at the Old Bus Terminus, which is being done under the Smart Cities Mission. He also visited the control room set up to provide telecounselling for COVID-19 patients at the Tiruppur Corporation headquarters on Mangalam Road. The 46,753 vaccine beneficiaries comprised 9,940 persons in 18-44 age group and 36,813 persons aged 45 years and above and included 2,348 healthcare workers and 291 frontline workers. A total of 78 containment zones were set up in the Corporation limits and around 1,100 field workers were appointed to carry out door-to-door survey. The field triaging system implemented by Greater Chennai Corporation, where doctors visited the residences of COVID-19 patients for treatment, was also being implemented by the Tiruppur Corporation, the release said. Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan, Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj, Municipal Administration Secretary Shiv Das Meena, Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar participated in the meeting, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/positivity-rate-down-to-811-in-tiruppur-corpn-limits/article34765517.ece
09 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Apparel export unit in Tiruppur sealed for violations||Revenue Department officials sealed an apparel export unit on Angeripalayam Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits on Tuesday on charges of violating the COVID-19 lockdown norms. Inspection A team of officials led by the Revenue Divisional Officer (Tiruppur), M. Jaganathan, inspected three private export units in the city on Tuesday. Mr. Jaganathan said that one of these units on Angeripalayam Road in Chettipalayam was found functioning with more than the stipulated number of employees as the State government has allowed export units in Tiruppur district to work with only 10% of their total workers. The unit had 250 workers in total but was found to be operating with 81 workers, which exceeded the 10% limit, the RDO said. Following this, the private export unit was ordered to be sealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apparel-export-unit-in-tiruppur-sealed-for-violations/article34765514.ece
09 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ooty unit ready to make vaccines||The Pasteur Institute in Coonoor can bottle one crore doses of vaccines a month and help fight the COVID-19 pandemic, according to its Director S. Sivakumar. He said the institute had the capacity to bottle the vaccine and get it ready for distribution. Proposal to Centre The State government had sent a proposal to the Centre to utilise the facility. The Pasteur Institute is one of three vaccine manufacturing facilities in the State which were being considered to step up vaccine production in Tamil Nadu – the others being King Institute in Chennai and the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu. Originally called the Pasteur Institute of Southern India, the Pasteur Institute of India in Coonoor was established in 1907.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ooty-unit-ready-to-make-vaccines/article34765485.ece
09 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Nurse dies of COVID-19||A 50-year-old nurse working at the Government Pentland Hospital in Vellore died due to COVID-19 on Monday. According to the police, Santhakumari, wife of Aaron Sundarraj, was working in the Government Pentland Hospital as a staff nurse. She tested positive on May 16 and was admitted to the Pentland Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nurse-dies-of-covid-19/article34765478.ece
09 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Administration urged to allow reopening of fireworks units||Fireworks manufacturers and workers association have urged district administration to allow reopening of fireworks units to help around 8 lakh workers get their livelihood. In a memorandum addressed to the Collector R. Kannan, president of Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association P. Ganesan said that closure of 1,070 fireworks units since June 10 led to lot of financial sufferings to the workers. “Opening of the units will be the only solution to save the lives of 3 lakh workers directly and five lakh workers indirectly employed by the industry,” Mr. Ganesan said. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar District Fireworks and Match unit Workers Association said that the lives of fireworks workers were in dire straits due to closure of factories as neither the Government nor the manufacturers have given any relief to jobless workers. Pointing out that match units were allowed to work with 50% workforce, CITU district secretary, P.N. Deva, said that similar concession should be given to the fireworks workers too. TANFAMA has promised that adequate social distancing was possible in the fireworks units and in buses used to pick up and drop the workers. The units can be sanitised before and after the work every day. Wearing of masks and hand sanitisation will be ensured along with thermal scanning of workers before they report for duty. Besides, the factories can organise vaccination camps in their units in association with the health officials, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/administration-urged-to-allow-reopening-of-fireworks-units/article34765260.ece
09 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Three killed by lightning||Three persons, including a minor boy, were struck dead by lightning at Nalli near Sattur on Tuesday evening. The police said that the deceased had gone to a local temple in the evening. After it started raining, they were stuck there. Around 6 p.m. lightning struck and villagers rushed them to the Government Hospital in Kovilpatti where they were declared dead. M. Karthik (12), who also suffered shock, was admitted to the GH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-by-lightning/article34765257.ece
09 June 2021||VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar MP puts off his second jab||With government hospitals running out of COVID-19 vaccines, Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore, refused to take his second dose of the vaccine on Tuesday. The Congress MP had taken his first dosage of Covishield on April 8 and was due to get the second jab now. He was planning to get the second dosage of the vaccine on Tuesday. “When I asked the Deputy Director (Health) about the vaccination, he said he could make special arrangement for me. I was told that vaccination camp could not be held at the Government Medical College Hospital due to lack of stock,” Mr. Tagore told The Hindu . Stating that he was not willing to take the second dose when it was not available for the members of the public, he refused to take it. “I will go for vaccination when it is open for others too,” Mr. Tagore said. ‘PM under pressure’ Pressure from the Supreme Court and from Opposition parties and Chief Ministers forced Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce that the Union government would bear the cost of COVID-19 vaccines for all the States, Mr. Tagore said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/virudhunagar-mp-puts-off-his-second-jab/article34765487.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,439 new cases, 44 deaths in Coimbatore||A total of 2,439 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 1,93,037. The Health Department said that 4,917 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from the disease on Tuesday and the district had 26,751 active cases. The toll increased to 1,576 after 44 more persons died of COVID-19 in the last several days. After three weeks, the daily caseload of Tiruppur district dipped below the 1,000-mark with the reporting of 995 new cases on Tuesday. This took the overall tally past the 70,000-mark to 70,213 cases. The Health Department reported 18 deaths, taking the district’s toll to 585. There were 18,969 active cases. Over 50,000 patients recovered from COVID-19 in Tiruppur district following the discharge of 864 patients on Tuesday. In the Nilgiris, 498 people tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 23,370. The toll increased from 119 to 124 on Tuesday while 4,204 people are undergoing treatment. Erode reported 1,596 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 69,485. While 2,003 persons were discharged, 14,284 persons continue to be under treatment. Five persons died, raising the toll to 459. Salem district saw 975 fresh cases and 25 deaths on Tuesday. In Namakkal, 525 cases and four deaths were reported. Krishnagiri reported 275 new cases and three deaths. The number of active cases stood at 3,265 cases as of Tuesday. Dharmapuri reported 240 cases and six. There were 2,772 active cases in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2439-new-cases-44-deaths-in-coimbatore/article34765505.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Elderly couple murdered||An elderly couple were found murdered at Allimagaram on Tuesday. The victims were identified as Periyasamy and Arivazhagi. According to sources, upon noticing that their house was not opened for long, neighbours opened the door and found them dead with their neck slashed. On information, Kunnam police rushed to the spot and removed the bodies for post-mortem. About 10 sovereign of gold ornaments were found stolen from the house of the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elderly-couple-murdered/article34765697.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘34 districts have no vaccines’||Referring to the Prime Minister’s announcement that the Centre would supply vaccines for those aged above 18 from June 21, Mr. Subramanian said more vaccines should be supplied, and the supply should be based on the population. Already, the State has paid Rs. 99.84 crore to the Centre to get vaccines for the 18-44 age group, he said. “Under this, we have received 13 lakh doses, and should get nearly 16.5 lakh doses more,” he said. To a question on the second dose being delayed for many persons, he said instructions were issued to give priority to persons waiting for it. Supply schedule According to the supply schedule for June, the State will receive 16,74,380 doses (13,43,820 of Covishield and 3,30,560 of Covaxin) for the 18-44 age group and 25,84,380 doses (21,55,180 of Covishield and 4,29,200 of Covaxin) for the above 44 years category. The doses will be supplied in batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/34-districts-have-no-vaccines/article34765486.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||Coimbatore   Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Virtual student development programme on leadership skills, 10.30 a.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Webinar on leadership, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34765515.ece
09 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Centre is considering self-assessment of crop loss scheme as model’||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said in Belagavi on Monday that the Union government has appreciated the State government’s scheme of self-assessment of crop loss by farmers and to link it to the Bhoomi software tool. “Farmers are happy that they can assess loss and due to linkage, loss-related data gets uploaded to their Records of Rights, Tenancy And Crops (RTCs). The Union government is considering recommending this model to other States,’’ Mr. Patil said. The State government is willing to consider forming a Chikkodi farm district on the lines of Chikkodi educational district, he said. He was responding to a request from BJP MLA from Kudchi P. Rajeev. Mr. Rajeev said that having a Joint Director of Agriculture for Chikkodi region will lead to more efficient administration of the department. Decentralised decision-making and implementation of programmes and schemes will help farmers. Now-a-days, farmers from far-off places such as Athani, Nippani and Chikkodi have to travel to Belagavi for getting benefits and details from the Agriculture Department office. “We could do well to take the department to the doorsteps of the people. The Education Department’s decision to divide the district to create Chikkodi educational district has yielded positive results,” Mr. Rajeev said. Mr. Patil said that he did not know if such farm districts could be created. “However, it is a good idea. I will discuss it with officers and take a decision,’’ he said. He said that the government is awaiting the Finance Department’s approval for creation of posts of assistant directors in the newly formed taluks. “Once that happens, the government will set up new Raitha Samparka Kendras in the new taluks,” he said. Minister for Women and Child Empowerment Shashikala Jolle complained that the government had not cleared the subsidy arrears of farmers who had bought subsidised equipment from the department. MLA Mahantesh Dodagoudar said that farmers of Kittur and Bailhongal taluks are being discriminated against by officers as far as payment of crop insurance relief is concerned. The officers told the Minister that there was no scarcity of seed or fertilizer in the district and the Minister warned them of action if their negligence caused scarcity of farm inputs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/centre-is-considering-self-assessment-of-crop-loss-scheme-as-model/article34765161.ece
09 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Kateel pays last respects to C.M. Udasi||Nalin Kumar Kateel, BJP state unit president cut short his visit to Vijayapura district, to pay his last respects to C.M. Udasi, senior MLA who died in Bengaluru on Tuesday. He said that he would visit the family members of the late leader. Mr. Kateel was here to inspect the new office building in the city. He said he would return by evening, after cancelling some meetings. Some party leaders accompanied him during his visit to the work site. However, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, MLA, who has been openly critical of CM B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Vijayendra, was not present. Mr. Kateel said he had issued clear instructions to MLAs not to visit him, due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Mr. Kateel refused to respond to controversial statements by Mr. Yatnal.  Condolence Leaders of different parties have expressed condolence over the death of C.M. Udasi. Former Minister and Congress MLA M.B. Patil has recalled his ‘simple and polite ways’ and dedication to work. “I have seen him stand on the roads and check the quality of road works,” Mr. Patil said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kateel-pays-last-respects-to-cm-udasi/article34765179.ece
09 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||455 students recruited||Davangere-based G. Mallikarjunappa Institute of Technology has conducted a successful round of campus recruitments. As many as 455 students were selected by 54 companies, that included Infosys, TCS, Subex, Accenture, SLK Software, IBM, Robosoft Technologies, ICICI Bank, Land Pharma, Omega Health Care, Navya Biologicals, Focus Edumatics, Naider Electric, HCL, Mahindra CIE, VRK Designs and Vedantu. Director, Training and Recruitment of the institute T.R. Tejaswi Kattimani said that another 10 companies are expected to release their results of campus interviews. This is a positive sign in these days when the job market is not as lucrative as in the previous years, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/455-students-recruited/article34765178.ece
09 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Donation for relief work||Belaglavi Havyak Mandal donated Rs. 1.51 lakh to Sangh Parivar organisations that are working for COVID-19 relief in the district. A team of members led by Bhaskar Kadekodi, Shanta Hegde, Anant Hegde and others met COVID warriors at Modi Building in Belagavi on Tuesday. They handed over a cheque to Krishna Bhat, joint treasurer, of the VHP. He said that the VHP, Seva Bharati and Bajrang Dal are jointly running two COVID Care Centres, arranging cremations, ambulance and hearse van services and sanitisation, across the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/donation-for-relief-work/article34765166.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With cemeteries full, Christians move to outskirts for burial||With close to 3,000 deaths reported in the Christian community since April 1, many of which areCOVID-19-related, the five big cemeteries in Bengaluru have run out of space and have been closed for burials. Meanwhile the Karnataka government is yet to act on its promise of providing land for burial. While the Catholic community alone has seen nearly 1,600 deaths since April 1, at least 1,200 deaths have been reported among other denominations, sources in the Archbishop’s office said. In the last few days, burials in new graves have stopped taking place in Kalpalli, Mysuru Road, Hosur Road and Ulsoor, since the cemeteries are full. Only families that have designated graves are conducting funerals in these cemeteries, church sources said. Archbishop Peter Machado’s appeal to the State Government earlier in April for five acres on the City’s outskirts that all Christian denominations is yet to be addressed. It is learnt that even the Church of South India (CSI) has made a similar appeal to the Government. In quarry “A 2.2 acres plot at S. Bingipura in Jigani offered to us is a quarry that is filled with water. Just about 30 % of the place can be used. The other place offered in Kodathi near HSR Layout is a dump yard. We have been asking for a survey of the land that is yet to be done,” said J.A. Kanthraj, spokesperson for Archibishop’s office. “In spite of Archbishop reaching out to the Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Deputy Commissioner Manjunath and them promising to allot land, nothing has happened so far,” he added. The church has indicated that it has no problem if it is allotted on the city’s outskirts, given the scarcity of land inside City. Families are now moving to the outskirts in Kengeri, Hangal, Hegde Nagar and Devanahalli for burials. “We have been requesting suburban parishes to allow burials in their cemeteries,” said Mr. Kantharaj. Real estate lobby One of the reasons for delay in identifying land for cemetery is the role of the real estate lobby, say sources in the government. “Once the cemetery comes up, the adjacent plots lose value for real estate development and hence these forces work against having a cemetery around them,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/with-cemeteries-full-christians-move-to-outskirts-for-burial/article34765136.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most Hindu burial grounds full||Hindu burial grounds are facing the same problem plaguing Christian cemeteries: paucity of space to bury the dead in the wake of the heavy toll that the second wave of COVID-19 has taken on society. Many of the grounds in the core city area are mostly full. The problem is compounded by the fact that facilities to bury the dead don’t seem to have kept pace with rapid expansion of urban sprawl in the newly added areas to the city, especially the south-east parts of Bengaluru that house the IT Corridor. A 2017 survey revealed there were 180 burial grounds in the city, a majority of them for Hindus. However, most of the facilities in the core city including Harischandra Ghat in Rajajinagar and burial grounds in Srirampuram, Hebbal, Banashankari, Geddalahalli, Pillanna Gardens, Shantinagar, Lingarajapuram, Ejipura, Koramangala, Neelasandra and Lakshmipura are full, said A. Suresh, State secretary, Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsh Samiti. “There is no space to bury new bodies unless old tombs are disturbed. One of the very few places with some free space is Kalpalli Hindu Burial Grounds,” he said. Within this limited space, there is a skewed utilisation of resources and encroachments. “In clear violation of government rules, many families have built mantapas for space to bury all members of their families, by bribing officials. Also, most of these burial grounds have been internally demarcated on caste lines, which amounts to cornering space. There are other encroachments too. For instance, the civic body has built a Dry Waste Collection Centre in an already stressed Harischandra Ghat and a temple in Srirampuram burial grounds. ” Mr. Suresh complained. In 2019, the BBMP took up a project to create new burial grounds in the city, especially in the outer zones. But the Revenue Department allotted four parcels of land for the purpose, all in north Bengaluru, though it was south-east parts of the city that have grown rapidly over the years. Jagadish Reddy, a resident and activist from Varthur, said there is a severe shortage of burial grounds and crematoriums in south-east Bengaluru. “The old burial grounds of erstwhile villagers are all full and are not able to serve the sea of new population that has come to settle in this area in the last two decades,” he said. During the peak of the first wave of COVID-19 in August 2020, Bengaluru Urban District administration announced that it would open 10 burial grounds on the city’s outskirts to serve all communities irrespective of religion. However, most have not been opened as cremation is the preferred mode of last rites for those who have succumbed to the virus. The administration started three open crematoriums on the city’s outskirts last month, at the peak of the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-hindu-burial-grounds-full/article34765137.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. begins talks on staggered unlocking||As COVID-19 cases dip in the State and ahead of the current lockdown ending on June 14, informal discussions have started in the government on the nature of restrictions that could be in place when the lockdown ends. Government sources aware of the development said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurapppa on Tuesday held informal discussions with Health Minister K. Sudhakar and Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on this. A final decision could be made by the weekend depending on the circumstances and the TAC report. Indications are that while the stand alone stores could be allowed to function, the timing could be between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. “Opening of business will be staggered. In the first phase of opening, the government is not inclined to allow opening of businesses that attract big crowds.” Along with stand alone stores, public transport could resume partially. “Decision on allowing inter-district movement of people is yet to happen,” said the source. The night curfew and prohibitory orders will be in place to deter formation of crowds in the public. Sources said that many companies had come forward with proposals to open after complete vaccination of employees and promised to conduct frequent random checks. “Though work from home is being done, critical staff still need to be on the premises. The government will have to discuss these situation also,” sources said, adding models implemented in other States will also be considered. Other models Meanwhile, BBMP Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta told presspersons that Karnataka was keen on developing a unique unlock process. “The government is not looking to adopt the model of other States. Sectors that are important for the State’s economy will be prioritized,” While the BBMP had given inputs on unlocking, Mr. Gupta reiterated that the State government would take a final call will be applicable to the entire State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-begins-talks-on-staggered-unlocking/article34765151.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Evolve scheme to check monkey menace, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government, the Forest Department and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to evolve a scheme to protect residents of Bengaluru from the menace of monkeys and to ensure that they are driven back to their natural habitats in a humane way. Noticing that a scheme was evolved and implemented in NCT Delhi on the directions of the Delhi High Court in the case of New Friends Colony residents Vs Union of India during 2001-07, the court said that the scheme to address the issue could be evolved based in directions issued by the Delhi High Court. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by B.S. Radhanandan, a city-based advocate. Pointing out that several residential localities in the city are experiencing frequent attacks by groups of monkeys, which come in search of food, the petitioner has said that residents and their welfare associations were unable to get help from civic authorities to overcome this menace but were forced to seek help of unauthorised persons for trapping these monkeys. Claiming that monkeys found in and around Bengaluru are Bonnet Macaques, which are a protected species under provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, the petitioner has stated that inaction on the part of public authorities to address the menace has resulted in unauthorised persons and agencies taking up trapping monkeys as a business. The petition has also referred to newspaper reports on how private monkey trappers demand exorbitant charges from residents, and instances of killing or inhumane treatment of trapped monkeys. The petitioner sought directions to the authorities, on the lines of the Delhi High Court’s directions, to evolve a mechanism to protect residents from the monkey menace on the one hand and to take care of monkeys as per the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/evolve-scheme-to-check-monkey-menace-says-hc/article34765141.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctor arrested for stealing vaccines denied bail||The city civil and sessions court on Monday rejected the bail application of Dr. Pushpitha who was arrested for stealing vials of  Covishield from the Public Health Centre in Manjunathnagar, where she was posted, and administering the vaccine to various citizens at her friend’s house. She allegedly charged Rs. 500 for a jab. The prosecution objected to the bail plea stating that Dr. Pushpitha had endangered lives by stealing vaccines. Investigations so far have revealed that she would administer only half of a single dose to citizens who went to the PHC for the vaccine. She took the remaining vaccine home, said the police. “She vaccinated 20 persons with a single vial against the prescribed 10. She would carry the rest of the vials to the house of her friend Premalatha in a thermal box after work,” said the prosecution. The accused did a disservice not just to regular citizens, but also frontline workers, including police personnel who were vaccinated at the PHC in Manjunathnagar. People who were vaccinated at the PHC are in a dilemma over whether to get another shot. “We have brought this scam to the attention of the Health Department, but there has been no response from their end so far,” a police officer said. On May 20, the Annapoorneshwari Nagar police raided the house of Premalatha at ITI Layout in Mallathahalli and caught Dr. Pushpitha in the act of vaccinating people. The police seized over 20 vials of Covishield, some used and unused syringes, and Rs. 12,000 in cash.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-arrested-for-stealing-vaccines-denied-bail/article34765147.ece
09 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. chief whip urges high command to hear their views||The BJP old guards, who maintained a studied silence after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa surprised everyone by remarking that he would quit if the high command does not need him, have now indicated that they are not happy with the recent developments in the party. Government chief whip in the Assembly and Karkala MLA Sunil Kumar took to Twitter on Tuesday to say that the statements being issued by party leaders in the last three days to the media are not in the interest of the party. In an obvious reference to the Yediyurappa camp claiming that 65 MLAs of the party had put their signatures expressing support for their leader, Mr. Kumar said: “These views cannot be the views of all the MLAs and party workers”. He demanded that the party Central leaders make a separate arrangement to hear their grievances and views. “As we cannot share our views through the media, the party high command should make arrangements to help us convey our views,” he tweeted. Claims questioned Mr. Kumar tagged party national general secretary C.T. Ravi and State president Nalin Kumar Kateel to his tweet. The tweet is being seen in the party circles as publicly questioning the claims of the Yediyurappa camp that most MLAs are with him. Political secretary M.P. Renukacharya had on Monday claimed that the Chief Minister has the support of about 65 MLAs of the party. He had even said that the Chief Minister’s detractors in the party should stop seeking a leadership change in the wake of majority of the party MLAs supporting Mr. Yediyurappa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-chief-whip-urges-high-command-to-hear-their-views/article34765270.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. gears up to meet high demand for college seats||With all class 10 SSLC and II PU students deemed as pass this academic year, the government is bracing itself for a rise in candidates applying to colleges, and plans to introduce measures such as shifts should the need arise. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan estimated that this year, the number of II PU students who pass may increase by 30%, which will result in about two lakh more candidates seeking admission into degree colleges. “We will take measures accordingly to accommodate students in government and private colleges,” he said. Limited seats Degree colleges, too, are bracing themselves for a spike in demand for the limited number of seats they have. P. Pradeep, Commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education, said they were exploring ways to enhance the intake and utilise seats available effectively. “In some colleges, we may have to conduct classes in two shifts,” he said. “But intake in many of the 430 government degree colleges is not yet full.” In the last academic year, roughly around 30,000 of 1.15 lakh seats in the arts section were taken. The demand for commerce was the highest with 70,000 of 80,000 seats filled. In the science stream, 25,000 of 35,000 seats were filled. PU colleges too will face more demand as all SSLC students will be declared as pass even though they have to appear for an examination. R. Snehal, Director, Department of Pre-University Education, said if private colleges ask to enhance intake, they will allow them to do so based on infrastructure available on their campuses. Experts also point out that the Gross Enrolment Ratio into higher education is likely to improve this year. Concern expressed A few college principals, however, expressed concern about the fate of students from rural areas. Many felt that given the clamour for seats, these students may opt out of further studies. “The government has to conduct extensive programmes to ensure that students particularly from rural areas enrol in PU courses and UG programmes,” said a government degree college principal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-gears-up-to-meet-high-demand-for-college-seats/article34765280.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports less than 10,000 cases after nearly two months||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 9,808 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,17,289. Of these, 2,028 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. This is the first time after the second wave of COVID-19 peaked in the State in mid-April that Karnataka has reported less than 10,000 cases. The number of deaths too has reduced drastically. With 179 deaths, the toll rose to 32,099. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. With the total number of deaths reported in the daily media bulletins also including a backlog from previous months, the number of fatalities were still high although the number of cases reduced. However, only those deaths that occurred in the last week of May and first week of June figured in Tuesday’s bulletin, indicating that there is no backlog now. As many as 23,449 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 24,60,165. The State now has 2,25,004 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 7.53%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.82%. Testing As many as 1,30,224 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 84,510 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,08,62,227.  Last 24 hours  COVID-19 cases: 9,808  Deaths: 179  Discharges: 23,449   Tests: 1,30,224   Vaccinations: 2,08,320  Test Positivity Rate: 7.53  Case Fatality Rate: 1.82||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-less-than-10000-cases-after-nearly-two-months/article34765154.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA instructed to prioritise PRR||At a review meeting on Tuesday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa asked Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) to prioritise the Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) project. Officials have been instructed to finalise tender documents and get clearance from the Karnataka cabinet. The proposed eight-lane PRR project, which will connect Tumakuru Road with Hosur Road, is more than 15 years old. Successive governments have failed to take it up for reasons ranging from high cost, especially land acquisition, to protests from citizens and environmentalists. The 65.5-km project will come at a huge environmental cost as more than 33,000 trees will have to be removed. Recently, the Board decided to opt for global competitive bidding for the project. The BDA has entrusted Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Limited to prepare the tender document. The State cabinet is likely to approve the project by the end of June.  Private investors The BDA is looking for private investors who are ready to bear land acquisition cost along with construction cost. As per the estimate, the project will cost more than Rs. 21,000 crore, including Rs. 15,000 crore for land acquisition. The CM told the BDA to complete pending infrastructure projects in Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout, and expedite formation of Shivaram Karanth Layout. He also told officials to expedite de-silting of Bellandur and Varthur lakes as the monsoon has already started. For the current year, the BDA is planning to mobilise Rs. 9,530 crore by selling corner sites, flats and other assets. Last year, it generated Rs. 2,066 crore in revenue, and spent Rs. 1,332 crore. The CM was informed that 6,431 cases related to BDA are pending in various courts. Directions have been given to appoint lawyers to strengthen the law division of the BDA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-instructed-to-prioritise-prr/article34765145.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Karnataka likely to save Rs. 2,000 crore’||Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement on Monday that the Centre would procure vaccines and distribute them to States, Karnataka is expected to save about Rs. 2,000 crore that it otherwise would have to spend on purchase of vaccines. Government sources told The Hindu that Karnataka had started purchasing vaccines for those in the 18-45 age bracket. The Centre was supplying vaccines for those above 45 years. While Karnataka placed orders for 2 crore doses of Covishield and 1 crore of Covaxin, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had in the third week of April announced setting aside Rs. 400 crore for purchase of one crore doses. “Assuming that Karnataka had to purchase vaccines for people in the 18-45 years age bracket, the eligible population would be about 3.25 crore, which meant purchase of about 6.5 crore doses,” said a source. Health Minister K. Sudhakar said that Karnataka was targeting vaccination for all by the end of this year. He said with the Centre procuring the vaccines, availability is likely to improve. He said Karnataka would require 10 crore doses of vaccines. Film workers The Minister was speaking after inaugurating a vaccination camp for persons employed in the film industry at the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce on Tuesday. The government on Tuesday issued an order offering Rs. 3,000 as relief to film and TV industry workers hit by the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-likely-to-save-rs-2000-crore/article34765139.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No hike in BMTC bus fares for now’||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Tuesday announced that there will no hike in fares for buses operated by Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), at least for the time being. In February, the BMTC had approached the Karnataka government seeking an 18-20% hike in bus fares citing an increase in fuel cost, lack of funds to pay salaries, and losses on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. BMTC officials say fares were last revised in 2014. The Minister said, “The BMTC had approached the government seeking a fare hike citing financial difficulties. For the time being, we do not want to burden poor people who are already facing difficulties. The CM has taken a stand against revision of fares. Once the pandemic is under control and bus services are normalised, we will look into it.” He added that the four road transport corporations have incurred a loss of over Rs. 4,000 crore on account of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-hike-in-bmtc-bus-fares-for-now/article34765148.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Big chains cornering all vaccines: Small hospitals||Finding it difficult to procure vaccines independently, small and medium-sized private hospitals in Karnataka now want the State government to regulate supply by appointing a State nodal officer for vaccines. Upset that a few hospitals, especially large chain corporate facilities, have grabbed the lion’s share of the 25% quota made available for the private sector in each State, doctors from small and medium-sized hospitals allege that they have been deprived of vaccine supply due to this. As of now, vaccines are directly supplied to hospitals from the manufacturers and there are no distributors/vendors involved. “The companies are not even accepting our orders as of now and supply is not forthcoming. The whole system is opaque and even organisations like PHANA, FHA-K and AHPI are finding it difficult to procure vaccines in the 25% private hospitals quota in spite of our best efforts,” R. Ravindra, Medical Director, Suguna Hospital, told The Hindu.  “There is no plausible reason for the government to allow private hospitals to buy 25% of the vaccines directly from the companies, rather than to help the vaccine manufacturers and a few privileged hospital chains corner all the available vaccines,” alleged Dr. Ravindra, who is the former president of PHANA. Frequent policy changes with regards to age of population to be immunised, duration of spacing and restrictions on pricing are not encouraging and are going to be detrimental to the vaccination drive, he said. Zero stock PHANA president H.M. Prasanna said currently there is zero stock in almost all small and medium sized hospitals in the city. “This is an injustice to hospitals who have equally shouldered COVID-19 management, especially during the second wave,” he said. In a letter to the Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, PHANA urged the government to intervene immediately and appoint a nodal officer to facilitate the purchase of vaccines by private hospitals. “This will ensure equitable distribution on the lines of Remdesivir distribution,” the letter stated. It also sought re-distribution of existing allotment of State’s quota to private hospitals. No competition Sudarshan Ballal, chairman, Manipal Hospitals, said there should be no competition among private hospitals. “In my opinion there has to be an equitable distribution among all private hospitals. However, there is a limited supply even for chain hospitals and some of us are not getting the total number of doses that we have asked for,” he said. As the situation is dynamic and the Centre’s strategy for vaccination has changed many times, one of the best options is to procure through associations like PHANA, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/big-chains-cornering-all-vaccines-small-hospitals/article34765155.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Case filed against private hospital for overcharging||The Baiyappanahalli police have registered an FIR against the managing director of a private hospital for alleged excessive billing for COVID-19 patients. Based on a complaint by BBMP health officer Dr. Shivegowda, C.V. Raman Nagar division, the police on Tuesday charged Dr. Jacqueline of Comfort Hospital on Kaggadasapura Main Road under various sections of the Disaster Management Act, and also for cheating. According to Dr. Shivegowda, a team from the East zone war room inspected the hospital after receiving a complaint from a patient who had been allotted a bed under government quota. The team found that the hospital was charging patients over and above the government specified rates. Dr. Shivegowda issued a notice to the hospital seeking an explanation and directed the MD to refund the excess amount billed to patients. According to BBMP officials, no response was received and the patients were not given a refund. The police are now seeking details of patients who were allegedly cheated by the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/case-filed-against-private-hospital-for-overcharging/article34765146.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Newly elected MLAs take oath||Newly-elected legislators from Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies took oath here on Tuesday. BJP candidate Sharanu Salagar elected from Basavakalyan in Bidar and Congress candidate Basanagouda Turvihal elected from Maski in Raichur district were administered oath by Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri at the Vidhana Soudha. Both, first time legislators, were elected in the byelections held in April. Mr. Salagar was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chavan. KPCC chief D.K. Shivakumar and Congress Chief Whip Ajay Singh accompanied Mr. Turvihal. While Basavakalyan went to polls due to death of Congress legislator B. Narayan Rao, Maski went to polls after Prathapgouda Patil resigned from his seat along with 16 other legislators, bringing down the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led Congress-JD(S) coalition government in 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/newly-elected-mlas-take-oath/article34765276.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘India lags behind Asian peers’||When it comes to making investments in science and innovation, India lags behind not only the West but also Asian countries like China, Taiwan, Japan, South Korea, and Singapore, said Nobel laureate Dr. Venki Ramakrishnan. “No country can prosper in the 21st century without being a technologically advanced, knowledge-based society. This requires substantial investment in science and innovation, an area in which India lags even Asian peers.” Dr. Venki Ramakrishnan was responding to Ignite Life Science Foundation’s announcement of Biocon founder and Executive Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw making a contribution of Rs. 5 crore to support science and research activities of the foundation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/india-lags-behind-asian-peers/article34765138.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Muslims opening old graves...’||Muslim burial grounds are also running out of space, say community members. B.A. Janab, a member of the committee looking after the burial ground on Tannery Road, said, “The number of burials has increased in the last two months. We do not have much space. In the light of the shortage, families are opening up old graves and burying the dead.” The community has about 25 small and big burial grounds in the city. Most of them are almost full, he added. “Though there has been demand for a new burial ground in the city for more than two decades, it has not been met,” Mr. Janab said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/muslims-opening-old-graves/article34765142.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New CGM of SBI Karnataka||Nand Kishore assumed charge as Chief General Manager (CGM), State Bank of India, Bengaluru circle, on Monday. Prior to this, he was the general manager of SBI Corporate Accounts Group at BKC Mumbai, according to a SBI release. The Bengaluru circle of SBI, having 1,630 bank offices across Karnataka, is the second biggest circle of the bank in terms of total business. A Probationary Officer of the 1990 batch, Mr. Kishore has varied banking experiences in areas like treasury, investment banking, corporate banking, and international banking operations with a cumulative experience of more than 31 years in the banking industry. He has also served at the New York branch of the bank, the release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-cgm-of-sbi-karnataka/article34765267.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel for integration of COVID-19 applications/technologies||The State government has constituted an eight-member panel run by State COVID-19 War Room in charge V. Ponnuraj for integration of all COVID-19 applications and technologies. Applications such as Parihara portal for line listing, contact tracing via app, quarantine watch via app, containment zones via app, SAST portal for bed management, COVID-19+ Hospital Bed Management System - online and real-time allotment and ILI/SARI surveillance from private hospitals (KPME) will be integrated for better information management, said an official order on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/panel-for-integration-of-covid-19-applicationstechnologies/article34765152.ece
09 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Adhere to guidelines, people told||With COVID-19 positive cases registering an increase in some wards of the municipal corporation, Commissioner of Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation Suresh Itnal has appealed to the general public to strictly follow the COVID-19 protocol in their own interest. The appeal by the Municipal Commissioner has come after the corporation launched a ward-wise campaign for tests on Monday. On Monday itself, the corporation sent three vehicles each to Hubballi and Dharwad and tests were conducted in 20 wards. In a press release, Mr. Itnal has said that despite all precautionary steps being taken by the authorities, including awareness campaigns being held in the wards to sensitise the people, several wards had recorded a high number of positive cases. He has said that he will appeal to the people to wear face masks compulsorily, use hand sanitisers and maintain physical distancing compulsorily when they were in public places for purchasing essential commodities. As per test results, 1,365 cases of COVID-19 have been found in 42 localities of 20 wards in nine zones of the corporation. Mr. Itnal has said that if positive cases increased at a regular pace, then it will become difficult to check the spread and asked people to strictly adhere to the guidelines and not to venture out of their houses unless it is absolutely necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adhere-to-guidelines-people-told/article34765174.ece
09 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||S.P.S. Gupta takes charge||S.P.S. Gupta, who took charge as Principal Chief Engineer of South Western Railway, was welcomed and felicitated by Indian Railway Infrastructure Providers Association (IRIPA). Secretary of IRIPA and Managing Director of Swarnaa Group V.S.V. Prasad and Treasurer of IRIPA Ramana Murthy felicitated him on Monday. An officer of the 1985 batch of Indian Railway Service Engineering, Mr. Gupta has served in various railway zones in different capacities, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sps-gupta-takes-charge/article34765172.ece
09 June 2021||Hubballi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.M. Udasi passes away||Six-time legislator and former Minister in Janata Dal and BJP governments Channabasappa Mahalingappa Udasi, 85, passed away on Tuesday at a private hospital in Bengaluru following age-related illness. Mr. Udasi was admitted to the hospital a fortnight ago. Although he had shown signs of recovery last week, his health saw sudden fluctuations on Tuesday and subsequent efforts to save him failed. He is survived by his wife Neelamma, daughter Jayashri and son Shivakumar Udasi, a BJP MP representing Haveri Lok Sabha constituency. A former Minister for Public Works in the B.S. Yediyurappa Cabinet in 2008, the veteran leader represented Hanagal Assembly constituency in Haveri district. Earlier identified with the socialist movement, Mr. Udasi contested Assembly elections successively for nine times, winning six times and losing thrice. His first win was as an Independent candidate from Hangal in 1983. Subsequently, in 1985, he retained the seat contesting on the Janata Party symbol. After Janata Dal split into JD(Secular) and JD(United), he contested unsuccessfully on JD(U) ticket in 1999. Joining the BJP in 2004, he won again and retained it as BJP candidate in 2008. However, he quit the saffron party and followed Mr. Yediyurappa, who launched the Karnataka Janata Party in 2013. He returned to the BJP along with Mr. Yediyurappa and wrested the seat back in 2018. Initially, a follower of former Chief Ministers the late Ramakrishna Hegde and the late J.H. Patil, in later years Mr. Udasi was closely associated with Mr. Yediyurappa. During his six terms as legislator, he handled Public Works, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Minor Irrigation and Textile portfolios and other responsibilities. He was known to be easily accessible. Mr. Yediyurappa said Mr. Udasi was a gentleman and dynamic politician committed to solving people’s problems.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cm-udasi-passes-away/article34765274.ece
09 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Accused shot at, dies||Hanumanth Chandrasha Kudalgi (40), younger brother of a former Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat member Shantappa Kudalgi, was shot at and killed here on Tuesday evening. As Hanumanth Kudalgi was travelling to Jewargi from Kalaburagi, a group of men stopped his car near Ballundagi village and shot at him from close range. Hanumanth Kudalgi was in jail for a few months on the charge of murdering BJP leader Shivaling Bhavikatti. He was out on bail. Police sources suspected that rivalry could be the reason for his murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/accused-shot-at-dies/article34765168.ece
09 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Free admissions for those orphaned by pandemic||The V.M. Rampure English Medium Public School at Hamilapur in Bidar has announced free admissions in nursery to Class IV for children who have lost their parent/guardian to COVID-19. School president Mahesh Rampure said that the pandemic has taken away parents of several students, which will impact on the financial stability of their families. “Students should not be left to remain out-of-school due to financial reasons,” he added. Admissions will start on June 15. For further details, call Ph: 9731777282.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-admissions-for-those-orphaned-by-pandemic/article34765167.ece
09 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shoes, socks distributed among pourakarmikas||The Kalaburagi Municipal Corporation has distributed safety shoes to all the 1,000 pourakarmikas working in the city. Corporation Commissioner Snehal Lokhande formally distributed 50 pairs of shoes and socks to pourakarmikas on the Town Hall premises here on Tuesday. He appealed to all pourakarmikas to use safety gear provided by the corporation so that they can discharge their duties properly and safely. Besides, hand gloves, masks and other protective equipment, the pourakarmikas will soon get uniforms. Mr. Lokhande said that tender has been floated for procurement of uniforms for male and female pourakarmikas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shoes-socks-distributed-among-pourakarmikas/article34765170.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Persons with disabilities aged 45+ and caretakers find it hard to get vaccine||To get his 45-year-old mentally disabled daughter vaccinated, an elderly Shantappa hired an autorickshaw from Saripalla to the special vaccination centre for the disabled at the Saanidhya Residential Special School in Shakti Nagar here recently. Shantappa and his daughter traversed a distance of about 15 km to reach the centre. However, when they landed at the centre, the authorities concerned informed them that vaccine cannot be given to Shantappa’s daughter. “When I called, I was told all disabled persons are being given the vaccine. I forgot to check before undertaking this long journey. I do not know why such a distinction is made among the disabled,” said a dejected Shantappa as he boarded the autorickshaw to return home. Vasudeva and his wife, Rekha, residents of Karmika Colony in Shakti Nagar, were disappointed not to get vaccination for their 47-year-old mentally disabled relative Radhika. “We have stood in queues on several days in front of the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) but could not get a chance to get Radhika vaccinated. We were happy, however, when we came to know of this special facility. By placing an age rider, they have made it hard for all disabled persons and their caretakers to receive the vaccine,” he said. The residential school in Shakti Nagar was among the seven centres in the city where differently abled persons aged between 18 and 44 were being given the vaccine. Nearly 150 were covered at the school on two days two weeks ago. More than 200 persons were vaccinated at St. Agnes Special School in Bendoor on May 27. Vaccination was organised at four other centres in Mangaluru and Moodbidri between May 27 and May 29. Similar camps were held in Belthangady, Puttur, Bantwal and Sullia taluks. So far, 3,586 disabled persons in the 18-44 category have been vaccinated in the district. Moreover, the Department for Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens had said that caretakers accompanying differently abled person will also receive the vaccine. Several elderly parents who accompanied their disabled children to the school in Shakti Nagar, however, had to return home without receiving vaccine. District Nodal Officer for Vaccination B.V. Rajesh told The Hindu that the Health Department cannot vaccinate those in the 45+ plus category as vaccine provided for the disabled was under the State government quota, which is meant for those aged between 18 and 44. Vaccine for the 45+ category is being given by the Union government. Administrator of Saanidhya School Vasant Kumar Shetty said that while vaccination for differently abled persons is going on smoothly in other parts of the State, this age rider is being applied only in Dakshina Kannada. “Unfortunately, the difficulty being faced by differently abled persons and their caretakers is not being understood,” he said. Dakshina Kannada District Officer for Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Yamuna said that more special camps will be held across the district to give vaccine to differently abled once it becomes available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/persons-with-disabilities-aged-45-and-caretakers-find-it-hard-to-get-vaccine/article34765177.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||These off-roaders have a passion to serve||Recently, off-roader Aaron D’Souza, who manages a restaurant in Kodailbail here, completed dispatching food parcels. He then joined fellow off-roader Dishith Shetty, a timber trader, who, along with other off-roaders visiting Ullal, which was among the several places in the city hit by Cyclone Tauktae. They drove on the fisheries road in Ullal to see whether anybody there needed assistance. The next morning, they joined fellow off-riders — advocate Roshan Raj, Shashank, Kushith Kumar and banker Pradeep. They rode in three vehicles to beaches in Chitrapura, Hosabettu, Idya and the Light House-NITK beach road that were also affected. They helped fishermen in pulling boats to safe places and also assisted a few in shifting household material. They also distributed food packets to families in areas across the city. Mr. D’Souza and Mr. Shetty are among the 21 members of ‘KA 19-20 United Offroaders” who have been involved in many rescue and relief operations in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. Around 50 off-road vehicles are involved in this task. Mr. Pradeep said the off-roaders of Mangaluru and Udupi got to know each other during off-roading competitions. “We all came together to form an association two years ago and pooled in all our resources to help the needy,” he said. Their first rescue was in 2018 when they drove through water-logged roads in Kuloor to rescue members of three families who were stranded. “From then on, we have been actively involved in rescue and relief,” said Mr. Shetty who has been into off-roading for six years. They have customised their four-wheelers to meet emergencies. “These vehicles have winches to pull objects. Limb raiser is tied on the either side of the windshield that helps in cutting branches as they drive through green road stretches. These vehicles have powerful motors, lights and other accessories,” they said. “Off-roading is all about driving through inhospitable terrain. We are using our passion to help those in distress,” Mr. Raj said. In February, they drove through inhospitable terrain to take firemen and other personnel to Bangarapalike Water Falls of Malavanthige village in Belthangady taluk and be part of an operation to search for a body of a youth who had fallen into the waters there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/these-off-roaders-have-a-passion-to-serve/article34765182.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Essence of Indian civilisation is Vasudaiva Kutumbakam’||Ecological civilisation based on harmony between human beings and nature is the only way forward if life on Earth needs to be better and prevent its annihilation, was the essence that emerged at the two-day international conference on “Ecosophy, Art and Peace” organised by Gandhian Centre for Philosophical Arts and Sciences, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, recently. The two days of the conference witnessed four special addresses, 45 paper presentations, a concerned discussion on contemporary issues and future alternatives. The sub-themes included as wide ranging as ecological challenges, socio-economic issues, literature, cinema, gender studies, philosophy, individual to international peace. In his inaugural address, MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. Gen. M.D. Venkatesh said that problems could be categorised as individual, socio-economic and ecological and they need to be addressed. The academic programmes, being initiated by MAHE, were in tune with this broader vision. In his keynote address, UNESCO Peace Chair M.D. Nalapat said that the essence of Indian civilisation is Vasudaiva Kutumbakam (The world is one family). Gandhian notion of “appropriate means” needs to be the cardinal philosophy in every walk of life, in international relations, so also in the time of pandemic, he added. In his session on “Possibilities of International Peace: A Gandhian Approach”, journalist Sudheendra Kulkarni maintained that the only option to industrial civilisation is ecological civilisation. Different sources of violence need to be addressed by Gandhian values of non-violence, love and compassion, he said. Writer Manu Chakravarthy argued for a shift from anthropocentric world-view to a more nature-centric world-view, a kind of harmony between humankind and nature, for a better world, in the session on “The Cosmos and Human Consciousness: Metaphysical Explorations through Cinema”. He demonstrated this with examples from films of Kubrick, Tarkovsky and Kurosawa. In her session on “Tagore and Environment: Philosophy and Praxis”, Bashabi Fraser, Director, Scottish Centre for Tagore Studies, Edinburgh Napier University, said that Tagore was inclined towards an ecological civilisation as represented in his notion of a forest university and Shanti Niketan. Nature never betrays those who love her, she cited. MAHE Executive Vice-President Vinod Bhat in the valedictory address said that research and publication need to define any university which holds the key for crisis and conflict resolution. Gandhian Centre Director Varadesh Hiregange maintained that art could be a medium for peace and ecosophical exploration and expression.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/essence-of-indian-civilisation-is-vasudaiva-kutumbakam/article34765162.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Enforcement teams initiate action||The 10 COVID-19 enforcement teams of the Mangaluru City Corporation on Tuesday booked 78 establishments that were operating in the city in violation of lockdown guidelines and temporarily cancelled trade licence of 30 shops. It also collected a fine of Rs. 68,350 from these establishments. These teams also found 19 instances of people moving unnecessarily after 10 a.m. on Tuesday and collected a fine of Rs. 8,050 from them after giving them a warning. The enforcement teams comprising officials from the Revenue and Health departments were formed by Corporation Commissioner Akshay Sridhar following orders from Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. The teams started their work at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. A team led by Deputy Commissioner (Administration) Santosh Kumar visited Jeppu area where it closed down Banjara Darshini and Sri Devi Family Restaurant that was found providing food to customers seated on tables. At Jeppu Market, the team closed down a vegetable store that was operating in the space related to a clinic. Among the other places that the teams visited included Central Market, Kankanady Market, Urwa Market, Bejai and Surathkal markets. Mr. Kumar said that these teams will continue pay surprise visits across the city till the lockdown guidelines are in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/enforcement-teams-initiate-action/article34765175.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Residents fined for not segregating waste||In continuing action against non-segregation of waste at source, the Mangaluru City Corporation imposed a fine of Rs. 53,000 on an apartment complex in the city for failure to segregate dry and wet waste. If residents fail to pay fine, the corporation said that it will disconnect water supply. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that residents of Mars and Venus Apartment in Chilimbi that has 106 flats had failed to segregate waste despite a number of notice issued by the Health Department officials. “As the apartment residents failed to take any steps to segregate waste at source, we had to impose fine,” he said. The fine has been calculated at Rs. 500 per unit. Mayor Premanand Shetty and Mr. Sridhar visited several places in the city in the last few days to make people aware of the need to segregate waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-fined-for-not-segregating-waste/article34765163.ece
09 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Free vaccine drive for MAHE students||Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) will organise a free vaccination drive for all students across its institutions, inoculating over 25,000 students against COVID-19. MAHE Pro-Chancellor H.S. Ballal said the university was in the forefront to organise the drive for the safety of its students based on government guidelines. M.D. Venkatesh, VC, said the aim was to help speedy vaccination of students. MAHE has already started vaccinating students in hostels. The drive would also help students residing in and around Manipal. They may contact their institutions for the jab. Other students would be vaccinated as and when they return to the campus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/free-vaccine-drive-for-mahe-students/article34765180.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State plans to make CET must for admission to B.Sc. courses||In an announcement that has caught second year pre-university students by surprise, the State government on Tuesday said it was considering making the Common Entrance Test (CET) mandatory for candidates hoping to secure admissions to B.Sc courses. Students have criticised the government for this ‘last-minute’ announcement, which they termed unfair, as they have not prepared for CET this academic year. College managements, too, will be left in the lurch as a majority had completed or are in the process of completing admissions to B.Sc. courses. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan acknowledged that CET may not be applicable to all science-based programmes. Entry into some courses may need certain relaxations, which will be decided depending on the nature of the course, he said. A source in the Higher Education Department said this idea was mooted as II PU examinations have been cancelled. “More students will pass out this academic year. We are planning to use CET marks as a filter as the demand may be more than availability of seats,” the official said. However, students remain unconvinced. Many pointed out that they had decided not to take up engineering or medicine as they did not want to sit for competitive entrance tests. Aishwarya S., who has secured a seat in a B.Sc. programme at a top women’s college in the city, said: “I chose to opt out of the rat race for engineering and medical streams and decided to pursue pure sciences. The government is making announcements based on whims and fancies and cannot expect us to follow it instantly,” she said. A public relations officer of a degree college in Bengaluru said they were midway through the admission process. “For most of our courses, we have admitted students based on their performance in the class 10 board examination and class 11 scores. A majority of the candidates who have opted for B.Sc. courses are not interested in pursuing engineering or medicine, and have not prepared for competitive examinations. Asking them to write the CET at this point in time is extremely unfair,” he said. He added that students tend to opt for B.Sc. courses as there is no entrance test involved. Introducing one so late in the year may deter them from pursuing academics and put them out of the ambit of higher education. Abraham V.M., Vice-Chancellor of Christ (Deemed to be University), said: “We follow our own admission process and entrance test and are in the process of completing our admissions by the end of June,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-plans-to-make-cet-must-for-admission-to-bsc-courses/article34765278.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Report sought on charge that KIMS doctors are skipping work||During Health Minister K. Sudhakar’s visit to Hubballi and the subsequent review meeting, elected representatives had brought to his notice that while most of the doctors and para medical staff at KIMS Hospital were working sincerely, some were skipping work and had continued to do so with impunity. During the meeting, they had also demanded dismissal of such doctors who were negligent towards their duties despite drawing huge salaries. Amid all these developments, the KIMS Director [Dr. Ramalingappa Antaratani] has said that notices were being issued to 11 doctors against whom allegations of skipping work had been made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/report-sought-on-charge-that-kims-doctors-are-skipping-work/article34765173.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Family planning||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/family-planning/article34765144.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||HC permits release of 1.51 lakh vehicles||The tentative amounts collected can be treated as deposits and can be appropriated towards the payment of fine, if ultimately fine is imposed on the owners by the jurisdictional magistrates, the Bench said. The government, in its application, had sought authorisation for the jurisdictional police to release the seized vehicles as such a large number of vehicles could not be transported to the jurisdictional courts. It also cited difficulties in finding proper accommodation for safe custody/parking of the vehicles. In normal course, the vehicles owners will have to file applications for the release of the vehicles before the jurisdictional magistrate or wait till the case is finally adjudicated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-permits-release-of-151-lakh-vehicles/article34765268.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||ASHAs tell CM about their fight against COVID-19 in the hinterland||When vaccine hesitancy was very high among people, Shivalingamma, an ASHA in Ramanagaram, had to do something that would convince the villagers. She got her husband vaccinated first to bring about confidence among the villagers. On Tuesday, she explained her experience to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during a virtual interaction. “When the villagers expressed concern about the vaccine, I got my husband vaccinated first to instil confidence among them,” she said. Like Shivalingamma, ASHAs from across the State shared their experiences on combating the infection in the State’s hinterland. Deepa Bajjannanavar from Vijayapura explained the hesitancy of people in coming to the COVID Care Centre, while Ratnamma of Bengaluru Urban district explained her work on creating awareness about consuming nutritious food. At Surebhavi in Belagavi district, ASHA Sharada Muddannanavar helped the poor people infected by COVID-19 by reaching out to donors to fund their healthcare. Lakshmavva from Navali village in Koppal explained how she successfully completed vaccination of 115 persons aged 60 and above. Sharada K.V., an ASHA from Mumbari in Shivamogga district, took part in the interaction from the COVID Care Centre where she is recuperating from the infection. While commending their work, Mr. Yediyurappa also sought details about their health, COVID situation in their area, and cooperation from people and higher-ups in their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ashas-tell-cm-about-their-fight-against-covid-19-in-the-hinterland/article34765271.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Picks up pace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/picks-up-pace/article34765165.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||II PU marks will not determine CET eligibility or ranks||The Minister also reiterated that only CET marks would be considered to issue a rank. “An official communication on this will be sent immediately to the respective councils, including the All Indian Council for Technical Education, the National Testing Agency, and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research,” he said. While the State government has waived the minimum marks criterion for II PU students who wish to give the entrance test, it is considering introducing an alternative screening mechanism based on how they score in CET itself. A minimum eligibility criterion may be introduced for admission into professional courses through CET, said Mr. Narayan, adding that it would be along the lines of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ii-pu-marks-will-not-determine-cet-eligibility-or-ranks/article34765272.ece
09 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Local body to help Kanjikuzhy residents get government jobs||Be it organic farming, day care centre for animals, distributing smart phones to students of poor economic background, and farming project for returning expatriates, the Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat in Alappuzha has set many models prompting others to follow suit. The local body has launched yet another ambitious project, Career Kanjikuzhy. It aims to ensure government jobs for at least one member in every family in the panchayat. As part of the project, job aspirants are provided comprehensive training, free of cost, to equip them with capabilities to succeed in competitive examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission, Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC), and other Central and State agencies. “Our aim is to create at least one government employee in every family. We have set a time period of five years to achieve the target,” said M. Santhosh Kumar, vice president, Kanjikuzhy panchayat. Funds for programme The local body has set aside Rs. 10 lakh for the programme. Classes are imparted online at present. WhatsApp groups have been created in all 18 wards in the panchayat. Study materials and questions are provided through it. According to panchayat authorities, 1,500 people have so far registered. An academic committee with retired government officials and people’s representatives has been constituted to oversee the activities. Faculty groups consisting of subject experts are entrusted with imparting training. Exams will be conducted regularly and answers evaluated by the faculty. Apart from providing comprehensive training in each subject, the panchayat will regularly update candidates about PSC announcements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/local-body-to-help-kanjikuzhy-residents-get-government-jobs/article34765679.ece
09 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Cop suspended for attacking doctor||Abhilash Chandran, a civil police officer of the Special Armed Police battalion, has been suspended from service for allegedly assaulting a doctor of the Government District Hospital, Mavelikkara. The alleged incident happened on May 14, 2021. In a statement here on Tuesday, Alappuzha District Police Chief G. Jaidev said a case had been registered against the suspended officer. Chandran, while being a member of the SAP battalion, was working with the Kochi Metro Rail on working arrangement basis. According to the complaint, Chandran had brought his mother, a COVID-19 patient, dead to the hospital. After alleging delay in attending to her, he threatened and manhandled a junior consultant surgeon on duty at the hospital. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Kerala State branch has demanded the immediate arrest of the accused. They alleged the police were deliberately delaying the arrest to help him get away. The IMA has threatened to go on strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cop-suspended-for-attacking-doctor/article34765305.ece
09 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||These tribal students to meet peers, digitally||‘Onnanu Nammal’ (We are one), an online programme designed by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, (SSK), for students of tribal settlements in Idukki and Wayanad districts and children of migrant labourers in Ernakulam district, is aimed at making online classes more interesting. Virtual classrooms It is a weekly interactive programme between students of different tribal settlements, or ‘ooru’. Through the exchange of academic and cultural information in virtual classrooms, the students of a settlement will get to know about the activities in other settlements. ‘Onnanu Nammal’ is primarily meant for lower primary classes in Idukki and Wayanad. Under a similar programme, children of migrant workers will interact with their peers in different parts of Ernakulam district and exchange academic and cultural information. Initially, the exchange programme is for nearby tribal settlements. Later, it will be extended to students in two different districts. Sindhu S.S., SSK State project officer, says nearly 3,000 students in Wayanad, 2,500 in Idukki and 2,000 children of migrant workers in Ernakulam would benefit from the scheme. The interactive programme for students of classes 1, 2, 3 and 4 will be held for two hours a week. The content includes songs, arts programmes, speeches, and interactions with celebrities, says SSK Idukki district coordinator Bindumol. School ambience It is aimed at creating the ambience of a school where each student will interact with peers through the online platform with the help of teachers, she says. “Classrooms are beyond their reach now. If there is no interaction between students now, they will be reluctant to attend classes once schools reopen,” she says. Now, they do not feel isolated and enjoy the online sessions, she adds. Minister for General Education V. Sivankutty inaugurated the programme online on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/these-tribal-students-to-meet-peers-digitally/article34765238.ece
09 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tree felling: action against cardamom estate||District Collector H. Dinesan has initiated action to cancel the title deed of a cardamom estate at Muthammal Colony in Chinnakanal, where its owner had cut nearly 150 trees and violated rules of the title deed in the ecologically sensitive area. The trees were felled under the cover of an ‘order’ issued by the government allowing the title deed holder to ‘cut all trees’ other than sandalwood trees. A report submitted by Udumbanchola Tahsildar Niju Kurian to the Collector recommended cancellation of the title deed and legal action against the owner. In March, the District Collector had stopped tree felling at Muthammal Colony and initiated a fresh probe into the tree felling. Officials said the estate owner illegally felled nearly 150 huge trees and the Collector got a complaint in this regard. An inquiry found that forest officials had failed to timely intervene to stop tree felling. A team led by the deputy ranger had visited the spot and registered a case. However, as per the mahasar, only 93 trees amounting to Rs. 1.25 lakh were felled. The Collector sent a letter to the government demanding action in the case, following which the High Range Circle CCF (Chief Conservator of Forest) ordered an inquiry by the Special Protection ACF (Assistant Conservator of Forest). The special team found that over 143 trees were cut. As per the report, three forest officials were suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tree-felling-action-against-cardamom-estate/article34765668.ece
09 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Police visit tree-felling sites||The police on Tuesday began an investigation into the alleged felling of centuries-old rosewood trees from private plantations in the Muttil South village limits in Wayanad by flouting norms. A team of police officials led by V.V. Benny, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sulthan Bathery, visited two of the 42 sites at Vazhavatta, Avalattukunnu, and Karimkannikunnu from where massive felling of rosewood trees had been reported. “We are collecting the details of the sites, number of trees axed at each site, identifying the trees using the logs seized by forest officials and interrogating the landowners and witnesses,” Mr. Benny told The Hindu . The police prepared reports of two sites owned by two farmers at Kuppady, near Vazhavatta, where six trees were reportedly axed. The police have registered cases against 68 persons, including 12 tribal people, in connection with the incident. They have been charged under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. The cases were registered on a complaint by revenue officials. Those accused in the case are yet to be arrested, police sources said. Case details The incident came to light after forest officials seized 54 pieces of illegal rosewood logs worth Rs. 60 lakh from a saw mill at Perumbavoor in Ernakulam district on February 9. The wood was transported from Wayanad without valid documents, and the seizure was made on a tip-off. The logs were transported by Roji Augustine on behalf of a timber company at Vazhavatta in Wayanad. The timber has been confiscated and shifted to the timber depot of the Forest Department at Kuppady, near Sulthan Bathery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-visit-tree-felling-sites/article34765316.ece
09 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||CB opens investigation against Kerala BJP chief||The district Crime Branch (CB) has opened an inquiry against BJP State president K. Surendran on the charge of bribing a potential rival candidate to withdraw his nomination in the recent Assembly election. The Kasaragod First Class Judicial Magistrate Court had on Monday given its permission to register a case against Mr. Surendran. Following the court order, the Badiyadukka police registered a case against Mr. Surendran under Section 171B of the Indian Penal Code. K. Sundara, who filed his nomination as BSP candidate from Manjeswaram, had withdrawn his nomination to contest in the election. He later joined the BJP. However, he had recently revealed that he withdrew the nomination after the BJP paid him Rs. 2.5 lakh, a mobile phone, and gave assurance to help him build a house and get a wine shop licence. Following this, LDF candidate V.V. Ramesan filed a petition in the Kasaragod First Class Judicial Magistrate Court seeking a police inquiry against Mr. Surendran. The police have moved to include Sunil Naik, Suresh Naik,and Ashok Shetty, who were part of the BJP team that went to Mr. Sundara’s house to pay the money, in the FIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cb-opens-investigation-against-kerala-bjp-chief/article34765303.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Taxing times for police force||As reports of an attack on a police officer at Marayur in Idukki district while enforcing the COVID-19 protocol came out on June 1, the incident momentarily threatened to be the last straw for an already stretched force that has been in the front line of the fight against the pandemic. Ajeesh Paul, a 38-year-old civil police officer, sustained fractures on the skull when a person who was stopped for not wearing a mask threw stones at the officer. Mr. Paul was rushed to a private hospital in Kochi where he had to be put on ventilator support, till his condition improved. “While the incident was extremely demoralising, the speed with which the State government reacted and decided to foot his entire treatment expenses reassured the police force that they will be taken care of if something were to happen to them,” said P.D. Baiju, president, Kerala Police Association, Kochi City. The injured police officer was also allocated Rs. 3 lakh from the Police Welfare Bureau. However, the police personnel remain far from an ideal physical and mental state owing to the rigorous COVID-19 duties and law-and-order enforcement. During the first wave last year, the force could focus solely on pandemic-related duties as there was a steep fall in crime rate, which is no longer the case. The delay in transferring personnel back after the elections remains another grouse. The post-election reshuffle has not happened yet on account of the raging second wave of the pandemic. Saving grace “Though the delay affects everyone, officers promoted as sub-inspectors towards the fag end of their careers suffer more, being away from their families during a health crisis,” said an association office-bearer. The saving grace is that despite being on the front line, the rate of serious infections has drastically dropped among the personnel in the second wave, thanks probably to their priority vaccination. “However, it is important that our families are also vaccinated at the earliest since we can still be carriers,” said another officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taxing-times-for-police-force/article34765295.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Administration of vaccines to be increased to 30,000 per day||With 1,868 new COVID cases on Tuesday, Ernakulam recorded a test positivity rate of 16.9%. A total of 11,055 tests were done. Of the people who tested positive on Tuesday, 81 were from Thrikkakara. Elamkunnapuzha recorded 77 new cases, Kumbalangi 73, Thripunithura 64, Fort Kochi 55, Nayarambalam 49, and Palluruthy 43. Kalamassery and Vengola saw 40 cases each. As many as 1,213 people were considered to have recovered, and 52,841 people remain in quarantine. The district’s active caseload stands at 19,296. Of those who are recovering from the infection, 13,568 remain at home, 1,447 are at private hospitals, and 570 at government hospitals. A total of 437 people are being monitored at FLTCs, 291 are under treatment at SLTCs, and 1,082 are at domiciliary care centres meant for people who cannot remain in isolation at home. Around 26,000 doses of the two vaccines were administered on Tuesday, and the district hopes to increase the figure to 30,000 per day, said Dr. M. G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/administration-of-vaccines-to-be-increased-to-30000-per-day/article34765298.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Pattoor land case: HC rejects Achuthanandan’s petition||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan against a Vigilance court order dismissing his plea for a probe into the alleged encroachment by a private builder into the land of the Kerala Water Authority at Pattoor in Thiruvananthapuram with the connivance of government officials. Mr. Achuthanandan had argued that the Vigilance court had not applied its mind properly while rejecting his complaint. Suo motu case According to him, the complaint was filed by him in 2015, much before the suo motu case initiated by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau on the basis of the same allegations. A crime should have been registered on the basis of the complaint given by the petitioner, he argued. He pointed out that the Vigilance court had rejected his complaint on the ground that the High Court had quashed the cases registered against former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, former Chief Secretary E.K. Bharat Bhushan and three others in connection with the case. In fact, the High Court had not quashed the complaint of the petitioner. Justice V.G. Arun observed that the Vigilance court was fully justified in rejecting his complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pattoor-land-case-hc-rejects-achuthanandans-petition/article34765239.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Lookout circular issued against rape accused||The Central police have issued a lookout notice and a circular against a man accused of raping a woman at an apartment in the city for nearly a month earlier this year. The accused, Martin Joseph, 27, hailing from Thrissur and settled in the city, remains absconding. While the lookout circular is aimed at stopping him from fleeing the State through airports, the notice advertises him as an accused in the case. The police said that the accused and the victim had been in a live-in relation for over a year before the former allegedly turned abusive in February this year. The victim hailing from Kannur and settled in Ernakulam as part of work, managed to flee the rented apartment when the accused had gone to fetch food one day. The accused had also usurped Rs. 5 lakh from the woman allegedly for investing in the stock market. The woman lodged a police petition only on April 8, a month after she had escaped from the alleged torturous life. The police have registered a case invoking IPC Sections 376 (rape), 344 (wrongful confinement for 10 days or more), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous means or weapons), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property). Bail plea adjourned Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned till June 11 the hearing on an anticipatory bail petition filed by Martin Joseph. In his petition, the petitioner said that suppressing her marital status, the woman had induced him into a live-in relationship. When the relationship got strained, the woman lodged a complaint with the police alleging rape, illegal detention and physical assault. In fact, he was taking care of her financial needs and had even paid her a lumpsum amount for pursuing a beautician course in Bengaluru, said the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lookout-circular-issued-against-rape-accused/article34765596.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Students worried over Plus One exams in Sept.||Students who entered the Plus Two classes in the new academic year remain a worried lot as they face the challenge of preparing for the Plus One examination scheduled in September along with pursuing the second-year online classes. Many youngsters and their parents have taken to social media to express their concerns. With the government deciding to go ahead with the Plus One exam despite the pandemic situation, the students fear that they would not be able to bear the increased load of preparing for the Plus One exam while attending the online Plus Two classes. Trial online classes The trial online classes for Plus Two programmes began in the KITE VICTERS web channel on Monday. “How are we supposed to keep track of the Plus Two classes and prepare for the Plus One exam scheduled in September simultaneously,” they asked. Many students point out that they are yet to receive guidance on how to approach the Plus One exam. Teachers, on condition of anonymity, admit that many, especially in regions like Idukki and Wayanad, were not able to access the online sessions for Plus One classes in the previous academic year for want of proper Internet connection and mobile towers for ensuring seamless connectivity. City limits “The situation was no different even in some of the areas in city limits. These students are finding it really tough to cope up with the present situation,” they say. The Directorate of Higher Secondary Education has said that the students need to concentrate on the 'focus areas' prepared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training for the Plus One exam in September. Only those candidates who have appeared for all subjects in the Plus One exam and completed the Plus Two course will be eligible to register for the Plus Two exam next year, according to the notification issued by the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/students-worried-over-plus-one-exams-in-sept/article34765597.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||V.J. Kurien to demit CIAL office today||V.J. Kurien will retire as the managing director of Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) on Wednesday. District Collector S. Suhas has been given the additional charge of the airport, said a press release from CIAL here. Mr. Kurien was instrumental in turning the people’s venture greenfield airport into a great success. The model has been critically acclaimed. He also turned the airport into a facility depending solely on solar energy for its power requirements. The effort brought the airport the Champion of the Earth Award in 2015. The award is the highest recognition from the United Nations for environmental protection activities. Mr. Kurien had retired as additional chief secretary of the State and had since continued to hold charge of the airport operations. His tenure ends on Wednesday after he was requested to continue for a period of five years after his retirement in 2016. Mr. Kurien, an IAS officer of the 1983 batch, has been at the helm of affairs of the airport at various times for 19 of the 27 years of the airport’s existence. The idea of an airport with public participation was mooted by him in the 1990s and a company for the purpose was floated in 1994. The airport was commissioned as a PPP venture in 1999 and has set a record of its own in terms of performance and profitability. The airport employs around 12,000 people directly and 25,000 indirectly. The airport has 19,000 shareholders and the company has been paying dividend since 2002-03. CIAL handles around 1 crore passengers yearly. The dividend out has been 282% as per a company communication. Mr. Kurien also ensured that development works worth Rs. 2,016 crore were carried out at the airport between 2016 and 2021. He began his career as Muvattupuzha sub-collector and went on to serve as the district collector in Alappuzha and Ernakulam and later additional chief secretary. He also headed Oushadi, Roads and Bridges Development Corporation and Spices Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vj-kurien-to-demit-cial-office-today/article34765300.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Ventilators provided at taluk hospital, govt. tells HC||The State government on Tuesday informed the Kerala High Court that sufficient number of ventilators had already been provided at the Government Taluk Headquarters Hospital, Tirurangadi. Advocate General K. Gopalakrishna Kurup made the submission when a public interest litigation petition filed by K.P.A. Majeed, Indian Union Muslim League leader and MLA, came up for hearing. The AG submitted that apart from increasing the number of oxygen beds from 20 to 106, nine oxygen concentrators had been installed at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ventilators-provided-at-taluk-hospital-govt-tells-hc/article34765287.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Two-wheeler rider knocked down by car||A two-wheeler rider died after being knocked down by a speeding car at Thykoodam near Vyttila on Tuesday. The deceased person was identified as Jimmy Cherian, 62, of Chaganasserry. He was settled in Thykoodam and working as senior circulation executive at the Kochi unit of Malayala Manorama .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-wheeler-rider-knocked-down-by-car/article34765293.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MVD seeks info from public on safety hazards||The Motor Vehicles Department has sought information from members of the public about advertisements, construction materials and structures that distract the attention of drivers or impede the safety of road users. This is as per the direction issued by High Court of Kerala. Members of the public can WhatsApp photos and details of such materials to the Ernakulam RTO on 85476 39007 (email kl07.mvd@kerala.gov.in) or to the Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) on 91889 61007 (email rtoe07@kerala.gov.in).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mvd-seeks-info-from-public-on-safety-hazards/article34765296.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||KMSC cancels order for vaccine||The Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC) informed the Kerala High Court on Tuesday that it had cancelled the orders for buying 1 crore doses of COVID-19 vaccines as the two manufacturing companies expressed their inability to supply the vaccines. The submission was made by M. Ajay, counsel for the corporation, when a public interest petition challenging the Centre’s Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National COVID-19 Vaccination Strategy and other cases, including the one seeking to open more vaccination centres, came up for hearing. The corporation had on April 29 placed the orders with the manufacturers for supply of 70 lakh doses of Covisheild vaccine and 30 lakh doses Covaxin.  The court adjourned to June 10 the hearing on the petitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kmsc-cancels-order-for-vaccine/article34765317.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Homoeopaths can prescribe prophylactic medicine for COVID-19: HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday held that a qualified homoeopathic physician can prescribe and dispense preventive and prophylactic homoeopathy medicines for COVID-19. Justice N. Nagaresh observed that homoeopathic physicians could also use homoeopathy drug for COVID-19-like illness. The court, while allowing a petition by a homoeopathic physician, said homoeopaths may provide add-on intervention to the conventional cases of COVID-19 and prescribe drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/homoeopaths-can-prescribe-prophylactic-medicine-for-covid-19-hc/article34765304.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||New Chief Wildlife Warden appointed||Bennichan Thomas has been appointed as the Chief Wildlife Warden. He was serving as the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Forest Management). Mr. Thomas, who had also served as the Field Director of the Periyar Tiger Reserve, will assume office on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-chief-wildlife-warden-appointed/article34765241.ece
09 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,718 test positive in Kollam||The district reported 1,718 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,473 recoveries on Tuesday. The new patients include 1,710 contact cases, two NRIs and six health workers. The number of people who tested positive in Kollam Corporation is 615. The district currently has 37,535 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,49,559. While 5,415 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 2,53,017 primary and 16,600 secondary contacts of the patients. Kollam currently has six CSLTCs and 10 CFLTCs functioning in the district. Alappuzha The district reported 1,197 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. The test positivity rate for the day stood at 11.1%. As many as 1,192 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of four others remains unknown. One person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 1,521 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 14,012. The police on Tuesday registered 34 cases and arrested 19 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 710 people for not wearing face masks, 497 people for violating physical distancing norms, and eight people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 168 vehicles. Kottayam As many as 644 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 636 people contracted the disease through local transmission. The daily Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district further declined to 11.64%. With 84 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thrikkodithanam with 40 cases. As many as 846 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 5,211 while 34,741 others remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamathitta, 560 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but one contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 12.7%. With 36 cases, Pathanamathitta reported the highest number of cases, followed by Thiruvalla municipality with 26 cases each. The disease, meanwhile, claimed nine more lives in the district. With 627 recoverie, Pathanamathitta currently has 5,605 active cases. Meanwhile, the district administration has intensified restrictions on the Panadalam municipality and 15 panchayats where the daily TPR remained high. ( With contributions from bureaus in Alappuzha, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1718-test-positive-in-kollam/article34765681.ece
09 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Bureaucrat turns teacher in online mode||Class 7 students of Government Town Upper Primary School here were in for a surprise when they saw a unfamiliar face on the screen during their online classes. Standing there with a globe and introducing them to the basics of Geography was Kollam District Collector B. Abdul Nasar, who also ensured their participation throughout the hour-long session. Mr. Nasar, who started off with Class 4 students after Praveshanotsavam, plans to continue the exercise in a bid to make the e-learning experience more effective and engaging. “I have been observing the problems associated with the remote learning process, including those in terms of communication. Transitioning to online from our traditional schooling system comes with its own challenges and as a parent I have noticed distractions and shorter attention spans. It’s an attempt to motivate the students and make e-learning more effective,” he says. The Collector turning into teacher and trying a more hybrid instructional method could definitely grab the attention of the seventh graders, who seemed very keen on answering the questions and doing the tasks.  Good response The live-streamed sessions received thousands of comments and some students also used this an opportunity to ask questions outside the curriculum. “The students were informed about the ‘new teacher’ and the subject just before start of the class. I will be teaching Class 10 students in my next session,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bureaucrat-turns-teacher-in-online-mode/article34765307.ece
09 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||State to complete HNL takeover soon||The long wait for revival of the debt-ridden Hindustan Newsprint Limited (HNL) at Velloor in Kottayam is about to end with the State government set to take over the company by June 30. Official sources said a delegation from the Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) led by general manager T. Unnikrishnan recently visited the HNL campus while a seven-member committee led by A.P.M. Muhammed Hanish, Secretary, Department of Industries, would soon visit the industrial unit and roll out a plan of action. Losses The previously Central public sector unit, located on 700 acres provided by the State government, had shut down its production plant about two years ago citing losses. The State government kickstarted efforts to take over the company in 2017 soon after the Union government initiated plans to privatise the unit. Confirming the move, Industries Minister P.Rajeeve said a reconstituted director board of the HNL was slated to meet for the first time in July. “Besides re-opening the company, the Kinfra has been directed to prepare a detailed plan for utilisation of its land, which also include the proposal to establish a CIAL-model rubber company,” he said. Earlier, the National Company Law Tribunal had approved a Rs. 146-crore takeover plan submitted by the Kinfra on behalf of the State government. Salary dues Based on the tribunal’s order, the State government had already disbursed 35% of salary dues of its employees. The HNL, in its prime, had up to 1,200 employees on its rolls and it at present employs over 330 regular and 300 contract workers. But for a percent of the salary dues disbursed as part of the takeover process, the employees have not received their monthly salaries from December 2017. On being taken over, the State government is expected to rename the unit before commencing commercial operations. The industrial unit, meanwhile, will be bifurcated with the Kinfra taking over 300 acres for launching a slew of projects, including Kerala Rubber Limited (KRL). According to officials, the KRL has already shortlisted three products under its value-added initiatives — off-road tyres, heat-resistant latex thread, and medical gloves. Responding to submissions in the Assembly on Tuesday, Mr. Rajeeve said the KRL would be developed in three phases in 100 acres at an estimate of Rs. 1,050 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-to-complete-hnl-takeover-soon/article34765678.ece
09 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Concern over Beypore losing trade status with Lakshadweep||The Beypore port is likely to lose its preferred trade status with Lakshadweep in the wake of the move by the Union Territory authorities to build stronger commercial ties with the New Mangalore Port. There is apprehension among the trading community attached to the Beypore port, with the four-month regulation on the Arabian Sea imposed by the Mercantile Marine Department under the Directorate General of Shipping coming into force from May 15. They feel that the prominence of the Beypore port, which has deep cultural bonds with islands such as Androth, Kadmat, Kalpeni and Amini, will diminish in the long run and subsequently impact commercial activities in the Malabar region. “The connection between Beypore and Lakshadweep dates back to the pre-Independence era. Now, the move will sound the death knell for merchants in Kozhikode,” said K.V. Rafeek, general secretary, Sailing Vessel Agents and Shipping Cargo Contractors Welfare Association. He said the proposal of the Lakshadweep Administration to strengthen commercial relations with New Mangalore Port had started affecting the trade in Beypore. “Over 60% of the cargo was supplied from Mangaluru this season. From next year, exports are expected to rise,” he said. Improving facilities A former master mariner of Shipping Corporation of India and Lakshadweep Development Corporation Limited, Capitan K.K. Haridas, who is also president of the Calicut Management Association, said that successive governments had failed to take steps to improve facilities at the Beypore port. The Mangaluru port had exploited the situation with enhanced facilities for cargo movement, he added. He said the Kerala government should be involved in a tri-party agreement with the Shipping Corporation of India and the Lakshadweep Administration for bettering maritime activities. “Now, we have no private cargo and shipping service from Beypore except dhows,” he added. Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) general secretary M.P. Padmanabhan, a native of Beypore, said the Beypore port, at present, transported building materials, petroleum products and LPG cylinders for islanders in the archipelago. The volume of trade was 103.88 metric tonnes, including exports worth 92.20 metric tonnes, during 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/concern-over-beypore-losing-trade-status-with-lakshadweep/article34765283.ece
09 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corpn. orders removal of illegal hoardings||The Kozhikode Corporation ordered the removal of all unauthorised hoardings in the city by June 15, failing which the civic body would do the same and charge the parties concerned for the expenses incurred. Corporation Secretary K.U. Bini said the order was based on a decision taken by the Corporation Council recently to remove all hoardings that may pose a danger to the public during the monsoon. It also applies to all hoardings that have been erected without the Corporation’s permission. “The Corporation gives permission to hoardings only after analysing the structural stability and ensuring safety. Hence, most hoardings that may be in danger during the rain could be unauthorised,” said Ms. Bini. The unauthorised hoardings include those erected as part of the recent Assembly poll campaigns. Those who erected them should remove them by June 15, after which the Corporation will send out squads to remove them. The expenses incurred by the squads will be charged from those who put up the hoardings. “We will serve them a notice to pay the fine. If they fail, we will proceed with revenue recovery,” said Ms. Bini.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-corpn-orders-removal-of-illegal-hoardings/article34765286.ece
09 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut University defers exams||Calicut University has postponed all exams scheduled to begin or resume on June 15 in the wake of the government decision to extend the ongoing lockdown to contain COVID-19. A release said here on Tuesday that the revised dates would be announced later. Principals’ meetings Online meetings of college Principals have been scheduled on June 10 and June 11 to discuss the conduct of exams. Those from Palakkad district should attend the conference at 11 a.m. and from Thrissur at 3 p.m. on June 10. Principals from Malappuram should attend the meeting at 11 a.m. and those from Kozhikode at 3 p.m. on June 11. The links have been e-mailed to the colleges, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-university-defers-exams/article34765290.ece
09 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vaccination to get a boost in Kozhikode||As many as 1,234 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode on Tuesday. The district administration has prepared a blueprint to vaccinate around 43,000 people a day in the coming days. According to sources, those aged above 18 would get vaccination every day. As many as 1,000 people each at the Government Medical College Hospital, 750 at the Government General Hospital and district hospital, 500 at taluk hospitals, 350 at block community health centres, and 300 at family health centres, and 200 at primary health centres will get the jab. Only those who register online will be vaccinated and spot registration will be allowed in rural areas without network coverage. Staff in mobile medical units or those from hospitals could be deployed at the vaccination centres. Meanwhile, the district medical officer said that a daily test positivity rate of 11.8% was recorded for COVID-19 when 10,671 samples were tested. There were 1,213 cases of local transmission of the infection while the source of 21 others remained unknown. A total of 1,714 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload dropped to 13,807.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-to-get-a-boost-in-kozhikode/article34765284.ece
09 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Marked rise in use of party drugs in State||The use of synthetic narcotic drugs or party drugs such as methamphetamine and MDMA (methylened ioxy-methamphetamine) has gone up noticeably in the State in the last couple of years. Narcotic control authorities, including the excise and police wings, point out that more and more educated youngsters are falling prey to drug rackets. Many factors such as ignorance about the dangers of such drugs, ease of handling and carrying, avoidance of detection, and misplaced notions of sexual satisfaction have been found to be driving youngsters into using synthetic drugs. The use is more in cities than in villages. Codenamed ‘meth’, ‘ice’, ‘molly’, ‘ecstasy’, ‘crystal’, and ‘love doctor’, the flow of party drugs has increased considerably into the State from tourist centres such as Goa and Bangaluru. “Even parcel services are being cleverly used to transport drugs,” said T. Anil Kumar, Assistant Excise Commissioner (Enforcement), Malappuram. MDMA seizures made in recent weeks from different parts of the State, including Malappuram, have thrown light on the involvement of young professionals in the peddling of party drugs. Unlike the peddling of ganja and hashish oil, those involved in the use and peddling of synthetic drugs have invariably been found to be from educated well-to-do families. Unaware of dangers “Most of those found using these drugs are in the age group of 20-30 years. They are not fully aware of the actual dangers and consequences. Several of them are unaware of the dangerous fact they are in possession of a commercial quantity of drugs having the potential to invite a heavy punishment,” said Mr. Anil Kumar. A large number of youngsters questioned in connection with the use and peddling of synthetic drugs in the State have been women, including college students. The police said a good number of those using party drugs were from the field of cinema. Several youngsters from Malappuram were found to have been involved in the wholesale business and transport of synthetic drugs. According to Excise Deputy Commissioner S. Unnikrishnan, the use of synthetic drugs was less in Malappuram district when compared with other places in the State. “The reason could be the semi-rural or semi-urban nature of the district. The consumption may be less, but there are a good number of persons from Malappuram involved in bulk dealing and transport of drugs,” said Mr. Unnikrishnan. Easy money without much effort and a callous attitude to the consequences are the main reasons for youngsters being attracted to drug peddling in Malappuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/marked-rise-in-use-of-party-drugs-in-state/article34765289.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. allowed felling of rosewood trees: UDF||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) members walked out of the Assembly on Tuesday accusing the State government of tacitly allowing “politically influential and well-connected timber thieves” to illegally harvest expensive centuries-old rosewood trees from land assigned to farmers for agriculture in Wayanad district. Seeking leave of the Assembly for an adjournment motion, Congress legislator P.T. Thomas said the Revenue Department had opened the door for illegal logging by issuing a dubious order in October last that allowed farmers to harvest trees they had grown on the assigned land. The forest mafia had used the order to convince unsuspecting farmers to permit the felling of ancient trees from their land for a pittance. They did so with the connivance of local forest, revenue, and police officials and had recruited “innocent” tribespeople as lumberjacks. The crime reported from South Muttil village was just the tip of the iceberg. The government had given cover to criminals to denude the forests of valuable timber. They had ferried much of the illegally cut hardwood to foreign markets. Two “prominent mediapersons” had oiled the government machinery for the racketeers, he said. Threats to officer Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the Forest Officer, Meppadi Range, had unravelled the crime despite death threats and intimidation from supervisory officers. He demanded a Statewide investigation into the rosewood theft under direct supervision of the Kerala High Court. Revenue Minister K. Rajan said the government had rescinded the controversial order in February. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran said the Principal Chief Conservator, Vigilance, would examine whether the crime was widespread. Investigation Forest enforcers have named two persons, Roji Augustine and Anto Augustine, as the main accused. Mr. Saseendran said Forest Conservator T.N. Sajan, who allegedly batted for the accused, was under investigation. Speaker M.B. Rajesh found the government’s reply satisfactory and rejected the Opposition’s notice for the motion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-allowed-felling-of-rosewood-trees-udf/article34765312.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Big task before Sudhakaran||K. Sudhakaran, 73, has capped his decades-long political career as president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee. The Kannur native started his political career in the Kerala Students Union. He briefly forayed into socialist politics in the later 1980s and joined the Janata Party. However, he returned to the Congress fold in 1984 and served nearly a decade as District Congress Committee president, Kannur. The post brought him into direct and often violent conflict with the powerful Kannur leadership of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), resulting in at least two murder cases. Mr. Sudhakaran was acquitted in both. Mr. Sudhakaran was elected to the Assembly thrice. He had served as Minister for Forests and Sports in the 2001 A.K. Antony government. While serving as MLA, Mr. Sudhakaran contested and won the Lok Sabha polls from Kannur in 2009. He lost his constituency in the 2014 polls but recaptured it in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections with a margin of 94,559 votes. In 2018, the All India Congress Committe nominated Mr. Sudhakaran as KPCC working president and member of the Political Affairs Committee (PAC). Clamour for change After the United Democratic Front's defeat in the Assembly polls, a significant section of Congress workers had clamoured for Mr. Sudhakaran's nomination as president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/big-task-before-sudhakaran/article34765314.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,760 cases in capital||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload rose by 1,760 to take the number of active cases to 13,154 on Tuesday. As many as 1,273 people recovered from the disease during the last 24 hours. 11,574 tested While 11,574 people were subjected to COVID-19 testing, the test positivity rate stood at 15.2%. Nine health workers were among those who were diagnosed with the disease. The COVID-19 death toll continued to increase unabated as 44 more recent deaths were attributed to the disease. The deaths occurred between May 19 and June 8. The pandemic has claimed 2,156 lives in the district thus far. The district administration placed 3,059 more people in quarantine. A total of 5,439 people were permitted to conclude quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1760-cases-in-capital/article34765248.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU plans measures to bridge digital divide||A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has resolved to join hands with the government to address the digital divide in the technical education sector. The university Syndicate on Tuesday approved a scheme to distribute learning materials, including laptops, to deserving students in affiliated colleges. A sum of Rs. 5 crore will be earmarked for the purpose in the first phase. Chaired by Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree, the meeting decided to implement a comprehensive insurance policy for students. An allocation of Rs. 2 crore will be earmarked every year for the scheme. The university decided to sanction a financial aid of Rs. 5 lakh to the family of Sooraj Krishna, a 21-year-old student of TKM College of Engineering, Kollam, who died of COVID-19 last month. A proposal made by the Syndicate student affairs committee was approved at the meeting. It was decided to grant activity points to students who volunteered for the COVID-19 management and relief efforts. Deadline The university has extended the deadline for PhD applicants for the 2020-21 academic year to submit documents to prove their category, qualification and experience to June 11. Applicants can send the scanned copies of the documents tophdadmission@ktu.edu.in. Students who are unable to prove their category will be considered as ‘general.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-plans-measures-to-bridge-digital-divide/article34765245.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways to fast-track renewable energy projects||Railways are gearing up to reach the goal of Zero Net Carbon Emitter by 2030 by fast-tracking renewable energy projects, including setting up of solar plants on unused railway land and along the track. Southern Railway has identified 268 acres of vacant land and 169 acres of land under it as part of its plans to increase solar power generation. Solar plants with a capacity of around 67 MWp (Mega Watt peak - a solar power measure) and capacity of 40 MWp will be installed on vacant land and along the tracks in the Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) mode. Railways have installed about 114 MW of rooftop solar power plants in over 1,000 railway stations and 400 service buildings. The solar plants on land along the track are for meeting its traction power requirement. Railways have plans to set up 3 GWp (Gigawatts peak) of land-based solar plants in three phases. It will also take up a storage-based solar project. This pilot project is being taken up to manage peak demand management and solar peak generation management. Dip in power bills By tapping solar power and setting up windmills, Southern Railway saved Rs. 13.25 crore on traction and Rs. 1.77 crore on non-traction energy bills during 2020-21. Solar power panels have been installed at various locations, railway stations and at level-crossing gates in the Nagercoil-Thiruvananthapuram section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-fast-track-renewable-energy-projects/article34765250.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘PWD 4U’ to the aid of road users||Do potholes, faded markings, unclear signages, erratic traffic signals, illegally parked vehicles or piled-up construction material on roads under the Public Works Department (PWD) annoy you? Then download the department’s PWD 4U mobile app from Google Play Store and Apple store and report the complaints to authorities for quick action.The complainant will just have to move the map to position the marker on the desired location and can upload photographs to support the complaint. The app has provision to describe briefly the problem and another section to pinpoint to which section it pertains to so that it can be referred to the PWD wing concerned. Once registered, the complaint will be forwarded to engineers of the roads wing through SMS and email. Once the defect is rectified and addressed, it will be posted on the mobile application. In the first phase, the service will cover 4,000 km of roads under the PWD. In the next phase, it will be expanded to 7,000 km. Necessary changes Launching PWD 4U here, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas said, “We will closely monitor the complaints and the remedial measures taken for the next three months. Based on the feedback from the citizens and the department’s internal assessment, we will incorporate the necessary changes in PWD 4U.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pwd-4u-to-the-aid-of-road-users/article34765309.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||15,567 more test positive in the State||The State reported 15,567 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,09,979 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The case graph has remained on a plateau for the past few weeks and the test positivity rate (TPR) has remained static around 14% or 15% despite the lockdown in the State. TPR on Tuesday was 14.15%. The State’s active case pool has been dipping steadily and was 1,43,254 when 20,019 patients recovered from the disease on Tuesday. Death toll The cumulative fatality in the State now stood at 10,281 with 124 deaths, which occurred over the past few days, being added to the official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday. Hospitalisations were showing a dip and from the daily average of 3,500, the figure came down to 2,510 on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/15567-more-test-positive-in-the-state/article34765311.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Give chance for pleas, panel tells CBSE||Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR) member K. Nazeer has written to Central Board of Secondary Education Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj that it is necessary for students to be given an opportunity to raise objections regarding the award of marks based on practical examinations and redress their grievances. In an e-mail sent to Mr. Bhardwaj, Mr. Nazeer pointed out that the commission had been receiving complaints since it began functioning regarding practical exams and award of marks. In the best interests of students, the CBSE could issue instructions to all institutions to adhere to guidelines regarding the assessment of practical examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/give-chance-for-pleas-panel-tells-cbse/article34765242.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Admissions in recognised schools||The government has issued an order that allows children studying in Classes 1 to 9 in unrecognised schools in the State to take admission to Classes 2 to 10 in recognised schools this academic year for continuing their education. This follows a letter from the Director of General Education asking the government to facilitate education of children in unrecognised schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admissions-in-recognised-schools/article34765243.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PHC facilities in all Central prisons||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has issued directions to establish facilities similar to those available at primary health centres (PHCs) in all Central prisons in the State. The decision was made at a meeting to review arrangements for medical support for inmates. While at least two doctors will be appointed in each Central prison, additional posts will be created if needed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phc-facilities-in-all-central-prisons/article34765246.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New dates for PSC exams published||New dates for the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) examinations from April to May 20 that were postponed in the wake of the COVID-19 situation have been published. For details, visit the PSC website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-dates-for-psc-exams-published/article34765244.ece
09 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Search on for black money case accused||The police have intensified the search for Shigil, the 15th accused in the Kodakara black money robbery case. The police suspect that Shigil, allegedly a CPI(M) sympathiser from Kannur, has escaped to Bengaluru. It is suspected that Shigil has Rs. 10 lakh of the stolen money. The special investigation team has sought the help from the Karnataka police to nab Shigil. Meanwhile, Dharmarajan, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activist, who allegedly sent the money, has moved court to get back the stolen money. He filed a petition at the Irinjalakuda First Class Magistrate Court. In his petition, he sought to get back the Rs. 1.40 crore and car recovered by the police from the robbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-on-for-black-money-case-accused/article34765291.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting ready||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/getting-ready/article34765684.ece
09 June 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Counselling can avert suicidal tendencies among patients: expert||Fear of death after being infected by coronavirus is driving some of the patients to take the extreme step. The recent incidents at the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) and at the King George Hospital(KGH) reflect the growing suicidal tendency among the COVID-hit. Extreme fear, anxiety and depression are said to be the major causes for the disturbing trend. Mental and emotional support to patients in distress and psychological counselling can go a long way in averting suicidal tendencies among COVID-19 patients. Apart from thoughts like ‘no one loves me’, issues like shortage of drugs, lack of medical equipment and high cost of treatment are also believed to be driving patients to take the extreme step. Two patients at VIMS and three at KGH have allegedly ended their lives while another made an attempt, but was saved by alert staff at KGH. “We have appointed four psychiatrists recently to counsel patients, some of whom are feeling lonely and depressed due to separation from their family members. When they suffer from hypoxia, the patients may sometimes behave strangely without their knowledge,” K. Rambabu, Director of VIMS, told The Hindu . “An NGO has offered to provide counselling for patients at our hospital,” says P. Mythili, KGH Superintendent, when asked about the recent suicide attempt at the hospital. An employee of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) was admitted to a COVID Hospital at Ukkunagaram after he tested positive. He called his wife and told her to stay at the hospital to attend to him. “I have already bought two houses for our two children and we need not worry for them. We will die together, even if you contract the virus,” he told his wife, says M.V.R. Raju, Director of the Centre for Psychological Assessment and Counselling, Andhra University. This indicates that the man was mentally prepared to die though he had bright chances of recovery. It’s a different matter that he died while undergoing treatment four days later. His wife was not affected by the disease, Prof. Raju says. Inferring from his case studies, Prof. Raju, who is also Head of the Department of Psychology, says, “A majority of patients are ending their lives due to fear of the disease. They seem to be unaware that barely 2% of those affected by COVID-19 are dying, while the remaining are recovering. Psychological counselling and support will go a long way in averting suicidal tendencies among patients,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/counselling-can-avert-suicidal-tendencies-among-patients-expert/article34765752.ece
09 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oximeters pilfered from Chittoor COVID hospital||Medical devices have been going missing from the wards of the District COVID Hospital here in the past couple of weeks. The district headquarters hospital was transformed into a COVID hospital last year at a time when COVID cases were on a sharp rise in the western mandals. In the first wave, the hospital was more of a COVID Care Centre with ICU facility. However, devices such as pulse oximeters, humidifiers, oxygen concentrators and ventilator beds shot up in demand only during the second wave, prompting hospital authorities to either purchase the devices in bulk or seek donations to buy them in order to treat the endless influx of patients flowing into the hospital beginning in May. Armed with sufficient equipment, hospital officials began providing oximeters and thermal guns to in-patients in good faith, merely asking them to return the equipment to the ward staff while getting discharged. Chief administrator of the hospital, Naresh Kumar Reddy, deplored that during a recent inspection of the wards, it was found that several devices had gone missing from the beds and the loss of property could run into several lakhs of rupees. “After being discharged, some patients managed to take the devices with them. Several fine quality bed-sheets have also gone missing from the wards. We have received information that those who got discharged are planning to sell the stolen equipment at a high price, particularly the humidifiers which are in high demand at medical stores,” he said. The official said that the medical and paramedical staff had served the patients round the clock, providing them all facilities on a par with corporate hospitals. “It is condemnable that people could resort to such mischief causing a substantial financial loss to the hospital. If we want to procure the devices again, it would involve a tedious procedure and the shortage of equipment will now cause much inconvenience to other patients,” Mr. Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oximeters-pilfered-from-chittoor-covid-hospital/article34765725.ece
09 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recall Lakshadweep Lt. Governor, says CPI||Communist Party of India (CPI) National Secretary K. Narayana on Tuesday demanded the recall of Lakshadweep Lieutenant Governor Praful Khoda Patel, alleging that he was coercing the people of the union territory to fall in line with the Sangh Pariwar diktats. Staging a solidarity protest on the Lakshadweep issue at Nagari, 65 km from here, the CPI leader contended that the BJP-led NDA government had resorted to closure of the local dairy sector in Lakshadweep, with an aim to hand over the same to Amul Dairy, besides interfering with the culture and traditions of the locals there. Dr. Narayana further alleged that the Lakshadweep administration was desperate to give away the union territory to corporate forces in the name of boosting tourism. The CPI leader cautioned that if the Centre continued its oppression of the Lakshadweep people, the party would take to nationwide agitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/recall-lakshadweep-lt-governor-says-cpi/article34765728.ece
09 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 technicians killed, one injured in cylinder blast||Two quality control technicians were killed and the director of a firm dealing with essential oils was seriously injured, when a hydrogen cylinder exploded at the plant located at industrial estate near Madanapalle on Tuesday. According to information, the Madanapalle-based private firm dealing with export of essential oils, which used send samples for quality check to Bengaluru or Puducherry, purchased a quality check machine (gas chromatograph) in view of COVID-19 lockdown. A technician from Bengaluru, Ninganna (47), a resident of Bijapur, had come to Madanapalle to install the machine. Shaik Nayaz (37), a native of Punganur, was called to assist Ninganna in the task. When the technicians were installing the machine, a huge blast took place, killing Ninganna on the spot and critically injuring Shaik Nayaz . The firm director, Siva Mahesh (40), a native of Madanapalle, who was at a distance was also injured seriously. Nayaz died while being shifted to SVRR Hospital in Tirupati. The condition of the other injured was said to be stable. The machinery and its enclosure were were totally damaged. A factory official reportedly told the police that the blast occurred when the technicians were connecting the cylinders of hydrogen, nitrogen and oxygen to the quality checking machine. Senior police officials visited the spot. A complaint was registered and further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-technicians-killed-one-injured-in-cylinder-blast/article34765730.ece
09 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Salaries of doctors hiked||The State government has enhanced the salaries or senior resident doctors, resident dentists, and resident super specialists. According to G.O. Ms no 58, remuneration of resident specialist post-graduate has now been enhanced to Rs. 70,000 per month, while the same for resident dentist has been revised to to Rs. 65,000 and resident super specialist to Rs. 85,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/salaries-of-doctors-hiked/article34765738.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana extends lockdown, eases curbs||Kerala reported 15,567 new cases on Tuesday from 1,09,979 samples. The case graph plateaued since the past few weeks and the TPR remained static around 14-15% despite the the lockdown. The TPR on Tuesday was 14.15%. Active cases dropped steadily to 1,43,254 on Tuesday, when 20,019 patients were reported to have recovered from the disease. Cumulative fatalities stood at 10,281, with 124 deaths, from the past few days, being added to the official list. Hospitalisations were reducing and from the daily average of 3,500 patients, the figure was down to 2,510 on Tuesday. Those being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals dipped to 32,992 on Tuesday from 39,061 a day earlier. The active case pool and hospitalisations have dipped in all districts and the declining trend continues.Karnataka on Tuesday reported 9,808 new cases, including 2,028 cases from Bengaluru Urban district. With 179 deaths, the toll rose to 32,099. The State had 2,25,004 active cases. While the TPR for the day stood at 7.53%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.82%. Testing levels stood at 1,30,224, including 84,510 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,08,62,227. Andhra Pradesh reported 77 new deaths and 7,796 fresh infections on Tuesday. The daily TPR of 89,732 samples was 8.69%. Chittoor reported the highest death toll of 12 in the past day, West Godavari (10), Anantapur (8) and Nellore (8), representing half of the new deaths. Two districts reported more than a thousand new infections, East Godavari 1,302 infections and Chittoor 1,210 infections in the past day. They were followed by Anantapur (918), West Godavari (755), Visakhapatnam (672), Guntur (518), Prakasam (499), Kadapa (410), Krishna (379), Srikakulam (376), Nellore (311), Vizianagaram (299) and Kurnool (147). The daily tally of fresh COVID-19 cases dipped to 18,023 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, However, the number of persons who died of the infection crossed 400 again as the State registered 409 fatalities. The new cases took the State’s tally to 22,74,704 while the toll rose to 27,765. As many as 31,045 persons were discharged after treatment while the number of active cases continued to fall, reaching 2,18,595. Only Coimbatore, Erode and Chennai had more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases each. Nevertheless, the number of deaths were high in a few districts that reported fewer cases. Coimbatore reported 2,439 new cases, followed by Erode with 1,596 cases and Chennai with 1,437 cases. Tiruppur’s daily count fell below 1,000 as 995 persons tested positive for COVID-19. In Salem, 975 persons tested positive for the infection. Coimbatore reported more deaths than Chennai. A total of 44 persons died in Coimbatore while 42 died in Chennai. There were 25 deaths in Salem, while Dindigul and Tiruvallur districts recorded 22 deaths each. There were 18 deaths each in Tiruppur and Tiruchi, and 16 each in Chengalpattu and Kanniyakumari. As many as 1,70,112 samples were tested on Tuesday, taking the count to 2,90,62,609.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijaywada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telangana-extends-lockdown-eases-curbs/article34765068.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists say police killed Madhukar||Communist Party of India (Maoist) on Tuesday alleged that Telangana police were carrying out a false campaign that its activist Gaddam Madhukar alias Shobh Rai died of ill health after being arrested in Warangal and admitted to Osmania General Hospital here, when actually the police “murdered him”. In a statement issued by Dandakaranya South Sub-Zonal bureau, the party condemned the “killing of Madhukar by police”. The bureau’s official representative Samatha said the party appealed to all democratic activists not to believe such propaganda by the police. Thirty-eight-year-old Madhukar hailed from Kondapally village of Bejjur mandal in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. He joined Sirpur squad of Maoists at the age of 16 in 1999. The party’s official representative said Telangana police had themselves declared that Madhukar was caught on June 1 when he was going to a hospital. Five days later, they announced that he died of COVID-19. The CPI (Maoist) representative charged the police with subjecting Madhukar to torture from June 1 to 6 without extending him any medical treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoists-say-police-killed-madhukar/article34765049.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devastating second wave turning a corner in TS||The second wave of COVID-19 pandemic in Telangana peaked between the third week of April and first week of May, overruning hospitals and even crematoriums, and causing massive financial and emotional devastation for people. It was in the second week of March that the second wave showed signs of rising in the State. The number of COVID tests was increased from the third week of the month. The cases and deaths which increased gradually till the end of March witnessed a sharp spike from the following month. While 1,088 people tested positive for coronavirus in the first week of March, it gradually increased to 1,307 in the second week, 2,137 in the third week, and 3,287 in the fourth week of the month. The daily tests increased from around 40,000 a day to 55,000-60,000 a day. Devastating April In April, the numbers spiralled. While 9,928 cases were detected in the first week, it rose exponentially in the second week to touch 19,341 infections and then swiftly surged to 35,423 in the third week. The fourth week of April saw 54,492 cases, the point when the second wave peaked. The highest number of daily cases was recorded in the same month when 10,122 persons tested positive on April 26. The daily tests were increased to 1 lakh to 1.3 lakh a day from April 8 to 24. Fatalities rose from single-digit numbers to more than 50 a day. It first happened on April 27 when 52 persons died due to COVID-related complications. However, during this time, doctors in government and private hospitals alleged that deaths were being under-reported. Decline from May The virus continued to rage in May first week too and then started to dip gradually. Incidentally, the Telangana government imposed a State-wide lockdown from May 12 to arrest the spread of infections. While 43,839 people were detected with the virus in the first week, the count of cases dropped to 23,317 in the last week of the month. In case of deaths too, the numbers began declining gradually. There was huge variation in the daily tests in this month, which did not go unnoticed by the common people or the High Court. From around 75,000 tests a day, it fell to around 65,000 and were then increased to over 90,000 on a daily basis. The least number of tests were conducted on Sundays, as has been the norm since the beginning of the pandemic. In June, the cases are still on decline and the lockdown continues, although the hours of relaxation is gradually being increased. Currently, around 2,000 to 2500 people are testing positive in a day. These many cases per day during the first wave was considered high. Senior officials of the Health department said that the cases will further drop in coming days. Precautions, vaccine However, people must continue to observe COVID-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene to stay safe, they advise. Apart from these precautions, vaccines can give a layer of protection to people and prevent the infection from assuming a severe form, if one were to contract it post vaccination, the officials have stressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deadly-devastating-second-wave-turning-a-corner-in-ts/article34765561.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anaemia higher among rural poor: study||Scientists at the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) here have reported that anaemia — reduced haemoglobin or red blood cells — is high in rural, poor children and adolescents while iron deficiency is more among the urban and rich across the country. Although anaemia prevalence was higher in rural and poorer children as well as adolescents, counter-intuitively, iron deficiency was less common among them. Similarly, anaemia was found to be lower among their urban counterparts while iron deficiency was seen more in them. In a recently published research paper in collaboration with the ‘Journal of Nutrition’, scientists analysed data on iron deficiency in the blood samples collected in the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS) conducted in 2016-18 under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The study included a representative sample of more than 33,000 children and adolescents in different states. It showed about 30-32% pre-school children and adolescent girls had iron deficiency whereas this proportion was lower (11-15%) in case of children aged 5-9 years. This finding provided new insights into the public health problem of anaemia, which, according to surveys, affects almost 40-50% women and children in the country. “When anaemia prevalence increases in subsequent surveys, usually, iron supplementation interventions through supplemental iron tablets or iron fortification of foods are intensified. But are solutions that focus merely on increasing intake of iron enough to reduce anaemia prevalence in India? It does not seem so as per this study,” said NIN director R. Hemalatha. Anaemia manifests when iron deficiency is severe, so it is expected that iron deficiency may affect the majority of the population. Measurement of iron deficiency in blood samples are expensive, population level surveys, therefore, usually measure only haemoglobin in the blood often used as a proxy to estimate the iron deficiency in the population. “Diet quality is important for efficient haemoglobin synthesis, as iron is not the only nutrient required; many other nutrients are also essential. Underutilisation of iron for haemoglobin synthesis in poorer communities could be linked with overall low diet quality like low intake of animal source foods and fruits. Highly prevalent infections due to unhygienic environment also reduce iron absorption and utilisation for haemoglobin synthesis,” said lead author Bharati Kulkarni. So, increasing iron intake alone without addressing the poverty-related constraints like poor diet quality, hampering iron absorption and utilisation, and high load of infections may not result in intended benefits for anaemia reduction through mere supplementation, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anaemia-higher-among-rural-poor-iron-deficiency-afflicts-urban-rich/article34765566.ece
09 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI team grills Y.S. Viveka’s driver, staff||A team of CBI officials, investigating the alleged murder of former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, on Tuesday grilled his former driver Dastagiri and computer operator Idayatullah . After a brief hiatus, the CBI team landed in Kadapa on Monday for a fresh bout of investigation. The duo was summoned to the guest house in Kadapa central prison, where they reportedly were asked queries pertaining to the fateful night. Dastagiri’s parents were already on the CBI radar, as they were summoned for questioning in April. This time, Dastagiri was questioned by the CBI for two days. More witnesses could be examined on Wednesday, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-team-grills-ys-vivekas-driver-staff/article34765735.ece
09 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja, sedatives seized, 4 held in Kadapa||Kadapa police arrested four persons and seized a huge haul of the prohibited ganja and other narcotic substances from their possession. On coming to know of the operation of a gang of five going on for some time, a team led by DSP (Kadapa town) B. Sunil and Taluq police inspector M. Nagabhushanam increased surveillance on their movements and arrested the four near Kagithalapenta bridge, apart from seizing 1.3 kg of ganja and 2,250 sedative tablets from their possessio. Four have been held while one is at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-sedatives-seized-4-held-in-kadapa/article34765733.ece
09 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Process begins for returning SEZ land to ryots||The Andhra Pradesh government on Tuesday launched the exercise of returning 2,180 acres of land to the farmers from the controversial Kakinada Special Economic Zone (KSEZ) by registering the land to them on the Kakinada coast in East Godavari district. In March, the State government had promised the return of lands along with exemption of stamp duty. The KSEZ is located in Thondangi and U. Kothappalli mandals. Document verification East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu that revenue teams on Tuesday began verification of the documents (land ownership/transfer) of farmers by visiting the villages as part of preparation for the land registration. The registration of the land would be done as soon as the government issued a G.O. exempting payment of stamp duty for the process, the Collector said. At a high-level meeting convened by Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and State officials convened here on Monday night, it was told that a stretch of 1,357 acres in the special economic zone area would be returned to the owners while in lieu of a chunk of 823 acres in the heart of the KSEZ, alternative land outside the KSEZ would be given to farmers. Denotification Mr. Kannababu said six habitations —Srirampura, Bandipeta, Mummidivaripodu, Potuvaripalem, Raavivaripodu and Ramaraghavapuram—had been excluded from the jurisdiction of the KSEZ. Meanwhile, the Police Department had been directed to withdraw the cases registered against the protesters of KSEZ. In the case of 657 acres of assignment land located in the special economic zone, those who were enjoying it would be offered a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh per acre by June-end. “The Revenue and KSEZ authorities should coordinate and complete the task in stipulated time,” said the Agriculture Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-govt-begins-process-to-return-sez-land-to-farmers/article34765057.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. staff in Lakshadweep worried||The Lakshadweep Government Employees’ Union has objected to the island administration’s decision to deploy government staff aboard fishing vessels for intelligence gathering. In a letter to the Director of Port, Shipping and Aviation, union general secretary Fathahudheen said the decision had made government servants who are members of the union ‘nervous’. He urged the union territory administration to desist from such a move, which may inflict anxiety and worry among government servants...” There were agencies such as the police, the marine force, Coast Guard and the Navy to guard India’s territorial waters and beyond. There were State and Central Intelligence agencies too working to detect security threats. For officials recruited for jobs other than intelligence gathering, this would be painful, the letter maintained. Local fishing boats operate within the territorial waters around the island group and the waters are monitored by the police. For a government servant, other than those working in the field of fishing, being asked to work for eight to 10 hours on fishing boats would only unnerve them, Mr. Fathahudheen said. In another development, following up on a letter written by T. Abdul Khader, chairperson of the Village (Dweep) panchayat in Kavaratti, its members, along with two members of the district panchayat, met the District Collector Asker Ali to request immediate assistance or supply of food and provision kits to self-employed and daily wage earners of the islands who have been hit hard by the nearly two-month lockdown to rein in COVID-19. Nizamuddin K.I., a village panchayat member in Kavaratti, told The Hindu that hundreds of low-income people found it hard to have a proper meal. “The Collector assured us that they would all be issued work passes and relief would be provided,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-staff-in-lakshadweep-worried/article34765056.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||52-day trawling ban starts in Kerala today||The 52-day ban on trawling, which begins on Thursday midnight and ends on July 31 midnight, will see over 3,600 trawlers off the Kerala waters as the fishers brace for another season of hardship. All boats from outside Kerala, numbering around 800, according the Kerala Fishing Boat Operators' Association, have been ordered to leave the State by the time the ban begins. A 24-hour control room has been opened at the Vypeen fisheries station for fishers’ safety operations. Besides, a marine ambulance and two patrol boats will be in operation. All diesel bunkers along the coast and in the fishing harbours will be closed. Inboard engine boats will get their fuel supply from Matsyafed-run bunkers and designated other outlets. Fisheries Department authorities have warned against juvenile fishing while officials of the Food Safety And Standards Authority will take action against those selling fish contaminated by chemicals. Free ration Fishers and workers in shrimp peeling and fish processing units who will lose their income during the ban period will be provided free rations and the workers have been directed to submit their applications through their respective Matsya Bhavans. Inboard engine vessels going out for fishing during the trawling ban season will be allowed only one carrier boat. Details of the boats and carrier boats have to be submitted to the respective fisheries offices. Traditional fishers, who venture out during the trawling ban season, have been instructed to carry biometric identification cards and safety equipment. Annual ban The period of the annual trawling ban was extended from 45 to 52 days last year despite the traditional sector seeking a longer period of trawling ban. The Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation and Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi had wanted longer periods while the trawl boat operators had pointed to substantial losses in fishing days during 2020 and 2021. The All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators had said that the 52-day trawling ban came into effect in addition to the large number of days that had been lost due to the pandemic spread as well as bad weather warning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/52-day-trawling-ban-starts-in-kerala-today/article34765054.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea for providing food to needy islanders||A writ petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Tuesday seeking a directive to the Centre and Lakshadweep administration to provide food kits to needy islanders and transfer cash into their account till the lockdown is lifted. The petition was filed by Nasih K.K. of Amini island. According to the petitioner, 80% of the islanders depend on fishing, coconut cultivation, and coir twisting. Most of them were jobless following the imposition of lockdown and curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-for-providing-food-to-needy-islanders/article34765053.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘More people involved in parlour firing’||More people beyond the six accused are suspected to have links to the beauty parlour firing case being probed by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS). The agency has reached such a conclusion after grilling gangster Ravi Pujari during his nine-day-long custody, which ended on Tuesday. “More people are involved in the case going by the confessions of Pujari. But that information will have to be verified before they can be arraigned in as accused,” said ATS sources. The investigation agency has decided not to seek further custody of the gangster, the third accused in the case and produced him before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, Ernakulam, on Tuesday. The firing took place outside the beauty parlour on December 15, 2018. The Crime Branch, which initially probed the case, had arrested the duo involved in the firing and recovered the firearm. The ATS remains confident of having secured all relevant information from the gangster who reportedly confessed to his involvement in the case as part of an extortion bid and in another similar firing case in Kasaragod in 2010. He had also reportedly admitted to his links with Mangaluru-based criminal elements who executed the firing with the help of local sources. The ATS also collected fresh statement of actor Leena Maria Paul, who owned the beauty parlour, through videoconference on account of the pandemic. She categorically identified the voice of Pujari, sources said. Directive to authorities Pujari was on Tuesday sent back to Parappana Agrahara jail, Bengaluru. C. Deepu, Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Ernakulam, issued the orders asking the police to take him back to Bengaluru on Tuesday after his eight-day custody with the Kerala Police ended on the day. While sending him back to Bengaluru, the court also extended his remand in the custody of the Kerala Police till June 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-people-involved-in-parlour-firing/article34765065.ece
09 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||G.O. violative of HC stay against alienation of RARS land: petitioners||The Rayalaseema Saguneeti Sadhana Samiti convener Bojja Dasaratha Rami Reddy on Tuesday alleged that the State government issued ‘G.O. MS. No. 34 in violation of the High Court orders’. He said the G.O. was issued alienating 50 acres of land from the NSC block of Thandancha State Seed Farm in Kurnool district in lieu of a similar extent of land “alienated from the Regional Agriculture Research Station, Nandyal” to the Director of Medical Education for the establishment of a new government medical college at Nandyal. Mr. Reddy said the Monday’s G.O. referred to a consent given by the Registrar, ANGRAU, on May 27 alienating the RARS land, which was violative of the High Court Status Quo order of February 3. He and four farmers had filed the public interest litigation in the Andhra Pradesh High Court against the proposed alienation of RARS land, he said. The counsel for Mr. Reddy and the four petitioners on Tuesday issued a notice to the Special Chief Secretary of Agriculture and Cooperative Department indicating that alienation of RARS land was a violation. The proposed site at the State Seed Farm was about 60 km from the existing RARS and it would take at least 10 years for setting up a Farmer Training Centre and other existing facilities like cold storage, seed godowns, processing units and the irrigation facility, Mr. Dasaratha Rami Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/go-violative-of-hc-stay-against-alienation-of-rars-land-petitioners/article34765726.ece
09 June 2021||Nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anandaiah to scale up herbal concoction production||The distribution of the herbal preparation of B. Anandaiah of Krishnapatnam was carried out on a brisk pace for the second day on Tuesday. Over 80,000 packets of the permitted variants of the herbal concoction were distributed in a decentralised manner across SPSR Nellore district. A network of volunteers fanned out across Sarvepalli and other Assembly segments to ensure the packets to those seeking it at their doorsteps to avoid crowding of people in violation of COVID-appropriate behaviour. Another 20,000 packets were sent to those seeking it in other districts, Mr. Anandaiah said a day after the High Court gave its nod for distribution of ‘K’ variant of herbal preparation. Earlier three other variants were permitted by the State Government. The High Court on Monday gave two weeks time’ for the government to decide on the eye drop variant. ‘Huge demand’ Stating that there was huge demand for the herbal preparation from those suffering from COVID-19, Mr. Anandaiah urged the State government to make available the ingredients to meet the increased demand for the four variants of the herbal concoction which had been permitted by the State government. Meanwhile, YSR Congress Party district president and Sarvepalli MLA assured Mr. Anandaiah of the government’s support to make available the herbal preparation to needy patients. Mr. Anandaiah now has a limited capacity to produce the herbal preparation with his network of volunteers who are travelling far and wide to mobilise the ingredients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anandaiah-seeks-help-to-meet-demand/article34765058.ece
09 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus claims 12 lives even as active cases dip||The number of active COVID cases came down further to a little over 21,000 even as 12 more patients succumbed to the viral disease in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours. Daily case tally rose by 131 compared to the previous day in the last 24 hours as 311 persons in SPSR Nellore district and 499 in Prakasam district tested positive for the disease. With this, the overall coronavirus case tally inched closer to 2.34 lakh-mark, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The toll reached 1,700 in the region with SPSR Nellore district reporting eight deaths and Prakasam four. So far, 866 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 837 in Prakasam district have died of the infection since the beginning of the pandemic. Recoveries continued to be high as 1,099 in Nellore and 1,487 patients in Prakasam were declared recovered. This brought down the active caseload to 21,287. So far, 2.10 lakh patients have won the battle against the disease. Meanwhile, health authorities arranged temporary sheds to accommodate those coming to hospitals in a critical condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/virus-claims-12-lives-even-as-active-cases-dip/article34765732.ece
09 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. failed to provide MSP to paddy farmers, says Veerraju||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Tuesday alleged that the State government had reneged on its promise to provide the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for the paddy procured in kharif season. The party staged a State-wide dharna protesting against the delay in release of the pending amount to farmers for the paddy procured. “The rice millers are having a field day by not offering the MSP to paddy farmers. In East Godavari district alone, the Civil Supplies officials are reportedly involved in irregularities of Rs. 200 crore that is supposed to be spent on transportation component during paddy procurement,” he alleged. Mr. Veerraju lamented that the ‘rice millers were raking in the moolah while the farmers were waiting for their money from the government’. “The State government is not encouraging drip irrigation and farm mechanisation, despite the Centre extending financial aid for it. We want Chief Mini4ster Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy to stop his campaign on farmers’ welfare,” said Mr. Veerraju.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-failed-to-provide-msp-to-paddy-farmers-says-veerraju/article34765740.ece
09 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police identify bodies found in Godavari||Three bodies found in the Godavari on June 1 were identified by the Rajamahendravaram police on Tuesday as siblings, who had ended their lives in a state of depression after their mother’s death. The deceased have been identified as Maamidipalli Kannadevi (34), Nagamani (32), and Durga Rao (29) of Kovvuru town in West Godavari district. All of them were unmarried. Their last rites were performed by the police on June 3 after nobody turned up to claim the bodies. Their mother Manikyam died on May 31 after a prolonged illness. None of their relatives, except the family members reportedly turned up for her funeral fearing COVID. Police said video footage showed that the three siblings had sent their father home and later jumped into the river. The bodies of the trio were found on the banks of the Godavari in Rajamahendravaram on June 1. Police performed the last rites after no one claimed the bodies for three days. “The identity of the deceased was traced on Tuesday,” a police officer said. Those struggling with suicidal thoughts or depression can call 94407-96535 or 94407-96502 (Rajamahendravaram City Police) for guidance and counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-identify-bodies-found-in-godavari/article34765103.ece
09 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adopt nature-based solutions for sea erosion: scientists||Kerala should urgently switch to nature-based and scientifically sound, multi-pronged solutions to protect its 590-km coastline from erosion, a team of scientists have said, pointing out that granite seawalls have proven counterproductive. They urge the government to list mudflats, coastal wetlands, mangroves and sandy beaches as Ecologically Sensitive Zone-1 and confine mineral sand-mining in the coast to the public sector. Collateral damage The independent review was carried out by Biju Kumar A., professor and head, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala; former chief scientists of the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) K.V. Thomas and Ajayakumar Varma; Shaji E., associate professor and head, Department of Geology, University of Kerala; and T.V. Sajeev, senior principal scientist, Kerala Forest Research Institute. Their report, ‘Seashore Erosion in Kerala: Review and Recommendations’, released on the occasion of World Oceans Day on Tuesday, lists recommendations regarding short- and long-term measures for sustainable coastal protection. “At severely eroded seashore, based on the importance of the landscape, hard structures will be needed. However, using granite for the purpose will lead to collateral damage, which would cascade from the Western Ghats to the seashore. Use of reefs in shallow waters (as a primary defence), concrete wall, tetrapods, geotextile tubes, breakwater and so on should be undertaken after Morphological Impact Assessment. Priority should be given to places where human settlements are close to the sea,” they said. In such locations, people living within 50 m of the high-tide line should be relocated without affecting their livelihood. In seashores with low erosion, and those that are prone to erosion or free of it, nature-based approaches such as sand dunes, mangroves and coastal vegetation are advisable. Fishing community At the hotspots/ESZ-1, sand-mining should be prohibited. New ports should be opened only after impact studies and consultation with the local communities, the report said. The report noted that while the population density in the State is 859 per sq km, in the coastal lowlands, it stands at 2,022 per sq. km. The report recommended the government to treat the fishing community as ‘ecosystem people.’ Their locations should not be used for other commercial activities. In erosion-prone locations, only the traditional fishing community should be permitted to build houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adopt-nature-based-solutions-for-sea-erosion-scientists/article34765063.ece
09 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sudhakaran is president of Congress in Kerala||The Congress high command on Tuesday nominated K. Sudhakaran, MP, as the next Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president. Mr. Sudhakaran said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had informed him of the decision. “Mr. Gandhi has a task cut out for me. He wants me to take everybody along and rebuild the party from the grassroots by bringing dedicated workers to leadership positions,” he said. Among Congress workers, Mr. Sudhakaran exudes the image of a strongman who has cut his political teeth in the cradle of Left politics in Kannur. His elevation as KPCC president arguably indicates the appetite among Congress workers to change direction following the party's second consecutive defeat in the Assembly polls. Factionalism The All India Congress Committee has also attempted to draw a line under factionalism, which dominates Congress politics in Kerala for decades. The AICC has also re-engaged with powerful social groups by naming V.D. Satheesan as Leader of the Opposition and now, Mr. Sudhakaran as the party's State president. It has also named Kodikunnil Suresh, MP; P. T. Thomas, MLA; and T. Siddique, MLA; as KPCC working presidents. The three leaders represent critical demographics in Kerala. A party insider said it was too early to sound the death knell for group politics in the Congress in Kerala. However, the nomination of Mr. Sudhakaran and Mr. Satheesan to the key posts signals an intra-party realignment that transcends traditional group equations and signals the advent of a new axis that extends to New Delhi. Outgoing KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran, Mr. Satheesan, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and former Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala welcomed the appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sudhakaran-is-president-of-congress-in-kerala/article34765061.ece
09 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagananna Thodu benefits 34,933 people in Chittoor district||As many as 24,362 members of rural SHGs emerged beneficiaries in Chittoor district under ‘Jagananna Thodu’, the State government’s flagship programme meant for small traders. The second phase of amount released through Sthree Nidhi on Tuesday benefited them to the tune of Rs. 24.36 crore. Similarly, 10,571 women in urban areas collectively got Rs. 10.57 crore released through the Chittoor District Co-Operative Central Bank. Durga, who runs a tiffin centre in Kanipakam, says her family benefited to the tune of Rs. 90,050 in the last two years. She and her mother-in-law received support under Asara and Cheyutha, her child received Rs. 30,000 in two years under Amma Vodi. C. Lakshmi, a vegetable vendor of Chittoor town and a widow pension recipient, said she was relieved of the ordeal of paying interest on loans after receiving support from Jagananna Thodu. Sartaj of Dargamitta in Chittoor, who received fee reimbursement for her son, an undergraduate, and a house patta, said this support of Rs. 10,000 helped her run a tiffin centre with ease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagananna-thodu-benefits-34933-people-in-chittoor-district/article34765734.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees 77 COVID-19 deaths in a day||The State reported 77 new deaths due to COVID and 7,796 infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The death toll increased to 11,629 and the cumulative tally reached 17,71,007.   The number of recoveries came down to 1,07,588  and the recovery rate further increased to 93.27% as 14,641 patients have recovered in the past day. The total recoveries stand at 16,51,790. The death rate stands at 0.66%. The daily positivity rate of 89,732 samples tested was 8.69% and that of the 1.99 crore samples tested so far remain at 8.88%. The tests per million ratio and confirmed cases per million ratio were at 3.73 lakh and 33,165 respectively. Chittoor district again reported the highest death toll of 12 in the past day. It was followed by West Godavari (10 deaths), Anantapur (8) and Nellore (8), which reported half of the new deaths in the State. Srikakulam district reported seven deaths while East Godavari and Visakhapatnam reported six deaths each. Similarly, Vizianagaram district reported five deaths while Guntur and Prakasam reported four each. Kurnool reported three deaths and Kadapa and Krishna reported two deaths each. Only two districts reported more than a thousand new infections. East Godavari district reported 1,302 new infections and Chittoor reported 1,210 new infections in the past day. They were followed by Anantapur (918), West Godavari (755), Visakhapatnam (672), Guntur (518), Prakasam (499), Kadapa (410), Krishna (379), Srikakulam (376), Nellore (311), Vizianagaram (299) and Kurnool (147). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,40,814), Chittoor (2,02,539), Guntur (1,54,862), West Godavari (1,47,714), Anantapur (1,46,113), Visakhapatnam (1,42,703), Nellore (1,21,757), Kurnool (1,18,181), Srikakulam (1,12,436), Prakasam (1,12,124), Kadapa (98,903), Krishna (93,434) and +Vizianagaram (76,532).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-sees-77-covid-19-deaths-in-a-day/article34765737.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||154 children orphaned due to COVID in State||The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic has left 154 children orphaned across the State, officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department said. The officials are now engaged in collecting the details of the children who have lost both their parents to the dreaded virus in all the districts. Representatives of Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and the villagers have been requested to help the WD&CW personnel in identifying and passing on information about the orphaned children and provide them protection, the child development and protection officers said. “We gathered information through Anganwadi teachers, NGOs and villagers. According to our information, 154 minor children have lost both their parents to COVID-19 in the State,” said WD&CW Director Kritika Shukla. Till date, the number of orphans identified in each district are 24 in Anantapur district, 18 in West Godavari, 16 in Visakhapatnam, 14 in Guntur and 12 each in Nellore and East Godavari districts. Ten children each in Kadapa, Krishna, Prakasam and Kurnool districts were orphaned due to COVID, the Director said. “It is very sad that the children were deprived of their parents’ love. Following the directions of the Supreme Court and the Centre, Rs. 10 lakh has been fixed (as ex gratia) for all eligible orphans in the State. The WD&CW Department will take care of the children,” Ms. Kritika said. The local Anganwadi teacher or worker and Women Protection Secretary will identify the orphans, which should be authorised by the Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) concerned of the WD&CW Department. Regular monitoring The local Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) and the CDPO should monitor the child in availing monthly interest of the fixed amount and the beneficiary is entitled to take the money after attaining 25 years of age, the Director said. “After conducting the social and home study report, the children will be admitted to Child Care Institutions (CCIs) and Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayams (KGBVs), if no guardian is willing to take care of the children,” said Krishna District Child Protection Officer Ch. Vijay Kumar. “Instructions have been given to the WD&CW Project Directors, CDPOs, Anganwadi supervisers, teachers and Women Protection Secretaries to send the particulars of orphans and semi-orphan children (whose parents died due to COVID) at the village-level in each district every day,” the WD&CW Director told The Hindu on Tuesday. “We will monitor the care and protection of children, even if the child is being taken care by his/her family members (guardians),” Ms. Kritika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/154-children-orphaned-due-to-covid-in-state/article34765111.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu urges Governor to protect frontline workers||Accusing the State police of harassing the frontline workers and public in the name of enforcing restrictions to check the spread of coronavirus infection, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to intervene in the matter. Mr. Naidu, in a letter addressed to the Governor Tuesday, alleged that the police harassed Lakshmi Aparna, a Dalit who is working in a private hospital in Visakhapatnam, when she was returning home in the evening during the curfew hours. “The police intercepted Ms. Aparna near Rama Talkies and subjected her to undue harassment,” he said4. The TDP president further alleged that some police personnel were acting in gross violation of fundamental rights of citizen guaranteed in the Constitution. “Frontline warriors, opposition leaders, general public, especially Dalits are being harassed by the police and persecuted. However, no action has been taken against the erring personnel till now,” he said. All section of the society are enduring hardships during the pandemic and they need friendly policing rather than meaningless harassment in this testing time. “The situation warrants intervention of the Governor and stringent action must be taken against the erring officials,” added Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-protect-frontline-workers/article34765183.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. balanced welfare and growth: Mekapati||Minister for Industries, Commerce and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Tuesday said the government was looking to reach the top slot in industrial growth by 2030 and contribute 10% of the national exports. Presenting a progress report on the industrial sector in the last two years, he said despite COVID-19 pandemic, the State managed to do a balancing act of implementing welfare and development activities by focussing on infrastructure, industry and commerce, IT and skill development. Even during pandemic, the State registered a growth rate of 1.58 % , he said, adding that while the focus was on protecting lives and livelihoods , welfare schemes like YSR Cheyutha, Aasara, zero-interest loans, MSME packages and financial support to women for their empowerment in the industrial sector were effectively implemented. Thrust areas The Minister said if ports, fishing harbours, projects like YSR Steel Corporation Limited, AP Airports Development Corporation, corridor development and concept cities were the mainstay on the infrastructure front, policies, re-start, business reform action plan, handloom and allied field development works would be taken up in the industries and commerce sector. The focus was on the construction of Ramayapatnam, Bhavanapadu and Machilipatnam ports and four fishing harbours . Establishment of four more harbours was in the process. “Building infrastructure is top priority,” he said, pointing out that the Kurnool airport was already in operation and steps were being taken to ready the Bhogapuram airport . He said 65 mega and large industries were set up in the State with an investment of Rs. 29,780.86 crore that created jobs for 45,049 people after the YSRCP came to power. Similarly, 13,885 MSME units were set up with an investment of Rs. 4220.71 crore, employing 88,516 people. Besides, 62 projects were under implementation with an investment of Rs. 36,384.29 crore with a potential to create employment for 76,916 people and five PSUs with an investment of Rs. 96,400 crore and a potential to create employment for 79,700 people, he said. The Minister said the State had recorded investments of Rs. 1,032 crore in this fiscal and projects worth Rs. 18,000 crore were in progress. Andhra Pradesh ranked the first in ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in 2020 and had been conferred with ‘Best State in Skill Development’ by ASSOCHAM.  The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) had been accredited with ISO:9001:2015 . It was also recognised by the Guinness Book of World Records for the progress achieved through virtual skilling during the pandemic. Mr. Reddy said 30 skill development colleges would be established soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-balanced-welfare-and-growth-mekapati/article34765745.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister clears air on education reforms||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday sought to allay the fears of teachers on the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP). In a statement, the Minister said the government was only exploring various possibilities and teachers need not be worried over it. He said there were several rumours doing the rounds with regard to the measures being proposed as part of introducing reforms in the education sector. Making it clear that they were only preliminary discussions, the Minister said the Director, School Education, had been asked to elicit suggestions from teachers and include the representatives of teachers’ associations in the discussions. Depending on the pandemic situation, a meeting would be held with the teachers’ associations very soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-clears-air-on-education-reforms/article34765746.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh vows legal fight for cancellation of exams||Taking strong exception to the State government’s move to conduct the SSC and Intermediate examinations in August, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary and MLC N. Lokesh on Tuesday said that he would not hesitate to wage a legal struggle against it. “The government is not considering the risk associated with conducting the examinations amid coronavirus pandemic,” he said while taking part in a virtual discussion on ‘Examinations during coronavirus pandemic and stress on students’. Mr. Lokesh pointed out that more than 560 teachers had died of COVID infection and the pandemic had claimed 11,552 lives in the State till date. “The CBSE and the ICSE have cancelled the Intermediate examinations. More than 14 States have followed the suit and the students there have started preparing for the JEE and NEET entrance tests. But, the Andhra Pradesh government, with its adamant decisions, is creating confusion among the students,” he said. More than 5 lakh students have supported the demand for cancellation of the examinations in an online drive. This agitation has been going on for more than two months, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-vows-legal-fight-for-cancellation-of-exams/article34765743.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covishield available for mothers today||All mothers of children aged above five years can get vaccinated at the 12 permanent vaccine centres in the city on Wednesday. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials said that over 6,000 Covishield doses would be available at the vaccine centres. The permanent vaccine centres are located at KBN College, Bhavanipuram Shadhikhana, Lowtha Subbarao Municipal School, MLC MC Elementary School (Old HB Colony), Rajiv Nagar CHC, AKTPM Municipal High School, MK Baig Municipal High School (Singh Nagar) Sadgathi Vidyanikethan (Madhuranagar), GDET Municipal School (Patamata), APSRM Municipal School (Krishna Lanka), Sample Building (Ranigari Thota) and Bishop Grassi School (Gunadala).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covishield-available-for-mothers-today/article34765102.ece
09 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister declares Year of Citrus||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu and Dr. YSR Horticultural University (YSRHU) Vice-Chancellor T. Janakiram announced Dr. YSRHU Year of Citrus 2021-22, at a virtual meeting held on the university premises in West Godavari district on Tuesday. The Minister appreciated the activities of the university to help farmers. He asked the university officials to take up more research on citrus, develop new varieties and enlighten farmers on diseases and in getting good yield during the year. Mr. Janakiram said the university officials would visit villages and explain to farmers on storage and export facilities, developing by-products and ways to get quality yield.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-declares-year-of-citrus/article34765747.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power staff seek frontline worker status||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh State Power Employees Joint Action Committee (APSPEJAC) on Tuesday demanded that employees of the Electricity Department be recognised as frontline workers and administered vaccine, irrespective of age and also a grant of Rs. 50 lakh towards ex gratia to the families of 500 employees who succumbed to the virus. In a memorandum submitted to the Minister for Energy Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, the representatives said they would boycott the ‘COVID Awards’ until their demands were met. Referring to the wage negotiation agreed between the unions and the managements of power utilities, they took exception to the comparison being drawn between the State Government employees’ pay structure and that of the Electricity employees. They alleged that attempts were being made to alter their benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-staff-seek-frontline-worker-status/article34765108.ece
09 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor pats Deepika for UN speech||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan congratulated Tadi Deepika, who spoke at the UN virtual global meeting organised in connection with World Oceans Day – 2021, on Tuesday. Ms. Deepika, a native of Antarvedi, spoke about reducing pollution in coastal villages. “I congratulate Ms. Deepika. She achieved this recognition for her work on waste management in coastal villages,” Mr. Harichandan tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/governor-pats-deepika-for-un-speech/article34765114.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports six deaths, 672 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 672 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning. With the new cases, the cumulative tally increased to 1,43, 215. As many as 975 people undergoing treatment for the coronavirus at various hospitals and under home isolation have recovered in the last 24 hours. The daily infection count was below 1,000 cases for the ninth consecutive day. The death toll also rose to 956 after six more persons succumbed to the virus, according to the COVID-19 bulletin released by the health officials. The number of active cases has further declined and stands at 7,750, while the discharges/recoveries have increased to 1,34,509.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-reports-six-deaths-672-new-covid-cases/article34765759.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 tolas of gold ornaments stolen from two houses||Unidentified miscreants made good with over 40 tolas of gold ornaments and around Rs. 3.5 lakh cash in two house break-ins in the city in the early hours of Tuesday. In one case, unidentified persons allegedly gained entry into the house of one K. Srinivasa Rao at Jagannadhapuram Colony in Akkayyapalem and allegedly made good with around 27 tolas of gold ornaments and Rs. 3.5 lakh cash from his house. Inspector of Crimes (East Sub-Division) Simhadri Naidu said that due to the summer heat, the inmates did not close the doors of the house. Moreover, the keys of the locker were also placed visibly. Miscreants might have entered the house from the main door and have committed the theft. After coming to know about the theft in the morning, the inmates informed us, he said. In another case, miscreants allegedly gained entry into a house belonging to one K. Raju, a contractor in Maharanipeta area, and stolen around 15 tolas of gold ornaments.  CLUES team Maharanipeta Police Station Inspector G. Somasekhar visited the crime scene and CLUES team have inspected the spot and collected the evidences. It was learnt that teams have been formed with officers to crack the cases at the earliest. Further investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/40-tolas-of-gold-ornaments-stolen-from-two-houses/article34765756.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held, COVID drugs stocked for ‘black marketing’ seized||Officials of the Drugs Control Administration, Visakhapatnam, seized COVID-19 drugs from a man, who was reportedly indulging in black marketing of the drugs at Maddilapalem in the city. K. Rajitha, Assistant Director (AD), DCA, said one Santosh Kumar was involved in the black marketing of COVID-19 drugs. A decoy operation was conducted based on a tip-off. The DCA officials contacted the accused over phone and sought Amphotericin B and Remdesivir injections. Kumar offered Remdesivir injections at Rs. 7,000 per vial. When he came to hand over the the injections, he was caught by the Drugs Inspectors and Vigilance and Enforcement officials. The officials went to the house of Kumar, where they found stocks of 11 different drugs used to treat symptoms of COVID-19, including antibiotics like Azithromycin and Doxycycline. Drugs Inspector P. Kalyani seized six Remdesivir injections along with the other drugs from the possession of Kumar, under cover of panchanama, for violation of Section 18(c) of Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, at Pithapuram Colony, Maddilapalem, on Monday. Drugs Inspectors V. Abhipriya and R. Lalitha, along with Vigilance and Enforcement Inspector S. Laxmoji, were involved in the operation and seizure, according to a statement issued by the AD, DCA, here on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-held-covid-drugs-stocked-for-black-marketing-seized/article34765750.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,000 kg ganja seized, two arrested||The city police arrested two persons while they were allegedly transporting around 3,000 kg of ganja in a container lorry near Lankelapalem area under Parawada police station limits here on Tuesday. According to the police, based on credible information, the police teams intercepted the vehicle near Lankelapalem. The accused had procured the ganja from interior areas of Pedabayulu mandal and was heading towards Uttar Pradesh. In order to escape from the police checks, the smugglers had fabricated a box inside the container lorry. However, upon thorough checking, the ganja was found. The two arrested were from Uttar Pradesh, the police said. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha appreciated the Parawada police for seizing the ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3000-kg-ganja-seized-two-arrested/article34765755.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oxygen plant established||As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR activity), Aurobindo pharma through its philanthropic arm Aurobindo Foundation has established an oxygen plant with 0.75 tonnes per day capacity worth Rs. 1 crore at MB Hospitals, Arilova, Vizag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oxygen-plant-established/article34765757.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six-year-old boy struck dead by lightning||A six-year-old boy was reportedly killed in a lightning strike, while his mother received severe injuries at Pulaganipalem area under Pendurthi police station limits here on Tuesday evening. The deceased was identified as Rohith. According to sources, the incident reportedly occurred when Pavani along with her son Rohith went to the terrace to collect the clothes kept for drying. The duo received injuries and fell unconscious in the lightning strike. Elder son of Ms. Pavani informed other members of the family about the incident. While Rohith was declared brought dead, Pavani is undergoing treatment at a hospital. A case was registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-year-old-boy-struck-dead-by-lightning/article34765760.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) condemns decision to collect garbage tax||The CPI(M) has condemned the decision of the GVMC to levy garbage tax from Rs. 120 on houses and from Rs. 150 to Rs. 10,000 for commercial establishments in the city. In a letter to the GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, party leader and 78th Ward Corporator B. Ganga Rao alleged that the GVMC Council has unilaterally decided to impose ‘user charges’ for garbage collection on the directions of the Chief Minister. This would result in an additional burden of Rs. 15 crore a month and Rs. 180 crore a year on the citizens, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpim-condemns-decision-to-collect-garbage-tax/article34765754.ece
09 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special vaccination centre for differently-abled at Arilova||Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari said that a special COVID-19 vaccination centre is being established for differently-abled people at Arilova (First Referral Unit) centre. The Mayor had received representations from several differently-abled peopl to set up a centre. She directed Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G Sastry to establish a special centre. Mr. Sastry informed her that the centre would start functioning from June 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-vaccination-centre-for-differently-abled-at-arilova/article34765761.ece
09 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Velampalli asks officials for details of fund requirements||Endowments Minister and in-charge Minister of Vizianagaram district Velampalli Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said that the State government was taking a series of steps for the overall development of the district while alleging that its progress was completely ignored by the previous government. Along with Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani and Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana, he reviewed the development of the district at the Collectorate. Speaking on the occasion, he directed the officials to submit details of various ongoing projects and the fund requirement to take up the issue on a priority basis. Ms. Pushpa Srivani expressed concern over many irregularities in disbursement of pensions. Ms. Srivani asked officials to conduct an inquiry and take corrective measures immediately. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal told the Ministers that COVID cases decreased significantly in the district. Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar, Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu, Parvatipuram MLA Alajangi Jogarao and S.Kota MLA Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao and other legislators were present in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/velampalli-asks-officials-for-details-of-fund-requirements/article34765107.ece
09 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will reopen jute mill’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana directed Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal to hold a high-level meeting with management representatives and trade union leaders for the reopening of Nellimarla jute factory. Mr. Satyanarayana listened to the grievances of the workers at the Collector’s office. Later, speaking to reporters, he hoped that an amicable solution would emerge soon over the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-reopen-jute-mill/article34765104.ece
09 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pensioners urge Jagan to release DA arrears||Andhra Pradesh Government Retired Employees Association’s Vizianagaram district president Ramachandra Panda on Tuesday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to release the dearness allowance (DA) arrears immediately as many retired employees were in a state of financial difficulty due to their meagre pension. In a press release, Mr. Panda said that the release of DA arrears would greatly benefit the seniormost retired employees as their pension was little compared to employees who have retired recently. Mr. Panda also urged the Chief Minister to finalise the Pay Revision Commission issue, saying it would help retired employees receive more pension which was necessary to meet the cost of living and skyrocketing inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pensioners-urge-jagan-to-release-da-arrears/article34765105.ece
09 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to speed up R&R works for airport||Special Chief Secretary Karikal Valaven on Tuesday directed the district officials to complete land acquisition and R and R works in Polipalli and Gudepuvalasa villages of Bhogapuram mandal. The delay in these works is hampering the construction of the Bhogapuram international airport. The Special Chief Secretary visited the two villages and observed the bottlenecks in completing the R and R works. Joint Collector Kishore Kumar and Vizianagaram Revenue Divisional Officer B.H. Bhavani Sankar accompanied him during the visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-speed-up-rr-works-for-airport/article34765742.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mad rush||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mad-rush/article34765749.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unsung heroes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unsung-heroes/article34765110.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Admissions into diploma course||The All India Institute of Local Self Government (AIILSG) is conducting admissions into one-year Sanitary Inspectors Diploma course ever year in June and January in Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Tirupati centres respectively. The details regarding June admissions can be had by contacting Berender Singh Farthyal, Regional Director, 8106135678.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/admissions-into-diploma-course/article34765753.ece
09 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Man killed for suspected sorcery||A man missing case reported under Dummugudem police station limits in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district last month has turned out to be a murder committed under the influence of superstitious beliefs. The gruesome murder of Kunja Bheemaiah, an elderly man of Kothamaredubaka village in the district, came to light on Tuesday morning following the arrest of four youths of the same village, who had allegedly strangled Bheemaiah to death and buried his body on the banks of the Godavari on May 12. The four youths had allegedly killed Bheemaiah suspecting him to be practising sorcery, sources said. Body exhumed Based on the confession that was reportedly made by the accused, the police exhumed the body of Bheemaiah and handed it over to the bereaved family members, after postmortem on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-killed-for-suspected-sorcery/article34765595.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Partner corporators for speedy progress of works’||Mayor Gadwal Vijayalakshmi has asked officials to inform corporators about all the ongoing developmental works in the city and make them partners in speedy progress of the works. During a review meeting on Tuesday on the progress of nala widening and flood prevention works in L.B. Nagar, Saroornagar and Hayat Nagar circles, Ms. Vijayalakshmi noted that L.B. Nagar constituency was the worst hit during the floods in October last year. In order to prevent such damage, works such as development of nalas, construction of box drains, construction of sluice vents, and desilting of nalas have been taken up, she said. ‘Share details’ She asked the officials to share the details of the ongoing works in all the three circles with the corporators concerned, and seek their cooperation in completion of the works on time. Tour lined up She said she will tour the L.B. Nagar zone soon, and inspect the developmental works. She urged the corporators to tour their respective areas and inspect the sanitation and other works so that the officials are alert. L.B. Nagar Zonal Commissioner Upender Reddy informed that 90% of the desilting works have been completed in the zone. As of now, all officials and staff are busy with ongoing vaccination programme in the city, he said, and assured that a special meeting will be organised with corporators and officials after the programme was finished. He listed all the developmental works in the zone, with special reference to construction of sluice vents for lakes with an expenditure of Rs. 1.4 crore. GHMC corporators from the L.B. Nagar zone, who attended the review meeting, gave an outline of the incomplete works in their purview, and explained the measures to be taken up for flood prevention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/partner-corporators-for-speedy-progress-of-works/article34765579.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Survey work for LI scheme soon||The survey and investigation work for the Sangameshwara lift scheme envisaged to irrigate about 2.19 lakh acres in 11 mandals of Andole, Sangareddy and Zaheerabad constituencies is scheduled to be formally launched on June 12 by Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao. He held a meeting with representatives of consultant agency, engineers of irrigation department and others here on Tuesday. The lift scheme is proposed come up on the right side of the Singur reservoir and told the survey agency to complete the work fast so that designs and estimates could be completed and work was taken up early. Explaining the proposal to the minister, engineers of the irrigation department said the project was expected to irrigate 57,000 acres in Sangareddy, 56,000 acres in Andole and 1.06 lakh acres in Zaheerabad constituencies. They stated that it would have two pump houses to lift water from Singur reservoir to a height of 125 metres. The first lift at Idulapur would lift water to 125 metres and take water till Venkatapur through Zaheerabad, Hadnur, and Kandi canals, while the second lift at Hothi (K) would lift water to 40 metres and take it till Govindapur through Mogdumpally and Zaheerabad canals. The first lift would serve about 1.77 lakh acres, while the second lift would give water to 42,000 acres. Mandal-wise ayacut proposed under Sangameshwara lift is Raikode (29,050 acres), Munipally (27,807), Kohir (10,010), Jharasangam (25,800), Zaheerabad (25,090), Nyalkal (23,100), Mogdumpally (21,950), Sadashivpet (38,852), Kondapur (12,363), Sangareddy (2,211) and Kandi (2,767 acres). According to the officials, the cost of survey and investigation work of Sangameshwara lift was about Rs. 16.08 crore. The lift scheme is likely to have approach channel for 3.9 km length and pressure main running for 12.2 km for the first pump house, while their length for second pump house could be about 0.8 km and 2.7 km, respectively. The total length of main, distributary and minor canal systems in the project were likely to be nearly 960 km. Along with Basaveshwara lift intended for Narayanakhed and part of Andole to irrigate 1.65 lakh acres, about 20 tmc ft water is proposed to be utilised from Singur for the two schemes and in turn get supplementation from Kaleshwaram project. Andole MLA Ch. Kranti Kiran, Chief Engineer V. Ajay Kumar, Superintending Engineer Muralidhar, Executive Engineers S. Subrahmanya Prasad, P. Madhusudan Reddy, representative of consultant agency B. Madhusudhan Reddy, former legislator from Sangareddy Ch. Prabhakar and others participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/survey-work-for-li-scheme-soon/article34765587.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,897 cases, 15 deaths logged||The daily positivity rate remained around 1.4% as 1,897 new COVID-19 cases were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Tuesday. A total of 1,33,134 samples were put to test. With 15 more deaths reported due to the infection on Tuesday, the toll in the State has reached 3,409. The cumulative total of positive cases has reached 5,95,000 and the total recoveries have gone up to 5,67,285 with another 2,982 infected persons being declared recovered. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, 93.44% (1,24,403) of the screening tests were done in the government facilities and the remaining 8,731 tests in private labs. However, reports of another 1,480 samples were awaited. Active cases remained at 24,306 as of Tuesday evening including 11,297 undergoing treatment in hospitals. Meanwhile, the active micro containment zone further went up to 275 on Tuesday. Based on the active cases in a particular locality, a highest of 87 active zones existed in Nalgonda district followed by 66 in Mahabubabad, 17 in Jagtial, 12 in Karimnagar, 11 each in Siddipet and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri and 10 each in Jogulamba-Gadwal and Warangal Rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1897-cases-15-deaths-logged/article34765555.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pregnant women at risk at GHMC’s COVID test centres||With the government ramping up COVID testing and also vaccination, the 85 urban health centres of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) have become a beehive of activity. However, there is a glitch. The health posts also double up as ante-natal care centres for pregnant women and post-natal centres for immunisation to children besides being the first call of centre for any health check-ups. Every Friday, the staff check weight, blood pressure and cholesterol levels of the pregnant women and every Wednesday, child immunisations are conducted. With a doctor, a public health assistant and 4-5 ANMs, they are also functioning as COVID testing centres. The numbers have only risen in the last couple of months even if this is being allowed from 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. only. While the difficulties of being understaffed and handling the crowd could be understood, the staff here are a worried lot. Due to the recent COVID testing and vaccination rush, it has become dangerous for pregnant women and those with infants to be in close proximity considering their vulnerable health. “The other day because of the rush, a pregnant woman was ushered into the COVID vaccination room inadvertently and an alert nurse noticed it. She was immediately moved to the next room for the general medical check-up,” claimed a health officer. “ANMs keep in touch with pregnant women and young mothers monitoring their health status for referring to maternity hospitals. People are scared to come to the health centres these days due to COVID,” they say. Putting up the COVID testing counters in nearby open grounds or community halls and extending the timings till 5 p.m., are being suggested. “Daily, about 100 tokens are being issued for testing forcing others to return the next day and in the meantime, they could be infecting others,” explain health officials concerned. A couple of corporators had successfully taken the initiative to take requisite permissions to move the testing facility to a playground in some divisions. Health officials also feel if a referral system for reporting positive cases is established, the mild and moderate could be sent to designated isolation centres while the serious ones could be sent to Gandhi and other public hospitals, which could help reduce mortalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pregnant-women-at-risk-at-ghmcs-covid-test-centres/article34765570.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices to State over iris test for groceries distribution||Telangana High Court on Tuesday issued notices to the State government over identifying beneficiaries through iris test for distribution of groceries to ration card holders. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the direction after hearing a PIL petition which stated that iris test would spread COVID-19. The bench instructed the Civil Supplies Principal Secretary and Commissioner to file a counter affidavit by July 22 on the matter. Three citizens from Gajularamaram of Qutbullahpur in Ranga Reddy district filed the PIL plea stating that authorities were using iris test to recognise beneficiaries for distribution of groceries. The ration card holders would have to bring their eyes in close contact with the machine for the test. This would result in contracting coronavirus as all beneficiaries have to use the same machine and come in close contact during the test, the petitioners’ counsel contended. This was against the directions issued by the HC earlier and the system should be stopped forthwith, they said. Special Government Pleader Harinder Pershad appearing for the government informed the court that authorities already secured the opinion of Sarojini Devi Eye hospital Superintendent on the matter. He claimed that doctors ruled out the possibility of the virus spreading through iris test. However, the petitioners’ counsel argued that persons undergoing the test would have to physically contact the machine by bringing their eyes close to the machine. This would naturally increase the possibility of contracting the virus, he told the court. When the bench sought to know how close a person had to come to the machine for iris test, the SGP said he needs to secure instructions on the matter. The matter was posted to July 22 for next hearing. In a separate PIL petition, the government informed the court that it had taken action against industries causing environmental pollution in Shastrinagar and Tatanagar. While GHMC issued notices to such industrial units, the Electricity department disconnected power supply to them, the authorities told the bench.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-notices-to-state-over-iris-test-for-groceries-distribution/article34765588.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to take up pilot project on health profile of State||The Cabinet on Tuesday decided to take up a project on creating the health profile of Telangana on a pilot basis in Mulug and Sircilla districts. In a wide range of decisions on health sector, the Cabinet also extended the services of diagnostic labs to district headquarters hospitals in all districts. Earlier, the labs were sanctioned for hospitals in only 19 districts and they would be inaugurated on Wednesday. They will have ECG, digital X ray, ultrasound, 2 D Echo and mammogram for screening cancer in women. For investigation and treatment of allergies, exclusive centres will be set up in Hyderabad, Warangal and Siddipet. Cancer centres In view of high demand for dialysis, the centres offering the services will be equipped with more machines. Also, some more new centres will be opened in the State. District level cancer centres will be established to offer chemo and radio therapy to patients. Blood banks will be modernised and new ones set up to meet the demand for blood. Basic infrastructure and staff will be deployed for better health care services in orthopaedic, neurology and speciality wings at hospitals. A Cabinet sub-committee to study conditions in government hospitals and suggest improvements in facilities, staff headcount and other basic services was constituted under the chairmanship of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at the Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. Members of the committee included G. Jagdish Reddy, T. Srinivas Yadav, V. Prashant Reddy, P. Sabita Indra Reddy and Satyavathi Rathod. The panel was mandated to submit a report after studying best practices in hospitals of Tamil Nadu and Kerala known to maintain highest standards of medicare. It should also visit Sri Lanka. A release said the Cabinet decided to construct 100-bed hospitals in Sattupalli and Madhira and convert the existing ones there to mother and child care centres. Another existing 50-bed mother and child care centre in Suryapet should be upgraded to 200 beds. They will have separate buildings and no other services will be offered there. Separate maternal intensive care units (ICUs) will be set up for high-risk deliveries. All-inclusive nutrition kits should be given to women from the third month of pregnancy. Accommodation should be provided to attendants in government hospitals of all levels. Immediate steps should be taken in this regard. A hospital on the lines of All India Institute of Medical Sciences at New Delhi will be constructed in the land being vacated by Central Jail at Warangal. Nursing, mid wifery, lab, radiology and dialysis technician courses will be offered in colleges attached to government hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-take-up-pilot-project-on-health-profile-of-state/article34765591.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rush at fish markets||Heavy rush was witnessed at fish markets across the State on Tuesday on the auspicious occasion of setting in of ‘mrugasira karthi’ as people converged to buy their favourite varieties. Sticking to the popular belief that consumption of fish on the first day of the age-old calendar was good for health, people thronged the markets pushing up the prices of varieties like ‘korra menu’, which was generally sold for Rs. 300 a kg, to Rs. 800 a kg on Tuesday at the wholesale market in Musheerabad. Fish that were generally available for Rs. 100 a kg were sold for Rs. 200 a kg. The markets were crowded with people unmindful of the dangers of the spread of COVID from 4 a.m. The police were also mute spectators. About 300 tonnes of fish arrive at Musheerabad market from other cities everyday but 250 tonnes were sold out by day break on Tuesday, according to shopkeepers. The sales were also brisk in all major towns of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rush-at-fish-markets/article34765576.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Teenager injured in fist fight succumbs||A teenager who was injured in a street fight following an altercation with several youths at Dabeerpura succumbed to his injuries on Tuesday. Mohammed Adnan (19), a resident of Farhatnagar in Dabeerpura, was the son of a tailor Mohammed Ishaq. He died while undergoing treatment at Osmania General Hospital, where he was rushed soon after being injured. Police identified the accused as Syed Khaja Moinuddin Kamran (19), a student and resident of Chanchalguda, brothers Syed Najeeb (19) and Syed Mustafa Mujeeb (18), both students and residents of Chanchalguda, and Abdullah (19). Two juveniles have also been identified. According to the police, Kamran, Najeeb, Mujeeb, and Abdullah are friends. The youths met near Arshad Ali Hospital, new Chanchalguda Road, after which an altercation, which turned into a fist fight, ensued over one of them being allegedly bullied. The victim, Adnan, was being beaten up when he tried to intervene. One of the blows landed on the back of his head and he collapsed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/teenager-injured-in-fist-fight-succumbs/article34765583.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Strengthen healthcare with ‘saved’ money’||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has advised the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government to prepare the health infrastructure to administer one lakh COVID vaccinations a day this month and for the next few months to inoculate the entire population as up to 70 lakh vials are expected till August. Addressing a virtual press conference on Tuesday, the Karimnagar MP has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao make use of the Rs. 2,500 crore allotted for procuring the vaccines to strengthen the public healthcare system and employ more permanent staff as the money has been saved thanks to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement to provide free vaccines to citizens from 18-44 age groups. ‘Blame game’ Hailing the Prime Ministers initiative, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said that instead of resorting to blame game against the Centre for every kind of deficiencies during the pandemic, it is time for the Telangana government to use the money for improving public healthcare institutions, recruiting more doctors, nurses and para-medical staff on a regular basis, paying salaries on time and ensuring that life-saving equipment and medicines are made available to the people. Mr. Sanjay Kumar wanted the Chief Minister to focus on these issues on a top priority since he has been holding the medical and health portfolio ever since the sacking of Eatala Rajender. “Ayushman Bharat or Arogyasri health insurance should be implemented now. There is also dearth of proper protection kits, gloves and face masks to the healthcare personnel and this should be addressed immediately. The Centre has already released free foodgrains and the government should provide the same to the eligible beneficiaries without any further delay,” the Bharatiya Janata Party State president said. While there is little doubt the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government has been fudging figures on COVID positive cases and mortalities, it should present the correct picture to the Centre based on which the vaccine supplies would be made, added the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state pressidednt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/strengthen-healthcare-with-saved-money/article34765590.ece
09 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Suicide attempts near Pragathi Bhavan||A man tried to set himself ablaze while another jumped in front of Finance Minister Harish Rao’s vehicle, ahead of the Cabinet meeting at Pragathi Bhavan on Tuesday. Denied justice? Panjagutta police identified the duo as Suresh Kumar and Narsing Rao, both brothers. They were upset over a land dispute at Petbashirabad Police Station limits and claimed they were denied justice. The duo reached Pragathi Bhavan around 1.30 p.m., half-an-hour ahead of the scheduled commencement of the Cabinet meeting. Pulled away from car Narsing doused himself with kerosene and threatened to immolate himself. An alert police grabbed him before he could set himself afire, and threw water on him. Meanwhile, Suresh saw Mr. Rao in his car and lunged at it. Police had to restrain him, and pull him away from the vehicle. The duo was then taken to the police station. A police case was filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/suicide-attempts-near-pragathi-bhavan/article34765581.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||910 more students jabbed||On the third day of a special COVID-19 vaccination drive for students who are set to travel abroad for higher studies, 910 were given the jab at the Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM), Narayanaguda, on Tuesday. While 1,400 students were allotted the slots, 490 did not turn up for vaccination. A few students who were under 18 had also registered for the drive. However, IPM director K. Shankar said those under 18 years are not being given the jab. The State government initiated the drive for the students on Saturday. At least 7,000 have registered for the vaccination and only Covishield is being administered to them. The time interval between first and second dose of the vaccine has been reduced from 12-16 weeks to four weeks for the students. Around 1,400 slots were issued for Wednesday too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/910-more-students-jabbed/article34765562.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Oceans key to our economy’||Oceans absorb about 30% of carbon dioxide produced by humans, buffering the impacts of global warming. They are the key to our economy and the driving force for monsoons, flywheel of climate and origin of hazards such as cyclones, tsunamis and sea level rises, said Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) director T. Srinivasa Kumar on Tuesday. Addressing an online dialogue on ‘World Ocean Day’ on the theme ‘The Ocean: Life and Livelihoods’, he said oceans produce at least 50% of the planet’s oxygen and are the main source of protein for more than a billion people around the world. Former director of National Institute of Oceanography and chairperson of Research Advisory Council of INCOIS Satish Shetye, a world-renowned physical oceanographer, delivered a talk on ‘Physics of the Ocean at India’s doorstep; on the importance of ocean observations in understanding shelf currents along the Indian Coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oceans-key-to-our-economy/article34765563.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leader seeks probe into former VC’s ‘misrule’||AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan has demanded an inquiry into the tenure of Appa Rao Podile, who stepped down as the Vice-Chancellor of University of Hyderabad (UoH) on Monday. In a statement here, he said the tenure of Mr. Appa Rao was controversial and alleged that his ‘misrule’ had tarnished the image of the institution both academically and administratively with suicides and protests by students. He also demanded a white paper to be published on the alleged financial irregularities that took place during his term. Alleged discrimination Mr. Sravan said Rohit Vemula, who died by suicide in January 2016, had also alleged discrimination by the administration when Mr. Appa Rao was the Vice-Chancellor. He also alleged that university ranking at the national and international level also slid due to the policies of the former V-C. “A large number of unqualified faculty hailing from a particular community and region have been selected unfairly. Students were not provided adequate research facilities, grants and medical facilities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-leader-seeks-probe-into-former-vcs-misrule/article34765564.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Access to DRDO drug will improve in weeks’||Availability of 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (2-DG), the drug developed by DRDO lab INMAS and approved for use as adjunct in treatment of moderate to severe COVID-19 patients, is set to improve in the weeks ahead with drug maker Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories ramping up production. “I expect a very significant ramp up in the second half of June and subsequently in July,” said Deepak Sapra, CEO (API and Services) of Dr. Reddy’s. Stating that the company is licensee of DRDO, for the product launched last month following emergency use authorisation from the Drugs Controller General of India, he said in a matter of weeks the capacity will be enhanced to meet requirements of lakhs of patients. Mr. Sapra, who was speaking at a webinar on 2-DG by FTCCI on Tuesday, said the drug, would continue to be made available on prescription and used in a hospital setting. The MRP is Rs. 990 per sachet (oral powder 2.34 g).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/access-to-drdo-drug-will-improve-in-weeks/article34765572.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Komaram Bheem name for gaur calf withdrawn||The Nehru Zoological Park has taken back its decision to name a recently-born male gaur calf after the tribal leader, Komaram Bheem, following protests. Through a press release on Tuesday, the zoo authorities clarified that the naming was meant as a mark of respect, and that no disrespect was intended. The calf was named after the legendary leader as it was born on June 2, Telangana Formation Day. As the gaur is a strong and massively built bovine, and one of the largest members of the Bovidae family, it was thought to be appropriate to name it after the hero, the press note said. However, certain sections of media have reported that the naming has offended the family members and followers of the leader, after which the name has been dropped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/komaram-bheem-name-for-gaur-calf-withdrawn/article34765577.ece
09 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Toddler thrashed by mother, dies||A three-year-old boy died on Tuesday after his mother allegedly thrashed him at Bhagat Singh Nagar area in the Jeedimetla Police Station limits. According to the police, the victim, Umesh, was beaten up by his mother Udaya (24) and died when he reached the hospital. The toddler was rushed to Malla Reddy Hospital for treatment, but was declared brought dead. Umesh had injuries all over his body caused by a blunt object, police said. Udaya does not live with her husband, but with another man identified as Bhaskar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/toddler-thrashed-by-mother-dies/article34765582.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||YC protests rise in fuel prices||Activists of Youth Congress staged a protest in Hyderabad on Tuesday alleging that the Narendra Modi government was breaking the back of the common man by increasing the fuel prices to an unprecedented level. Led by State president Shiva Sena Reddy, Youth Congress workers dragged cars with ropes symbolising that fuel has gone out of the reach of people. Braving the large posse of policemen, who tried to prevent the YC workers, they blocked the Nampally main road for sometime. This led to verbal duel between the police and the activists who raised slogans against the Modi government. Mr. Shiva Sena Reddy said petrol has crossed Rs. 100 mark in several States in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/yc-protests-rise-in-fuel-prices/article34765593.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||LOCKDOWN VIOLATION||Police on Tuesday booked 4,933 lockdown violation cases. Of those, 1,342 pertained to masks not being worn or worn improperly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-violation/article34765568.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KVB donation for COVID-19 care facility (briefly)||Karur Vysya Bank has donated Rs. 20 lakh under its CSR programme to Samadrushti Kshamata Vikas Evam Anusandhan Mandal (SAKSHAM), Hyderabad, to support setting up of a temporary COVID care facility at Durgabhai Deshmukh Hospital run by Andhra Mahila Sabha. The first instalment of Rs. 10 lakh was handed over by the bank’s deputy general manager C. Ramakrishna to SAKSHAM national joint secretary K. Santhosh Kumar and State vice president B. Vijay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kvb-donation-for-covid-19-care-facility-briefly/article34765571.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online Dak Adalat on June 30||Department of Posts has informed that a regional level online ‘Dak Adalat’ will be held at 11 a.m. on June 30 by the Post Master General, Hyderabad region. Complaints of customers in Hyderabad, Rangareddy, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Sangareddy, Medak and Siddipet can be sent to K. Narender Babu, assistant director-II, office of the PMG-HO region, Hyderabad - 50001, on or before June 26. A link to the mobile or mail of the complainant will be sent for participating in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/online-dak-adalat-on-june-30/article34765573.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Foundation Stone (briefly)||Mishra Dhatu Nigam Limited (Midhani) chairman and managing director S.K. Jha laid the foundation stone for a public primary health centre to be operated on a ‘no profit-no loss’ basis for the benefit of the poor living in and around the public sector firm. For a nominal fee, the centre will conduct blood tests, and offer outpatient services, including consultation, check-ups and medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/foundation-stone-briefly/article34765574.ece
09 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Fake cotton seed worth Rs. 70 lakh seized in Suryapet district||The Suryapet police on Monday seized a whopping 29.2 quintals of fake seeds worth about Rs. 70 lakh in two separate incidents. Superintendent of Police R. Bhaskaran presented the two gangs of accused, of three and four members each, before media persons and disclosed the details on Tuesday. The arrests and raids to seize the suspected fake BT3 cotton seed were based on tip-offs. The first incident was recorded in the limits of Arvapally police station, where three persons were arrested and 2,490 kilograms of the packaged seed was recovered. Pentyala Veeranjaneyulu, who the police believe is the kingpin, hails from Andhra Pradesh. He has been practising agriculture in parts of Karnataka, and later in the 32 acre lands stFollowing a chain, it was found that Koduru village’s K. Srinivas, who was first nabbed, has been procuring the seed from one Veeranjaneyulu who settled in Karnataka, through his brother Satish. arted producing BT-II and BT-III seed. Following a chemical treatment in a mill, the seeds are processed and then distributed to parts of Telangana via the family route. The main accused, police said, was out on bail in an earlier related case in Kalwakurthy police limits, but later shifted his residence to Hyderabad and resumed operations. In the second case, one Jatangi Satyanarayana had preserved about 72 kgs of fake seed at his residence at Annaram village in Thungathurthy police limits. Police probing revealed his sources, Ram Murali and Vijay Bhaskar, from whom another 360 kg fake seeds were recovered. The police have booked the seven persons. for criminal conspiracy, cheating and under various charges as per The Essential Commodities Act, The Environment (Protection) Act and The Seeds Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/fake-cotton-seed-worth-rs-70-lakh-seized-in-suryapet-district/article34765594.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Policemen find it tough to ensure social distancing in busy markets||The police on Tuesday said they are finding it “tough” to ensure social distancing in busy markets since the unlock process, which began on Monday. “We are finding it tough to maintain social distancing in busy markets. Shopkeepers are making all efforts to maintain social distancing, but vendors are not following rules. We are imposing fines on them but people also need to be aware of the rules and follow them,” said an officer. The police said traffic has also increased. Barricades removed “Apart from traffic police, District police have also been deployed in traffic management. During morning and evening hours, traffic jam was reported on several stretches,” said the officer, adding that they had to remove barricades at many places to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. Police personnel was deployed at liquor shops as well to maintain social distancing. On Monday, the police fined over 1,200 people for not adhering to COVID guidelines. According to data shared by the police, a total of 1,285 challans were issued on Monday. Of them, 1,053 were for not wearing masks, 229 for not maintaining social distancing and three against the large public gatherings or congregations. “The process of unlocking has begun, and we urge people to follow the COVID-appropriate behaviour. Use face mask when you step out of your house, maintain social distancing and regularly sanitise hands. People should not step out of their homes unnecessarily,” said Delhi Police Additional Public Relations Officer (PRO) Anil Mittal. A total of 1,24,196 challans have been issued from April 19 to June 7, the data showed. While 1,04,440 people were fined for not wearing face masks, 18,034 were penalised for not maintaining social distancing, 1,529 for large public gatherings or congregations, 72 for spitting and 121 for consumption of liquor, pan, tobacco etc., it stated. On the first day of unlocking, Delhi Police and market associations had made announcements and also distributed pamphlets to visitors, urging them to follow the guidelines. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday had announced various relaxations in the ongoing lockdown that was imposed on April 19, saying the COVID situation was improving, and the economy needs to be revived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/policemen-find-it-tough-to-ensure-social-distancing-in-busy-markets/article34765541.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Jamia student gets bail to take B.A. examination||The Delhi High Court has granted interim bail to Jamia Milia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, to allow him to take his three remaining backlog examinations to complete his B.A. (Hons.) (Persian). A Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani also attached a string of conditions for Mr. Tanha to comply with, including banning him from deleting or tampering with his browsing history/cookies on the computer, or any SMS or call records from the phone, during the interim bail period. The 25-year old was arrested in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots. He has been charged under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.  The HC ordered that Mr. Tanha be released on interim custody bail on June 13 by 9 a.m. and shall be brought back to prison by 6 p.m. on June 26. During this period, Mr. Tanha will stay at a hotel in Kalkaji under the custody of two prison guards who would be deputed by the Jail Superintendent. Mr. Tanha will have to bear all charges, costs and expenses for two rooms at the hotel, one to be occupied by him and the other to be occupied by the two deputed prison guards. As food is not available at the hotel because of COVID-19 restrictions, food for Mr. Tanha as well as for the deputed prison guards will be arranged through online apps/websites by or on behalf of Mr. Tanha at his cost and expense. “During the period of interim custody bail, Mr. Tanha shall not invite to the said facility any visitors or guests, including family members, friends, classmates or any other person,” the HC ordered. A laptop and a basic mobile phone, which will be used during the period, will first be checked by the police. Mr. Tanha has also been directed to provide details of the IMEI number and the name of the manufacturer service provider of dongle/mobile hotspot, to the Special Cell officials. The HC took note that Mr. Tanha has undertaken that he will not use the laptop or the phone or the dongle/mobile hotspot device for any purpose other than for study, preparations and taking of the exams. Mr. Tanha will be entitled to make phone calls to his family and counsel for up to a total of 10 minutes per day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jamia-student-gets-bail-to-take-ba-examination/article34765538.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sushil Kumar seeks special food in jail||A Delhi court will pronounce its order on Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar’s application seeking special food and supplements in the prison, where he is lodged in connection with the alleged murder of a young wrestler, on Wednesday. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba reserved the order after hearing the contentions of prosecution and defence at-length. Sushil, who is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping, is currently lodged in Delhi’s Mandoli jail. In the plea, Sushil’s counsels advocate Pradeep Rana, Kumar Vaibhaw and Satwik Misra stated that their client takes supplements like isolate whey protein, omega 3 capsules, jointment capsules, pre-workout C4 and hyde, multivitamin GNC, exercises bands etc. The application added that denial of these basic requirements will have a huge implication on his career, as the special nutrition diet and supplements are extremely necessary for him to maintain his health and performance. However, the jail authorities in their reply to the court have stated that Sushil’s medical condition does not require food supplements or an extra protein diet as an “additional diet”. Advocate Rana said that the special diet and supplements have been sought at Sushil’s personal expenses and not of the jail authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sushil-kumar-seeks-special-food-in-jail/article34765536.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP names candidates for mayoral elections||The BJP, with a clear majority in the three municipal corporations in Delhi, on Tuesday nominated its candidates for various posts in the civic bodies.  Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said Sardar Raja Iqbal Singh and Archana Dilip Singh filed their nominations for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, respectively, of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation; Jogiram Jain for Chairman of Standing Committee, Vijay Kumar Bhagat for Vice Chairman and Shail Bihari Goswami for Leader of the House. For the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Shyam Sunder Agarwal and Kiran Vaid filed papers for Mayor and Deputy Mayor, Veer Singh Pawar for Standing Committee Chairman, Deepak Malhotra for Vice Chairman and Satyapal Singh for Leader of the House. For the South body, Mukesh Suryan and Pawan Sharma filed their nominations for Mayor and Deputy Mayor, Colonel B.K. Oberoi and Poonam Bhati for Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Standing Committee and Inderjit Sherawat for Leader of the House. All the BJP candidates are set to be elected on June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bjp-names-candidates-for-mayoral-elections/article34765537.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Constables served show-cause notices for ‘amusement videos’||A woman head constable and a male constable — posted in Model Town police station — have been served show-cause notices for uploading amusement videos in uniforms on social media, the police said on Tuesday. The notice, served by DCP (North-West) Usha Rangnani, said the two officials prepared amusement videos while on duty during the lockdown and also flouted COVID guidelines by not wearing masks. “Being members of a disciplined force, their conduct appears to be unprofessional in the discharge of their official duties,” the order read. The officials told to explain their conduct in the next 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/constables-served-show-cause-notices-for-amusement-videos/article34765543.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IP University starts online admissions||The IP University on Tuesday started online admission process for the upcoming academic session and also added five new programmes. The university has over 40,000 seats available in around 150 different programmes ranging from undergraduate to research-level. The new courses that the university has launched will be offered at its new East Delhi campus in Surajmal Vihar. The new coursed include B. Tech in Artificial Intelligence& Data Science, B. Tech in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning, B. Tech in Industrial Internet of Things and B. Tech in Automation & Robotics, under the newly created school — University School of Automation & Robotics (USAR), the university said. The fifth course it is launching is a Bachelor of Design under another newly created school — the University School of Design & Innovation (USDI). The admission to the programme will be given on the basis of Nation Level Test – UCEED/NID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ip-university-starts-online-admissions/article34765539.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Liquor vends told to deploy marshals||The Delhi government has directed all liquor vends in the city to deploy marshals and staff to strictly ensure COVID-appropriate behaviour. “All the four Government Corporations viz. DSIIDC, DTTDC, DSCSC and DCCWS shall deploy adequate marshals at all their vends [L-6 & L-8] and private licensees [L-7, L-9 & L-10] shall deploy their staff to ensure that COVID-appropriate behaviour viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular use of sanitiser, no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, etc. shall be ensured in all the liquor shops/vends/licensees,” the Excise Department said in an order issued on June 6. It also directed them to coordinate with the local administration and police to maintain security. The department has asked all vends to follow the orders issued by the DDMA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/liquor-vends-told-to-deploy-marshals/article34765542.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Eyewitness in wrestler case moves HC for protection||An eyewitness in the wrestler Sagar Dhankar case has moved a writ petition in Delhi High Court, seeking protection for him and his family. The witness claimed that nine accused have been arrested in the present case, so far. The accused — Mohit, Bhupender, Manjeet and Gulab— have previous involvements in heinous cases; all of them are from Haryana. They were called by accused Sushil Kumar during the brawl. During investigation, it is learnt that some of the accused persons are members of dreaded gangs operating in Delhi and adjoining States. On June 2, the HC gave directions to take steps under the witness protection scheme, 2018 before the competent authority. ‘Sushil is influential’ The witness claimed that the accused, Sushil Kumar, is an international wrestler, rich and is an influential person. There is an apprehension that the accused may cause harm to the victims/witnesses in the case. The case is very sensitive and widely covered by the media. In view of the above, there is very much apprehension that the accused persons may cause any harm to the above-mentioned star witnesses of the case. It is, therefore, requested that adequate security may please be provided to the above-mentioned victims of the case as per the provisions of Delhi Witness Protection Scheme, 2018, as per Delhi HC order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/eyewitness-in-wrestler-case-moves-hc-for-protection/article34765544.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 10,891 COVID-19 cases, 295 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 10,891 fresh COVID-19 cases and 295 deaths and added 407 previously unreported fatalities, while 16,577 patients recovered from the infection, the State Health Department said. The State’s caseload rose to 58,52,891, while the death toll increased to 1,01,172. On Monday, the State reported 10,219 COVID-19 cases, the lowest after March 9 this year, and 154 fatalities. A total of 16,577 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, raising the count of recoveries to 55,80,925 and leaving the State with 1,67,927 active cases, the department said. Maharashtra’s case recovery rate now stands at 95.35%, while the fatality rate is 1.73%. With 2,11,042 new tests, the number of samples tested so far went up to 3,69,07,181. Of the 295 deaths, 208 occurred in the last 48 hours and 87 were from the last week. As part of a reconciliation exercise, the Health Department added 407 deaths, which occurred before the last week, into its cumulative figure, which means the fatality count increased by 702 on Tuesday. Mumbai reported 682 fresh cases and seven deaths, taking the infection count to 7,12,055 and the toll to 15,006. The State capital has reported its lowest single-day death count after March 28, when eight patients had succumbed to the infection. The wider Mumbai division, which consists of the city and its satellite towns, reported 2,022 new cases and 49 deaths, raising the tally to 15,52,411 and the fatality count to 28,447, a release said. Of the total deaths in the division, Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation areas and rural parts of Palghar district recorded 13 deaths each, it said. The Nashik division reported 953 new cases, while the Kolhapur division added 3,614 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-reports-10891-covid-19-cases-295-deaths/article34765227.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||Govt. must not disown responsibility: Fadnavis||Maharashtra’s Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said on Monday that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not mean that the State could disown its responsibility. “The Bhosale committee report has said that there are limitations for the effectiveness of revision petition on the Maratha quota issue. The State Backward Class Commission should be formed and the report must be sent to the Central Commission. Which means the State has to act first,” he said. Commenting on the issues raised by the delegation, Mr. Fadnavis said that the majority of the issues could have been handled at the State level. “We do not understand the reason behind discussing the issue of appointment of 12 MLCs. It is to be done by the Governor and not the Prime Minister,” he said. When asked about the separate meeting between both the leaders, Mr. Fadnavis said that there was nothing surprising, adding that he was not sure whether such an interaction had taken place. Meanwhile, various Maratha organisations have questioned the outcome of the meeting between the CM and the PM. “The community is sad as there was no outcome for the Maratha community. We were hopeful but neither the State nor the Centre informed us about who will take the responsibility of ensuring reservation for the community,” said Vinod Patil, one of the petitioners in support of Maratha reservation in the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/govt-must-not-disown-responsibility-fadnavis/article34765231.ece
09 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Techie who sexually abused 12 women held||A computer engineer from Mira Road who had sexually abused 12 women whom he met via a matrimonial site has been arrested after more than four months. A Pune resident had registered a case on January 29 with the APMC police against Mahesh alias Manoj Gupta (32). She said that she had met the accused via a matrimonial site and Mr. Gupta had invited her to a pub in the APMC area where he molested her. According to the police, for every woman he met, he used a different handset and SIM card. After cheating one, he would change the SIM card and buy another second hand handset but the fake profile on the matrimonial site with his photo was never changed. The accused would introduce himself as a businessman. “We found call detail record of at least 10 mobile numbers used by Mr. Gupta. On Sunday, we traced him to Malvani in Malad where he originally hails from and arrested him,” police sub-inspector Pankaj Mahajan from APMC police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/techie-who-sexually-abused-12-women-held/article34765230.ece
09 June 2021||Pune,||Pune fire: case registered against owner||A day after 17 workers, most of them women, were killed in a fire at a chemical plant in Pune district, a case of culpable homicide was registered against one of its owners on Tuesday. Fire safety measures such as installation of emergency exits had not been taken at the plant, the police alleged. A case was registered against Nikunj Shah, one of the owners of SVS Aqua Technologies, said Abhinav Deshmukh, SP, Pune rural.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-fire-case-registered-against-owner/article34765226.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Fun-soaked ride||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fun-soaked-ride/article34765229.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||BRICS opposes exceptionalism: China||China on Monday sought to frame a joint statement from the Foreign Ministers of the BRICS [Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa] countries, who met virtually last week, as standing in opposition to what Beijing has increasingly hit out at “bloc politics” from the United States and the West. The BRICS Foreign Ministers, at a virtual meet last week, put out a joint statement on multilateralism, in addition to the usual Ministers’ press statement. China’s Foreign Ministry on Monday said the idea behind the statement was to forge a common understanding among the BRICS countries when there were “so many different interpretations and definitions of multilateralism in the world”. Ironically, among the targets of Beijing’s recent attacks on what it calls “selective multilateralism” is the India-Australia-Japan-U.S. Quad grouping, which Chinese officials have repeatedly criticised. India, which is the BRICS chair this year and will host this year’s leaders summit, which may also take place virtually, finds itself in a curious position of being described by Beijing as both a partner and a target in its recent emphasis on the importance of “multilateralism” and its criticism of calls for a “rules-based order”, voiced not only by the U.S. but also by the Quad. Multilateral system On the “different interpretations” of multilateralism, the “BRICS countries, as representatives of emerging markets and developing countries, have tackled the problem head-on and given their answer”, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said. “The BRICS Joint Statement on Strengthening and Reforming the Multilateral System laid out the following principles,” he added. “First, it should make global governance more inclusive, representative and participatory to facilitate greater and more meaningful participation of developing and least developed countries. Second, it should be based on inclusive consultation and collaboration for the benefit of all. Third, it should make multilateral organisations more responsive, action-oriented and solution-oriented based on the norms and principles of international law and the spirit of mutual respect, justice, equality, mutual beneficial cooperation. Fourth, it should use innovative and inclusive solutions, including digital and technological tools. Fifth, it should strengthen capacities of individual States and international organizations. Sixth, it should promote people-centered international cooperation at the core. This is the answer given by the BRICS.” He added that the BRICS countries were “indeed different from a few developed countries in their attitude towards multilateralism and multilateral cooperation.” “The BRICS countries stress the need to observe the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and oppose exceptionalism and double standard,” he said. “We are committed to extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, and oppose hegemonic bullying and zero-sum games. We pursue openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, and reject bloc politics and ideological confrontation.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brics-opposes-exceptionalism-china/article34764982.ece
09 June 2021||The Hague,||FBI-run app tricks criminal gangs globally, 800 arrested||Criminal gangs divulged plans for moving drug shipments and carrying out killings on a messaging app secretly run by the FBI, law enforcement agencies said on Tuesday, as they unveiled a global sting operation they said dealt an “unprecedented blow” to organised crime in countries around the world. The operation known as Trojan Shield led to police raids in 16 nations. More than 800 suspects were arrested and more than 32 tonnes of drugs — including cocaine, cannabis, amphetamines and methamphetamines — were seized along with 250 firearms, 55 luxury cars and more than $148 million in cash and cryptocurrencies. The seeds of the sting were sown when law enforcement agencies earlier took down two encrypted platforms, EncroChat and Sky ECC, that had been used by criminal gangs to organise drug trafficking and underworld hits. With the gangs in the market for a new means of communication, the FBI stepped in with a covertly developed app called ANOM that was installed on modified mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fbi-run-app-tricks-criminal-gangs-globally-800-arrested/article34764987.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||China offers ASEAN nations support on vaccines||China on Tuesday offered ASEAN countries its vaccines as well as closer cooperation on joint vaccine development and production, as it hosted 10 Foreign Ministers from the Southeast Asian grouping. The meeting comes as China looks to deepen its economic ties with the region as well as push back at what it sees as a renewed effort at regional engagement from the new Biden administration in the U.S. in particular, as well as from the India-Australia-Japan-U.S. Quad grouping, which earlier this year came out with a regional vaccine initiative. On Tuesday, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi told the visiting Ministers that China and ASEAN should “jointly carry forward Asian values” in a subtle dig at the West. President Xi Jinping had in 2014 put forward the idea that it was for “Asian people to uphold Asia’s security”. Mr. Wang made a similar point on Tuesday, saying that “taking root in the Oriental tradition, both sides should strengthen mutual learning and cultural exchanges, and carry forward Asian values, instilling positive energy to global and regional governance.” “Both sides should continue to embrace the ‘Asian Way’ of consensus building and accommodating each other’s comfort levels, build an inclusive and co-existed family, and forge a cooperation circle featuring common development,” he said. “We should adhere to independence, self-reliance and self-strengthening to support the ASEAN integration, and forge a closer community with a shared future.” China’s hosting of the ASEAN Foreign Ministers in the city of Chongqing marked the 30th anniversary of ties and came as Beijing deals with recent disputes with both the Philippines and Malaysia. The meeting reiterated the need to “advance consultations on the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea” but as the recent incidents underlined, progress has been slow. Beijing is banking on deep economic links to both offset maritime disputes and the push among some ASEAN countries for closer defence ties with the U.S. amid their concerns about China’s growing military footprint in the South China Sea. Mr. Wang said China-ASEAN trade had grown to $ 684.6 billion and the expectation is for that to only grow following the signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) trade deal. On COVID-19, China said it would “do its best to provide vaccines to ASEAN countries and strengthen cooperation in vaccine R&D, production, procurement, vaccination, and supervision with other countries”, Mr. Wang said, as he also put forward a proposal to implement a “China-ASEAN Public Health Cooperation Initiative” and an “ASEAN Regional Reserve of Medical Supplies for Public Health Emergencies.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-offers-asean-nations-support-on-vaccines/article34764984.ece
09 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. Senate report puts spotlight on failures during Capitol attack||A Senate investigation of the January 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol has uncovered broad government, military and law enforcement missteps surrounding the violent attack, including a breakdown within multiple intelligence agencies and a lack of training and preparation for Capitol Police officers who were quickly overwhelmed by the rioters. The report released on Tuesday is the first — and could be the last — bipartisan review of how hundreds of former President Donald Trump’s supporters were able to violently break into the Capitol that day, interrupting the certification of President Joe Biden’s victory. Sweeping changes It includes new details about the police officers on the front lines who suffered chemical burns, brain injuries and broken bones and who told Senators that they were left with no direction when command systems broke down. It recommends immediate changes to give the Capitol Police chief more authority, to provide better planning and equipment for law enforcement and to streamline intelligence gathering among federal agencies. As a bipartisan effort, the report does not delve into the root causes of the attack, including Mr. Trump’s role as he called for his supporters to “fight like hell” to overturn his election defeat that day. It does not call the attack an insurrection, even though it was. And it comes two weeks after Republicans blocked a bipartisan, independent commission that would investigate the insurrection more broadly. “This report is important in the fact that it allows us to make some immediate improvements to the security situation here in the Capitol,” said Michigan Senator Gary Peters, the chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which conducted the probe along with the Senate Rules Committee. The report details hours of calls between officials in the Capitol and the Pentagon as the then-chief of the Capitol Police, Steven Sund, desperately begged for help. It finds that the Pentagon spent hours “mission planning” and seeking multiple layers of approvals as Capitol Police were being overwhelmed and brutally beaten by the rioters.  The Senators also criticise the FBI and the Homeland Security Department for downplaying online threats and for not issuing intelligence bulletins that help law enforcement plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-senate-report-puts-spotlight-on-failures-during-capitol-attack/article34764983.ece
09 June 2021||London,||Swathes of Internet go down after cloud outage||Dozens of websites briefly went offline around the globe on Tuesday, including CNN, The New York Times and Britain's government home page, after an outage at the cloud computing service Fastly, illustrating how vital a small number of behind-the-scenes companies have become to running the Internet. The sites that could not be reached also included some Amazon pages, theFinancial Times, Reddit, Twitch andThe Guardian. San Francisco-based Fastly acknowledged a problem just before 6 a.m. About an hour later, the company said: “The issue has been identified and a fix has been applied.” Most of the sites soon appeared to be back online. Fastly said it had identified a service configuration that triggered disruptions, meaning the outage appeared to be caused internally. Brief Internet service outages are not uncommon and are only rarely the result of hacking or other mischief. Still, major futures markets in the U.S. dipped sharply minutes after the outage. Fastly is a content-delivery network, or CDN. It provides vital but behind-the-scenes cloud computing “edge servers” to many of the web’s popular sites. These servers store, or “cache,” content such as images and video in places around the world so that it is closer to users, allowing them to fetch it more quickly and smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/swathes-of-internet-go-down-after-cloud-outage/article34764985.ece
09 June 2021||London,||‘Hate crime’: Canada truck driver kills Muslim family||A man driving a pick-up truck slammed into and killed four members of a Muslim family in Ontario province, in what police and officials said on Monday was a premeditated attack motivated by “hatred”. A 20-year-old suspect wearing a vest “like body armour” fled the scene on Sunday evening, and was arrested at a mall 7 km from the intersection in London, Ontario, where the attack happened, said Detective Superintendent Paul Waight. “There is evidence that this was a planned, premeditated act, motivated by hate. It is believed that these victims were targeted because they were Muslim,” he said. Canada’s Minister of Public Safety Bill Blair described it as a “horrific act of Islamophobia”. The names of the victims were not released, but they include a 74-year-old woman, a 46-year-old man, a 44-year-old woman and a 15-year-old girl — representing three generations of the same family, according to London Mayor Ed Holder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hate-crime-canada-truck-driver-kills-muslim-family/article34764991.ece
09 June 2021||Abuja,||Gunmen kill 27 in central Nigeria attack||Gunmen stormed a market place and a football field in a rural town in central Nigeria over the weekend, killing at least 27 people and leaving others wounded, state police said on Tuesday. Benue is part of the Middle Belt region, where communal clashes are common between nomadic herders and local farmers over land, grazing and water. The attack hit the Agatu area on Sunday when locals were just closing up the market after trading, a police spokeswoman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gunmen-kill-27-in-central-nigeria-attack/article34764988.ece
09 June 2021||New York,||Guterres gets second term as UN chief||The United Nations Security Council on Tuesday approved Secretary General Antonio Guterres for a second term, with conflict resolution set to top his agenda at the world body’s helm. The 72-year-old former Prime Minister of Portugal has held the office since 2017 and faced no competition for the next term in the job. During a brief closed door session the Security Council voted unanimously to recommend that the General Assembly give Mr. Guterres another term, said the council’s current President, Estonian ambassador Sven Jurgenson. Approval from the General Assembly is seen as a formality and expected to take place soon. During his first term, Mr. Guterres was forced to concentrate on limiting the potential damage from the unilateral and nationalist foreign policy of then U.S. President Donald Trump.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/guterres-gets-second-term-as-un-chief/article34764993.ece
09 June 2021||Lima,||Leftist Castillo edges ahead in Peru vote count as rival alleges fraud||Far-left trade unionist Pedro Castillo took a narrow lead on Monday in Peru's presidential run-off election against right-wing populist Keiko Fujimori, who alleged fraud in the vote count. With 94.8% of ballots counted after Sunday's vote, Mr. Castillo was ahead of Ms. Fujimori with 50.2% compared with her 49.7%, though there could be a prolonged wait for the final outcome.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/leftist-castillo-edges-ahead-in-peru-vote-count-as-rival-alleges-fraud/article34764990.ece
09 June 2021||GHOTKI,||T||The death toll from a horrific collision of two trains in southern Pakistan rose to 65 on Tuesday after rescuers pulled 15 more bodies from crumpled cars a day after the crash, government officials said. The collision took place on a dilapidated railway track in Ghotki, when an express train barreled into another that had derailed minutes earlier before dawn on Monday.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/t/article34764992.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Preparing for the next COVID-19 wave||Using the data in Karnataka, Aniruddha Adiga et al. show in a paper in medRxiv that a third COVID-19 wave is imminent in the State even if the strongest non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) are implemented and 1,67,000 persons are vaccinated each day. This is corroborated by evidence from other countries. It took nearly eight weeks in the U.K. to go from a second to a third wave, 17 weeks in Italy, and 23 weeks in the U.S. Some people are still debating whether there will be a third wave. It is not a question of ‘if’ but ‘when’. In all likelihood, the next wave might be in late November or December in India. Despite the quantum of cases in the next wave, it is important to plan and prepare for it. These are several actions that India needs to take to prepare for and tackle the next wave. Vaccination Data from several States indicate that the average age of mortality is reducing in several States and stabilising at 30-45 years. This suggests that vaccination might have already offered survival advantage to those aged 45 years and above. This was the main objective of providing vaccination: preventing deaths and limiting serious morbidity requiring ventilation or oxygenated beds. Given the undoubted benefits of vaccination, extraordinary efforts will have to be made to secure vaccines for vulnerable people. The vaccine supply constraints are likely to be resolved by the end of July. Till then, people with co-morbidities, irrespective of age, should be prioritised for vaccination. Micro planning for vaccination should be strengthened. For this, health workers and volunteers need to go house to house and prepare lists of all the eligible beneficiaries. Next, efforts should be made to help in registering and vaccinating the vulnerable. We estimate that the country should vaccinate at least 10 million people each day to cover the vulnerable population in the next three months. To reach this pace, it is important to develop a strong mobilisation strategy, address the concerns of the vulnerable, and improve access to vaccination sites. A strong focus on bottom-up micro planning, similar to what was adopted during the measles-rubella elimination programme and polio programme, can be helpful. The periods between waves We only wake up to disease threats when there is a large outbreak. We have selective amnesia to health-related issues in the intervening periods and quickly get back to ‘normal’ activities. But it is these intervening periods between waves/outbreaks that are actually important. It is during these periods that surveillance needs to be meticulous. One of the critical aspects of surveillance is to sustain aggressive testing, especially in symptomatic individuals, and keep a close watch on the seven-day moving average of the test positivity rate (TPR). A TPR of less than 5% indicates that the disease is under control. Another important facet of surveillance is genomic sequencing to keep a watch on the emergence of new variants of SARS-CoV-2. The surveillance programme in the country needs strengthening, and strict review should guide the early identification of clusters. Timely investigation and early containment of outbreaks should be the mainstay of preventing the onslaught of cases and deaths. Combining the syndromic approach with enhanced testing levels is necessary for all the areas. Preparing for the next wave involves developing a standardised definition for minimum cases to be detected in each part of the country. Based on the available data, States can aim to detect and review, say, 1,000-1,300 cases per million each month provided adequate testing is done. This will help them identify areas where there is poor reporting and strengthen the overall response in these areas. In order to detect these cases, nearly 20,000-25,000 tests per million will have to be done each month. Use data-driven interventions As stated by historian John Barry, the most important lesson from the 1918 influenza is to “tell the truth”. Whenever true figures are suppressed during a pandemic, the data get skewed. As a result, modellers make unreliable projections, and wrong policies and programmes are formulated. Hence, data should be made freely available to experts. Systematic collection, compilation and analysis of clinical, epidemiological and laboratory data is paramount to decision-making. A core expert group comprising clinicians, epidemiologists and laboratory personnel should be constituted at every level (district, State and national) and entrusted with the responsibility of suggesting appropriate interventions to the concerned authorities. Data alone should drive interventions. The COVID-19 pandemic has been associated with a high attack rate among household contacts. Therefore, non-pharmacological interventions represent the cornerstone to halting transmission. These include avoiding mass gatherings, closing schools, isolating those with infection, contact tracing, and implementing infection prevention strategies in health care settings. These are critical to achieving at least a 50% reduction in transmission, which correlates with a basic reproductive number lower or equal to one (R0 ≤ 1). A critical determinant that ensures the success of any intervention, whether vaccination or NPIs, is appropriate communication. Therefore, a robust communication strategy must be developed that is directed at behavioural change for subverting the third wave. The available data indicate that every age group was affected in the second COVID-19 wave. The susceptible persons comprise those not protected by vaccination or those who are not infected yet. The proportion of susceptible people is higher in the younger age groups, including children. A higher risk of infection is not the same as a higher risk of serious illness, especially for children. However, even if there is a small proportion of complications and deaths, absolute numbers can strain the health system resulting in a shortage of beds. Higher mortality is not so specific to the virulence of the virus, or age group, but mostly arises from the shortage of beds during a sudden surge in cases. To reduce the number of deaths, we should immediately create adequate capacity to handle the surge. More paediatric  ICUs and specialist care are needed to handle a complex disorder, namely Multisystem Inflammatory Syndrome. Enhancing paediatric specialised beds and ICUs can help in managing meningitis and other diseases in the community. Many patients who have recovered from active COVID-19 infection are experiencing long-term residual effects of the disease both physically and mentally. It is necessary to address these issues in all hospitals through counselling at the time of discharge and by establishing post-COVID-19 care clinics and services. We need to make a realistic assessment of needs. Every effort should be made to strengthen the human resources and infrastructure in the rural, vulnerable and remote areas. Giridhara R. Babu is a Professor of Epidemiology at the IIPH-Bengaluru, Public Health Foundation of India and V. Ravi is a Neurovirologist and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2,Government of Karnataka||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/preparing-for-the-next-covid-19-wave/article34764980.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Bring genomic sequencing into the pandemic fight||If there is one tool in the COVID-19 pandemic response, which India has been slow in adoption and has used sub-optimally, it is genomic sequencing. An effective COVID-19 pandemic response requires, inter alia , keeping track of emerging variants (total 10 till now including variants of interest and concern) and then conducting further studies about their transmissibility, immune escape and potential to cause severe disease. Therefore, genomic sequencing becomes one of the first steps in this important process. When the success of the United States and the United Kingdom in containing the virus is discussed, a lot of credit is being given to the increasing vaccination coverage; however, it is often forgotten that alongside, these countries have scaled up genomic sequencing, tracked the emerging variants and used that evidence for timely actions. India seems to be faltering on both expanding vaccination coverage and genomic sequencing. Unfortunately, there is not enough attention to scale up genomic sequencing, which as per the original plan was supposed to cover 5% of confirmed COVID-19 cases (https://bit.ly/3x76vVC). Though the procedural steps such as setting up the Indian SARS-CoV2 Genomic Consortia, or INSACOG (https://bit.ly/3uWpf8Y) have been taken, the sequencing has remained at a very low level of a few thousand cases only. It is no surprise that we understand the Delta variant (B.1.617.2, the original lineage B.1.617 was first reported from Maharashtra, India in October 2020) far less than the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7, first reported from Kent, England in September 2020) reported just a month before Delta. The challenge of insufficient genomic sequencing is further compounded by the pace at which data is being shared, especially when the emergence of strains is so vital in tracking and responding to a pandemic. Reportedly, the Indian government took two weeks, from early March — when research scientists submitted information on new variants — to issue a public announcement on the variants on March 24, 2021 (https://reut.rs/3cnhLW0). The Delta strain Amidst this, the release of findings of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics; Integrative Biology and National Centre for Disease Control and Academy of Scientific and Innovative Research study; tracking variants of SARS CoV-2 in Delhi; on a pre-print server (yet to be peer reviewed) is a welcome change and provides new insights (https://bit.ly/3z9jd8j). Based upon the analysis of nearly 3,600 genomic sequence samples from November 2020 to April 2021, the authors have reported that by April 2021, the Delta variant became the most circulating variant in Delhi and was found in nearly 60% of the samples analysed; is 50% more transmissible than the Alpha variant (which already had 70% higher transmissibility over the ancestral virus); is likely to be associated with high viral load, as reflected by the declining Ct value (for RT-PCR) over the study period and resulted in a higher proportion of breakthrough infection (people already vaccinated getting infected). Based upon these findings, the authors attribute the Delta variant responsible for the pandemic wave (which was fourth for the city state) in Delhi in April-May 2021. However, the authors did not find any difference in severity of disease or case fatality rate due to the Delta variant and suggested the need for further studies. This is the first detailed study of SARS CoV-2 genomic sequencing data from any Indian State and provides very useful insight on the behaviour and impact of Delta variants. Around the same time, Public Health England (PHE) reported that the Delta variant has become the most common circulating strain in the U.K., replacing Alpha. The early data from the PHE has interpreted that the Delta variant may be responsible for more severe disease and higher rate of hospitalisation compared to all previous variants. A week before this data, on May 27, the PHE reported that the effectiveness of a single dose of vaccine (amongst symptomatic patients) was lower against the Delta strain. On June 3, medical journal The Lancet published research findings from laboratory studies which examined the neutralising capacity of antibodies from individuals vaccinated with two doses of Pfizer-BioNTech, which was nearly 5.8 fold lower against Delta variants and 2.6 fold less against the Alpha variant, when compared with the ancestor virus (https://bit.ly/2RzisV7). Our scientific knowledge and understanding about emerging strains is going to be the key to deploy public health interventions (vaccines included) to fight the pandemic. The emerging variants — with early evidence of higher transmissibility, immune escape and breakthrough infections — demand continuous re-thinking and re-strategising of the pandemic response by every country. Scientific research would make a difference only if it results in informed policy decisions. There are a few steps Indian policy makers should consider as urgent. The steps ahead First, India needs to scale up genomic sequencing, across all States. There should be sufficient and representative samples collected for genomic sequencing to track district-level trends in circulating variants. More genomic sequencing is needed from large urban agglomerations. A national-level analysis of collated genomic sequencing data should be done on a regular basis and findings shared publicly. Second, the Indian government needs to invest and support more scientific and operational research on vaccine effectiveness. The data should be analysed on a regular basis and should include various stratifiers such as age, gender and comorbid conditions, etc. Third, there are early indications of immune escape and reduced vaccine effectiveness against the Delta variant (especially after one shot). India, till the end of May, has administered at least one dose of vaccines to 43% of people older than 60 years and 37% of those older than 45 years. Does it mean the focus of vaccination should be to achieve saturation coverage of the high risk population, with both shots, than one shot to everyone? Does it mandate a need for a reduced gap between two doses of Covishield for anyone older than 45 years? Should vaccination of those 18-44 years be put on hold till vaccine supply is assured or should it be done only in districts where the Delta strain is predominant? These are the questions which experts need to deliberate and come up with the answers. The data from genomic sequencing has both policy and operational implications. The State and district officials should engage the epidemiologists in coming up with practical and operational implications and strategies. As Indian States plan to open up after COVID-19 restrictions, the settings with predominantly the Delta variant in circulation (which has higher transmissibility) should aim for far stricter adherence to COVID appropriate behaviour, in public places. Use evidence for actions Continuation of many unproven and ineffective therapies in COVID-19 treatment guidelines is proof that India is not quick in adopting evidence to the practice. There is a need for rapidly expanding genomic sequencing, sharing related data in a timely and transparent manner, and understanding of the impact of new variants on transmissibility, severity and vaccine effectiveness. The only assured way to fight the pandemic is to use scientific evidence to decide policies, modify strategies and take corrective actions. As India prepares for the third wave, increasing genomic sequencing and use of scientific evidence for decision making are not a choice but an absolute essential. Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, a medical epidemiologist, is a public policy and health systems expert and co-author of ‘Till We Win: India’s Fight Against The COVID-19 Pandemic’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bring-genomic-sequencing-into-the-pandemic-fight/article34764968.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||State interventions, Lakshadweep’s future||The Lakshadweep Administration, which is now facing a storm over its draft rules introduced by its Administrator, has now provided a fresh rationale for its proposals, shifting from public policy to public purpose ignoring public interest, whereas the strategic issue is the interplay of ecological fragility, insular cultural geography and strategic location. There are two competing visions for its future. NITI Aayog, in 2019, identified water villas and land-based tourism projects as the development issue faced by the islands, suggested zoning based on land acquisition and focused on sustainable development ignoring the fragile environment and culture. The Integrated Island Management Plan prepared under the guidance of the Supreme Court and National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, in 2016, had rejected ‘home stays’ in view of the strict social customs and strong resistance of the vast majority. It stipulated that development programmes be implemented in consultation with the elected local self-government bodies adhering to scientifically determined plans (https://bit.ly/3v4sdrO and https://bit.ly/2T5q81I). Questionable public purpose The rationale, or thinking, of the appointed Administrator of the Union Territory, planning for flight loads of tourists, through four controversial proposals — the Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation and Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation — as “regulations of peace, progress and good government”, has apparently not even been able to convince the Union Home Minister. For the local people, and across the political spectrum, these changes are arbitrary, authoritarian and will destroy the way of life. The Administrator’s fresh response is reliance on the power of government or ‘public purpose’ for acquiring private land, unnecessarily opening the door to conflict and the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court in the case of Dev Sharan vs State of Uttar Pradesh , in 2011, pointed out that, “Any attempt by the State to acquire land by promoting a public purpose to benefit a particular group of people or to serve any particular interest at the cost of the interest of a large section of people especially of the common people defeats the very concept of public purpose....” The proposals have been challenged before the High Court of Kerala, which had, in 2019, in a separate case, recognised the special status given to the inhabitants for protecting their ethnic culture and traditions, and to maintain the serene atmosphere in these islands without unnecessary interference by mainlanders. Lakshadweep is unique. It is an egalitarian coconut tree owning society, with little economic inequality, a very high level of both literacy and unemployment. The Muslim community is designated as Scheduled Tribes. The land area is fully covered with coconut trees, the main agricultural crop, and fisheries is the main economic activity employing a quarter of the working population. Electricity generation is mainly through diesel generators and is expensive and solar electricity has limitations as it requires a large land area. They need employment in the mainland. Review tourism strategy The Lakshadweep Administration has framed the development issue as the development of the islands on the lines of the Maldives, whereas the fact is that it is adopting a very different strategy without any real consultation. In the Maldives, tourism since the 1970s is centred on water villas in uninhabited islands, ensuring that very few coconut trees are cut with limited home stays introduced in 2015, and few cultural and other conflicts. Second, a ‘one island, one resort’ policy has kept pressure on reefs low due to a wide distribution of the tourist population. Third, the business model is about giving coral reefs economic significance where rich and healthy reefs are essential for private capital’s economic returns. Fourth, tourists come because of the natural beauty and the sheer amount of marine life; resort owners commit to conserve the reefs and divers at the resorts are quick to report illegal activities. Fifth, regulation is limited to ban on reef fishing and collection of corals, having no centrality to land acquisition. In Lakshadweep, the separation of resorts from villages, including for drinking water, sewage disposal and electricity, gives priority to the fragile ecosystem, socio-economic conditions and well-being of the inhabitants. Groundwater occurs as a thin lens floating over the seawater and is tapped by open wells replenished by the monsoon; all the inhabited islands have a scarcity of drinking water supply. The conventional method of sewage treatment is not feasible because of the coral sandy strata and high water table. The existing water balance is already under stress and inhabited villages cannot accommodate tourism. Why the Ministry of Environment is quiet about this is not clear. Political insensitivity Meanwhile, public interest is being re-defined, shifting the debate from private tourism to urbanisation, both inappropriate for inhabited islands. Despite inhabited islands being defined as ‘cities’ in the Census, they do not need to be developed as ‘smart cities’ with a focus on infrastructure requiring large-scale construction and land acquisition. The irony is that the Administration has anticipated public opposition and, despite there being no case of murder, robbery or local involvement in smuggling, the new draft legislation seeks preventive detention for ‘anti-social activities’, and covers “cruel person” and “depredator of environment”. The relation between state and society is being arbitrarily changed, despite the constitutional protection. The powers of the panchayats have been withdrawn on grounds of corruption, an unusual step. The two-child policy for those seeking election to panchayats does not exist in other Union Territories or States. A ban on beef has been instituted, contrary to the practice in Northeast India. Liquor is being permitted for tourists in inhabited islands. Innovation needed Lakshadweep is a uni-district Union Territory with a top-heavy administrative system of more than half-a-dozen All-India Service officers essentially creating work for themselves. Interventions should be limited to setting boundary conditions for both resorts and development institutions, with income from taxing resorts given to the inhabitants. Active state intervention should be limited to generation of electricity in partnership with public sector units, and water, sewage and health as well as education, technology-enabled employment in call centres and future employment in the mainland. Mukul Sanwal is a former Indian Administrative Service officer who has been to Lakshadweep in the 1970s||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/state-interventions-lakshadweeps-future/article34764971.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The proportionality principle||Every war is tragic. Every civilian death is a world lost. Nevertheless, when legal discourse is applied to a war, legal terminology, concepts, and resulting conclusions should be accurately implemented. One common misconception concerns the term ‘proportionality’. Particularly, it is the argument that proportional use of force is a numbers game; that one only needs to compare the number of casualties on each side of the conflict in order to deduce which side used force disproportionately. From a legal standpoint, this notion is flawed. Had this been true, many NATO operations would have been guilty of being disproportionate and unlawful. What proportionality means The principle of proportionality is defined as the obligation to refrain from “any attack which may be expected to cause incidental loss or injuries to civilians, or damage to civilian objects, which would be excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated”. What does this mean in practice? At the outset, it may be useful to stress what ‘proportionality’ does not mean: clearly, it does not address casualties in a collective manner pertaining to the whole conflict, but rather, refers to particular attacks; it does not address only civilian casualties and damage, but also the intended military advantage; and it is not examined in hindsight, but before the attack takes place. The proportionality principle means that before every military strike, military commanders must assess two factors. First, they must examine the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated from an attack, when naturally, the neutralisation of some targets would have a higher advantage than others. In order to offer such advantage, the target must be a military target, such as a weapons depot. Importantly, a seemingly civilian object, used by the adversary for military purposes (for example, a residential building used to store weapons) may be considered a lawful target. Second, the commanders must assess, based on reasonably available information at the time of the attack, what the expected collateral damage would be. They must assess how many civilians, if any, will be present in the area of the planned attack. Then they must assess the extent of expected damage to civilian property, including indirect damage that is to be accounted for, such as infrastructure. Lastly, they must implement all feasible precautions to mitigate harm to civilians and civilian objects. If the assessment of the two factors leads to the conclusion that the expected damage to civilians or civilian objects is deemed excessive in relation to the anticipated military advantage, carrying out an attack would be unlawful. It follows that not every civilian death in armed conflict necessarily testifies to a breach of international law. This principle of proportionality is the way that the law, created by states, saw fit to balance the military needs of states, who fight to protect civilians, with humanitarian imperatives. Wrongfully blamed How is the principle of proportionality affected when instead of protecting its civilians, Hamas intentionally conducts its military activity from within densely populated areas? How is Israel expected to protect its major cities from Hamas rockets, when these rockets are developed, built and launched from within Gazan civilian population? Hamas is committing a double war crime – endangering Israeli civilians by targeting them and endangering Gazan civilians by using them as human shields. What does international law require Israel, a law-abiding state, to do, when facing Hamas’ unlawful tactics? The law of armed conflict states that when civilian presence is used to shield military objectives from attacks, that presence does not grant the target immunity. When Hamas commits the double war crime of attacking Israeli children, schools and airports from within its own civilian population, the analysis of the situation would be distorted if its criminal behaviour is not taken into account. Despite Hamas’s blatant disregard for the law or its citizens’ well-being, Israel does everything feasible in order to prevent or at least minimise harm to the Palestinian civilian population, often at the cost of operational advantage. In doing so, Israel employs precautions that exceed the requirements of international law, as well as the practices commonly employed by advanced militaries of western states. Fighting an enemy that deliberately abuses the law of armed conflict raises grave challenges for Israeli soldiers. Nevertheless, Israeli commanders apply international law, including the principle of proportionality, in every military action. Why is Hamas using its own population as human shields? This brings us back to the misconception of the principle of proportionality, and the knee-jerk reaction that ignores the question, who put Gazan civilians in danger in the first place? In other words, Hamas pays no price for its war crimes and often it is Israel that is wrongfully blamed. This situation provides an incentive to Hamas to continue with its heinous practices. Michal Gur-Aryeh is a senior Israeli diplomat||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-proportionality-principle/article34764975.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Building trust in governance||Historically, Indians have had low social trust and have looked to authorities to enforce compliance. But over the last decade, India has witnessed a big and welcome change in social trust. Indians are increasingly comfortable sending money to a phone number from their phones (UPI, PayTM) and getting into taxis driven by strangers (Ola, Uber). How trust grows This trust is experiential: it is built as consumers get consistent information and predictability, over time, every time. When we book an Ola cab, we get an OTP every time, we can track our cab every time, the OTP works every time we give it to the driver, and so on. Of course, the actual delivery of service needs to live up to expectations for trust to be built, and there can be the occasional glitch. Still, having visibility of interactions directly (without having to go ask someone to look up a request status or complaint number) and a mechanism to hold the service provider accountable is fundamental to building trust. In our experience in working in the area of service delivery by urban local bodies, we find that citizens’ default position is low trust. Their past experiences, where requests have not been responded to, or have vanished into the ether, adds to this sense of apprehension. Corruption makes this worse. The worst is paying a bribe and still not being served. We also observe power imbalance: citizens feel that they do not have any recourse. These frictional interactions pile up over time. They lead to apathy, disengagement, a ‘nothing will happen’ mindset. The good news is that when government service delivery manifests this new currency of social trust — visibility of status, alerts at key stages, knowing who is accountable, ways to escalate the complaint, ways to rate or give feedback — the confidence of citizens starts to grow. Over time, the trust deficit is reversed, and citizen participation increases. In Andhra Pradesh, we at eGov Foundation partnered with the government to roll out a citizen services delivery platform (PuraSeva) in all 110 towns and cities. We saw the positive impact of this platform on social trust. One of the areas reformed was the complaints process: multiple channels to lodge complaints, prompt acknowledgment with a reference number assigned, SMS notifications providing an expected completion date and responsible person, and notifications of each status change. Finally, citizens are invited to provide a star rating upon completion. Moreover, citizens and civil society groups can view the performance data for their localities through open dashboards. Encouraging results The results have been encouraging. The number of complaints has increased — not because problems have gone up, but because citizens trust the government to resolve them. The speed of resolution and the percentage of complaints resolved within the designated time have both increased sharply. Perhaps the best indicator of this new approach is that if a citizen does not provide a star rating, they will get a call from the local government, asking them to rate their satisfaction with the services received. When the government seeks and responds to feedback, it is rewarded with trust.  When a digital system is designed, its attention to the small things creates these trust-building environments. These include what the user sees when they first log in, how many steps they are being asked to take, what feedback or signal they are receiving at each step, and so on. Each interaction is an occasion to send a trust signal, to raise low expectations and meet new, high ones. This is how the ‘nothing will happen’ mindset gets replaced with the confidence that yes, something will be done. Viraj Tyagi is CEO, eGov Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/building-trust-in-governance/article34764977.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||A necessary reversion||The Centre has announced a much-needed course correction in India’s vaccination policy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the podium to announce that the month-old decision to leave States to procure vaccines on their own for their 18-44 population would be ending in two weeks. States were allowed to procure 25% of the vaccines manufactured and the Centre 50%, a policy that the Supreme Court termed “irrational and arbitrary”. The Court’s comments have had a salutary effect. From June 21, the Centre will be procuring 75% and States will no longer have to pay vaccine companies for the same. Vaccines will continue to be free for all those who choose to get their shot at government centres. The 25% vaccines that were allotted to private hospitals will continue too, though the service charges that they charge will be capped at Rs. 150. This ceiling price on vaccines in hospitals will bring predictability and be hugely beneficial to citizens. The Centre, which controlled all supply of vaccines and had negotiated prices and orders with Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute saw itself desperately short of supply right in the middle of India’s deadly second wave. The hospital emergencies worsened the Centre’s panic and so it chose a path that no country had undertaken, of devolving the responsibility of buying vaccines to States. Health has traditionally been within the purview of States, and it stands to reason that they would invariably have to deal with the challenges that vaccination throws up. This includes vaccine hesitancy, the problem of transportation, the availability of trained personnel and the existing capacity at health-care sites. Faced with the intensity of the second wave, States demanded more vaccines and autonomy in deciding how to administer them. What resulted were frequent public spats, with the Centre blaming States for inefficiently using available stocks and yet demanding more. Though there are substantial numbers of senior citizens yet to be vaccinated, particularly with a second dose, it is clear that the foreseeable demand will be in the sub-45 category. The Government appears more confident of getting a steady stream of supply from Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute and, in a bold move, has ordered 30 crore doses of an untested vaccine from the Hyderabad-based Biological E. Assuming that a third wave is not in the vicinity, these changes in total could be the beginning of a smoother, more efficient vaccine roll-out. Mr. Modi’s announcement was preceded by a truculent defence of himself and his government and passing on blame to a variety of actors, including governments before 2014, for India’s very real shortcomings on vaccination. However, the path to positive change is often meandering, and surviving the pandemic and being wiser from mistakes must be the spirit in which these policy changes are adopted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-necessary-reversion/article34764962.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||This time for Male||The election of Maldives Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid as the President of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly, that begins in September for 2021-22, is a major boost for the island-nation’s international profile. The election marks the first time a Maldivian will hold the post in the UN’s history, and his margin of victory, 143 to his challenger’s 48, indicating support from nearly three fourths of all countries at the UN, is significant. Maldives also sees it as a win for the 52-member Small Island Developing States (SIDS), which are battling climate change vulnerability and other developmental challenges. In addition, in a year when events in Afghanistan will draw attention as U.S. forces begin to pullout, Mr. Shahid’s victory over his surprise opponent, former Afghanistan Foreign Minister Zalmai Rassoul, is remarkable. For India too, that helped Maldives canvass support, the outcome is welcome, not only because of its close ties with Male but also the high regard for Mr. Shahid, a key member of the Solih government. In a break from the norm of not announcing one’s choice for an election by secret ballot, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla had announced India’s support for the Maldives in November 2020, South Block’s explanation being that Afghanistan had not yet announced Mr. Rassoul’s candidature — which it did in January 2021. New Delhi should now ensure that the Afghan government carries no hard feelings, as some in Kabul had even hinted that India might wish to support Afghanistan as it had sacrificed its turn at the UNSC for India’s current term there. It would also be important to analyse why Kabul decided to field a candidate late in the race, and not withdraw despite it being clear that its South Asian neighbour was ahead, and did not consult India closely on the process. The focus now shifts to his tenure and South Asian issues such as the impact of the coronavirus pandemic and equitable access to vaccines. Cooperation is close and Mr. Shahid is in discussions to appoint an Indian diplomat as his chief aide. Given that the previous President of the General Assembly, from Turkey, had ruffled feathers with his remarks in Islamabad that Pakistan was “duty” bound to raise the Jammu and Kashmir dispute “more strongly” at the UN, Mr. Shahid’s tenure is expected to see a far smoother term for India, especially as the Modi government focuses on showcasing the country at the UN during India’s 75th Independence anniversary next year. Above all, it is hoped that India in the UNSC and the Maldivian President of the General Assembly will work in tandem as New Delhi pursues its goals for multilateral reform, and re-energise the dormant process of effecting change in the old power structures in the global body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/this-time-for-male/article34764963.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Payment for jurors||Jurors are not paid for their work, which is generally regarded as a privilege and even a duty attaching to their citizenship. They may be kept hanging about a court for several days to the complete dislocation of their business. The rigid rule of punctual attendance and the monotony of trials often cause great hardship. It is stated that the Special Juror in the United Kingdom is more or less “adequately rewarded,” with the fee of a guinea for each suit to which he listens, but the Common Juror is a “very long suffering individual”. A private member’s Bill in the House of Commons seeks to sanction the payment of expenses which Common Jurors incur in the discharge of their duties. There is no idea of paying any remuneration for his work and the proposal is merely to reimburse his out-of-pocket expenses. Jury service is generally not popular and it may grow more and more unpopular if it should involve personal expense. It stands to reason that the honorary worker in the great cause of Justice should not be victimised in his pocket for the common good. The success of the private member’s Bill will be watched with wide interest since none would like honorary work becoming a source of expenditure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/payment-for-jurors/article34764972.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Demonetisation meant to hit refugees||The Pakistan Government’s demonetisation of its currency in the denominations of Rs. 500 and Rs. 100 yesterday has been regarded in official circles here [June 8, New Delhi] as a deliberate move to inflict more hardship on the refugees who have crossed over to India. Pakistan’s decision to demonetise notes bearing the slogans, “Joy Bangla”, “Bangla Desh” and “Dacca” is also regarded as evidence of continued resistance within Bangla Desh to the reign of terror under the Pakistan Army. The Pakistan Government would not have found it necessary to declare these notes as ceasing to be legal tender, unless the circulation of these notes had assumed huge proportions. UPI reports from Islamabad: The Pakistan Government claimed to-day that a large number of people were turning up at banks to surrender the notes. The authorities have ordered the banks to accept 500 rupee notes to-day and to-morrow and 100 rupee notes until Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/demonetisation-meant-to-hit-refugees/article34764973.ece
09 June 2021||Washington DC,||World Bank sees India growing by 8.3%||India’s economy is expected to grow by 8.3% in the fiscal year that began in April 2021, the World Bank forecast in its June 2021 Global Economic Prospects released on Tuesday. The forecast, however, masked the significant expected economic damage caused by the “enormous” second wave of COVID-19, the Bank said. Raising its projection for global growth, the bank said the world economy would expand at 5.6% in 2021, the fastest post-recession growth rate in 80 years, underpinned by U.S. stimulus spending and faster growth in China. Observing that global output would still end up 2% below pre-pandemic projections by the year end, the development lender said “highly unequal” access to COVID-19 vaccines was a factor in the uneven recovery. “In India, an enormous second COVID-19 wave is undermining the sharper-than-expected rebound in activity seen during the second half of FY2020/21, especially in services. With surging COVID-19 cases, foot traffic around work and retail spaces has again slowed to more than one-third below pre-pandemic levels since March, in part due to greater restrictions on mobility,” the bank noted. ‘Collapse and recovery’ Economic activity in India would likely follow a similar but less pronounced ‘collapse and recovery’ trend seen during the first wave, the bank said in its outlook. “The pandemic will undermine consumption and investment as confidence remains depressed and balance sheets damaged. Growth in FY2022/23 is expected to slow to 7.5% reflecting lingering impacts of COVID-19 on household, corporate and bank balance sheets; possibly low levels of consumer confidence; and heightened uncertainty on job and income prospects,” the global lender added. For the world as a whole, losses to per capita income would not be reversed by 2022 for some two-thirds of emerging market and developing economies, the bank said. Low income countries that had lagged in vaccinations had witnessed a reversal in poverty reduction, with the pandemic exacerbating insecurity and other long-standing challenges. “While there are welcome signs of global recovery, the pandemic continues to inflict poverty and inequality on people in developing countries,” World Bank Group President David Malpass said in a press release. “Globally coordinated efforts are essential to accelerate vaccine distribution and debt relief, particularly for low-income countries,” Mr. Malpass added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/world-bank-sees-india-growing-by-83/article34764948.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,||IP Rings, U.K.’s Eminox to develop exhaust systems||IP Rings Ltd. (IPRL), a part of the Amalgamations Group, and U.K.-based Eminox have signed an agreement to set up an innovation and technology centre here with an initial investment of Rs. 20 crore. IPRL is a major player in the Indian automotive, agriculture and power-generation components and equipment markets while Eminox is a leading European designer and manufacturer of exhaust and emissions control systems for heavy-duty vehicles and equipment. Ram Venkataramani, MD, IPRL and Mark Runciman, MD, Eminox Ltd., signed the pact recently. The joint venture will be called IPR — Eminox Technology Centre. Mr. Runciman will head the JV. Eminox and IPRL would develop exhaust after-treatment systems for India in compliance with emerging legislation, with a highly talented pool of engineers and senior management. The addressable market size is Rs. 6,000 crore for light, medium and heavy commercial vehicles and Rs. 2,000 crore for off-highway applications, said IPRL officials. “We have very ambitious plans with IPRL to develop and supply EATS for a range of diesel and CNG engines used off-road and on-road across the Indian market,” said Jog Lall, OE sales & marketing director, Eminox.  The innovation and technology centre will entail initial investment of Rs. 20 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ip-rings-uks-eminox-to-develop-exhaust-systems/article34764942.ece
09 June 2021||MUMBAI,||63 Moons to challenge Piramal-DHFL resolution||63 Moons Technologies said it will challenge the order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Mumbai allowing Piramal Group to acquire DHFL under the IBC. “63 Moons believes the current resolution plan is contrary to law and against the interest of all DHFL’s creditors, including NCD holders,” it contended. “DHFL’s administrator has filed applications for the recovery of almost Rs. 45,000 crore under the IBC against promoters and other persons,” 63 Moons said, adding that the Rs. 45,000 crore must be paid to the defrauded parties who are creditors. “Instead, the resolution plan favours the resolution applicant” Piramal Group, allowing it to reap the benefits of recoveries, it held. Ascribing a value of Rs. 1 to the recoveries of fraud where claims were in excess of Rs. 45,000 crore “creates unjust enrichment of the buyer” at the cost of creditors, 63 Moons argued. “Piramal has bid only for the current value of DHFL which does not include the amounts taken away fraudulently. Hence, the recoveries must come to creditors only,” it said. 63 Moons, which holds over Rs. 200 crore of DHFL’s NCDs, had filed an application in the NCLT, demanding the payment of fraudulent transaction recovery benefits to creditors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/63-moons-to-challenge-piramal-dhfl-resolution/article34764944.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Textile units in Kanpur, Chennai-Kancheepuram worst hit by COVID stress’||India’s textile clusters in Kanpur and Chennai-Kancheepuram have been worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the highest proportion of loans turning delinquent by December 2020, according to a report. The country’s textiles industry has been in trouble since the national lockdown imposed in March last year, with outstanding credit to the sector falling 20% year-on-year by December 2020 and loans to export units falling by a sharper 25%, according to a SIDBI-CRIF report on the sector released on Tuesday.  The textiles and apparel industry provides direct and indirect employment to an estimated 10.5 crore Indians and contributes 2% to GDP. A recent short survey carried out by SIDBI of textile units in Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat revealed that the sector also faces several operational roadblocks at the ground level, including high fuel and raw material prices, challenging GST norms and delayed tax refunds. Almost 82% of loans extended to textile units in Kanpur had turned delinquent by December 2020, with the Chennai-Kancheepuram belt reporting a delinquency rate of 42.6% of outstanding credit. Loans are labelled delinquent after past dues accumulate for more than 90 days. ‘Lowest in Ahmedabad’ The Pune-Kolhapur belt, and the Ludhiana-Jalandhar-Amritsar textile region reported delinquency rates of 32% and 29% in the same period. Ahmedabad and Tiruppur-Coimbatore-Madurai recorded the lowest proportion of loans going bad, at 8.24% and 8.6%, respectively, compared with the overall delinquency rate of 16.4% in the textiles sector. Among micro, small and medium textile enterprises, the textiles cluster in Punjab reported the highest delinquencies at almost 25%, followed by Chennai-Kancheepuram (23.6%) and Hyderabad-Guntur (22.8%). The SIDBI survey found that ongoing changes in the GST portal and filing of returns has created confusion for units, with exporters stating that getting Integrated GST refunds is a ‘major challenge’. The lack of clarity on the export benefits that would accrue under the new Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) scheme, isn’t helping. Most units said access to working capital was a challenge and cash flows were constrained, while ‘ever-increasing fuel prices’ have escalated transport costs. The rise in yarn and other raw material prices, and fluctuating cotton prices, are also difficult to cope with, even as export orders have slowed down due to COVID-19, the survey found.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/textile-units-in-kanpur-chennai-kancheepuram-worst-hit-by-covid-stress/article34764950.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Jobs outlook likely to be stable for 3 months’||India’s employment outlook would be more or less stable for the next three months of calendar 2021, a survey by ManpowerGroup Employment Outlook Survey showed. Workforce gains are anticipated in 6 of the 7 industry sectors during the upcoming quarter. While the transportation and utilities sector would be the strongest job market with a net employment outlook of +10%, the outlook for the services sector would be +7%. However, mining and construction sector employers are expected to trim payrolls, reporting a weak outlook of (-)2%, the survey conducted across 1,303 enterprises revealed. The strongest hiring pace was recorded in the medium-sized organisations followed by large enterprises. About 54% of the respondents said they would hire in June 2021, while 46% did not know when they would resume regular hiring. About 40% expected to have their employees work from home full time, while 38% wanted to have either flexible or condensed work hours for their employees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/jobs-outlook-likely-to-be-stable-for-3-months/article34764952.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||‘Free vaccines to States to add just Rs. 10,000-cr.’||The government’s move to supply free coronavirus vaccines to the States for universal inoculation and extend free rations to help the poor tide over the pandemic will only add an additional 40 basis points (bps) of GDP to fiscal deficit, says a report. The increased allocation of free vaccines to all above 18 years coupled with extending free foodgrain supplies through rations will add only 40 bps to the overall fiscal deficit in FY22, which poses upside risks to the estimated of 6.8% of GDP, Tanvee Gupta-Jain, economist at UBS Securities India, wrote in a note. Assuming an average price of Rs. 150/dose, with a similar amount incurred on logistics and supply charges, we estimate the total fiscal cost to the Centre will be Rs. 40,000-Rs. 45,000 crore and of this, Rs. 35,000 crore has already been provided for in the Budget, which means the Centre will have to allocate a maximum of Rs. 10,000 crore for this, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/free-vaccines-to-states-to-add-just-rs-10000-cr/article34764961.ece
09 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||LIC weighs on life insurers’ performance||Life insurers have reported a 5.55% decline in first-year premium at Rs. 12,976.99 crore for May, a performance dragged down by market leader LIC’s 12.4% lower mobilisation, and coming on the back of lockdown restrictions across most States. LIC’s showing effectively shadowed the performance by private players, who together posted a 14.2% increase in the premium at Rs. 4,029.35 crore, as against Rs. 3,527.48 crore in the year-earlier period. The first-year premium of LIC, which accounts for more than 60% of the market share, stood at Rs. 8,947.64 crore (Rs. 10,211.53 crore), the new business statement of life insurers released by IRDAI showed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/lic-weighs-on-life-insurers-performance/article34764943.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Franklin Templeton to move SAT||Franklin Templeton Asset Management (India) said it strongly disagreed with the findings of SEBI’s order in the case of winding up of 6 debt schemes in 2020 and has decided to challenge the direction in Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). SEBI barred the entity from unveiling any new debt scheme for two years and imposed Rs. 5-crore penalty for violating norms. Also, it has been asked to refund investment management and advisory fees of over Rs. 512 crore. A Franklin Templeton spokesperson said, “We strongly disagree with the findings in the order and intend to file an appeal with the SAT.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/franklin-templeton-to-move-sat/article34764955.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Urban Company to scale up hiring||Urban Company on Tuesday said it would hire more than 100 engineers in the current financial year along with various leaders across verticals, as it plans to drive technological innovation in the home services industry. “These hirings will drive our next growth phase, enable the build of deep tech and help us invest in data science and developing tech playbooks,” said co-founder Raghav Chandra. The company also announced the appointment of Amit Das as V-P, Design & Research, and Rishabhdhwaj Singh as V-P, Engineering. Urban Company had recently announced raising Series F funding of $255 million.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/urban-company-to-scale-up-hiring/article34764957.ece
09 June 2021||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland makes senior-level organisational changes||Ashok Leyland has made senior-level organisational changes to strengthen the sustainability agenda through its Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) initiatives. N.V. Balachander president, human resources, communication and CSR, will lead the sustainability agenda as president – ESG. Amanpreet Singh has been appointed as president and head of HR. He is currently vice-president, Group HR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leyland-makes-senior-level-organisational-changes/article34764945.ece
09 June 2021||Chennai,||VA Tech Wabag Q4 profit surges to Rs. 33 crore||VA Tech Wabag Ltd., a water and waste-water treatment solutions provider, reported net profit for the quarter ended March surged to Rs. 33 crore from Rs. 1.4 crore in the year-earlier period. Revenue jumped to Rs. 700 crore (Rs. 491 crore). Order book stood at more than Rs. 9,500 crore. “We are poised to generate value for our stakeholders with almost Rs. 10,000 crore orders to execute,” said Rajiv Mittal,managing director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/va-tech-wabag-q4-profit-surges-to-rs-33-crore/article34764946.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||RBI asks banks not to destroy CCTV recordings of demonetisation period||The RBI on Tuesday asked banks to preserve the CCTV recordings of their branches and currency chests from November 8, 2016, to December 30, 2016, to assist enforcement agencies to take action against those involved in illegal activities during the demonetisation period. On the basis of various inputs, the agencies started probing illegal accumulation of new currency notes.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-asks-banks-not-to-destroy-cctv-recordings-of-demonetisation-period/article34764956.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ankita to partner Sania at the Olympics||It was the best kept secret in Indian women’s tennis for some time. The country’s top-ranked woman player, Ankita Raina, went on Instagram to announce that she would be competing in the Tokyo Olympics doubles event with six-time Grand Slam champion Sania Mirza. “I will do my best to make India proud!” Ankita stated. Ranking Former World No. 1 Sania will make the Olympics entry on the basis of her injury-protected ranking of No. 9. As per the rule, Sania can make the doubles draw with a partner ranked in the top-300. The 28-year-old Ankita is 183 in singles and 95 in doubles. The ranking list on June 14 will be applicable for making the cut. Sania had played the last three Olympics in Beijing, London and Rio with Sunitha Rao, Rushmi Chakravarthi and Prarthana Thombare respectively. There is also a strong possibility of Ankita making the singles entry list in Tokyo as the Asian Games bronze medallist. The gold and silver medallists from China, Wang Qiang and Shuai Zhang, ranked 39 and 46 at the moment, could get direct entry when 56 players are taken into the Olympics singles event on the basis of their world ranking. Before the Billie Jean King Cup World Group play-off in Latvia recently, Sania had invited Ankita to Dubai for a week-long training. Funding The two were soon inducted into the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) by Sports Authority of India (SAI) so as to provide them funding for Olympic preparation. Thanking her employer Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), Ankita wrote, “the effort and hard work put in all these years have been fruitful with your invaluable support and encouragement”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-to-partner-sania-at-the-olympics/article34765129.ece
09 June 2021||Paris,||Historic highs for Zidansek, Pavlyuchenkova||Before the French Open, Tamara Zidansek had never advanced past the second round at any Grand Slam. The former snowboarder has now become the first woman representing Slovenia to reach the semifinals at a Major. Spurred on by the vocal support of her coaching team on Court Philippe Chatrier, the 85th-ranked Zidansek defeated Spanish rival Paula Badosa 7-5, 4-6, 8-6 Tuesday at the clay-court tournament. “It feels overwhelming,” she said. The French Open is the only remaining Grand Slam where tiebreakers are not played in the last set. Wimbledon recently installed tiebreakers at 12-12 in the final set. Losing it After splitting the first two sets, Badosa violently threw her racket in anger at the changeover after Zidansek held for a 6-5 lead in the third. She regained her composure, but Zidansek then saved three break points to take a 7-6 lead and converted her second match point with a big forehand in the next game. Zidansek’s next opponent at the clay-court event will be Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, another first-time semifinalist. Pavlyuchenkova came out on top of an other tense battle to rally past her doubles partner Elena Rybakina 6-7 (2), 6-2, 9-7. The 31st-seeded Russian had lost at this stage 10 years ago at Roland Garros and was 0-6 in Grand Slam quarterfinals before taking to the court. “Mentally it was really, really hard this morning,” she said. “Especially since I needed to play Elena. But this is tennis, we both wanted to win. The key was to be able to return her serve.” Pavlyuchenkova did it well and converted six of 17 break points against her rival and friend. Earlier on Monday, defending champion Iga Swiatek reached the quarterfinals after beating unseeded 18-year-old Marta Kostyuk of Ukraine 6-3, 6-4 in the fourth round. Kostyuk saved one match point on her second serve at 30-40 as she held in the ninth game of the second set. Smart lob That forced Swiatek to serve out the match and she clinched victory with a smart lob from the net. Swiatek has now won 22 straight sets at Roland Garros, including her run to the title last year. She next faces 17th-seeded Greek Maria Sakkari, who reached her first Grand Slam quarterfinal. Swiatek continued to impress in doubles too as she and partner Bethanie Mattek-Sands beat the 11th-seeded pair of Darija Jurak and Andreja Klepac 6-3, 6-2 in the quarterfinals. Unrelenting run Rafael Nadal reached the French Open quarterfinals for the 15th time on Monday to stay on course for a 14th title and record-setting 21st Grand Slam with his biggest challenge posed by blinding stadium lights. Third seed Nadal downed 19-year-old Jannik Sinner 7-5, 6-3, 6-0 and goes on to face 10th-seeded Diego Schwartzman of Argentina who he defeated in the semifinals last year. Nadal hit 31 winners while Sinner claimed just 10 points in the third set. Nadal has now won 104 matches at Roland Garros against just two defeats since his 2005 debut while Monday’s victory extended his run of consecutive sets won to 35. “I started well but was a little too defensive. I gave him the chance to come inside the court and play his best shots. That was a mistake,” said Nadal after reaching a 44th Slam last-eight. Baffled Despite Monday’s match being played in bright sunshine, Nadal was baffled as to why the lights inside Court Philippe Chatrier were switched on. “I don’t know why they put the lights on that early. We used to have TV before we had the lights on. I saw plenty of matches here, and from the TV the quality of the image was great without the lights,” said Nadal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/historic-highs-for-zidansek-pavlyuchenkova/article34765072.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||Cricket’s practices are held together by a set of tacit agreements||The badminton great Prakash Padukone once pulled up a youngster for literally toying with an opponent, playing trick shots, pretending to smash and occasionally holding his racquet in the wrong hand. It was a friendly match, yet Prakash called the youngster aside and told him that a sportsman should never disrespect an opponent. All sports have ways of dealing with unsportsmanlike conduct. The ‘diver’ in football, the racquet abuser in tennis, the player showing dissent at an umpire’s decision in cricket all have to pay the price. Whole books have been written about golf etiquette. There are rules and then something called ‘spirit’. What is legal may not always be acceptable. When Trevor Chappell bowled an underarm delivery to the New Zealander Brian McKechnie to prevent him from hitting a six to win the match, it was within the laws, but it caused a scandal. The Australian skipper Greg Chappell said later that all his frustrations had boiled over on that day. The authorities quickly banned the underarm delivery. Unsportsmanlike behaviour  Similarly, a bowler running out the non-striker who is backing up is within the laws, but it never fails to provoke a discussion on unsportsmanlike behaviour when it happens. “Like other forms of life, cricket is the outcome of informal social contract,” writes Mike Brearley in Spirit of Cricket . “It’s practices are held together and supported by a set of mostly tacit agreements, all part of our legacy from past generations. Entering the world of cricket is to enter such traditions and expectations, and feel safe enough within them…” The philosopher David Papineau points to an interesting anomaly in what is acceptable. “While it would be disgraceful for a cricketer to claim a catch he hasn’t made,” he writes, “this is morally quite acceptable in a baseball player.” The explanation lies in the difference between morality and convention, says Papineau. Bowlers goading a batsman into doing something irrational — like suddenly jumping out to loft a spinner — happens more often than is acknowledged. It borders on the edge of the acceptable, but once wives and girlfriends come into the conversation, then it tips over into the other side. The Preamble was written into the Laws of Cricket in 2000. It had 417 words. In 2017, it was cut to 163. Mike Brearley has suggested a 39-word version: All those involved in cricket should respect the integrity of the game. On the field, and off it, the spirit of cricket asks us to ‘play hard but fair’. And let’s not lose the essence of the word ‘play’. Sunil Gavaskar responds  On a different topic, Sunil Gavaskar has reacted to last week’s column saying he wasn’t throwing a tantrum when he batted left-handed in a Ranji Trophy match against Karnataka. Here’s his letter to me in full . Hi Suresh, I read your column about ambidextrous athletes with great interest because if there is someone really good being ambidextrous especially as a bowler, he offers not just an exciting sight but extra options to the captain while deciding his playing eleven. However I was very disappointed to read the bit about my batting left-handed as not being a tactic but a tantrum. Worse still you have tried to fire over the Karnataka team’s shoulders by saying that they believe till this date it was a tantrum. Clearly your idea of the Karnataka team is one of a few members who socialise with you and not eleven members as a cricket team is supposed to be, for I know for a fact that Raghuram Bhat who was Mumbai’s nemesis in that game thought it was a great tactic to neutralize him and did not think it was done out of pique as many others with a chip on their shoulders about Mumbai cricket feel. Obviously you were not at the ground during that time else you would have noticed that when a right hand bowler came on to bowl I switched to batting right-handed so the turning ball would hit my body and not take the edge, which was exactly the thinking for batting left-handed against the left-handed spinners Raghuram Bhat and Vijaykrishna who did most of the bowling. If that was not a tactic, I don’t know what cricket tactics are. Tantrums will only get a batsman out more often than not and I remained unbeaten batting left / right handed for more than an hour. Yes, we Mumbai cricketers are not as brainy, intelligent or educated with impressive degrees like the Karnataka cricketers are but our cricket sense has always been better than most as our Ranji Trophy record shows. Now that I have brought the facts to the fore I hope you will do the right thing and correct the erroneous impression about that effort that you have created in the minds of the readers. Regards, Sunil||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/crickets-practices-are-held-together-by-a-set-of-tacit-agreements/article34765070.ece
09 June 2021||LONDON,||Indians to get time to switch off||The Indian team management has decided to give a three-week break to its players after the World Test Championship (WTC) final in a bid to address the mental fatigue that might be triggered by lengthy spells in a bio-bubble. The WTC final against New Zealand will be held from June 18-22 at the Ageas Bowl in Southampton and the members of the Indian squad will disperse for close to three weeks (20 days) before regrouping on July 14 to prepare for the five-match series against England starting in Nottingham on Aug. 4. “As skipper Virat Kohli and coach Ravi Shastri had told the media at the pre-departure press conference, there will be a break. There is a six-week gap between WTC final and the opening Test against England and we had to address the issue of players’ well-being. Within the UK, they can disperse off, go for a holiday, meet friends and family,” said a senior BCCI official. “Most of them have come to the UK many times and have friends and acquaintances around the country. It’s only fair that they can switch off,” said the source. Officials for WTC final England's Richard Illingworth and Michael Gough will be the on-field umpires for the WTC final. Richard Kettleborough will be the TV umpire and Alex Wharf the fourth official. Chris Broad will be the match referee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-to-get-time-to-switch-off/article34765085.ece
09 June 2021||Doha,||Chhetri stays as humble as ever||Sunil Chhetri has never liked counting his goals and he prefers to keep it that way even after surpassing the great Lionel Messi as the second-highest scorer among active players in international football. The 36-year-old Chhetri achieved his 74th strike with his brace against Bangladesh in the joint preliminary qualifying round match for 2022 FIFA World Cup and 2023 AFC Asian Cup here on Monday night. Messi has 73 so far. The skipper said he will get down to counting his goals probably 10 years down the line. “I do not count the number of goals. 10 years later, we will sit together, have a chat and then count,” the veteran said. Instead of his goals, Chhetri focused on the many lessons his team will take home from Monday’s game. “We were guilty of missing a lot of chances. We could have done better. It has been a topsy-turvy qualifying campaign. We will talk about it but I am happy that we got three points,” Chhetri said. The India captain is just a goal away from entering world football’s all-time top-10. He is behind Hungary’s Sandor Kocsis, Japan’s Kunishige Kamamoto, and Kuwait’s Bashar Abdullah, who all have 75 goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chhetri-stays-as-humble-as-ever/article34765087.ece
09 June 2021||LAUSANNE,||IOC picks 29-member refugee team||An expanded refugee team of 29 athletes competing across 12 sports at next month’s Tokyo Games will provide hope and inspiration to the world, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) said on Tuesday. The team, which will compete under the Olympic flag and include people from countries including Syria, South Sudan, Eritrea, Afghanistan and Iran, is almost three times as big as the inaugural team at the Rio de Janeiro 2016 Olympics. The athletes, who will march into the stadium during the opening ceremony in second place behind ancient Games founder Greece, were selected from a pool of 56, supported by Olympic scholarships from 13 different countries. Message of solidarity “I speak on behalf of the entire Olympic Movement when I say that we cannot wait to meet you in person and to see you compete in Tokyo,” IOC president Thomas Bach said at a virtual presentation of the team. “It will send a powerful message of solidarity, resilience and hope to the world ... You are an integral part of our Olympic community, and we welcome you with open arms.” The IOC unveiled its first refugee team at Rio.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioc-picks-29-member-refugee-team/article34765117.ece
09 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Srihari and Sajan’s next attempt to qualify||Srihari Nataraj and Sajan Prakash will continue their quests for the elusive A-mark Olympic Qualifying Time by participating in the Belgrade Trophy (June 19 and 20) and Sette Colli Trophy in Rome (June 25 to 27), both FINA-accredited Olympic Qualifying events. Both have achieved the B-mark times. At the Uzbekistan Open in April, Srihari had clocked 54.07s in the 100m backstroke event, a new National record which was just 0.22s short of the mark for Tokyo. Sajan, chasing the A-mark in 200m butterfly (1:56.48s), had clocked 1:57.85s in Uzbekistan. Other members The team also includes seasoned back-stroker Maana Patel along with youngsters Aryan Nehra, Shoan Ganguli, Tanish Mathew and Kenisha Gupta, who are part of the Target Olympic Podium Scheme (TOPS) development group. Nehra and Ganguli will not travel to Rome as they haven’t met the qualification times. The team will be accompanied by coaches Nihar Ameen and Pradeep Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/srihari-and-sajans-next-attempt-to-qualify-for-the-summer-games/article34765118.ece
09 June 2021||Mumbai,||Only four foreigners in playing XI from 2021-22||The 2021-22 Indian Super League (ISL) season will witness a minimum of seven Indian players on the field at any point of time, up from the present six, thanks to a new set of guidelines issued on Tuesday. A rise in the number of Indian players means one spot less for foreign stars, which will now be capped at four. The four foreign player rule is in accordance with the Asian Football Confederation’s (AFC) club competition regulations. Clubs can sign a maximum of 6 foreign players of which one is required to be from an AFC member nation. A club also has an option to sign a foreign marquee player within the League-approved classifications. However, unlike in AFC competitions, clubs in ISL are not mandatorily required to have an AFC member-nation foreign player on the field at all times. The inaugural ISL edition in 2014 had witnessed a playing composition of six foreigners and five Indian players. Over the years, the league has gradually increased the spots for Indians. “The latest changes in player guidelines are incorporated with the League’s philosophy of bringing constant improvement to India’s premier football event,” said the ISL press release on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/only-four-foreigners-in-playing-xi-from-2021-22/article34765078.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Important for India to qualify for AFC Cup, says Cahill||Former Australian footballer Tim Cahill has highlighted the importance of the AFC Asian Cup for the Indian team. The Blue Tigers are already out of contention to qualify for FIFA World Cup 2022 and the focus has now shifted to qualification for the AFC Asian Cup. “It’s very important and the exposure they get in these circumstances, the competition especially during the pandemic, during this difficult times is to maximise their competitive games,” Australia’s all-time leading goalscorer said on Star Sports show’ Football United. “It took many years for Qatar to be in a World Cup, the process that goes in. It took many years for Australia to qualify for World Cup. And you know nothing is guaranteed to any nation. “To take part in the Asian Cup is a massive success for India, massive. “Even when you lose you actually are improving,” Cahill pointed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/important-for-india-to-qualify-for-afc-cup-says-cahill/article34765644.ece
09 June 2021||BENGALURU,||We believe we can win a medal at the Olympics, says Krishan Pathak||The Indian men’s hockey team has progressed immensely in the last few years and will settle for nothing less than a podium finish at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics, goalkeeper Krishan Pathak said on Tuesday. He strongly believes the Tokyo Games are India’s best opportunity to break a four decade-long medal drought. “We have played really well against the top teams in the last few years. We have shown our mettle in the FIH Hockey Pro League as well. All the players are confident and determined to make history for India. “We have progressed well as a team and the time has come for us to apply our skills to the best of our abilities and execute our plans properly. We believe we can win a medal at the Olympics,” Pathak said in a Hockey India release. The key The 24-year-old, who secur ed his place as India’s second goalkeeper behind the experienced P.R. Sreejesh, said coordination between a custodian and defenders is key to a strong and solid backline. “There might be only one goalkeeper on the pitch, but he is definitely not alone. I keep speaking to the defenders about their plans and ensure that I am in sync with them. If I can coordinate well with the defenders, then we can make sure we don’t concede any easy goal,” he said. Talking about India’s preparations, Pathak said the team is leaving no stone unturned in pursuit of a podium finish. “We are putting in everything we have in practice. The coaches have devised high-intensity sessions for us. We have been playing well as a group for a few years and we want to make sure we play to our full potential at the Oympics. “It’s going to be a big challenge for us, but we are definitely up for it,” added Pathak, who has played 50 matches for the country so far.  We are putting in everything we have in practice. The coaches have devised high-intensity sessions for us||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/we-believe-we-can-win-a-medal-at-the-olympics-says-krishan-pathak/article34765645.ece
09 June 2021||KOLKATA,||EB’s woes increase||East Bengal has found itself in big trouble following the FIFA Players’ Status Committee (PSC) barring it from signing Indian players in the upcoming season. With the club already embroiled in a dispute with its investor, the ban will stop its team-building process ahead of the new Indian Super League season. The ban comes as an after-effect of a failed tie-up with its previous investor Quess Corp, who quit the deal midway last season (2019-20) without making full payments to contracted players. As the club took back the “sporting rights” from Quess, it did it without ensuring that the investor pays off the dues in time, according to a senior club official who spoke on condition of anonymity.  With their payments falling due, some players approached the All India Football Federation (AIFF) through the Football Players Association India seeking a resolution. Some international players took the matter to FIFA’s PSC. The club failed to reply convincingly to the queries from the world and the national bodies following which the ban came into effect. The sanction will be revoked once the payments are made but East Bengal finds itself in a financial constraint as its officials are yet to formalise the final agreement with its new investor, Shree Cement. The new investor has distanced itself from accepting any liability of the club existing before September 1, 2020, the day when the new agreement (term sheet) was signed. However, Shree “may consider paying off the dues and will be considered as loan to the club. But everything will happen only when the final agreement is signed,” said an official from the investor’s side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ebs-woes-increase/article34765520.ece
09 June 2021||Hyderabad,||IOA’s campaign to cheer Indian athletes||The Indian Olympic Association and the Sports Authority of India, in coordination with the Sports Authority of Telangana State and the Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh, will soon jointly organise awareness programmes as part of the nationwide campaign about the Olympics with focus on the participation of Indian athletes in the Tokyo Games next month. The campaign includes Olympics quiz with rewards for the winners, Olympics dialogues/debates, articles etc, fan engagement drives through best slogan/best digital poster/best theme song/most probable medal winning Olympian contests etc. Social media amplification and selfie points at various locations pan India are also planned as part of this campaign. The State Olympic Associations are to get involved in this programme in collaboration with the Sports Authority. “We may use the Olympic symbol, flag, motto, anthem, emblems, flame and torches and any other musical works, audio visual works or other creative works or artifacts commissioned in connection with the Olympic Games by the IOC subject to the use of non-profit making activities only,” the IOA stated in its communication to the State units. It is also suggested to the State Olympic Associations to reach the masses in this campaign so that more and more Indians will cheer the athletes in the Olympics and the younger generation gets to know about the sporting culture of India and will be inspired to take up sports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioas-campaign-to-cheer-indian-athletes/article34765522.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||BAI writes to IOA for sanction of four travelling coaches||The Badminton Association of India (BAI) has written to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) for sanction of four travelling coaches, including chief National coach P. Gopichand, and two physios to travel with the Indian contingent to the Olympics. Apart from Gopichand, the three foreign coaches — Agus Dwi Santoso (Indonesia), Park Tae Sang (Korea) and Mathias Boe (Denmark) — were named in the letter, besides the two physios Sumansh Sivalanka and Evangline Baddam (women). “Badminton has best shot at medals in Tokyo and a letter was sent to IOA on Monday mentioning the six member support team that also includes Gopichand’s name along with the squad of four players,” a BAI source told PTI .  According to norms, the number of officials travelling cannot be more than one-third of the athletes. However, the sports ministry can allow additional officials at no cost to the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bai-writes-to-ioa-for-sanction-of-four-travelling-coaches/article34765642.ece
09 June 2021||Colombo,||Temporary truce reached, SLC names squad for England tour||The Sri Lankan cricketers have agreed to compete against England on a tour-specific contract, but would not sign the annual contracts unless Sri Lanka Cricket (SLC) explained the evaluation process. The Minister of Youth and Sports, Namal Rajapaksa, gave his approval for the chosen Sri Lanka squad. It is scheduled to play three T20Is and as many ODIs between June 18 and July 4.  The squad: Kusal Perera (Capt.), Kusal Mendis, Danushka Gunathilaka, Avishka Fernando, Pathum Nissanka, Niroshan Dickwella, Dhananjaya de Silva, Oshada Fernando, Charith Asalanka, Dasun Shanaka, Wanindu Hasaranga, Ramesh Mendis, Chamika Karunaratne, Dhananjaya Lakshan, Ishan Jayaratne, Dushmantha Chameera, Isuru Udana, Asitha Fernando, Nuwan Pradeep, Shiran Fernando, Lakshan Sandakan, Akila Dananjaya and Praveen Jayawickrama .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/temporary-truce-reached-slc-names-squad-for-england-tour/article34765077.ece
09 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former State footballer Sigamani passes away||Former Karnataka State footballer Sigamani passed away here on Tuesday. He was 72. Sigamani represented Karnataka in the 1978 and 1979 Santosh Trophy. On the club circuit, he played for MEG.   The Karnataka Olympic Association (KOA) will conduct a COVID-19 vaccine drive for sportspersons and officials across Karnataka on Thursday and Friday. International, national and state-level sportspersons, coaches, managers, office bearers, technical and administrative staff of sports associations affiliated with the KOA are eligible to attend the vaccine drive, the KOA announced. The vaccine drive in Bengaluru will be held at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-state-footballer-sigamani-passes-away/article34765120.ece
09 June 2021||KOCHI:,||KSAA seeks CM’s nod to conduct trials for Nationals||Kerala State Athletics Association (KSAA) has written to the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan seeking permission to conduct trials to select the State team for the coming National inter-State championships in Patiala from June 25 to 29. “We have sent the letter to the Chief Minister and the Sports Minister today. We plan to have the trials at the Calicut University stadium,” said KSAA secretary P.I. Babu on Tuesday. “If that does not happen, we will be sending athletes who have made the AFI’s entry standard in the last three years as per the national federation’s guidelines.”     Hilmi Parveen of Ernakulam won the Chess Kerala B. Sreelatha Aadaram Women’s Grand Prix here on Tuesday.   The standings: 1. Hilmi Parveen (Ekm 6.5), 2. Anupam M. Sreekumar (Tvm 6), 3. C.V. Sreenidhi (Knr 6), 4. K. Prajeesha (Koz 5.5), 5. M.S. Sreelekshmi (Ekm 5.5), 6. A. Nafila (Gud 5.5), 7. Moomena Shamsudheen (Tsr 5.5), 8. A.J. Athira (Tsr 5.5), Nimmy A. George (Ekm 5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksaa-seeks-cms-nod-to-conduct-trials-for-nationals/article34765281.ece
09 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Sports quota admission at SSN CoE||SSN College of Engineering is offering sports quota admission for this academic year with scholarships for National and International-level achievers for the following sports and games: athletics, badminton, basketball, chess, cricket, table tennis, squash, football and tennis. Contact 94441 39220 / 75500 90075.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-quota-admission-at-ssn-coe/article34765467.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||India might have 2 flag-bearers at Tokyo Olympics: IOA chief Batra||In a first, India might have two flag-bearers — one male and one female — at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics to ensure “gender parity”, the Indian Olympic Association chief Narinder Batra said on Tuesday, adding the names will be revealed soon. PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-might-have-2-flag-bearers-at-tokyo-olympics-ioa-chief-batra/article34765116.ece
09 June 2021||Kochi,||FIFA imposes transfer ban on Blasters, EB||Football’s world body FIFA has banned Indian Super League (ISL) clubs Kerala Blasters FC and SC East Bengal from signing players from the coming transfer window after receiving complaints about unpaid wages. “The list includes Kerala Blasters, East Bengal and Churchill (I-League) but it is only an issue of making the payment (to players),” Kushal Das, AIFF general secretary, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “I think there are three or four clubs, I don’t remember the exact details since it comes to our legal department. Whoever has not made the payment, it is there and once you make the payment the ban will be lifted.” FIFA acts when players complain when terms of their contract are not fulfilled by clubs. “They have specified the foreign player (who has complained to FIFA),” said Das. In Blasters’ case, one learns that it is its former Slovenian striker Matej Poplatnik. Action taken Meanwhile, Blasters issued a note saying it has taken action on the issue. “The Kerala Blasters can confirm that all necessary actions have been taken to clear pending obligations with respect to the transfer ban imposed by FIFA on the club,” it said. “The club expects to have the required clearance in due time. Further, the club assures all its fans that the ban will not affect the ongoing recruitment of players and preparations for the upcoming season.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/fifa-imposes-transfer-ban-on-blasters-eb/article34765115.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Focus is on winning gold at Paralympics: Bhagat||Three Indian para shuttlers, including World No. 1 Pramod Bhagat, on Tuesday officially qualified for the Paralympics, scheduled from August 25 to Sept. 5. Besides Bhagat (SL3 — standing/ lower limb impairment/ minor), Tarun (SL4 — standing/ lower limb impairment/ severe) and Nagar Krishna (SH6 — standing/ short stature) too received invitations to participate.Badminton is being introduced in the Paralympics.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/focus-is-on-winning-gold-at-paralympics-bhagat/article34765121.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 08:28 IST,||Sudoku — June 9, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-9-2021/article34765867.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||On the couch with Irrfan||It is Irrfan. Irrfan Khan. Is it, yes, oh, I mutter. The TV remote stays mute. Addicted to the might and madness of the human mind for years through books, films, talks, I let the jazz of adrenaline play my veins in prep for the fourth season of the HBO series, In Treatment , that debuted recently. I am surfing through previous seasons (which aired between 2008 and 2010) on Disney + Hotstar. Having compulsively watched 50-something therapist Dr Paul Weston (actor Gabriel Byrne) over 70-plus episodes, I am in love with his non-verbals as with his spoken word. Shrink in shining armour. In dark jackets and polished shoes, he navigates his clients through abusive relationships, teenage rebellions, erotic transference, or difficult divorces. I have been in his clinic for many weeks, and Americans in therapy exhaling with cuss words amuses me. I was unprepared though to find Irrfan unpacking his life in Season 3.  In Treatment is intense. Often, a lifetime tides up between two people talking to each other. Reminiscent of intimate, theatre work. A viewer can pan Weston’s book-lined, wood-panelled office with the camera or invisibly take a seat. Produced and developed by Rodrigo Garcia — based on the Israeli series Be Tipul — the programme shows four patients each week in sessions with Weston, followed by one with his own therapist to dust his mental cobwebs.  Flashback to Sunil   In Treatment won many honours at The Emmys and Golden Globes after its 2008 launch. Several episodes for Season 3 were written by playwright Adam Rapp, with author Jhumpa Lahiri consulting on the Irrfan story. I had no idea though, until a day after the actor’s first death anniversary on April 29 this year that “one of the greatest actors alive”, as Rapp described Irrfan to The New York Times over a decade ago, was grieving all those years back on a Brooklyn couch. Sunil Sanyal, 2010. His psychic pain is as palpable as a limp, when herded by his son Arun and daughter-in-law Julia, he enters Weston’s office. Irrfan plays a greying widower in his 50s. His anguish, as the recently-bereaved husband of Kamala, struggling with his bristling present, a Bengali maths professor from Kolkata who loves recreational cricket, is a fascinating part of his acting oeuvre. Barely written about in India. Who else could have played a man so deeply thorned by conflict, shadowed by demons from a tumultuous past, and express it through the borderless language of his eyes. Confused by his unnerving dreams and insomniac neurosis, Sanyal longs to return to Kolkata. His daughter-in-law, a modern American woman, unabashed in her mannerisms as a wife, whose perfume reminds him of “black pepper and jasmine”, a mother unfettered by ideas of sacrifice unlike Sanyal’s dead wife, arouses a storm of resentment in him. The arousal is the presenting problem. “Can I smoke in your office… err Paul?” “Can I offer you some tea, Paul? In my country having tea with friends is how people grieve instead of paid therapy…” says Sanyal. Weston opens a window to prevent the smoke from Sanyal’s life lighting a fire, and brews tea for him. Sanyal mourns his wife but also his Brahmin Bengali-ness. And Kolkata, where caste decides emotional fates. A sudden déjà vu now circles me. I have met Sunil Sanyal before. It is not so much his sloppy, half-sleeved sweaters and closed toe, tan sandals, but the Kolkata-dusted bewilderment of a Bengali in New York that triggers the memory of Ashoke Ganguly from the 2006 film, The Namesake . Prof Ganguly was not as troubled in Mira Nair’s adaptation of Lahiri’s novel, but he is ponderous as only Irrfan can be.  Waiting for the connect  Now with the Covid-19 elephant in the room, the therapeutic space is crowded. As mental health dilemmas intensify globally, spiked peculiarly in the US by racial divisiveness, HBO has revived In Treatment . The fourth season opened on May 23 with African-American actor, Emmy awardee Uzo Aduba as the shrink. Dr Brooke Taylor sits on a Herman Miller chair in a Los Angeles home that looks like a gallery of modern art with sorbet sofas and tech tools. A male home health aide, an immigrant, is on a virtual session. Others meet Taylor at her house, including a Black teenage sex addict identifying as lesbian female. Taylor represents change but in the episodes so far, the “connect” is just about warming up. Like life clutched by the past, I rewind to Sunil Sanyal and Paul Weston, and find them seated on opposite sides of a glass in a detention centre. The boundaries are back. They speak through a visitor’s telephone. Sanyal is being deported to India for the “criminal threat” he poses to his daughter-in-law’s life while Weston struggles with a Parkinson’s diagnosis. “Will you be okay? Sometimes I worry about you…” a wry Sanyal quips to a grimacing Weston. “I know what it is like to feel such loneliness and I hope someday you will free yourself from it.” This last episode concludes with Sunil humming a Bengali song, of a moonlit night and a goodbye. Vidhaye bandhu vidhaye (farewell, friend, farewell) It is a breakthrough moment.  Shefalee Vasudev is editor of  The Voice of Fashion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-the-couch-with-irrfan/article34765190.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||The nature fix||After all these years, David Attenborough is still fascinated by the world. In the opening sequence of Life in Color with David Attenborough , Netflix’s recent three-part docu-series, we see the 95-year-old walking on a tropical beach, binoculars in hand. “The natural world is full of colours,” goes that immediately recognisable voiceover. Life in Color is about how animals use colour to communicate, how colour is a part of slow, gradual evolution in some cases, and a matter of day-to-day survival in others. The usual suspects are all there — peacocks with their mating dance, flamingoes turning pink on account of all the algae they eat. But there’s plenty here that will surprise you. In terms of content and large-scale approach (the first episode itself spans four continents), the series is classic Attenborough territory, resembling Planet Earth and the many other BBC classics from his oeuvre of nature documentaries. Visually, however, Life in Color is part of a recent batch of nature documentaries that take an unusually immersive approach, often using custom-made technology to film at punishing locales. These include Discovery Plus’s Endangered (narrated by Ellen DeGeneres, it premièred April 22), Apple TV’s The Year Earth Changed (premièred April 16), as well as the second season of Apple TV’s Earth at Night in Color (narrated by Tom Hiddleston, premièred April 16).  Earth at Night in Color has the most stunning imagery of the lot, I’d argue. The quality of the light-sensitive cameras is off the charts and the results speak for themselves. Moreover, the makers do a great job of crafting narratives around these striking images. Night-time is a “shadowy world that hides over half of the animals in the world”, as Hiddleston’s voiceover informs us. It’s the stage for rich, urgent drama — a lioness searching high and low for her missing cub, a pack of hyenas working in ruthless, systematic fashion to corner their prey, an owl swooping down from the night sky upon unsuspecting reptiles and rodents. There is some overlap between the show’s first season and the 2020 Netflix series Night on Earth (which had considerably longer episodes than the 30-minute chunks we get here), especially in the big cats department. But with this second season diversifies its portfolio efficiently: the episode on kangaroos, especially, will win over most viewers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-nature-fix/article34765196.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Active cases fall below 5K, daily infections stay low||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with the active cases falling below 5,000 on Tuesday, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The city reported 316 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,29,791. Also, 41 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,668. A total of 71,879 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,00,161 people have recovered and there are 4,962 active cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.44%, which means that less than one person out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus. AAP leader Atishi said that Covaxin doses for people in the age group of 45 years and above was almost over on Tuesday and vaccination using Covaxin in government hospitals and centres will be closed from Wednesday. “We are waiting for the Central government to send another shipment of vaccines for this category. Covishield stock is available for 45+ category,” Ms. Atishi said. About vaccination of 18-44 age group, she said, “We had 27,000 doses of Covaxin available till this morning. Young people eligible for the second dose will be given Covaxin for the next 1-2 days. But Covishield stock is not available with us at present.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/active-cases-fall-below-5k-daily-infections-stay-low/article34765220.ece
09 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Now, Akhilesh says he will take the jab||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, who had said he would not get vaccinated for COVID-19 as he did not trust the “BJP’s vaccine”, announced he would get the shot following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement of reverting to centralised procurement of vaccines. “I was against the ‘BJP’s tika ’ but welcome the ‘ tika of the Indian government’. I will also get the vaccine shots and would appeal those who could not get vaccinated due to shortage of vaccine to get the shots,” Mr. Yadav said. Taking to Twitter, he stated that due to public outrage, the Centre had to announce that they would get the vaccination done instead of “politicising it”. BJP hits out at Akhilesh BJP leader and Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya targeted Mr. Yadav for his earlier comments and accused him of insulting the scientists of the country who had developed vaccine and blamed him for the incidents involving health workers due to resistance to vaccination. “He should get vaccinated, we welcome that. But till he apologises, he is guilty of the insults of and the attacks [on health workers and scientists],” said Mr. Maurya. Mr. Yadav’s announcement came a day after his father and SP founder Mulayam Singh Yadav got his first dose. Due to Mr. Akhilesh Yadav’s earlier comments on the vaccine, the BJP leaders taunted him after his father received the vaccine. Mr. Maurya on Sunday thanked Mr. Mulayam Singh Yadav for taking the “swadeshi vaccine”. His (Akhilesh) comment was “proof” that he had “spread rumours” about the vaccine, Mr. Maurya added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/now-akhilesh-says-he-will-take-the-jab/article34765214.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal writes to PM seeking approval for doorstep ration||When did the Central and Delhi governments become separate units if it was a matter of people’s welfare, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a letter, seeking his nod for the doorstep delivery of ration to the poor, here on Tuesday. Was it prudent, Mr. Kejriwal asked, to have separate schemes entailing separate budgetary expenditure related to the same issue, in this case that of dry ration, especially when the ration in question “belonged neither to political leaders nor the Aam Aadmi Party or the BJP” but to the people instead. “The home delivery of ration was about to begin. The scheme would have allowed a poor person to get properly packed ration delivered at home instead of being pushed around in lines outside [ration] shops… but suddenly, just two days before it was supposed to be implemented, it was stalled. People are asking why you did so,” Mr. Kejriwal asked in the letter. Ration mafia Residents have, over the last 75 years, been targeted consistently by the ‘ration mafia’ and while the ration was supposedly delivered to them on paper, most of it was siphoned off, he alleged. “It is being said that we did not seek the Centre’s approval for the scheme. This is wrong, Sir…Legally, we do not require the Centre’s approval…but we did not want any dispute with the Centre so we took approval not just once, but five times,” the Chief Minister stated. The Centre, Mr. Kejriwal further stated, had cited that the matter was sub judice at the Delhi High Court as a reason for not allowing its rollout. However, the Chief Minister argued, if the High Court had not stayed the scheme in spite of this, how could the Centre do so? “If we want to deliver ration to needy residents, what is objectionable in that? I believe, given the pandemic, this scheme should not only be implemented in Delhi but across the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-writes-to-pm-seeking-approval-for-doorstep-ration/article34765221.ece
09 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Panchkula development authority to be set up||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Tuesday announced setting up of the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) to ensure timely and swift execution of the integrated development plan made for the city. “The PMDA would ensure sustained and balanced growth. The authority would work on the similar lines of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority,” said Mr. Lal here at a press conference. He said to ensure that the people of the State along with the Panchkula residents are aware of the development planned for the city, an extensive Information Education Communication campaigning would be prepared. “A map identifying every corner of Panchkula would be prepared and hoardings displaying the information about completed projects and in progress would be installed across the city,” said Mr. Lal.  The Chief Minister said after Panchkula, a similar integrated development plan would be chalked out for Karnal, Hisar and other districts of the State. Mr. Lal also lauded the efforts of the officers who helped Haryana bag the first position in NITI Aayog’s think-tank Sustainable Development Goals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/panchkula-development-authority-to-be-set-up/article34765209.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||North body wants its six hospitals to be taken over by Centre: Delhi govt. to HC||The Delhi government has told the High Court that North body has been advocating that its six hospitals be handed over to the Centre to reduce the annual expenditure incurred by the civic body, which is facing financial constraints. The six hospitals are Hindu Rao Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, R.B.I.PMT Hospital, Girdhari Lal Hospital, M.V.I.D. Hospital and Balak Ram Hospital. The Delhi government, represented by senior advocate Rahul Mehra, said that in February 2018, a communication was sent by the North municipal commissioner to its Municipal Secretary. The communication sets out the consolidated expenditure incurred in running the said hospitals in the years 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, and advocates that these hospitals be handed over to the Central government so as to reduce the annual expenditure incurred by it to the tune of about Rs. 500-600 crore. “In case, the Centre is not willing to take them over, the GNCTD would be willing to take over the said hospitals and medical college, considering the fact that health is a State Subject,” Mr. Mehra said. An HC Bench directed the North body to submit a status report by July 8, the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-body-wants-its-six-hospitals-to-be-taken-over-by-centre-delhi-govt-to-hc/article34765216.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||AAP MLAs launch 45+ vaccination campaign||AAP MLAs inaugurated Delhi government’s ‘Jahaan Vote, Wahin Vaccine’ door-to-door vaccine outreach programme in their constituencies and appealed to people to get vaccinated. The AAP leaders appealed to representatives of RWAs, youth groups, women’s groups, market associations, NGOs and religious organisations to spread awareness and encourage residents above 45 years to get vaccinated at local polling booths in their Assembly constituencies. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain launched the programme in Ballimaran Assembly constituency and went door-to-door to encourage people to get vaccinated. In Kalkaji, AAP MLA Atishi said she will go from house-to-house to ensure that all people get vaccinated at local polling booths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-mlas-launch-45-vaccination-campaign/article34765218.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Relaxations granted for installing oxygen plants||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday chaired a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) meeting with senior officials in which deliberations were held and key proposals were approved by the authority. According to Raj Niwas, a modification granting exemption from notice and building permit for erection or installation of PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plant or Liquid Medical Oxygen Plant and similar related infrastructure on ground in hospitals in open and setback areas subject to other mandatory clearances and making it free from FAR (Floor Area Ratio) and ground coverage norms was among the significant developments. Housing plots Disposal of group housing plots for construction of small size dwelling units not exceeding carpet area of 60 sq.m for providing affordable houses was another key proposal. In view of the current economic situation, the existing rates of additional FAR and conversion charges would not be increased for all categories of properties and land rates for computation of misuse charges, it was decided. The date of approval for redevelopment plans for standalone godowns in non-conforming areas was extended up to December 31, 2023. The Master Plan for Delhi 2021 with respect to development control norms for unauthorised colonies for final notification by MoHUA was another proposal, which was cleared. DDA was allowed to undertake development and sanction building plans for its in-situ slum rehabilitation projects under PMAY falling in denotified areas. Invitation of public comments and suggestions on proposal for change in land use from residential (redevelopment) to transportation for multilevel car parking at Idgah Road, Zone A as well as a review of the policy for fixation of reserve price in respect of unsold inventory of built-up shops or units by effecting reduction in reserve price was also passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/relaxations-granted-for-installing-oxygen-plants/article34765223.ece
09 June 2021||Jodhpur,||Five-year-old girl dies of thirst in Rajasthan||A five-year-old girl died of thirst while her grandmother fell unconscious in Raniwara in Jalore district of Rajasthan, the police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Sunday afternoon when Sukhi (60) and Manju (5) were going on foot to see a family member in Roda village, SHO Padma Ram said. On the way, they felt thirsty but could not find water, he said. Later, some shepherds spotted them and informed the village sarpanch who informed the police. The police took both to a hospital where Manju was declared dead while Sukhi is undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-year-old-girl-dies-of-thirst-in-rajasthan/article34765210.ece
09 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan extends crop loan repayment date||In a major relief to the farmers during the COVID-19 pandemic, Rajasthan has extended the last date for repayment of crop loans for the rabi season in 2020-21 from June 30 to August 31. The State government has also decided to speed up disbursement of short-term loans for the kharif crop cycle. Cooperative Minister Udai Lal Anjana said here on Tuesday that the decision would benefit lakhs of farmers affected by the pandemic. “The Cooperative Department has set the target for disbursing Rs. 16,000 crore in loans this year and has already released Rs. 2,550 crore in credit,” he said. As many as 9.71 lakh farmers were connected with the agricultural credit facility during 2019-20 and 3.91 farmers in 2020-21. Mr. Anjana said the condition for loan repayment within a maximum of one year had been dispensed with. The State government would sanction more projects for food processing, cold storage and warehouses for the benefit of agriculturists this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-extends-crop-loan-repayment-date/article34765212.ece
09 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Administer 6 lakh doses daily, Yogi tells officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday asked officials to increase the pace of vaccination in the State and attempt to administer 6 lakh doses daily. From July 1, this should be further increased to 10 lakh doses per day, the CM said after an official meet on tackling the pandemic. The State administered 4.5 lakh doses over the past 24 hours, the government said. Meanwhile, the State decided to relax the Corona Curfew restrictions in all 75 districts as the active cases in each one dropped below 600. From Tuesday, business establishments and markets in all districts would be open from 7 am to 7 pm for five days a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/administer-6-lakh-doses-daily-yogi-tells-officials/article34765215.ece
09 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Two civil defence marshals held for robbery in Narela||Two Delhi Civil Defence (DCD) marshals were arrested for allegedly robbing a man of his phone in Narela, police said on Tuesday. DCP (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the accused — Gaurav (20) and Ayush (20) — are both residents of Narela. The crime took place on Monday at 9.30 p.m. when complainant Vikas Kumar from Sonipat was returning home with his cousin. When they reached near MSP Mall, two men on a bike came to the spot and stopped near him. They slapped him and snatched his phone. On hearing commotion, patrolling officials rushed to the spot. The accused were nabbed. They told police that they work as DCD marshals. The phone and the bike were recovered from their possession, Mr. Singh said, adding that further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-civil-defence-marshals-held-for-robbery-in-narela/article34765225.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Involve RWAs for jab drive: HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court has asked the Centre to “seriously consider” involving the Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) in the Capital for organising vaccination drives within their respective colonies for the residents. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Jasmeet Singh said “permitting vaccinations to be undertaken at such camps would go a long way in making it convenient and safe for the residents of the colonies to get themselves vaccinated at such centres”. “The Centre should, therefore, seriously consider this proposal at the earliest,” the court said. “However, in case, the Centre, for any good reason, is not inclined to permit RWAs to organise such camps in association with private hospitals, the reasons shall be disclosed in the next status report,” the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/involve-rwas-for-jab-drive-hc-to-centre/article34765217.ece
09 June 2021||June 09 2021 00:00 IST,||In the works||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-the-works/article34765546.ece
09 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||OPD services resume at Gurugram hospital||With a decline in COVID-19 cases, normal outdoor-patient services (OPD) resumed at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 here on Tuesday. Giving details, Deputy Civil Surgeon Maneesh Rathee said the Health department had decided to resume normal OPD services after the rate of COVID-19 infection had gone down. He added all OPD services were resumed with normal timings. The OPD services for dental, ENT and dermatology departments were shut and the timings for the other OPD services were curtailed to three hours till 11 a.m. in April-end given the sudden spike in COVID-19 cases. Dr. Rathee said there were directions from the headquarters now to resume the normal OPD services. He added that the services were run for the normal timings from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. on Tuesday and 1,200 people availed the facility. However, the flu OPD services are being run round-the-clock to examine patients with symptoms of cough, cold and fever in view of the COVID-19 infection. He added that all patients coming for the OPD services were required to adhere to COVID protocol to minimise the possibility of contraction of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/opd-services-resume-at-gurugram-hospital/article34765211.ece
09 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. institutes a series of annual awards||The Assam government has instituted a series of annual awards similar to the Bharat Ratna and Padma awards entailing a slew of benefits for the awardees. The decision in this regard was taken at a Cabinet meeting headed by the Chief Minister on Tuesday. While the Asom Ratna would be presented to one person who has made a significant contribution to society, the Asom Bibhushan would be presented to three, the Asom Bhushan to two and the Asom Shree to 10 persons every year. The awards will carry Rs. 5 lakh, Rs. 3 lakh, Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 1 lakh respectively with benefits such as free treatment and free stay at Assam Bhawans across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-govt-institutes-a-series-of-annual-awards/article34765213.ece
09 June 2021||New Delhi,||Days after cocktail therapy, two test negative: hospital||Two COVID-19 patients, who were given ‘Monoclonal Antibody Therapy’, tested negative eight days after developing symptoms, Max Healthcare said in a statement on Tuesday. “They were administered Antibody Cocktail Therapy within three days of testing positive. This is the fastest ever recovery reported in patients, particularly senior citizens suffering from comorbidities,” the hospital said. The Antibody Cocktail Therapy costs around Rs. 60,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/days-after-cocktail-therapy-two-test-negative-hospital/article34765224.ece
