11 June 2021||PATNA,||Bihar in fudging row as COVID toll jumps by 72% after recount||Bihar’s Opposition on Thursday accused the Nitish Kumar government of fudging data after the COVID-19 death toll in the State jumped by a whopping 72.84% after a recount by the authorities. After the revised figures were released, the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) accused Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of fudging data. The government, however, said its “intent was to reach out to family members of the deceased”.  On June 7, the official figure for COVID-19 deaths was 5,424. But the next day, the government said the figure had gone up to 9,375 after it recounted deaths in all the 38 districts. In the verification exercise that lasted 15-20 days, the government added 3,951 more deaths. Most of them happened in the second wave of COVID-19 since April 2021, said health officials. The Health Department also revised the number of recovered patients to 7,01,234 from 6,98,397 reported on June 7. The recovery rate, which was 98.7% on June 7, too, came down to 97.65% on June 9. Among the districts, Patna had the highest death toll with 2,303, followed by Muzaffarpur with 609 fatalities, Nalanda (463), Begusarai (454), East Champaran (425), Darbhanga (342) and Madhubani (317). Taking potshots at the government, RJD chief Lalu Prasad tweeted in Hindi, “Nitish became fake by fudging data that brought imm- ense worldwide disgrace but he did not feel ashamed.” Mr. Prasad’s younger son and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav, tweeted: “When you get caught, the death toll rose by 4,000 in a single day. Whatever the Nitish government is telling about death toll data, there has been 20% more deaths... When Nitish government is fake, data too will be fake.” Health Minister Mangal Pandey said, “We got to know from various sources that those who died [due to COVID-19] could be more in number. After consultations with the stakeholders, the government instructed the district administrations to identify institutional deaths due to COVID-19.” The intent of the exercise was to reach out to the family members of the deceased, he said. ‘Intent is clean’ Senior BJP leader and party Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi also said “the intent of the government was clean, so it updated the data of COVID-19 death toll”. “The updated data was not released by any investigating agency but by the Health Department and its intent was to provide Rs. 4 lakh compensation to the family members of all deceased and other help to them,” he said. “If the Opposition’s allegation of data fudging is right, the government would not have constituted a team to collect right data, neither would it have mustered the courage to update it.” “The spurt in the number of deaths reflects deaths reported at private hospitals, in transit to health facilities, in home isolation and those dying of post COVID-19 complications after they tested negative and were discharged from hospitals,” Additional Secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bihar-in-fudging-row-as-covid-toll-jumps-by-72-after-recount/article34785337.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||SNGOU students left in the lurch: Oppn.||The Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) on Thursday said the “abject failure” on the part of the government to get University Grants Commission (UGC) approval for the distance education courses offered by the Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) had dashed the hopes of 1.5 lakh students. Seeking to press for an adjournment motion to discuss the predicament of the affected students, Congress legislator K. Babu said the SNGOU, set up with much fanfare by the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, had become a white elephant of open and distance learning. The government had used the SNGOU as a vehicle for irregular and illegal appointments. The university was a non-starter, he said. From poor families Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan said the government had quashed the academic aspirations of marginalised and underprivileged sections of society through “thoughtless” legislation that barred other universities from conducting distance education courses. The students had no other recourse but to enrol in the SNGOU. The government should urgently promulgate an Ordinance amending the law that stifled the academic choices of students and give the students a broader opportunity by reallowing other universities to conduct distance education courses and open university learning, as in the past. Mr. Satheesan said the “irregular appointments” in the SNGOU impeded UGC recognition. The Vice Chancellor did not have the requisite experience. The Pro Vice Chancellor was above the prescribed age of 60. The Registrar’s sole qualification was he assisted former Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. The government should terminate their service and appoint qualified persons to the posts. The UGC was yet to inspect the SNGOU’s infrastructure and faculty. “The government had baptised the child (SNGOU) before it was born,” he said. Minister’s reply Higher Education Minister R. Bindu said the UGC’s distance education bureau’s web portal for submitting applications for approval of open and distance learning courses remained shut due to the pandemic situation in New Delhi. The government was in touch with the UGC. It would ensure approval for SNGOU courses before October. The SNGOU conducted undergraduate and postgraduate education programmes. The government would ensure that the SNGOU would fulfil its social aim, Dr. Bindu said. Speaker M.B. Rajesh denied permission for the Opposition’s adjournment motion based on the Minister’s reply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sngou-students-left-in-the-lurch-oppn/article34785478.ece
11 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s tribals flee village fearing jab||Tribals in Odisha’s Rayagada district fled the village after locking up their houses to avoid taking the COVID-19 vaccine. The incident took place at Champakana, under Kolnara block of Rayagada, on Wednesday. The district administration had held an awareness camp, explaining the benefits of inoculation. “However, when our team reached the village with 100 doses for those aged above 45, it did not find anyone available. Four to five villagers present there were not ready to take the jab,” said D. Sailaja, Kolnara medical officer. Dr. Sailaja said the tribals belonging to the Kandh community were apparently misled by some WhatsApp videos, which predicted death within two years of vaccination. The population of Champakana is 500. After three hours of persuasion involving the chieftain, three persons came forward for inoculation. “During the drive, we have faced a similar situation in four to five villages. We hope the vaccine hesitancy will disappear,” she said. Major worry Hesitancy has been a major issue for district administrations across the State. Last month, the Rayagada district administration had to sit with the Dongria Kondhs, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), for days to make them agree to vaccination. Close to 1,000 Dongria Kondhs have so far been administered the vaccine. Tough to convince Similarly, it was difficult to convince Chuktia Bhunjia, another PVTG residing in the Sunabeda plateau of Nuapada district, on vaccination. The tribesmen said they feared they would die soon after getting the jab. Odisha has so far managed to administer the first dose to 9,68,188 people aged between 18 and 44. Only 3,70,095 have received the second dose. While 54,34,038 people aged above 45 have been inoculated, 11,22,935 have been given the second dose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odishas-tribals-flee-village-fearing-jab/article34785330.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Promote second-rung leadership in Punjab: AICC||A report submitted by an All India Congress Committee (AICC) panel to party president Sonia Gandhi has said that the Congress needs to actively promote second-rung leaders in Punjab, where an Assembly election is slated for early next year. The report, submitted on Thursday, said Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is the tallest leader in the State but it was important to accommodate all sections. A role for Sidhu The panel’s suggestion that the Chief Minister should give importance to other leaders is being seen as a move to rehabilitate Navjot Singh Sidhu. A final decision on how to accommodate Mr. Sidhu, who has been at the forefront of dissidence against Capt. Singh, has been left to Ms. Gandhi. Sources said the report of three-member panel, comprising Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary (Punjab) Harish Rawat and Congress leader J.P Aggarwal, also suggested a complete revamp of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) along with the various committees, including the election-related committees. The AICC panel is also learnt to have suggested welfare schemes for targeted groups like farmers and Scheduled Castes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/promote-second-rung-leadership-in-punjab-aicc/article34785333.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan raises three capitals issue with Amit Shah||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy informed Home Minister Amit Shah about the State government’s decision to have three capital cities as part of its commitment to ensure balanced development of all regions during their meeting in New Delhi on Thursday night. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government had even passed the enabling legislation named AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act in the Assembly for shaping up Visakhapatnam, Amaravati and Kurnool as the Executive, Legislative and Judicial capitals respectively. He requested Mr. Shah to issue a re-notification for shifting the High Court to Kurnool while pointing out that the BJP favoured the establishment of the principal seat of the High Court in Rayalaseema. Special status Further, the Chief Minister reiterated the State’s demand for the Special Category Status (SCS) by insisting that it was essential for the State to recover from the blow that was dealt by the bifurcation of the unified State of Andhra Pradesh. By giving SCS, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, the Central government could give more grants to the State and it would facilitate the much-needed industrial development. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy requested Mr. Shah to give the necessary clearances for 13 new medical colleges being set up in the State and to take the initiative for the release of Rs. 3,229 crore due to the State Civil Supplies Corporation and Rs. 4,652 crore which is to be paid to the State under MGNREGS. He further requested the Home Minister to ensure payment of Rs. 5,540 crore by the Telangana DISCOMs to AP-Genco towards the power supplied to them, and to restructure the debt amounting to about Rs. 50,000 crore in which the AP power utilities are mired.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jagan-raises-three-capitals-issue-with-amit-shah/article34785324.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Lockdown extension in 11 districts of State||While continuing current lockdown restrictions in 11 districts which have high positivity rate for COVID-19, the Karnataka government on Thursday modified some of the restrictions imposed in other districts, including Bengaluru, from June 14 to 21. However, the COVID night curfew will be imposed from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all districts which have received lockdown relaxations. The weekend curfew will also come into effect from 7 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday in all districts which have received lockdown relaxations. Current restrictions will continue for one more week from June 14 to 6 a.m. on June 21 in these 11 districts: Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Davangere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi, and Kodagu. This was announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa after a high-level meeting with Ministers and officials. Based on the Technical Advisory Committee’s suggestions, the Chief Minister said lockdown restrictions have been relaxed in 20 districts. All shops delivering essential goods and services such as food stuff, medicine, milk, fruits, and vegetables will remain open for four more hours – from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m – in these districts. All street vendors will be allowed to sell from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. from Monday. All industries and manufacturing units will be allowed to open with 50% staff while garment industries can function with 30% staff. Taxis and autorickshaws will be allowed to operate with only two passengers. Construction activities will be permitted and all shops related to construction work such as cement and steel will remain open.  Morning walk For the benefit of morning walkers, all parks in Bengaluru and other 19 districts will be open from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. No public transport will be allowed till June 21. However, inter-district and inter-State movement will be allowed. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister held a videoconference with district commissioners of eight districts with high COVID-19 cases. On an average, Chikkamagaluru district reported 25.17% positivity rate in the first week of June, while Mysuru recorded 22%. The Chief Minister directed Deputy Commissioners to intensify the vaccination drive in their districts, especially in Belagavi, to contain the spread of the pandemic. The intensity of pandemic has come down due to the stringent measures adopted by the government during lockdown, but positive cases are not decreasing in some districts, Mr. Yediyurappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extension-in-11-districts-curbs-eased-in-bengaluru-elsewhere/article34785368.ece
11 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra Class X results by mid-July||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) has formally released the evaluation criteria for SSC or Class 10 students. As per State Board sources, the results are likely to be announced on or after July 15. As announced earlier by Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad, the students are to be assessed on their performance in Class IX as well as in the internal assessments of Class X. The State has cancelled the SSC exams owing to the COVID-19 situation. Ms. Gaikwad, who tweeted the evaluation criterion and the timetable for tabulation of marks late on Wednesday night, said students would be evaluated based on their marks in Class IX and X and that marks of both the classes would have 50% weightage. Of the total marks, 50 will be based on the performance in Class IX. The remaining 50 will be divided into two — 30 marks will be for the internal assessment of Class X and 20 marks for practical or homework or assignments during Class X. Schools will have to submit the results to the Board by June 30 and evaluation of results will begin by July 3. “To deliver a fair and objective assessment, all school leaders must read the procedures laid down carefully and also ensure that all stakeholders have clearly understood their roles and responsibilities,” Ms. Gaikwad said. On May 28, the Maharashtra government had announced that Class X students will be evaluated through an internal assessment formula for the academic year 2020-21. It also said that admissions to Class XI will be conducted physically through an optional common entrance test (CET) based on the Class X syllabus and students unwilling to appear for it will be admitted on the basis of an aggregate of Class X marks. At the time, Ms. Gaikwad had said the State government would try to announce the exam results by the end of June itself. A seven-member results’ committee under the chairmanship of headmasters will regulate the results which will be verified by officials of the school education department at the Divisional level, the Education Minister had earlier said, while warning of disciplinary and punitive action in case of irregularities or alteration of records.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-class-x-results-by-mid-july/article34785449.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Active cases fall below 1 lakh after 44 days||The State has reported 67 COVID-19 deaths and 8,110 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. The death toll reached 11,763 and the cumulative case tally jumped to 17,87,883. The number of active cases came down to below one lakh for the first time in 44 days since April 27. The State handled a peak of over 2.10 lakh active cases for three days continuously around mid-May and the number came down gradually since then. In the past day, 12,981 patients have recovered and the active case tally stands at 99,057. Of them, more than one-third of cases were in East Godavari (22.63%) and Chittoor (13.59%) while Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Anantapur have less than 3% active cases. The recovery rate and total recoveries increased to 93.80% and 16,77,063 respectively. The daily positivity rate of the 97,863 samples tested in the past day was 8.29%, which is one percent less than the previous day’s test positivity rate. The overall test positivity rate of 2.013 crore samples tested so far remain at 8.88%.  District-wise toll Chittoor has again reported the highest toll of 11 deaths in the past day. West Godavari reported nine deaths, Visakhapatnam seven, East Godavari, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram six each, Guntur and Kurnool five each, Krishna and Anantapur four each, Kadapa three and Nellore one death. Prakasam reported zero deaths. East Godavari reported the highest daily tally of 1,416 infections, followed by Chittoor (1,042), Anantapur (906), West Godavari (792), Prakasam (600), Krishna (576), Guntur (512), Kadapa (508), Visakhapatnam (502), Srikakulam (461), Vizianagaram (280), Nellore (280) and Kurnool (235). The district tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,44,210), Chittoor (2,04,555), Guntur (1,55,894), West Godavari (1,49,343), Anantapur (1,47,979), Visakhapatnam (1,43,797), Nellore (1,22,428), Kurnool (1,18,754), Prakasam (1,13,435), Srikakulam (1,13,174), Kadapa (99,993), Krishna (94,349) and Vizianagaram (77,077).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-fall-below-1-lakh-after-44-days/article34785321.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||House passes vote on account for 3 months||The first session of the 15th Assembly, which lasted for 12 days, came to an end on Thursday after passing the vote on account and Appropriation Bill for three months due to delay in passing the revised Budget for 2021-2022. While the House passed the vote on account by 35 to 90 votes, the Appropriation Bill was passed by voice vote. This will allow the government to withdraw money for spending until the Assembly meets again and passes the revised Budget. The Subject Committees will discuss the revised Budget from June 15 onwards. The House approved demands for Rs. 36,072.43 crore, including revenue expenditure of Rs. 32,452.18 crore and capital expenditure of Rs. 3,530.24 crore. Minister’s reply Replying to the discussions, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal said the government was not concealing the crisis facing the State exchequer. He said the government had not reduced the aid to minorities. “When assistance in Central schemes decreases, the State’s share will also decrease proportionately,” the Minister said. With the Centre agreeing to make available COVID-19 vaccine free of cost for all above 18 years, Mr. Balagopal said the cash-strapped State would be able to save the money allocated for purchase of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/house-passes-vote-on-account-for-3-months/article34785482.ece
11 June 2021||Pune,||Number of cases exceeds recoveries in State||After days of steady recoveries, Maharashtra’s case surge exceeded the number of patients discharged on Thursday, with the State recording 12,207 cases as opposed to just 11,449 recoveries. The active case tally stood at 1,60,693. The toll continued to rise with 1,915 deaths being added to the progressive number, of which 239 occurred during the last 48 hours (154 more took place during the past week). The Health Department said 1,522 fatalities have been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. The toll has climbed to 1,03,748 with the fatality rate rising to 1.77%. The case tally has reached 58,76,087 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 56,08,753 with the recovery rate rising to 95.45%. “Of the 3,73,56,704 laboratory samples tested thus far, 58,76,087 [with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.73%]) have returned positive with over 2.28 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.  Despite the general decline in the cases, Pune, the three sugar belt districts of western Maharashtra — Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli — and particularly Nashik, reported high spikes. Pune witnessed a heightened spike, reporting more than 1,300 cases taking its total to 10,30,325. The Health Department said 24 deaths were reported as the toll rose to 13,638. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined below 15,000 while the toll had reached over 19,000. Mumbai reported 655 cases to take its tally to 7,13,495 while the active count has increased to 18,157. Twentytwo fatalities took the city’s count to 15,055. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur continued to report big surges, with more than 1,400 cases taking its tally to 1,28,553 of whom 17,370 are active. 27 deaths saw the cumulative toll rise to 3,986. Neighbouring Satara reported 848 cases and 17 deaths, taking its tally to 1,77,575 of whom 10,634 are active. Its total death toll has risen to 3,481.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/number-of-cases-exceeds-recoveries-in-state/article34786038.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Medical experts pitch for extension of lockdown||Medical experts have advised the Tamil Nadu government to extend the COVID-19 lockdown by another week. The current phase of the lockdown is due to end on the morning of June 14. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin chaired a meeting of officials on Thursday. Based on the inputs from officials and experts, he is expected to take a decision. However, no relaxation will be possible in the 11 districts where the spread of COVID-19 is still high. Officials indicated that the Chief Minister would make an announcement by Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/medical-experts-pitch-for-extension-of-lockdown/article34785880.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||Investment clearance for Polavaram sought||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday requested Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to accord investment clearance for the Polavaram project amounting to approximately Rs. 55,657 crore as per the recommendations of the Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) and the Central Water Commission, which were accepted by the Technical Advisory Committee of the Ministry at the 2017-18 price level. “The clearance will help in completing the project works, including land acquisition and R&R, as per schedule, i.e. June 2022,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy told Mr. Shakhawat during their deliberations in New Delhi, an official release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/investment-clearance-for-polavaram-sought/article34785322.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Yediyurappa will remain CM: Arun Singh||In a bid to put a lid on the restiveness in the Karnataka unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), party general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh on Thursday said there was no move to shift Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa from his post, and that the party’s central leadership was very happy with the work done by his government, especially with regard to COVID-19 management. “Yediyurappaji  has done good work and he is Chief Minister and will remain. There is no talk or discussion of his removal or anything. He, along with other Ministers in the Karnataka government, have all done good work, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Singh said. He added that Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement that he was ready to quit as and when the high command would ask him to, was a “reflection” of his loyalty to the party and obedience to party discipline, but it did not mean that any such thing had been mooted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/yediyurappa-will-remain-cm-arun-singh/article34785332.ece
11 June 2021||Belagavi,||‘What’ll happen to the poor if we keep extending lockdown?’||Cheif Minister B.S. Yediyurappa objected to a suggestion by Deputy Chief Minister and district in-charge Govind Karjol that lockdown be extended in Belgavi by a week. “What will happen to the poor and daily wage workers if we continue extending lockdown?’’ Mr. Yediyurappa asked in reply to a suggestion by Mr. Karjol that lockdown be extended. At a video conference in Belagavi on Thursday, Mr. Karjol said that the average case positivity rate in Belagavi was 8.9% and an extension of lockdown by a week will help officials to reduce it to below five per cent. He said that in five taluks, the positivity rate is less than five per cent, but in the other five, it is higher than nine per cent. Mr. Karjol felt that the government should allow the district administration to extend lockdown in taluks with higher case positivity rate. Mr. Yediyurappa, however, responded that opening some taluks while locking down others could lead to higher cases in taluks with lower rate of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/whatll-happen-to-the-poor-if-we-keep-extending-lockdown/article34785386.ece
11 June 2021||HUBBALLI,||Now, file cases in Hubballi directly||Litigant public and advocates of Hubballi, who, hitherto, had to file applications/cases before the Principal District and Sessions Court in Dharwad for cases to be tried at the Additional District and Sessions Court in Hubballi, will now be allowed to file their applications/cases directly in Hubballi. Chief Administrative Officer of Principal District and Sessions Court, Dharwad, K.N. Marihalkar has in a press release said that the Administrative Judge for Dharwad District Sreenivas Harish Kumar has permitted the litigant public and advocates of Hubballi to file all cases (excluding special cases) to be tried at the Additional District and Sessions Court, Hubballi, in Hubballi itself from Friday. Earlier, the practice was that for cases to be tried in the First and Fifth Additional District and Sessions Courts in Hubballi, advocates were to file cases first before the Principal District and Sessions Court in Dharwad, which subsequently were sent to either the First or Fifth District and Sessions Courts in Huballi. The advocates of Hubballi had earlier made an appeal before the Dharwad Bench of the High Court of Karnataka to permit them to file cases in Hubballi itself.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-file-cases-in-hubballi-directly/article34785387.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||‘A.P. fifth in country in conducting COVID tests’||The State government on Thursday informed the Andhra Pradesh High Court that it stood 5th in the country in the COVID-19 tests conducted per million population, with the number surpassing two crore. In a memo submitted to the court, in response to a PIL filed by the AP Civil Liberties Association, the government also claimed to have conducted the highest number of Rt-PCR tests. It also refuted the allegation of Y.V. Ravi Prasad, amicus curiae of the court in the matters related to the pandemic, that it was lackadaisical in conducting the diagnostic tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-fifth-in-country-in-conducting-covid-tests/article34785252.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Collapsed dreams||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/collapsed-dreams/article34785335.ece
11 June 2021||Guwahati,||Pakke Tiger reserve union calls off strike||The Pakke Tiger Reserve Workers’ Union on Thursday withdrew their indefinite strike after the State government assured payment of four months’ wages within 15 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pakke-tiger-reserve-union-calls-off-strike/article34785440.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||In Nagaland, anti-graft group forms political party||Members of a group that had stood up to “multiple taxations” by extremist groups such as the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) factions have formed a political party. The Rising People’s Party (RPP) was registered with the Election Commission of India on June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/in-nagaland-anti-graft-group-forms-political-party/article34785441.ece
11 June 2021||Kolkata,||Chinese man held at West Bengal border||A Chinese national was on Thursday apprehended by the Border Security Force at Malda in West Bengal. The South Bengal Frontier of the BSF, in a press statement, said Han Junwe, 36, was arrested when he was illegally trying to cross into India from Indo-Bangladesh international boundary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chinese-man-held-at-west-bengal-border/article34785442.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||HC’s poser to govt. on Vijayendra’s temple visit||After noticing that B.Y. Vijayendra, son of CM B.S. Yediyurappa, has admitted of entering Sri Nanjundeshwara temple in Nanjangud recently, the High Court asked the government why then even ordinary citizens are not allowed to enter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hcs-poser-to-govt-on-vijayendras-temple-visit/article34785369.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Several districts see significant dip in cases||Many districts in Karnataka are seeing a dip in COVID-19 cases over the last four weeks. The decline is more significant in the last two weeks and the week-on-week change is above 80% in five districts. Dakshina Kannada has seen the highest decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/several-districts-see-significant-dip-in-cases/article34785370.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. cancels Class 9 and 11 exams||Days after the Central government cancelled the CBSE Class 12 exams, the Delhi government announced on Thursday that exams for Class 9 and 11 have been cancelled and students will be assessed based on their mid-term exam performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-govt-cancels-class-9-and-11-exams/article34785924.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against group of JNU students||The JNU administration on Thursday alleged that a group of students broke into the central library and clashed with the staffers, following which an FIR was registered. The university claimed that the students had been occupying the library for the last two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fir-registered-against-group-of-jnu-students/article34785925.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Sarma urges minorities to adopt population control||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has advised the minority community to adopt population control measures to reduce poverty and pressure on land. He said the illegal occupation of land belonging to temples, satras (monasteries) and forests cannot be allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sarma-urges-minorities-to-adopt-population-control/article34785926.ece
11 June 2021||BELAGAVI,||Global tenders called for assessing mineral wealth||The State government has called for global tenders for divining of mineral deposits in the entire State, Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani said in Belagavi on Thursday. “As of now, our knowledge of mineral wealth of the State is limited. Except for some areas with active mining, we don’t know the exact details of which minerals are available in which part,” he said. “Divining for minerals across the State is a huge exercise,” Mr. Nirani said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/global-tenders-called-for-assessing-mineral-wealth/article34785389.ece
11 June 2021||Chennai,||State’s active caseload drops below two lakh||Tamil Nadu’s active COVID-19 caseload dropped below two lakh after nearly a month on Thursday. A total of 1,88,664 people are now under treatment. Across the State, 16,813 people tested positive and 358 died on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-active-caseload-drops-below-two-lakh/article34785882.ece
11 June 2021||Chennai,||‘Irregularities curbed in amenities for doctors’||The Tamil Nadu government has saved Rs. 9 crore-Rs. 10 crore a month by curbing irregularities in providing food and accommodation to doctors and nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/irregularities-curbed-in-amenities-for-doctors/article34785883.ece
11 June 2021||Coimbatore,||Private land in Kallar corridor declared a forest||In an effort at protecting one of the most critical elephant corridors in Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore Collector S. Nagarajan has declared 50.79 hectares of private land in the Kallar corridor area a private forest under the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1949.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-land-in-kallar-corridor-declared-a-forest/article34785554.ece
11 June 2021||Mumbai,||State clears action plan to protect heritage trees||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday passed an action plan to protect and preserve trees older than 50 years in urban areas by terming them heritage trees. The State will also bring about amendments to the Maharashtra (Urban Area) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-clears-action-plan-to-protect-heritage-trees/article34786040.ece
11 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||‘Name Navi Mumbai airport after PWP leader’||Thousands of local residents and project-affected people formed human chains on Thursday to express their disappointment over a proposal to name the upcoming Navi Mumbai international airport after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/name-navi-mumbai-airport-after-pwp-leader/article34786041.ece
11 June 2021||Mumbai,||Opportunity to win govt. projects up to Rs. 15 lakh||The Maharashtra government is set to hold the fourth edition of Maharashtra Startup Week from August 9 to 13 to encourage young and innovative entrepreneurs. Applications can submited till June 15. Twenty-four winners will be awarded projects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/opportunity-to-win-govt-projects-up-to-rs-15-lakh/article34786042.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||MEA hints at talks with Taliban||India is in contact with “various stakeholders” in Afghanistan, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in response to specific questions about whether the government has opened direct talks with the Taliban. While the MEA did not confirm the talks, which would represent a major shift for Indian policy, it did not deny recent reports that indicated that Indian security officials have exchanged messages with several “nationalist” Taliban factions, including Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, a member of the Rehbari Shura, or the leadership council, which includes the Pakistan-based Taliban accused of terrorism. “We are in touch with various stakeholders in pursuance of our long-term commitment towards development and reconstruction of Afghanistan,” said MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi while speaking to presspersons on Thursday, where he referred to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s participation at the inaugural ceremony of the Intra-Afghan talks with Taliban leaders in Doha last year. Significantly, Mr. Jaishankar held a meeting with Qatar National Security Adviser Mohamed Bin Ahmed Al Mesned on Thursday during a transit stop in Doha between his visits to Kuwait and Kenya, where he said he had discussed “developments in the region and beyond”. The MEA declined to respond to a question on whether the recent developments in the Afghanistan talks came up during the conversation. The talks appear to have run into trouble both in Doha, where the Taliban’s official headquarters are based, and in Istanbul, where a U.S.-backed process for talks with the Taliban have been delayed for more than two months. So far, India has refused to open a direct dialogue with the Taliban leadership. However, according to experts, India has reconsidered its position in the aftermath of the U.S. announcement that it would pull out all its troops by September this year. “The clarity over the U.S. decision to pull out, which could be as early as next month, has added to the sense of urgency for Delhi to make these direct contacts,” said Avinash Paliwal, an associate professor of international relations at SOAS in the U.K. and an author, who had confirmed the Indian outreach in a column earlier this week. An official, who asked not to be named, said India’s engagement with groups in Afghanistan was driven by a desire to “limit damage” to its security interests as a result of the U.S.’s decision to leave and the Taliban gaining military strength in several key provinces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mea-hints-at-talks-with-taliban/article34785277.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Focus on second dose for HCWs, FLWs’||States have been advised to focus on the second dose of COVID-19 vaccination coverage among healthcare and frontline workers. A release issued by the Union Health Ministry said Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Thursday and informed States and Union Territories of the modifications in Co-WIN platform, aimed at making it more effective as a back-end management tool for the countrywide vaccination drive. “Mr. Bhushan highlighted the low vaccination coverage among Healthcare Workers (HCW) and Frontline Workers (FLW), especially for the second dose for both the priority groups, terming it a cause of serious concern,” said the release. The Ministry said that while the national average for the first dose administration among HCWs was 82%, the national average for second dose among HCWs was only 56%. Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Assam had a coverage below the national average in this aspect. For FLWs, the national average of first dose coverage was 85% but that of second dose coverage for FLWs was only 47%, and 19 States and UTs had reported second dose coverage of FLWs less than the national average. Among them were Bihar, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Puducherry, Telangana, Karnataka, and Punjab. “The Secretary highlighted less than adequate private sector participation in the COVID vaccination drive. As per the revised guidelines, 25% of the vaccine stock can be procured by the private hospitals. Limited presence of private hospitals and their unequal spread were highlighted for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam, etc,” said the release. The Ministry also alerted the States to the new features in the Co-WIN portal. Revised features allow rectifications in personal information (Name, YOB, Gender and Photo ID number of the card used) by citizens requesting changes only in any of the two fields out of the four mentioned. These changes are allowed only once. E-VIN data Meanwhile, the Centre advised the States and UTs to obtain the Health Ministry’s permission before sharing E-VIN data related to vaccine stocks and the temperature at which they are stored. This, it said, was to prevent any misuse of data by various agencies for commercial purposes. E-VIN is used by the Ministry for inventory management of vaccines and tracking storage temperature data of vaccines under the Universal Immunization Programme (UIP). The Ministry on Thursday said crucial information on vaccine usage trends for multiple vaccines used in the UIP, and temperature-related data, could be used to manipulate the market as well as associated research with respect to various vaccines and cold-chain equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-on-second-dose-for-hcws-flws/article34785286.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Refused entry, MP moves against Lakshadweep Administrator||CPI MP Binoy Viswam has filed a breach of privilege motion against the Lakshadweep Administrator Praful K. Patel for denying him permission to visit the islands, preventing him from meeting his cadre and people of the island amidst growing resentment about the policies of the new administrator. In his letter to the Rajya Sabha secretary general, Mr. Viswam said he had informed the Lakshadweep administration regarding his proposed visit on May 26, assuring them that he would abide by the COVID protocol. Mr. Viswam said it took five days for the administration to revert. Following which the Additional District Magistrate of Kavaratti replied that due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Viswam should postpone his visit. “It is pertinent to note that since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the islands of Lakshadweep had been able to keep the virus out in 2020. However, post the appointment of the current administration certain quarantining guidelines were relaxed as a result of which the UT has seen over 4,000 cases, with over 20 deaths already,” Mr. Viswam said in his letter. He said it is “undemocratic” and “abuse of power” on part of the administration to use the pandemic as an excuse to prevent elected representatives from visiting the island. Earlier a delegation of the CPI (M) were also denied permission for a visit. “The Right of a parliamentarian to move freely and meet with the people is integral to the privilege of their position itself,” Mr. Viswam said. Since Mr. Patel’s appointment, Mr. Viswam said, the administration has passed a number of directions that encroach on personal liberty, disrupting economic activity and snatching away the livelihood of the people. “It is unacceptable for a governing authority to have such blatant disregard for the people under its jurisdiction and continue to perpetuate decisions that cause great harm to them,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/refused-entry-mp-moves-against-lakshadweep-administrator/article34785258.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Probe sought into Choksi’s abduction to Dominica||A United Kingdom-based legal help organisation has lodged a complaint with the Scotland Yard’s War Crimes unit, seeking an investigation into the role of some British residents in the alleged abduction of Mehul Choksi from Antigua to Dominica. The organisation, Justice Abroad, is headed by lawyer Michael Polak. At an online press conference on Thursday, he said: “The rule of law is a very important principle across the Commonwealth. People need to know that when they are in Commonwealth countries like Antigua and Dominica, they won’t be kidnapped and taken away from places from where they have outstanding legal matters.” With regard to Christian Michel, who is in judicial custody in Tihar Jail in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case, Mr. Polak said it was a worrying case and that a United Nations panel had already made pronouncements about it. Choksi’s lawyers have alleged that he was abducted and physically tortured in Antigua on May 23 after being lured by one Barbara Jabarika, a Hungarian national and U.K. resident, to her house. She has denied her involvement. It has been alleged that Choksi was overpowered at Ms. Jabarika’s house by about half-a-dozen men, taken to a small boat and then shifted to a larger one to be transported to Dominica, where the authorities knew about his identity. However, he was not given access to legal counsel for three days. Choksi’s bail application and a habeas corpus petition filed by his lawyers are pending in the Dominica High Court. In Antigua, he had the right to approach the Queens Privy Council in case he did not get any reprieve from lower courts. Meanwhile, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “Regarding Mehul Choksi, no particular update. He continues to remain in custody of Dominican authorities where certain legal proceedings are under way.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-sought-into-choksis-abduction-to-dominica/article34785269.ece
11 June 2021||PALAKKAD,||This ‘secret love story’ has a happy ending||The Palakkad district police on Wednesday lifted the lid on a love story in which a man secretly lived with his partner, belonging to another community, in a tiny room at his family house at Ayiloor, near Nenmara, without letting anyone know about it for 11 years. Rahman, 34, son of Mohammed Khani, feared a backlash when he ran away with a woman living a few blocks away from his house on February 2, 2010. He covertly brought her to his house at Ayiloor and hid her in his room without giving any hint to his family. They lived in a small room with few amenities for 11 years. He would lock the room whenever he went out, and never let any of his family members enter it. By removing the grill, he converted his room’s window into a secret exit that they used for her to get out at night to relieve herself. Mr. Rahman would bring food and other essentials — all in tight secrecy. He even set up a mechanism which would give electric shocks if the room’s door handle was touched, to deter his family from entering. He was able to keep his father, mother and sister, who lived with him in the small house, unaware of his actions for 11 years. The police questioned many people as part of an investigation following the woman’s disappearance in 2010. Mr. Rahman, too, was among those questioned. As he continued to live in the same village, none suspected him for the woman’s disappearance. Man missing case In March this year, Mr. Rahman left his house and the family filed a man missing case. The secret relationship came to light when the police found Mr. Rahman at Nenmara town on Wednesday. He reportedly told the police that he had shifted to a rented house in the neighbouring Vithanassery village three months ago with his partner. Although the police refused to believe the story, they were convinced when they visited Mr. Rahman’s house at Ayiloor. The police examined the room in which the couple lived for 11 years in secret. The police produced the couple in a court, which permitted them to live together. The partners returned to their rented home at Vithanassery, glad to be free to live a normal life in the open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/this-secret-love-story-has-a-happy-ending/article34785254.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Karnataka eases curbs in districts with fewer cases||Karnataka on Thursday extended lockdown restrictions in 11 districts with high positivity rates, but modified curbs in other districts, including Bengaluru Urban, from June 14 to 21. The COVID-19 night curfew would be in place from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all districts. The weekend curfew will also come into effect from 7 p.m. on Friday to 5 a.m. on Monday in all districts. Current restrictions will continue till 6 a.m. on June 21 in 11 districts – Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi, and Kodagu — Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced after a high-level meeting with Ministers and officials. Based on the Technical Advisory Committee’s suggestions, lockdown restrictions were relaxed in 20 districts. Shops delivering essentials such as food, medicine, milk, fruits and vegetables could open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. All street vendors will be allowed from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Industries and manufacturing units will be allowed with 50% staff while garment industries could have 30% staff. The Chief Minister said construction activities would be permitted and all shops related to construction work such as cement and steel can open. To aid morning walkers, all parks can open from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. Taxis and autorickshaws can operate with only two passengers. Below two lakh Tamil Nadu’s active caseload dropped below two lakh after nearly a month on Thursday. As many as 1,88,664 people are under treatment. Across the State, 16,813 people tested positive and 358 succumbed to the infection. With this, the State’s tally surpassed 23 lakh — 23,08,838 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. The toll rose to 28,528. Active cases had crossed the two lakh-mark in the State on May 15. As of now, Coimbatore has the highest number of active cases at 21,184.  Kerala on Thursday reported 14,424 new cases of COVID-19 from 1,07,250 tests. The test positivity rate (TPR) was steady at around 14-15% with no significant reduction in two weeks. A.P. added 11,763 cases and the cumulative tally was 17,87,883. The number of active cases dropped to below one lakh for the first time in 44 days. The daily TPR of 97,863 samples was 8.29%. Chittoor again reported the highest toll of 11 deaths in the past day. East Godavari had the highest daily tally of 1,416 infections. Active cases in Telangana rose to 23,561, with 1,798 new additions from 1,30,430 tests on Thursday. There were also 14 more deaths. Khammam and Nalgonda districts, apart from Hyderabad and its surroundings showed a high number of cases. There was a decline in the numbers in other places across Telangana.     (With inputs from Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-eases-curbs-in-districts-with-fewer-cases/article34785263.ece
11 June 2021||ERODE,||Suspected Naxal movement: Vigil stepped up on T.N.-Karnataka border||Following intelligence inputs of the movement of Naxalites in Chamarajanagar district in Karnataka that borders Talavadi in Tamil Nadu, security has been tightened at police stations located along the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border and armed security police personnel have been posted at inter-State checkposts. Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan told The Hindu that based on the inputs, security has been beefed up and an intense vigil is being maintained in the border areas with Karnataka. On June 8, the Anti-Naxal Squad alerted the district police to suspected Naxal movement in Chamarajanagar and a possible attack on police station locations in the border areas in Talavadi and Bargur. Following this, armed policemen were posted at the police stations at Bargur, Vellithiruppur, Bungalowpudur, Bhavani Sagar, Hasanur, Kadambur, Sathyamangalam and Talavadi, while armed personnel were also posted at the inter-State checkposts at Talavadi and Germalam. A round-the-clock vigil is being maintained. Vehicles carrying vegetables and essential items from Karnataka were checked thoroughly and allowed to enter the State. Apart from this, Anti-Naxal Squad personnel and Forest Department personnel are patrolling the forest areas in the border regions to check for Naxal movement. Also, villages in the border areas and in forest areas are being monitored.  On June 8, the Anti-Naxal Squad alerted the district police to suspected Naxal movement in Chamarajanagar and a possible attack on police stations locations in the border areas in Talavadi and Bargur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspected-naxal-movement-vigil-stepped-up-on-tn-karnataka-border/article34785373.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||13 Agra jail inmates move SC for freedom||Thirteen persons who started their 14 to 22 year stretches in the Agra Central Jail as juveniles have moved the Supreme Court for their freedom and dignity. The writ petition, filed through advocate Rishi Malhotra, highlighted the “very unfortunate and sorry state of affairs” in Uttar Pradesh, where many prisoners allegedly continued to languish in jail despite proving their claim of juvenility. An accused can raise a claim of juvenility at any stage of a criminal trial or even any time after his conviction and sentence for a crime. If the claim is found true, the court should maintain the conviction, but set aside the sentence and forward the case to the Juvenile Justice Board. A juvenile can be punished only for a maximum period of three years. ‘Clear rulings’ According to the petition, there were “clear and unchallenged rulings” from the Juvenile Justice Board declaring the 13 prisoners as juveniles at the time of the commission of their crimes. “Yet, no steps have been taken to release them forthwith. The miseries are further compounded by the fact that these petitioners who are languishing in Agra Central Jail have already undergone judicial incarceration for periods ranging from 14 to 22 years,” the petition said. Mr. Malhotra said they had spent years in “hardcore jails” among “hardcore criminals”. “This completely negates the purpose and objects of the Juvenile Justice Act,” the petition said. The petition argued that a delay in raising the ground of juvenility could not be a reason to let them languish behind bars for years. The claim could be raised even at the stage of an advanced appeal before the Supreme Court. “The delay in raising the claim of juvenility cannot be a ground for the rejection of such a claim. The claim of juvenility can be raised in appeal, even if not pressed before the trial court, and can be raised for the first time before the Supreme Court, though not pressed before the trial court and in the appellate court,” the petition said, referring to a 2012 judgment of the apex court on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/13-agra-jail-inmates-move-sc-for-freedom/article34785272.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Adityanath’s Delhi visit sets off buzz on U.P. Cabinet expansion||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s arrival in New Delhi for a two-day visit, including appointments lined up with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, has set off a buzz over a possible Cabinet expansion in Lucknow. Mr. Adityanath’s visit to the national capital comes just a few days after the BJP’s national general secretary (organisation), B.L. Santhosh, was in Lucknow on a stocktaking visit. Speculation of a Cabinet reshuffle at the Centre was also doing the rounds with BJP president J.P. Nadda holding a one-on-one meeting on Thursday with the Prime Minister.  Second wave While Mr. Adityanath’s aides insisted that the visit was related to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and raising the demand for a larger allocation of vaccines to the State, they admitted that “after all that happened last week, political issues were and will be discussed”. Corrective measures Mr. Santhosh’s report to Mr. Nadda was on the work culture in Mr. Adityanath’s Chief Minister’s Office and the corrective measures needed, which included being more accommodative of the party’s allies in the State, in the run-up the 2022 Assembly poll. The performance of the BJP in the recently concluded panchayat polls in the State, where it came second to the Samajwadi Party, was also underlined as a worrying situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adityanaths-delhi-visit-sets-off-buzz-on-up-cabinet-expansion/article34785275.ece
11 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Govt. agencies can analyse WhatsApp chats, NCB tells HC||WhatsApp chats, which are end-to-end encrypted, can be analysed by government organisations, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) recently told the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Responding to a bail petition filed in the High Court by an 18-year-old under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in a Narcotic Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS) case, the NCB stated that since the entire WhatsApp chat of the accused was end-to-end encrypted, it could not be opened by the agency, which was constrained to send it to forensic specialists for its “opening and analysis”. The NCB, Chandigarh, submitted that the petitioner and his father, a co-accused, were found in possession of 520 g of heroin without any permit or license while they were travelling in a car. They were arrested on February 14, 2020. It added that the petitioner’s involvement in trafficking was established from his conversation with a Nigerian handler-supplier of the contraband over phone and WhatsApp communications. The petitioner’s advocate submitted that recordings of the alleged WhatsApp conversations between the petitioner and the contraband supplier, a Nigerian national, had not been revealed or made available to show the petitioner’s involvement. The NCB counsel stated that the WhatsApp conversation was sent for analysis on April 4 this year, as it was not considered necessary earlier in view of the petitioner’s confessional statement. The counsel added that the NCB was subsequently constrained to send the conversations for forensic analysis to submit its report at an appropriate stage during trial. Justice Sudip Ahluwalia, who was hearing the matter on May 7, stated that the Court finds no justification to release the petitioner on bail at this stage. The petition is, therefore, dismissed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-agencies-can-analyse-whatsapp-chats-ncb-tells-hc/article34785292.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Doctors welcome Ministry’s treatment protocol for children||Doctors, while welcoming the Union Health Ministry’s latest treatment guidelines for COVID-19-management in children, underlined the need to “create awareness to prevent misinterpretation, which could prove counterproductive”. The Directorate-General of Health Services (DGHS), in its guidelines for the management of COVID-19 among children, has said that Remdesivir is not recommended in this population and that it is an emergency-use-authorisation drug. “There is lack of sufficient safety and efficacy data with respect to Remdesivir in children below 18 years of age,” the guidelines said. They also call for rational use of HRCT imaging. “...We welcome DGHS for coming out with the all-important guidelines ... However, awareness should be created so that the guideline is not misinterpreted, which would be counterproductive,” said Gauri Agarwal, senior gynaecologist at Yashoda Hospitals in Hyderabad. “DGHS has said children below the age of 5 should not wear a mask. It does not mean that they are not at risk. Moreover, since they'll not be wearing a mask, it means that additional care and precautions need to be taken by their guardians,” Dr. Agarwal said. Rahul Nagpal, director, Pediatrics and Neonatology at Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj, welcomed the DGHS guidelines and said they standardised treatment protocol for children. Since the first wave, doctors have been using the protocol by the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, which discouraged unnecessary use of steroids, anti-viral drugs and CT scan in children, he said. Doctors also said while the guidelines will be useful if there is a rise in the number of children getting infected, hospitals will have to ensure that there is enough standardised infrastructure to cater to this population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/doctors-welcome-ministrys-treatment-protocol-for-children/article34785295.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||When CM’s son can enter temple, why ban others, asks HC||After noticing that B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, has admitted of entering Sri Nanjundeshwara temple in Nanjangud recently, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the State government why then even ordinary citizens are not allowed to enter temples like him despite a ban imposed in view to lockdown. The court noted that Mr. Vijayendra, in his response to the notice issued on May 27 by Mysuru district Deputy Commissioner, had admitted of entering the temple at around 8.30 a.m. during pooja time on May 18.  As details of preliminary inquiry made by the Deputy Commissioner was not submitted before the court, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj directed the government to submit report of the Deputy Commissioner along with all documents. As Advocate-General Prabhuling K. Navadgi pointed out to the court that a photograph of Mr. Vijayendra performing religious rituals inside a temple submitted before the court on behalf of a petitioner was actually of 2018 and not of during his recent visit to Nanjangud temple, the Bench said the Deputy Commissioner also should inquire about this aspect of the photograph. When A-G said that Mr. Vijayendra had visited Mysuru district on COVID-19-related matter, advocates for the litigants pointed out that Mr. Vijayendra is not holding any statutory or constitutional post to travel from one district to another as such travel for public is prohibited in lockown guidelines except for specified emergencies. As the Chief Minister’s son has now been found to have violated the ban on entry to temple, the Bench saidit would pass appropriate order after the Deputy Commissioner submits the final report to the court on the temple visit. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to give wide publicity in print and electronic media on the public grievance mechanism set up on June 2 to receive complaints of violation of COVID-19-appropriate behaviour such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing, and to take action after verification of complaints by the Deputy Commissioners of the respective districts.  How to lodge complaints of violations Bengaluru city: Toll free numbers – 1912, 100, and 112 and email –cabkarnataka@gmail.com  Other districts: Toll free numbers – 104, 100, and 112 and email –cabkarnataka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-cms-son-can-enter-temple-why-ban-others-asks-hc/article34785247.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Restrain online platforms from carrying Islamophobic content’||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to restrain social media platforms from carrying Islamophobic content on their timelines and to direct a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a National Investigation Agency (NIA) probe against Twitter and its users involved in putting out “inflammatory posts”. The petition, filed by Khaja Aijazuddin, referred to how “massive publicity was given by the media that many of the positive cases of symptoms of coronavirus were found from Tablighi Jamaat at Nizamuddin in Delhi”. “There was a massive trending of tweets on Twitter attaching the Muslim religion to the cause of spread of coronavirus,” Mr. Aijazuddin said in his petition filed in May. “Restrain all online social media networks operating in India not to carry any Islamophobic posts or messages hurting or insulting the feelings of a particular community. Moreover, with respect to the prayer for issuing directions to the Government of India to register criminal complaint against Twitter and its users, who are spreading hatred messages,” the petition said. It asked the court to direct the government to frame specific guidelines under the Information Technology Act, 2000, on “hate messages against any religious community, including Islamophobic posts on various social media platforms”. Mr. Aijazuddin had initially moved the Telangana High Court, which directed him to approach the Supreme Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restrain-online-platforms-from-carrying-islamophobic-content/article34785266.ece
11 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Programme helps women hone business skills||A series of women’s entrepreneurship development programmes (WEDP) launched by a Jaipur-based research institution has helped a number of women in Rajasthan overcome barriers to business creation and self-employment during the COVID-19 pandemic. The guidance has enabled them to take up start-up projects with profitable outcomes. Most of the WEDPs were designed in a manner to train potential women entrepreneurs and were run in a hybrid mode to provide blended learning opportunities. Women were exposed to business theories and practices in several sectors, touching upon aspects such as developing business models, financial and operational planning, market research and funding sources. The Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship (CIIE) at Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) here has conducted the programmes. CIIE chairperson Sheenu Jain said here on Thursday that several nascent start-ups in the State had commenced the work on a small scale and the women running them had honed up their entrepreneurial skills. Medical professional Madhu Raturi, 67, who attended a WEDP, has started a home healthcare model, Sevaartha, along with her son for providing nursing care to patients needing home service. The venture has benefited those isolated at home in the pandemic. Dr. Raturi’s institution is currently developing it as a model that could provide employment to educated girls from rural areas. Neha Khandelwal, who makes handcrafted paper products, has given a formal shape to her start-up with the title ‘Innovative Papers’ while looking for new opportunities in social media marketing. She said learning from the programme had helped her get more traction for her business.  “As a feminine phenomenon, the WEDPs have given wings to women’s ideas and speeded up their start-up journey. The potential entrepreneurs have received an impetus to curate the models which will fill the gaps existing in various sectors during the pandemic,” Dr. Jain said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/programme-helps-women-hone-business-skills/article34785498.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||EC has vast powers to act against criminalisation of politics: experts||Legal and political experts on Thursday said the Election Commission could do more to stop the criminalisation of politics, during a discussion on the implementation of the Supreme Court’s February 2020 directions to political parties on publicising criminal antecedents of candidates. Retired Supreme Court judge Madan B. Lokur said during the webinar organised by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) that with the assumption that political parties would not cooperate, the EC and the judiciary would have to play their parts. He said the EC had “vast powers”, including under Article 324 of the Constitution. “All kinds of things are possible if the EC applies its mind to it. It has the power to say that persons accused of crimes cannot stand for elections,” Justice Lokur said. He said it was his guess that the EC had not brought it to the Supreme Court’s notice that parties had not complied with the order. He added that the role of the judiciary was also important as cases remain pending for years. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, an All India Trinamool Congress MP, said he carried the “stigma” of having a pending case since 2010. He said the EC should issue show-cause notices to parties if it finds the reasons they give for selecting a candidate with criminal antecedents “not in consonance with the intent or purport” of the SC’s order. Former Chief Election Commission O.P. Rawat, however, said he did not agree with the suggestion that the EC should use its plenary power. Citing the SC, he said the EC had “no locus standi to enter the political process per se”. He said the investigation and trial of cases should be expedited and there should be an effort to disseminate information to voters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ec-has-vast-powers-to-act-against-criminalisation-of-politics-experts/article34785931.ece
11 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Jagannath rath yatra only in Puri||Apprehending that large congregations could trigger spread of infection further, the Odisha government on Thursday said the Rath Yatra (car festival) will be organised only in Puri without devotees. The annual Rath Yatra, in which thousands of devotees pull chariots of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Devi Subhadra, is scheduled to be held on July 12. The Puri district administration would impose curfew to ensure devotees do not participate, said P. K. Jena, Special Relief Commissioner. The yatras will not be held at any other place. However, rituals regarding the Rath Yatra will be held in the temple premises. “The Rath Yatra will be conducted this year in Badadanda, the grand road in front of Shree Jagannath Temple and nowhere else in the State in the same manner as was done last year. However, rituals relating to the Rath Yatra may be performed in temples within premises. No chariots will be pulled in places or temples in Odisha except in Puri,” said the governmen. Only the Sevayats (priests of Lord Jagannath) will be allowed to participate in the rituals. Only those having final vaccination certificate or found negative in RT-PCR test done within 48 hours before the festival would be permitted to participate in the rituals, it said. “Pulling of the chariots may be performed by Sevayats, police personnel or any other officials as permitted by Shree Jagannath Temple Administration. All such persons must have been vaccinated with two doses or have tested negative in RT-PCR tests done within 48 hours prior to festival,” it said. There should be sufficient interval between pulling of two chariots while each chariot should be pulled by not more than 500 persons. Prior to 2020, the yatra used to witness a sea of devotees (approximately 8 lakhs in a day) in Puri. Trains, buses and private vehicles would not be allowed to enter Puri town during the Rath Yatra. “Any person violating these restrictive measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and COVID-19 Regulations 2020, besides legal action under Sec. 188 of the IPC, and other legal provisions as applicable,” said the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jagannath-rath-yatra-to-be-held-only-in-puri/article34785437.ece
11 June 2021||Kolkata,||Filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta passes away||Buddhadeb Dasgupta, one of the most original icons of cinema, who helped put Indian cinema on the global stage, passed away in Kolkata on Thursday. The 77-year-old director had been suffering from kidney-related ailments for some time. He is survived by his wife, filmmaker Sohini Dasgupta, and two daughters. Born in Purulia in 1944, Mr. Dasgupta graduated from the Scottish Church College in Kolkata and started his career as a lecturer in economics. However, he switched to making documentaries in the late 1960s. His first feature film was Dooratwa (1978). Feted with several national and international awards, his seminal works across languages include Phera (1988), Bagh Bahadur (1989), Tahader Katha (1992), Charachar (1994), Uttara (2000), Mondo Meyer Upakhyan (2002), Kalpurush (2005) and Tope (2016). He will be remembered among the greats of Indian cinema that Bengal has produced, including the legendary Ritwick Ghatak and Mrinal Sen. Many awards Mr. Dasgupta brought Indian cinema back on the international stage after the death of Satyajit Ray in 1992, winning several international accolades. He won 12 national awards and was twice nominated for the prestigious Golden Bear at the Berlin International Film Festival for Phera i n 1988 and Charachar in 1994. In 2007, he was given the Golden Athena Award at the Athens International Film Festival. A year later, he was conferred with the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Spain International Film Festival in Madrid. The filmmaker, however, never liked comparison with legends like Ray and Sen, and preferred to be thought of alongside his great contemporary Govindan Aravindan (1935-1991). In his interviews, Mr. Dasgupta considered himself from the generation of filmmakers like Govindan Aravindan, Adoor Gopalakrishnan and Shyam Benegal. Film genius The subject and treatment of his films took the audience beyond realism and delved into magic realism, and at times, surrealism. Drawn from Bengali literature, his use of images, and at times non-linear narrative, added an element of fantasy, amalgamating magic realism and lyricism of poetry in films. An acclaimed poet, too, Mr. Dasgupta emphasised that the most important aspect of a film was not its story but the “image”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/filmmaker-buddhadeb-dasgupta-passes-away/article34785297.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Webinar to explore management education||A webinar on ‘How digital technology is changing the curriculum of management education’ will be held on June 13 at 11 a.m. as part of the SRM Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021 webinar series. Organised by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, the webinar series spotlights science, engineering, technology, law, humanities, medical health sciences, management studies and agriculture courses and their relevance to the 2020s workplace. Dr. V.M. Ponniah, Dean, College of Management, SRMIST; Rupesh Bisht, CEO, Masters Union; and Jasjeet Kaur, Executive Director, Imarticus Learning, will speak at the webinar. The session willl be moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, Founder and CEO, AuxoHub. The webinar will conclude with a Q&A session with the speakers. To register for the free session, visit bit.ly/SRMTHE15 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/webinar-to-explore-management-education/article34785242.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Probe begins into illegal tree felling on assigned land in Kerala||The Forest Department has instituted a State-wide probe into the allegations of illegal felling of trees on assigned land in Kerala. The move comes against the backdrop of the department unearthing instances of unauthorised logging in Wayanad. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran had announced the government’s decision to order a probe into the controversy in the Assembly two days ago. Special investigation teams led by Divisional Forest Officers (DFO) in charge of flying squad divisions (FSD) have been constituted to examine cases of felling of reserved trees in land assigned under the Kerala Land Assignment Rules, 1964. Formed by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Vigilance and Forest Intelligence) Ganga Singh, they will verify documents, including declarations, passes and no-objection certificates (NOCs) issued for felling and transporting trees from such ‘patta’ land from May 11 last onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-begins-into-illegal-tree-felling-on-assigned-land-in-kerala/article34785251.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Five arrested for selling party drugs during lockdown in Karnataka||As part of its investigation into the online drug racket it had uncovered at Kadugodi in April, the narcotics wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Thursday arrested five more people and recovered MDMA, ecstasy tablets and LSD strips worth Rs. 30 lakh from them. The accused Bayan Ansari, 26, Arnold Pasal D’Souza, 27, Anirudh Venkatachalam, 23, Kanishq Reddy, 23 and Santosh Krishnappa, 28 were nabbed at different locations in and around Bengaluru, said a senior police official. Anirush and Kanishq work as animation and graphic designers; Arnold is a technical developer in the IT field and Bayan and Santosh are college dropouts.  According to the police the gang continued to sell drugs to clients even during the lockdown. They operated between 6 and 10 a.m., when traffic restrictions were eased, to supply the drugs to their customers. They searched the darknet for suppliers and met a local peddler from Benglauru, who goes by the name Vegatar. He started supplying them with the party drugs. “They made payments in Bitcoin and the drugs would be couriered to them,” said the police official. He added that the gang purchased the drugs at cheaper rates, but would sell each pill or strip for anywhere between Rs. 4,000-Rs. 5,000.  Vegatar used an app, Wickr Me, and was part of a network where drug peddlers were rated.  So far, 11 people have been arrested in connection with the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/five-arrested-for-selling-party-drugs-during-lockdown-in-karnataka/article34785375.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam Cong. MP slams evictions amid pandemic||A Congress MP has slammed the “two-faced” drive by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government to make Assam encroachment-free. He also asked the Gauhati High Court to take note of the eviction drive that violates human rights amid the ongoing COVID-19 crisis. Abdul Khaleque, who represents western Assam’s Barpeta constituency in the Lok Sabha, said the State government’s move to evict thousands of settlers from more than 77,000 bighas of State-owned land was “two-faced”. This was in reference to 2.28 lakh periodic pattas (land deeds) and allotment certificates distributed among landless people belonging to the indigenous communities on more than 2.09 lakh bighas of government land during the tenure of previous Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal. Local authorities and police have over a week freed more than 400 bighas of government land of encroachers in Hojai, Karimganj and Darrang districts. More than 200 houses, mostly belonging to migrant Muslims, were uprooted. Question of timing “At a dire time of COVID-19 crisis, the government’s eviction in Sonitpur and Hojai is a violation of Articles 21 and 39 of the Indian Constitution. Encroachers should be evicted but not at a time of crisis,” Mr. Khaleque said, adding that the government should have served notices to the settlers and provided them with dwellings elsewhere. In an appeal to the Chief Justice of Gauhati High Court on June 7, the MP cited the court’s May 10 pandemic-related order that said: “It is also made clear that any decree for eviction/dispossession or demolition which was passed by any court, tribunal or authority during this period, shall remain in abeyance subject to any specific orders which may be passed in a given case.”  AAMSU criticism The All Assam Minority Students’ Union (AAMSU) has also criticised the eviction drive. “The State government has violated the High Court’s order that clearly states there would be no eviction drive during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Assam government should stop harassing the minority people under communal agenda,” the AAMSU said. The Assam Cabinet under Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had on June 8 formed a committee for properly utilising the 77,000 bighas of land freed from encroachers. The committee is headed by BJP legislator Padma Hazarika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-cong-mp-slams-evictions-amid-pandemic/article34785934.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||HC no to stay on film based on Sushant’s life||The Delhi High Court on Thursday refused to stay the release of a film based on Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s life, noting that the information of events around the actor’s death was already in the public domain and “posthumous privacy right is not permissible”. The High Court’s direction came on a plea moved by the late actor’s father, Krishna Kishore Singh, seeking to restrain anyone from using his son’s name or likeness in movies. He had sought to restrain the release of a movie titled Nyay: The Justice , a self-proclaimed “tribute to Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR)”, slated for release on June 11. “We must note that the right to privacy has also been invoked not just of the deceased but also in respect of the right of the family of SSR. The submissions on this aspect are unspecific and vague. No definite instance has been presented by the plaintiff (Mr. Singh) to show how this right is infringed and therefore, the plea is devoid of merit,” Justice Sanjeev Narula remarked.  Award of damages The High Court said that the actor’s father can be compensated by award of damages if he is later able to prove in trial that “celebrity/publicity rights were inheritable”. The court directed the makers of the film to “render complete and true accounts of the revenue earned from the films by way of sale/licensing of all rights relating to the films”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-no-to-stay-on-film-based-on-sushants-life/article34785935.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||12 die in building collapse||The dead have been identified as Sahil Sarfaraz Sayyed, 9, Arifa Sheikh, 9, Shafiq Md Saleem Siddiqui, 45, Tausif Shafiq Siddiqi, 15, Aalisha Shafiq Siddiqui, 10, Alfisa Shafiq Siddiqui, 1.5, Afina Shafik Siddiqui, 6, Ishrat Bano Shafiq Siddiqui, 40, Rahisa Bano Rafik Siddiqui, 40, Tahes Safik Siddiqui, 12, and Jhon Irranna, 13. The police registered a case under Section 304 (2) of the IPC against the owner of the building. Vishwas Nangre-Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Law and order) said, “A case under section 304 (2) of the IPC has been registered against the owner of the structure that collapsed and the contractor. They had recently made some structural changes after cyclone Tauktae.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/12-die-in-building-collapse/article34786043.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Is the Congress’ ‘Team Rahul’ strategy a failure?||Has the Congress’ experiment of creating a generation of young leaders that came to be identified as “Team Rahul” completely failed? With Jitin Prasada following Jyotiraditya Scindia in joining the BJP, such questions are being asked in the Congress, especially among veterans. In the 2004 Lok Sabha elections, while taking on the incumbent BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government, the Congress fielded many youngsters to coincide with Mr. Gandhi’s debut as a Lok Sabha member from Amethi. Apart from Mr. Prasada and Mr. Scindia, Sachin Pilot, Sandeep Dikshit, Milind Deora, Madhu Yaski Goud, Deepender Hooda, Manish Tewari and R.P.N. Singh were all given tickets. While Mr. Tewari and Mr. Singh lost the elections, they were part of the Congress’ young Turks even before they became Lok Sabha members in 2009. The idea was to replicate Indira Gandhi’s 1980 Lok Sabha election strategy to build a team around Sanjay Gandhi that threw up leaders like Kamal Nath and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. But 16 years later, several young Turks, now in their late 40s and 50s, are either “disillusioned” or have chosen to cross over to the ruling party. Mr. Prasada is said to have left after his own assessment of the Congress faring poorly in the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh next year. Mr. Prasada has not won an election since 2009 — he lost the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well as the 2017 U.P. Assembly election — and his recent outing as the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of West Bengal had resulted in a disaster as the party drew a blank. His much publicised exit adds to the sense of drift that exists in the Congress. The party is firefighting in Punjab, as the rivalry between Mr. Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu has peaked ahead of the Assembly election next year. Factionalism has resurfaced in Rajasthan, with Mr. Pilot and his supporters expressing dissatisfaction, while the leadership is yet to work out a workable compromise with the group of 23 dissenters (G23). Finally, the question of leadership still remains open. “The problem is at the top. The arrangement of power-sharing between the Congress president and Mr. Gandhi with no responsibility won’t work any more,” said a G23 member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/is-the-congress-team-rahul-strategy-a-failure/article34785279.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FIR registered against group of JNU students||The Jawaharlal Nehru University administration on Thursday alleged that a group of students broke into the central library and clashed with the staffers following which an FIR was registered with the police. The university claimed that the students have been occupying the library for the last two days. The chief proctor office has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students as per the university rules, it said. According to the police, the incident took place on June 8 and based on a complaint from the university’s Chief Security Officer, a case was registered on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South West) Ingit Pratap Singh said: “Based on the complaint, a case was registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, Delhi Disaster Management Act and prevention of damage to public property Act.” Truce meeting No arrest has been made in the case so far, police said, adding that a meeting between the students and chief librarian was held. The varsity said a group of students scuffled with the security staffers, broke open the side glass door of the B.R. Ambedkar Library, entered the main reading room of the building on June 8 and has occupied the space since then. It added that they did not vacate the building even during the night. COVID norms flouted “When no amount of persuasion by the librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and COVID-19 guidelines, the JNU security office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue. It has been found that these students do not even use masks or follow other COVID-19 related guidelines,” the university statement said. The curfew imposed by the Delhi government is still in place and no new guidelines have yet been announced regarding resuming normal academic activities, it said. In a statement, the university said: “This [incident] has caused health risk for library staffers and even other students residing in the hostels, since these unruly students return to hostel for lunch and dinner or other purposes.” “The students occupying the space are not permitting library staffers to sanitise the building for making it safer for students who will use the library after restoration of normalcy. All these students are instructed to vacate the library immediately,” it said. A student, requesting anonymity, said: “The library has not opened for a long time, which has left PhD students frustrated. Students have their submissions due and have not been able to access the library. The students entered the library but there was no violence.” Meanwhile, JNU Students’ Union (JNUSU) termed the varsity’s action as an “intimidation tactic” and demanded withdrawal of the FIR. In a statement issued, the students’ body said: “The JNUSU reiterates that the university administration must reopen the library at the earliest. The administration must also withdraw the FIR and focus on issues faced by the JNU community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fir-registered-against-group-of-jnu-students/article34785290.ece
11 June 2021||Mysuru,||Actor’s appeal nets over Rs. 1 crore for Karnataka zoos||Donations and adoption of animals have continued across nine zoos in the State after actor Darshan Thoogudeepa’s recent appeal for supporting the zoos, whose maintenance largely depends on gate collections. Owing to the lockdown, the zoos’ revenues have been badly hit with zero footfall. After the actor’s video appeal on June 5 went viral, the zoos have received Rs. 1,00,47,900 until June 10 Most people made donations or adopted animals using the ‘Zoos of Karnataka’ app which was launched by the Zoo Authority of Karnataka. Mysuru zoo has received the highest number of donations and adoptions of Rs. 51,75,700 followed by Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru with Rs. 29,83,000. Nearly 3,881 people, including 2,023 in Mysuru and 918 in Bengaluru, have either made donations or adopted animals under the popular animal adoption scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/actors-appeal-nets-over-rs-1-crore-for-karnataka-zoos/article34785245.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,||No starvation in island, Collector tells Kerala HC||The Lakshadweep administration on Thursday assured a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that necessary steps would be taken to ensure that there was no shortfall in the supply of food kits and other necessary provisions to islanders during the lockdown period. The undertaking was given by counsel for the Lakshadweep Collector when a public interest litigation petition alleging starvation on the islands came up for hearing before a Bench comprising Justices Anil K. Narendran and Ziyad Rahman A.A. The court also directed the Collector to file a statement regarding the measures already taken and proposed additional measures, if any, to ensure adequate and sufficient supply of rice and other provisions to the islanders either free of cost or on a payment basis. Central schemes S. Manu, counsel for the Lakhadweep Administrator, submitted that there had been no starvation in the islands as sufficient quantities of food were being distributed to islanders under Central schemes. He submitted that ration articles were being distributed to the islanders through 39 ration shops. Every 1.5 km on the islands had a ration shop. In fact, free rice of 5 kg per person was being distributed under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana through the public distribution system. He said there was sufficient stock of food on all the islands to last up to October.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-starvation-in-island-collector-tells-kerala-hc/article34785248.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Yediyurappa will remain CM: Arun Singh||Dissident activity against Mr. Yediyurappa had shot up in the last month or so, with State Minister C.P. Yogeshwar visiting Delhi with his issues with regard to the Chief Minister. He got a lukewarm response and made public statements expressing his dissatisfaction with the CM. In Bengaluru, Mr. Yediyurappa’s loyalists decided to start a signature campaign by MLAs who supported the CM, which was then halted at his behest. In all this, Mr. Yediyurappa’s son, State unit vice president B.Y. Vijayendra visited Delhi and met with party chief J.P. Nadda. A pet grouse of dissidents against Mr. Yediyurappa has been the prominence being given to Mr. Vijayendra. Mr. Singh, however, kept his remarks to dissident MLAs, urging them not to voice their opinions on the internal affairs of the party on a public forum, and to discuss it within appropriate quarters in the party. “I will be visiting Bengaluru soon and will meet with MLAs and party leaders. I will speak to them on all these issues,” he said. As of now, it seems the storm clouds brewing over Mr. Yediyurappa have dissipated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yediyurappa-will-remain-cm-arun-singh/article34785260.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Adopt population control: Sarma urges minorities||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday advised the minority community to adopt decent population control measures to reduce poverty and pressure on land. Reacting to criticisms of his government’s drive to free State-owned land from encroachment, the Chief Minister said the illegal occupation of land belonging to temples, satras (monasteries) and forests can no longer be allowed. Most of those evicted were Bengali-speaking Muslims. “Members of the community have assured us that they do not want encroachment on these lands,” Dr. Sarma told presspersons on Thursday which marked a month of his government. “No one is our enemy and we want the poor people of every community to progress but we need community support. Instead of criticising the government, organisations such as All India United Democratic Front and All Assam Minority Students’ Union should motivate people to have smaller families,” he said. The Chief Minister said keeping the population in check could go a long way in easing the pressure on land. He cited the examples of the Bodo and Mishing communities who have not occupied forest lands over the decades because of family planning. He, however, justified giving land settlement certificates to indigenous forest dwellers “because they have been protecting our forest resources”. Dr. Sarma urged all stakeholders in the minority community to support the government in helping reduce poverty and improve education. He said the State government would work towards educating the women of the community to tackle the issue of family planning effectively. COVID control The Chief Minister also hinted at gradual easing of lockdown while claiming that the ‘Assam model’ of COVID-19 management has been successful in checking the spread of the virus while not affecting livelihoods. “We will take decisions, including conducting the school board exams if the positivity rate falls below 2% by July 1. Our advance planning has helped us become oxygen surplus as well as help our north-eastern sister States with the supply of oxygen and cylinders,” Dr. Sarma said. The Assam model, he said, involved focusing on isolation, treatment and vaccination in six districts from where most of the COVID-19 positive cases have been recorded. He also lauded the State police for the war on drugs that has yielded narcotic items worth Rs. 24 crore and put 500 people behind bars for drug-related offences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adopt-population-control-sarma-urges-minorities/article34785264.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Promote second-rung leadership in Punjab: AICC||Sources said the report of three-member panel, comprising Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary (Punjab) Harish Rawat and Congress leader J.P Aggarwal, also suggested a complete revamp of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) along with the various committees, including the election-related committees. Among the 20-odd recommendations, one was related to the setting up of a panel of Ministers and party leaders to regularly monitor the response/action on the requests made by party MLAs about various developmental work in their constituencies. This is in the backdrop of several MLAs complaining about lack of access to the Chief Minister. The AICC panel is also learnt to have suggested welfare schemes for targeted groups like farmers and Scheduled Castes. The panel had met party leaders from Punjab, including Mr Sidhu, and the Punjab Chief Minister in Delhi last week. While Mr. Sidhu claimed to have told “the loud truth” about Punjab to the high command, the Chief Minister had countered him with a strong defence of his government and shared details of the work done to fulfil poll promises. Speaking on organisational changes, the Chief Minister had argued that a Jat Sikh cannot be heading the PCC since the State government was already being headed by one. To ensure that the Hindu community doesn’t move away from the party, Capt. Amarinder had batted for a PCC chief from the community. On the issue of Mr. Sidhu being a contender for the Deputy Chief Minister, the Chief Minister is learnt to have argued there should be more than one, and at least one should be from the Dalit community.   The AICC panel is also learnt to have suggested welfare schemes for targeted groups like farmers and Scheduled Castes. The panel had met leaders from Punjab and the Chief Minister in Delhi last week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/promote-second-rung-leadership-in-punjab-aicc/article34785256.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Bihar in fudging row as toll jumps by 72% after recount||“The updated data was not released by any investigating agency but by the Health Department and its intent was to provide Rs. 4 lakh compensation to the family members of all deceased and other help to them,” he said. “If the Opposition’s allegation of data fudging is right, the government would not have constituted a team to collect right data.” “The spurt in the number of deaths reflects deaths reported at private hospitals, in transit to health facilities, in home isolation and those dying of post COVID complications after they tested negative and were discharged from hospitals,” Additional Secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said. Bihar, till June 9, registered 7,15,179 positive cases and death toll was reported to be 9,429.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bihar-in-fudging-row-as-toll-jumps-by-72-after-recount/article34785259.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Salvation via surrender||No one knows the end which we call salvation, and hence the path is also most hazy. But from the Charama Sloka in the Bhagavad Gita, it is clear that salvation means release from all sins. It is a herculean task to be released from all sins and not within human effort at all, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The compassionate Lord gives a direct promise to humanity that by seeking refuge at His feet we can attain this end. To the question of the worship of other celestial beings such as Rudra, Brahma, Indra, Agni, etc, who are propitiated through yagas, yagnas, etc, for fulfilment of laukika ends, He makes it clear that because He is the antaratma in all beings and pervades the entire universe, they are able to grant boons etc. Their power ends here, and when it comes to granting Moksha, it is His sole prerogative. In the Charama Sloka His Supremacy is explicit. “Take refuge in Me alone,” He proclaims. “I shall release you from all sins.” Though the statement “You can give up all other dharmas,” has given rise to many interpretations, the discerning jivatma cannot miss the ultimate message emerging from it. The essence of the karma yoga He has taught, which is engaging in selfless nitya and naimittika karma with no eye on fruits and with the focus that this attitude will please Him, is to be inferred in the statement that one can give up all dharmas. All the confusion in our minds about what is to be done and avoided, about commitment to truth, ordained duties, and other such acts binding on one’s thought and word, can be cleared in toto if only we repose faith in His protective powers. Once this faith is firmly established, the jivatma continues to lead life in such a way that will meet the Lord’s approval.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/salvation-via-surrender/article34785282.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Student visa appointments from June 14’||The U.S. will open July-August student visa appointments in all consular offices in India from June 14, the Embassy said on Thursday. The announcement marks the beginning of academic exchanges in the backdrop of the pandemic. The Embassy has also begun to hold online exchanges with students on the “current operating status and visa processing at the consular sections”. U.S. universities are opening up following widespread vaccination drives conducted by the Biden-Harris administration. A large number of Indian students in U.S. campuses were forced to return home and resort to online academic experiences after COVID-19 broke out last year. The announcement was in contrast with the Chinese decision to prevent the arrival of foreign students. The Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday said India was in touch with the Chinese side “to seek an early resumption of travel by Indian citizens to China, especially for those who work or study there”. According to a new rule of the Indian government, students and professionals going abroad would have to get their CoWIN vaccination certificates linked to their passport.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/student-visa-appointments-from-june-14/article34785270.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Playschools seek loan moratorium||Many playschools, creches and daycare centres have collectively moved the Supreme Court for help, saying the online mode of functioning does not work for them and they are in financial distress. The Indian Council of Early Childhood Educators and Institutions, represented by advocate Rohit Pandey, has asked the court to intervene on its behalf with the government to provide financial succour through fresh loan moratorium and a temporary pause in the declaration of non-performing assets by banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/playschools-seek-loan-moratorium/article34785273.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Nagaland to form panel on Naga issue||The Nagaland government has decided to institute a committee comprising Opposition leaders to pursue the lingering Naga peace agreement and the Naga political issue with the Centre. The panel, headed by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio, is expected to meet on June 19 in Dimapur to discuss the way forward, as the Naga agreement remains elusive. The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) is in power in Nagaland in alliance with the BJP. Speaking to Northeast Live, Deputy Chief Minister Y. Patton said the committee would comprise Independent legislators and the Opposition Naga People’s Front led by T.R Zeliang. It would first discuss the matter before pursuing it with the Centre. A formal order is expected to be issued by the Assembly Speaker soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nagaland-to-form-panel-on-naga-issue/article34785280.ece
11 June 2021||Kolkata,||Chinese man held at West Bengal border||A Chinese national was on Thursday apprehended by the Border Security Force (BSF) at Malda in West Bengal. The South Bengal Frontier of the BSF, in a press statement, said Han Junwe, 36, was arrested when he was illegally trying to cross into India from the Indo-Bangladesh international boundary. “From interrogation and recovered passport, it was learnt that he reached Dhaka, Bangladesh, on 02 June 2021 on a business visa and stayed there with a Chinese friend. On June 08, 2021, he came to Sona Masjid, District-Chapainawabganj [Bangladesh] and stayed in a hotel there before sneaking into India on June 10,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/chinese-man-held-at-west-bengal-border/article34785281.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘ESI cover for contractual workers’||Casual and contractual employees of municipal corporations will be covered under the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Act, 1948, Union Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/esi-cover-for-contractual-workers/article34785267.ece
11 June 2021||Kotdwar,||Leopard mauls woman to death in Uttarakhand||A 55-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Uttarakhand's Pauri district on Thursday, officials said. The incident took place in the Chaubattakhal area when the victim, Godambari Devi, was working in a field near her village Dabra, SDM Sandeep Kumar said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leopard-mauls-woman-to-death-in-uttarakhand/article34785936.ece
11 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Rath Yatra in Odisha to be held only in Puri||Apprehending that large congregations could trigger spread of infection further, the Odisha government on Thursday said the Rath Yatra (car festival) will be organised only in Puri without devotees. The Rath Yatra is scheduled to be held on July 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rath-yatra-in-odisha-to-be-held-only-in-puri/article34785937.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,||Jumbos involved in man-animal conflict captured||The Forest Department successfully captured two tuskers, known for causing trouble in parts of Sakleshpur and Alur taluks, on Thursday. The recent deaths of people in elephant attacks had forced the department to capture the tuskers, nicknamed Gunda and Mountain. As many as six people died in elephant attacks since this January. The department began the operation early on Thursday. Watchers and other field staff spotted Mountain and succeeded in captuing it after tranquillising it. By evening, Gunda was also captured. Veterinarians, who were part of the team at the spot, fired tranquillisers, following which the animal was captured with the help of tame elephants. Forest officers have decided to release Gunda at M.M. Hills after tying a radio collar around its neck and take Mountain to Cauvery Nisarga Dhama in Kodagu. There had been a delay in capturing the tuskers owing to the COVID-19 lockdown, leading to increased human-elephant conflict. The sixth death this year was that of K.S. Biddaiah, 77, who was trampled to death a couple of metres away from his house at Kuniganahalli. Forest Department officials in Hassan submitted detailed profiling of the animals and got permission to capture them from the PCCF (Wildlife) on April 27. Deputy Conservator of Forests of Hassan K.N. Basavaraj said that operation to capture demanded the involvement of 120-150 people. Considering their safety, the department had suggested deferring the operation. Forest Department staff monitor the movement of herds with the help of the radio collars and inform the local people about the presence of the tuskers so that they could be careful. However, tuskers separated from herds were causing trouble.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jumbos-involved-in-man-animal-conflict-captured/article34785415.ece
11 June 2021||Kotdwar,||leopard||A 55-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Uttarakhand's Pauri district on Thursday, officials said. The incident took place in the Chaubattakhal area when the victim, Godambari Devi, was working in a field around 100 metres away from her village Dabra, Sub-Divisional Magistrate Sandeep Kumar said. The residents of a neighbouring village raised an alarm when they saw the woman being dragged to the bushes by the leopard. By the time people of her village reached the spot, the woman was dead and the leopard had fled into the surrounding forest area.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leopard/article34785453.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal tiger reserve union calls off strike||The Pakke Tiger Reserve Workers’ Union on Thursday withdrew their strike after the State government assured them payment of four months’ wages within 15 days. The workers had stopped working since June 9 demanding their wages due since December 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-tiger-reserve-union-calls-off-strike/article34785287.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi HC refuses to stay film based on Sushant’s life||The Delhi High Court on Thursday refused to stay the release of a film based on Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s life, noting that the information of events around his death was already in the public domain and “posthumous privacy right is not permissible”. The court direction came on a plea moved by the late actor’s father, Mr. Krishna Kishore Singh who sought to restrain the release of movie ‘Nyay: The Justice’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-refuses-to-stay-film-based-on-sushants-life/article34785288.ece
11 June 2021||Kolkata,||Coastal areas in West Bengal brace for another high tide||The West Bengal government issued an alert in the coastal areas and evacuated a few thousand people from islands exposed to Bay of Bengal over fears of fresh inundation due to a high tide on Friday. The embankments breached during cyclone Yaas are yet to be repaired and the weather office has predicted a low-pressure formation likely over northwestern Bay of Bengal, resulting in enhanced rainfall. Heavy rainfall is predicted on June 11 at one or two places in coastal districts like East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas. Keep vigil: CM Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has told officials to keep a vigil in coastal areas as the breach of embankments can submerge low-lying areas during the high tide on Friday. She has also directed that all embankments be repaired before Friday. At several places, villagers joined in repairing broken embankments. Minister for Sunderbans Development, Bamkim Hazra, has said that about 4,000 people have been evacuated from the islands of Ghormara and Mousuni. Kolkata on alert In Kolkata, too, an alert has been issued in areas along the banks of the river Hooghly. The State Housing Minister and Chairman of the Board of Administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation Firhad Hakim said that the lock gates that connect the drainage system of Kolkata with the river will be closed on Friday. Cyclone Yaas, which battered the coastal regions of West Bengal on May 26, had led to a large number of areas being inundated. Meanwhile, Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee visited Hooghly district in the State and met the family members of those killed in lightning strikes. Eleven people have died in the district and 28 people across several districts of south Bengal in lighting strikes on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coastal-areas-in-west-bengal-brace-for-another-high-tide/article34785289.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Sunita Narain appointed to climate action group||Noted environmentalist Sunita Narain has been appointed to an international advisory group for climate action by Per Olsson Fridh, Swedish Minister for International Development Cooperation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sunita-narain-appointed-to-climate-action-group/article34785299.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,||EAMCET likely to be held in August first week||The Engineering, Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (EAMCET) is likely to start in August first week provided the online slots are available with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), that conducts the exams on behalf of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE). Fresh dates The TSCHE Chairman said they have prepared a roadmap for fresh dates for the test and a meeting with the Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy on Friday will give some clarity. “We will discuss with the Minister and then approach Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao for his consent,” the TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy said. As per the previous schedule, the EAMCET was to be conducted from July 5 to 9 with medical (other than MBBS course) and agriculture on July 5 and 6 and engineering test on July 7, 8 and 9. Since the TSCHE practice has been to give at least six weeks after the Intermediate exams for students to prepare, it wants to continue that trend in the background of cancellation of Inter exams only on Wednesday. Prof. Papi Reddy said the TCS has been sounded to give the exam slots in the first week of August and once that is finalised, the process will go on smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eamcet-likely-to-be-held-in-august-first-week/article34785374.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 75 days, city’s test positivity drops below 5%||For the first time since the second wave of COVID-19 began, the test positivity rate (TPR) in Chennai on Wednesday dropped below the 5% mark. With 32,168 tests performed and 1,345 cases reported, the TPR was 4.2%. The last time the TPR was below 5% was 75 days ago in the last week of March. The city was then reporting around 700 to 900 cases a day, while the tests performed were just around 15,000. From the second week of April, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) gradually began to increase the tests even as cases shot up and the TPR went beyond 20%. Since the second week of May, the tests done daily continuously crossed the 30,000 mark. The cases, meanwhile, reached a peak in the second and third week of May with May 12 recording the most — 7,564 cases. While cases have now dropped below early-April levels, one month before the peak, the civic body has not reduced testing (infographic). Importantly, the majority of the tests in Chennai are done by the GCC and only a smaller fraction by private labs. For instance, on Wednesday, 25,492 of the 32,168 samples, or roughly 80%, were collected by the GCC. GCC Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that the intention was to plug all possible leakage of COVID-19 cases escaping the radar of the civic body. “We do not want anyone with COVID-9 symptoms to go untested or not be in quarantine,” he said. Stating that the civic body would continue to test more and not let down its guard, he added that various surveillance measures, including door-to-door checks by fever survey workers and asking private hospitals, scan centres and pharmacies to notify the GCC about symptomatic patients helped in bringing down the cases and the TPR. He said that the GCC was also particular about curtailing the spread and ensuring the quarantining of patients at the earliest. “We have strictly asked private labs to inform us about positive results the night before so that the next day early morning our staff will be at the patient’s door step,” he said. Prabhdeep Kaur, Deputy Director, National Institute of Epidemiology, Indian Council of Medical Research, said that testing could be brought down marginally if necessary while strictly monitoring the TPR and by ensuring that no new clusters are formed. “There should, however, be no relaxation in testing certain categories of people, including the contacts of COVID-19 patients and all the people with ILI symptoms,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-75-days-citys-test-positivity-drops-below-5/article34785618.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active caseload drops below two lakh||Tamil Nadu’s active caseload dropped below two lakh after nearly a month on Thursday. As many as 1,88,664 people are presently under treatment. Across the State, 16,813 people tested positive for COVID-19 and 358 succumbed to the infection. With this, the State’s tally surpassed 23 lakh — 23,08,838 people have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. The toll rose to 28,528. Active cases crossed the two lakh-mark in the State on May 15. As of now, Coimbatore has the highest number of active cases at 21,184. It is followed by Tiruppur with 17,485 patients and Erode with 13,102. There are 12,210 people under treatment in Chennai. Fresh cases continued to dip across the State — in Coimbatore, 2,236 people tested positive for COVID-19, followed by 1,390 people in Erode; Chennai recorded 1,223 cases, and Salem 945; cases dipped to 897 in Tiruppur. Of the 358 deaths, Chennai reported 45. There were 23 deaths in Salem, 22 in Chengalpattu and 20 in Coimbatore. As many as 79 people who died did not have any co-morbidities. They included a 24-year-old woman from Thanjavur, who was admitted to the Pudukkotai Medical College Hospital on June 2. She died on June 8 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As many as 32,049 people, including 5,057 in Coimbatore and 3,598 in Chennai, were discharged after treatment. With 1,81,920 samples tested in the last 24 hours, another new high in testing was recorded in the State. This took the total figure to 2,94,25,279.  Dip in vaccination There was a huge dip in vaccination coverage due to a shortage of vaccines. A total of 2,327 people received the jabs on Thursday. These included 1,236 people in the 18-44 age group, 804 people aged 45 to 59 and 136 senior citizens. As of date, the overall vaccination coverage stands at 97,65,284. The number of vaccination sessions dropped to 371 — 337 for Covishield and 34 for Covaxin.  As many as 79 people who died did not have co-morbidities. They included a 24-year-old woman from Thanjavur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-caseload-drops-below-two-lakh/article34785898.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Singer moves High Court against new IT Rules||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the Centre on a writ petition filed by acclaimed Carnatic vocalist T.M. Krishna to declare the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules of 2021 as unconstitutional and ultra vires to the Information Technology Act of 2000. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the petitioner’s counsel Suhrith Parthasarathy to serve the papers on Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan so that the Centre could file its counter affidavit within three weeks. The case would be heard after four weeks, the judges said. The new IT Rules require social media intermediaries to identify originator of “unlawful” messages at the instance of appropriate government agencies and take down such messages within a specific time frame. The rules require the intermediaries to set up grievance redress mechanisms and assist government agencies in investigation. In his affidavit, Mr. Krishna said the Rules, in their present form, were against the constitutional rights to free speech and privacy. As an artist and cultural and political commentator, he said that he cherished the rights to free expression and privacy guaranteed under the Constitution. Going into the specifics, he said part II of the new IT violate his rights as a user of social media services and part III were in breach of his rights as a creator of online content, Mr. Krishna said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/singer-moves-high-court-against-new-it-rules/article34785425.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities found in facilities for doctors||The Tamil Nadu government has saved Rs. 9 crore-Rs. 10 crore a month by curbing irregularities in providing food and accommodation to doctors and nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said on Thursday. The revision in the amount spent on food and accommodation and the improvement in quality helped the government save Rs. 30 lakh a day, he told reporters. “There have been reports of largescale irregularities in providing food and accommodation to doctors and nurses...in the last one-and-a-half years. We took up a review for over 20 days to ensure that there are no irregularities and that every single rupee is spent properly. Senior officials conducted a series of reviews and came up with a decision,” he said. A sum of Rs. 550 was spent on providing food to a doctor or nurse a day. In some districts, transport charges were added, and Rs. 600 was spent a day, he said. “When we conducted an inquiry, we found that many firms, including those which did not run hotels, were involved in supplying food from other hotels and were getting an additional payment from the government.” Following this, discussions were held with popular hotels in each district for supply of quality food. “From Rs. 550 to Rs. 600, we have fixed the rate for food at Rs. 450 in Chennai, Rs. 375 in Tiruvallur and Rs. 350 in a few other districts. The food is being supplied from these hotels from May 21. Compared with the amount spent under the previous government during the first wave, we are saving Rs. 30 lakh a day towards food. This amount was going to middlemen earlier,” he said. Similarly, doctors are provided with accommodation in hotels for one week of COVID-19 duty, followed by one week of quarantine. “For this, Rs. 900 was spent for a person a day. We held talks with the same hotels and made it clear that there were no middlemen and fixed the rate at Rs. 750. We have reduced the charge by Rs. 150 per person per day,” he pointed out. By saving Rs. 30 lakh through the revision of the rates, the government has saved Rs. 9 crore-Rs. 10 crore a month, the Minister added. “When the pandemic comes to an end, those involved in these irregularities will be exposed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irregularities-found-in-facilities-for-doctors/article34785894.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Appropriate to state facts on vaccine stock’||After the Union Health Ministry issued instructions to the States that they should not disclose information on the stocks of vaccines, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian said giving people accurate information was the right thing to do. “They have said that both the Union Health Ministry and the State Health Departments should not disclose the position of vaccine stocks. If we do not tell, the people will not know. They will end up waiting in queues for the vaccines and get disappointed. It is only appropriate to state facts, and that is what we have been doing,” he told reporters on Thursday. Except Chennai, no other district has vaccines (as on Thursday morning). “The city has 1,060 doses. Of the 37 districts, 36 do not have vaccines,” he said. The State is expecting 6.5 lakh doses from the Centre’s pool in two days, he said. As many as 85,000 doses of Covaxin against the State government’s order arrived in Chennai later in the day. He said there was no plan to shift the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super-Speciality Hospital to the new building, planned on the campus of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine. On inspecting the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation, the Minister said the State had adequate stock of drugs and other essential protective gear for the pandemic. “Initially, there was a huge shortage of Remdesivir. We have purchased nearly 9.5 lakh Remdesivir vials, of which 5.75 lakh have been supplied to government hospitals. Private hospitals were given 1.25 lakh vials,” he said. The State has adequate stocks of PPE kits for four weeks. As many as 3.5 lakh PPE kits, 15 lakh N95 masks and 75 lakh triple-layer masks are available. There were 115 CT scan machines in government hospitals. “In May, 1,43,530 scans were taken in these hospitals. This is the highest number of scans taken in a month so far,” he said. The Minister also visited the Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society (Tansacs). Among others, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, Managing Director of TNMSC P. Umanath and project director of Tansacs Deepak Jacob were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/appropriate-to-state-facts-on-vaccine-stock/article34785900.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. should reject NEP’||The State government should reject the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 as it did not address the educational needs of the State, according to L. Jawahar Nesan, former Vice-Chancellor of Mysuru-based JSS Science and Technology University, a private varsity. Mr. Nesan, who has been appointed a member of the NEET review panel by the State government, in a letter to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin, termed the recent views of former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy’s views in support of the NEP “tall claims” that “are baseless, superficial and naïve”. He felt Prof. Balagurusamy’s recent letter to Mr. Stalin supporting the NEP was “without any scientific basis whatsoever.” Mr. Nesan said that the NEP emphasised on Sanskrit as an option in the three language formula in school and beyond. With technology, students could learn the content in any language without having to learn the language. Until Tamil as a medium of learning was fostered at all levels of studies, the current bilingual approach of Tamil and English should continue, he said. There was no need for centralised assessment in classes 3, 5, and 8 as learning and assessment was limited to classrooms and the related activities include just two players – students and teachers. The governments should instead focus on investing on teachers’ competence and skills. Vocational education would not achieve its purpose as even engineering students had difficulty in finding internship, he said. The NEP sought human capital while progressive worlds were gearing to equip human resource. According to him, none of the education policies formulated in the country so far had understood the issue of jurisdiction of an education policy was limited to the notional-nation (society), which in Indian context was the State and that education should be treated exclusively an affair of the State. Schemes such as special educational zones would ensure basic rights to access to education but not equal educational excellence for all.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-govt-should-reject-nep-says-academic/article34786024.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Edible oil, ‘tur dal’ becoming dearer in T.N.||The prices of edible oil and tur dal have showed a sharp increase over the past year while those of rice and wheat have recorded a subdued rise, according to a comparative study of prices of select essential commodities as reported in different places of Tamil Nadu, besides Puducherry. According to the data furnished by the Government of India’s Department of Consumer Affairs, the prices of edible oil (only two variants — sunflower oil and palm oil — are chosen for the study) have gone up by about Rs. 50 a kg. In the given four cities of Tamil Nadu, the prices of sunflower oil, widely used by the middle class, have increased by about Rs. 60 a kg and in Puducherry, the difference is Rs. 50 a kg. Similarly, palm oil, used by the poor, has seen a hike of Rs. 47 a kg in Puducherry. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, the product has become dearer by at least Rs. 50 a kg. As for tur dal, the rise has been in the range of 20% to 25% except in Chennai, where the difference is marginal. As regards urad dal, the hike has not been that perceptible. Barring Puducherry, rice has remained stable in Tamil Nadu. The position of wheat is similar in the State and even in the Union Territory too. In fact, in Coimbatore, the price of wheat has seen a downward trend – a decline of Rs. 6 a kg. A veteran administrator said that the situation in the State is part of the all-India feature as the country has been meeting, through imports, a large chunk of requirements of edible oil and pulses. The price increase of edible oil is sharper than that of pulses due to two reasons — a jump in international prices and a higher import duty. The Centre is considering the question whether it can reduce the duty so that there will be a fall in the prices. However, there is another view that the reduction might lead to further increase in the prices internationally in view of the anticipated higher demand from India. K.R. Shanmugam, director of the Madras School of Economics, said that the prices of egg and non-vegetarian food too [both of which are not included in the list of commodities being monitored by the Central department] have witnessed a sharp rise over the past year. What the administrator and the economist agree on is that the conventional rules of supply and demand dynamics are not applicable at present on account of the lockdown. Despite the transportation of essential commodities being exempted from the lockdown, their movement and availability are not completely insulated from the restrictions. Consequently, this has a bearing on their prices. A senior official in the State government said that the government has got the Price Stabilisation Fund to manage any situation. Besides, through the special public distribution system, palm oil and tur dal are being provided at subsidised rates, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/edible-oil-tur-dal-becoming-dearer/article34785608.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.M. Krishna moves HC challenging constitutionality of new IT Rules||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the Centre on a writ petition filed by acclaimed Carnatic musician T.M. Krishna to declare theInformation Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules of 2021unconstitutional and ultra vires to the Information Technology Act of 2000. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed petitioner’s counsel Suhrith Parthasarathy to serve the papers on Additional Solicitor General R. Sankaranarayanan so that the Centre could file its counter affidavit within three weeks. The case would be heard after four weeks, the judges said. In his affidavit, Mr. Krishna said as an artiste and cultural and political commentator, he cherished the right to free expression and privacy guaranteed under the Constitution. “For me, privacy, like music itself, is an experience. When I think of privacy, I think of life, intimacy, experience, discovery, security, happiness, the lack of fear and the freedom to create. I think of liberty, dignity and choice as facets inherent in me and not just as an artiste but as a human being,” he said. Hailing theSupreme Court’s verdict in K.S. Puttaswamy’s case(2017) wherein it was recognised that right to privacy was implicit in the guarantee of right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, he said the judgement acknowledged the fact that privacy for an artiste, “and there is an artiste in every human being,” was solitude, not in the sense where one shut oneself from all contact but in the sense of a relationship between the artiste and creative soul. The Constitution contained a commitment to the liberty of imagination, and censorship sans reason offended this commitment, the petitioner said and claimed that the recently notified IT Rules of 2021 offended his right as an artiste and cultural commentator by imposing a chilling effect on free speech and by impinging on his right to privacy. He said part II of the Rules violated his rights as a user of social media services and part III was in breach of his rights as a creator of online content.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tm-krishna-challenges-constitutionality-of-it-rules-of-2021/article34786028.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to submit report on NEET’s impact on admissions in a month||The State government on Thursday issued orders to constitute a committee under retired High Court judge A.K. Rajan to look into the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions in the State, and submit its report in a month. G.R. Ravindranath and Jawahar Nesan are also part of the panel. Secretaries of the Health and Family Welfare and School and Law departments, the officer on special duty in the Health Department and the Director of Medical Education are ex-officio members of the panel. The Additional Director of Medical Education will be member-secretary of the panel, which will analyse data and submit a report with recommendations to the government on steps to be taken to protect the interests of students from backward sections of society. “The Tamil Nadu government will analyse the recommendations and take further steps,” a release said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had announced that a panel would look into the impact of NEET on students from backward sections and recommend steps after analysing the possibility of an alternative method to conduct medical college admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-submit-report-on-neets-impact-on-admissions-in-a-month/article34785890.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ford, Mahindra to donate medical equipment worth Rs. 6 cr.||Ford Motor India Company will donate oxygen concentrators, PPE kits and face masks to the State government. Medical equipment worth more than Rs. 6 crore will be given towards COVID-19 relief. The company’s general manager (government affairs), Balaji, met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat on Thursday and presented a cheque of Rs. 50 lakh for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF). The Mahindra Group, too, will be supplying 200 oxygen concentrators, worth Rs. 6 crore. Ulaga Samudhaya Sevaa Sangam contributed Rs. 2 crore to the CMPRF. The cheque was presented by its president S.K.M. Maeilanandhan. News 7’s managing director V. Subramanian met Mr. Stalin and gave a cheque for Rs. 1 crore. The Thoothukudi Nazareth Diocese contributed Rs. 1 crore. Bishop Samuel Devasahayam gave the cheque to Mr. Stalin. The Consortium of Self-financing Professional, Arts and Science Colleges in Tamil Nadu gave Rs. 1 crore. It was handed over by the group’s president, R.S. Munirathinam. Mr. Munirathinam, who is also the founder of the R.M.K. Group of Institutions, gave Rs. 2 crore on behalf of the college. An amount of Rs. 1 crore was given by Sree Gokulam Chits. The cheque was presented to the Chief Minister by its managing director Gokulam Gopalan. Aravind Eye Hospital’s chief medical officer S. Aravind donated Rs. 50 lakh. President of the National Institution for Quality and Reliability S. Rajasekaran contributed Rs. 25 lakh. Prashanth Hospital’s chairman Geetha Haripriya gave Rs. 25 lakh. Madras University Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri donated Rs. 20 lakh collected from a day’s salary of the varsity’s employees. Rajan Eye Care and Rotary, T. Nagar, donated 2,000 vials of mouthwash to the Omandurar Medical College Hospital. Rajan Dental Institute also gave 100 bottles of mouthwash for COVID-19 patients to the same hospital. R. Gunaseelan, director, Chennai Dental Research Foundation and Rajan Dental Institute, handed over the bottles.  Madras University Vice-Chancellor S. Gowri donated Rs. 20 lakh collected from a day’s salary of the varsity’s employees||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ford-mahindra-to-donate-medical-equipment-worth-rs-6-cr/article34785895.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,196 cases of mucormycosis in T.N., more drugs required||Tamil Nadu has so far reported 1,196 cases of mucormycosis in 25 districts. Chennai has the most number of cases, with 420 patients admitted in government and private hospitals. According to officials of the Health Department, as of June 9, as many as 1,196 patients in the State have been affected by mucormycosis, while the total allocation of Liposomal Amphotericin-B from the Centre is 7,330 vials. “We received additional allocation on Wednesday. But we are still running short of the drug,” a health official said. Earlier, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had written to the Union Health Minister, seeking immediate allocation of at least 30,000 vials to the State. As of June 9, a total 25 districts in the State have reported cases of mucormycosis — an invasive fungal infection affecting patients recovering from COVID-19. In Chennai, 380 patients have been admitted to government hospitals and 40 to private facilities. Madurai has 142 patients, while Salem has 139. At the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Dean E. Theranirajan said 10 to 20 patients were attending the mucormycosis clinic every day. Authorities in government hospitals said they have managed to treat patients admitted with mucormycosis with the current supply of drugs. A senior doctor said the number of vials of Liposomal Amphotericin-B supplied to the State was “woefully low”. Each patient requires 50 to 60 vials. “While Liposomal Amphotericin-B is not available, Amphotericin-B emulsion is. The former has less toxicity. The emulsion is a replacement, but needs watchful administration. We need to monitor renal function in patients. What we need is Liposomal Amphotericin-B,” he said. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan took to Twitter on Wednesday to point out the increased allotment of the drug to Karnataka when compared to Tamil Nadu. Karnataka, he said, had received nearly 40,000 vials so far. “Union Minister Sadananda Gowda, until recently, was releasing State-wise number of cases and allocation of vials. This has been stopped. There is no transparency with the Government of India. The allocation should at least be proportionate to the number of cases. The current allocation is very biased,” he said. As far as cases were concerned, Mohan Kameswaran, managing director of the Madras ENT Research Foundation and a member of the task force constituted by the State government for mucormycosis, said, “It usually occurs a couple of weeks after exposure to COVID-19. So it will follow the pandemic and dip after some time.” He, however, said patients were still coming in very late. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian told reporters on Thursday evening that the number of Liposomal Amphotericin-B vials allocated to the State had been increased to 9,520.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1196-cases-of-mucormycosis-in-tn-more-drugs-required/article34785902.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Committee to help revive tourism||The State government will soon constitute a high-level committee to help revive the tourism sector that has been badly hit by the pandemic. Minister for Tourism M. Mathiventhan, who chaired a meeting at the Tourism Department headquarters on Thursday, said the committee would formulate a recovery plan for the sector, which helps bring in foreign exchange, creates jobs and generates revenue. The committee will discuss ways and means to ensure the safety of travellers by following safety protocols in a post-COVID-19 situation. A tourism industry expert said it was good that Tamil Nadu was looking to draw up a plan to revive the sector. States like Gujarat and Karnataka have taken steps to provide relief to the sector.  A hotelier said they welcomed the government’s move to help attract both domestic and foreign tourists. “Hotels have been badly hit. Urgent intervention is necessary,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/committee-to-help-revive-tourism/article34785896.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apollo Hospitals doctors release book on COVID-19||A group of doctors from Apollo Hospitals have come together to release a textbook on COVID-19 — Comprehensive textbook of COVID-19. Addressing the media on Thursday, M.S. Kanwar, senior consultant at the Institute of Critical Care, Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, who put together the book with other doctors, said that around 80 doctors from across the country and from various specialities contributed to the book. He said it covered all aspects, including history, epidemiology, socio-economic aspects of the pandemic. Acknowledging that knowledge about COVID-19 was continuously and rapidly evolving, he said that the book tried to accommodate the latest available developments. “We will be continuously updating the soft copy,” he said. Highlighting that the COVID-19 pandemic was an unprecedented health crisis of enormous proportions unlikely to be faced in a lifetime, Prathap C. Reddy, chairman, Apollo Hospitals, said that the sacrifice, commitment and selfless service shown by medical professionals and people from various professions to overcome it was extraordinary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/apollo-hospitals-doctors-release-book-on-covid-19/article34785612.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM students get over 7,000 job offers||Students of the SRM Institute of Science and Technology received over 7,111 job offers during the placement season for 2020-21. At least 600 companies participated in the placement process despite the pandemic, institute officials said. More are expected to participate as the season will continue till June-end. The participating companies included IT and core engineering companies. Bengaluru-based WorkIndia Information Technology and Services made the highest compensation offer at Rs. 35 lakh a year. Students from SRM campuses in Modinagar, Ramapuram and Vadapalani participated, institute’s career centre director N. Venkata Sastry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srm-students-get-over-7000-job-offers/article34785616.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exempt T.N. from all CET: OPS urges PM||The AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam, in a letter on Thursday, renewed his call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt Tamil Nadu from all common entrance tests (CET), including the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), for admission to all professional courses. In a letter, Mr. Panneerselvam said Tamil Nadu, being one of the top five States in the Performance Grading Index prepared by the Department of School Education and Literacy, should be allowed to admit students based on their performance in higher secondary course. Move opposed The AIADMK leader, in another statement, deplored the reported move of the government to shift the multi-superspecialty hospital from the Government Estate, Omandurar, and urged Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to drop any such move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exempt-tn-from-all-cets-ops-urges-pm/article34785606.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Support Tamils to check China’s move in Sri Lanka’||MDMK general secretary Vaiko has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take efforts to conduct a referendum among Tamils living in various parts of the world to establish a sovereign State of Tamil Eelam, which alone could be the political, economical and defence base for India. “If India fails to safeguard Tamil Eelam and recognise its sovereignty, it only means that India is prepared to lose its dominance over the Indian Ocean and pave the way for China’s presence in the region,” he said in a letter to the Prime Minister on Thursday. The MDMK said as Jews created Israel and India created Bangladesh, the Union Government under, the observation of the UN, should take efforts to conduct a referendum among the Tamils for creation of Tamil Eelam. ‘Foreign policy myth’ “It is a myth that Sri Lanka will lean towards China, if India stands with Tamil Eelam. Even now, Sri Lanka is a vocal supporter of China.” Pointing out that China had given huge loans to Sri Lanka and had taken the Hambantota port on lease for 99 years, Mr. Vaiko alleged that under the current regime of the Rajapaksa brothers, efforts were on to speed up the “Chinesization” of the Indian Ocean. “An estimated five lakh Chinese labourers are working in infrastructure projects funded by China. There is no doubt that a part of them are Chinese spies. Chinese schools, literature bodies, and Karate schools with Chinese trainers have been started for them in Sri Lanka,” Mr. Vaiko alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-tamils-to-check-chinas-move-in-sri-lanka/article34785604.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Live liver surgery saves COVID-19 patient||A 26-year-old kabaddi player battling COVID-19 recently underwent liver transplant at a city hospital. His brother donated a part of his liver. The patient has since recovered and been discharged. Ragul Gandhi, a national-level kabaddi player, was brought from Puducherry to MGM Healthcare in a critical stage. He had developed fulminant liver failure and jaundice that worsened his condition. Within two days, he slipped into a coma. The doctors did a 12-hour procedure on May 21, barely 24 hours after his admission. “Ragul was referred to us with just one or two days’ life in him. He was struggling even in the ambulance. We were all scared but sprang to action,” said Thiagarajan Srinivasan, director of the hospital’s Institute of Liver Diseases, Transplant and Hepatobiliary Surgery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/live-liver-surgery-saves-covid-19-patient/article34785605.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 500 patients benefit from ‘O2 for Madras’||For 26-year-old Haani Abdul Qayoom, an environmental health scientist who had to stay back in Chennai after her flight to Dubai was cancelled, it was a blessing in disguise to gather her resources and help COVID-19 patients in need of oxygen and hospital beds. That’s when she started the campaign ‘O2 for Madras.’ “When I saw what was happening around, I wanted to quickly find a way to provide them with oxygen cylinders and concentrators first. So, we formed volunteer groups to help the patients,” she said. One group took calls from patients or their family and would then direct them to a group of doctors. “Sometimes, the caller didn’t know if the patient needed oxygen support alone or hospitalisation. So we would get their details, speak to doctors and support them with cylinders, concentrators or hospital beds. Another group of volunteers would then deliver the cylinders or concentrators. Initially, it was very difficult to get beds and after a few days, we at least knew who to reach out to in each hospital,” she said. The volunteers have so far helped over 500 people, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-500-patients-benefit-from-o2-for-madras/article34785615.ece
11 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Customs officials have seized 1.25 kg gold from an air passenger from Dubai. Based on intelligence, Kabari Samino Jesaiah, 26, of Kanniyakumari, who arrived from Dubai, was intercepted on suspicion of carrying gold. Following a search, nine packets of gold paste, weighing 1.42 kg, were found stitched inside his waist belt and the ankle portion of his jeans. On extraction 1.25 kg of 24 K purity gold, valued at Rs. 63.2 lakh, was recovered and seized under the Customs Act. He was arrested. Further investigation is under progress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gold-seized/article34785426.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Australia announces support||The Australian Consulate-General, Chennai, has come forward to join hands with India in its fight against COVID-19. It announced support to the Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, to set up additional beds and CabDost, a social enterprise, to feed the needy in south India. According to a statement, the Consulate is providing around Rs. 15 lakh to help set up a 12-bedded ICU facility at the CMC hospital. The consulate is also providing Rs. 8 lakh to CabDost, a socially-driven tech-based start up working in the financially advisory space and helping taxi drivers. Sarah Kirlew, Australian Consul General to south India, said Australia was pleased to partner with CMC Vellore and CabDost. “Our funding will help provide essential medical services to those in need, while helping those suffering financially due to the pandemic.” J.V. Peter, director of CMC Vellore, said the institution thanked Australia for its generous donation. Yamuna Sastry, founder of CabDost and co-founder of Dvara Money, said, “We at Dvara Money have been working to reach out to the gig economy workers and help them cope with the crisis affecting their livelihoods.” As comprehensive strategic partners, Australia has committed around Rs. 210 crore to provide critical support to India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/australia-announces-support/article34785613.ece
11 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Focus on disease control measures in rural areas||When the second wave of COVID-19 had its peak in Coimbatore district and hospitals ran at full capacity, asymptomatic patients with normal vitals were asked to remain in home isolation. There were days when nearly 30,000 patients were in home isolation. With the district seeing a decline of new and active cases, and hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCC) having vacant beds, the Health Department is now ensuing that patients with proper facilities at home for complete isolation, such as separate room with attached bathroom, remain in home isolation. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Senthil Kumar said that health workers were conducting house visits in rural areas of the district to check whether a patient can be allowed to be in home isolation. “If an asymptomatic patient lacks facilities for proper containment, he or she is shifted to the Panchayat Level COVID Care Centres (PLCC) or CCCs. This will avoid spread of the disease within the family and the neighbourhood,” he said. According to him, demarcation of micro-containment zones was another measure being taken to control disease spread in rural areas. While sealing an entire street or residential area can be done by closing a few roads in the city, the same strategy does not work in rural areas. Dr. Kumar said that healthcare professionals were doing home triage in rural areas in addition to the triaging done at primary health centres and government hospitals. Those who require hospitalisation were being shifted accordingly. As of Wednesday, Thudiyalur (49), Karamadai (44), Sulur (31), Madukkarai (23) and Mettupalayam (14) were the blocks with the highest number of containment zones after Coimbatore Corporation. Sulur (7), Thudiyalur (5.73), Karamadai (5.20), Madukkarai (4.51) and Thondamuthur (4.36) were the blocks which accounted for high percentage of COVI-19 cases in the last seven days up to Wednesday outside corporation limits. According to Dr. Kumar, the department was expecting further decline in the daily caseload and test positivity rate (TPR). As of Wednesday, the TPR of the district stood at 20.16 %.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/focus-on-disease-control-measures-in-rural-areas/article34785912.ece
11 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district’s forest area is now larger by 1,049 hectares||The forest area in Coimbatore district has seen a significant increase after District Collector S. Nagarajan declared 1,049.74 hectares of land, as reserve land. With this, the size of the forest area in the district has increased from 1,22,215.13 ha to 1,23,264.87 ha, said District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh. According to the official, 1,049.74 ha of land, belonging to the Revenue and the Forest Department, were declared as reserve lands, under section 26 of the Tamil Nadu Forest Act, 1882. The 1,049.74 ha declared as reserve lands in the district are located in Kemmaramplayam, Karamadai, Tholampalayam and Marathur in Mettupalayam taluk, Odayakulam in Anaimalai taluk, Zamin Uthukuli and Pollachi town in Pollachi taluk. Forest Minister K. Ramachandran appreciated Mr. Nagarajan and Coimbatore Forest Division for the achievement. The Minister told officials that Coimbatore district has set a model for other districts by increasing its forest cover and protecting crucial passage of wild animals -- referring to the declaration of 50.79 hectares of private land in the Kallar elephant corridor area as private forest. Kattanjimalai, located at Marathur village in Mettupalayam taluk, is the largest single area which was declared as reserve land. The hillock, spread over 817 ha with thick vegetation, was classified as government poramboke (unassessed wasteland). “Poachers used to hunt lesser-known species at this place and the Department had registered three cases related to the use of country-made explosives for hunting. With the place declared as reserve land, Forest Department staff will conduct regular patrols and monitor the area,” said Mr. Venkatesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-districts-forest-area-is-now-larger-by-1049-hectares/article34785422.ece
11 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||50.79 ha of Kallar corridor declared a private forest||In a step towards the protection of one of the most critical elephant corridors in Tamil Nadu, Coimbatore Collector S. Nagarajan has declared 50.79 hectares of private land in the Kallar corridor area a private forest under the Tamil Nadu Preservation of Private Forests Act, 1949. This is the first corridor area in the State to be brought under the Act, and the Collector completed the process in 30 days, said D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division. Permission needed Henceforth, sale of property will be regulated and permission has to be obtained for a change in land use. “No person shall reduce the utility of the land as forest... It is very important to monitor the land use in such critical corridors,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle). “The plan of the Forest Department is to bring the entire private land in such corridors under some sort of regulation to ... assist in easy passage of pachyderms...,” he said. Widely known as the Kallar corridor, the Jaccanaire-Hulikal Durgam corridor is situated at the Nilgiri foothills near Mettupalayam. It criss-crosses the Mettupalayam-Udhagamandalam road through Coonoor (part of NH-67) at the beginning of the ghat section. The second edition of Right of Passage: Elephant Corridors of India , published by the Wildlife Trust of India, has listed Kallar as one of the corridors with a “high” ecological priority. “Elephants from the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve move to the southern part of the Coimbatore Forest Division through the foothills of highly undulating mountains and cross the corridor between the second hairpin bend of the Mettupalayam-Coonoor Highway and Kallar village. The corridor is very narrow, owing to plantations and various development activities,” it says. According to studies by researchers, the corridor is significant as it connects the Brahmagiri-Nilgiris-Eastern Ghats elephant population range with the Nilambur-Silent Valley-Coimbatore population range. The movement of elephants between the two ranges facilitates genetic exchange, dispersal and access to a variety of seasonal foraging grounds. K. Kalidasan of Osai, a Coimbatore-based organisation involved in conservation activities, said the protection of the corridor is a long-pending demand as it is a crucial passage for elephants in the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve, which is home to the largest population of the Asiatic elephant. “This is a great step towards securing the corridor.” With over 8,000 vehicles passing through the corridor daily, conservationists have been demanding a flyover from the Kallar Bridge to the second hairpin bend of the ghat section so that elephants can use the natural terrain for undisrupted movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5079-ha-of-kallar-corridor-declared-a-private-forest/article34785892.ece
11 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Garment units, MSMEs seek financial support||The garment manufacturers in Tiruppur and the Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore have appealed to the Union government for financial support as the units remain shut for a month because of the lockdown in the State. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, said the State government should permit the exporters to work with available labourers and restart production. The Central and State governments should also ensure that the industry is able to vaccinate all the workers. South India Hosiery Manufacturers’ Association president A.C. Easwaran said that last year with 43 days of total lockdown to control the pandemic, the knitwear industry was hit badly. This year, the units are again closed for almost a month now. The government should permit the units to start working with 50 % labourers so that they are able to prevent losses and generate jobs for more workers. Mr. Shanmugham also sought 10 % additional credit assistance of up to 10 % of the outstanding as on February 29, 2020 to MSME borrowers covered under ECLGS 1.0 without any precondition for restructuring of the account. Further, the government should announce RoDTEP rates immediately and extend the interest equalisation scheme for three more years. The job working powerloom units in Tiruppur district have sought waiver of loans given to the weavers. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association M.V. Ramesh Babu said that as the MSMEs here are under complete lockdown for four weeks now, the units are unable to resume normal operations. “There has not been any support from banks / financial institutions. In spite of all the financial hurdles, considering that our employees have to meet their basic requirements, we have made due payment of wages/salaries for the month of May, 2021,” he said in a press release. With nil collection from the customers, the units are not having working capital. Hence, the government should extend the moratorium for one more year for both term loan repayment and interest. “At this juncture, it is completely impossible for us to make payment towards taxes – GST / Income Tax which fall due during June and July 2021. It is our sincere request to extend the due dates for all tax payments due during June and July 2021,” he added. The government should come out with a fresh financial stimulus package and relax norms for submission of stock and book debts statements, documents, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/garment-units-msmes-seek-financial-support/article34785913.ece
11 June 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Dharmapuri Collector holds meeting with local body representatives||Officers in the rank Assistant Directors, appointed for each union for pandemic management, shall submit daily reports to the District Collector here. In a consultative meeting held with the local body representatives, Collector S. Dhivyadarshini urged panchayat unions to take stock of the COVID-19 management measures in the rural areas. Further, officials in-charge of the unions shall monitor COVID-19 management undertaken in each union and submit daily reports of the same to the Collector, Ms. Dhivyadarshini said. With cases reported from rural, the local body representatives were called upon to create awareness on COVID-19, and take measures to enforce the pandemic protocols and the lockdown guidelines. Panchayat body representatives, including panchayat union chairpersons, ward members, panchayat ward members, were called upon by the district administration to be proactive in order to manage and contain the pandemic that was fast spreading into rural areas. The panchayat representatives were also advised to ensure that villages are sanitised and daily collection of garbage is carried to prevent accumulation of waste.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dharmapuri-collector-holds-meeting-with-local-body-representatives/article34785906.ece
11 June 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Do not harass micro borrowers: Collector||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi has appealed to all the bankers and micro-finance lending institutions in the district to ensure that their representatives or collection agents do not harass the borrowers to repay the EMI or other loans taken. Speaking at a meeting attended by top bankers and officials from the Mahalir Thittam and among other departments, Ms Vijayalakshmi said on Thursday that the Reserve Bank of India and the Centre had clearly given guidelines to the banks. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, economic activities had come to a standstill. Hence, it was not practical for the borrowers to repay at this juncture. For the government, fighting the pandemic was top priority and to save lives, she pointed out. Under such circumstances, Ms Vijayalakshmi said that there were many complaints from Self Help Groups and other small and micro borrowers that some financial institutions humiliated them to repay the EMI. The district administration, the Collector said, would initiate legal action against those institutions and urged them to refrain from pursuing the borrowers to repay. The Collector said that as per the RBI guidelines, PSU banks have been instructed to give COVID-19 loans to those eligible account holders and directed the Mahalir Thittam officials to coordinate with the banks and the people seeking loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-harass-micro-borrowers-collector/article34786003.ece
11 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Adequate oxygen available in hospitals’||With 14.25 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen utilised everyday in the district, adequate stock of oxygen is available in government and private hospitals here. Sources in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said that the total storage capacity of oxygen is 43.75 tonnes and about 27.75 tonnes is available as stock. While the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai could store 20 tonnes, all the government hospitals could store 2.5 tonnes, private hospitals 10.25 tonnes and industries could store 11 tonnes. About seven tonnes of liquid oxygen is utilised every day at GEMCH and the current storage is eight tonnes. Availability of oxygen concentrators is also adequate to meet the present demand in the district. Of the total 2,019 COVID-19 beds available in government hospitals in the district, 345 beds at GEMCH were vacant while of the 2,975 beds in private hospitals, 747 beds were vacant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adequate-oxygen-available-in-hospitals/article34785914.ece
11 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for child marriage||A 25-year-old man who married a 16-year-old girl and the girl’s mother were arrested for performing child marriage. Based on information, District Child Protection Unit officials visited the girl’s house at Ammapettai on Wednesday. Inquiries revealed that the girl’s mother took her to Moolapalayam in Salem district and forcefully performed the marriage. It was revealed that the girl’s father was also kept in the dark regarding the marriage. A complaint was lodged and the police picked up the duo.A case was registered under the provisions of the Child Marriage Act, 2006 and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Both were arrested and lodged at prisons. The girl expressed her willingness to go with her father and she was sent with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-child-marriage/article34785427.ece
11 June 2021||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman, two others killed in accident||A 23-year-old pregnant woman and two relatives accompanying her in an ambulance were killed after the vehicle crashed into a roadside tree at Alathur, near Sankarapuram in Kallakurichi district, early on Thursday. The names of the victims were given as K. Jayalakshmi, 23, of Sorapattu, her mother-in-law Selvi and sister-in-law S. Ambika, 32, of Sorapattu. The ambulance was bringing the nine-month pregnant woman from the Pudupattu Primary Health Centre to the Kallakurichi Government General Hospital. The police said the ambulance driver lost control of the vehicle after one of its tyres burst around 4.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pregnant-woman-2-others-die-as-ambulance-hits-tree/article34785609.ece
11 June 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Textile shop sealed in Karaikudi||A textile shop on the Sekkalai Road here was sealed by municipal authorities under the Disaster Management Act here on Wednesday. The authorities visited the shop and found that they were operating by allowing customers from a rear entrance. When the officials went inside under the guise of customers, they were shocked as there were quite a number of people. After the health team arrived, the authorities downed the shutters and made the customers undergo swab tests. Only after taking down their addresses and mobile numbers, the officials permitted them to leave the premises. A senior official said the textile shop violated COVID-19 rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shop-sealed-in-karaikudi/article34786014.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits tourism industry||The closure of tourists spots due to the imposition of complete lockdown in the wake of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic has deeply affected various stakeholders of the tourism industry. The stakeholders have urged the government to provide relief measures until the tourist spots reopen. Different stakeholders - auto rickshaw drivers, bus operators, travel agents, hoteliers, tour guides and vendors around tourist spots - have been severely affected due to COVID-19 pandemic. S. Kaniraj, a tourist guide for the past 25 years, says that many tourist guides have been struggling to run their families without any income for the past few months. “Facing such a scenario for the second consecutive year has been very hard for tour guides. Many of them are unable to pay their dues and have borrowed heavily to meet their basic needs,” he added. M. Rajesh, Secretary of South Tamil Nadu Association of Travel and Tourism, says that 60% of tourist inflow to Madurai is through flight and trains. Tourist inflow is highest in Madurai during March, April and May, which accounts for the major share of income earned by the stakeholders of the tourism industry. However, the imposition of lockdown during this peak period for two consecutive years has deeply affected the stakeholders. Despite this scenario, most stakeholders have paid their electricity bills and also salary for their employees, said Mr. Rajesh. “There is an urgent need to announce relief measures to the stakeholders of the tourism industry to help them overcome their losses,” he said. Mr. Rajesh also urged the government to exempt the stakeholders from GST taxes, and give priority to the tourism industry members for COVID-19 vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-hits-tourism-industry/article34785509.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP not for commercial exploitation of railway stadia||Madurai MP, Su. Vekatesan, has flayed the Indian Railways move to hand over 15 railway stadia to the Rail Land Development Authority for commercial development. “It is anti-people and anti-national,” he said in a memorandum sent to Union Railway Minister, Piyush Goyal. The Indian Railways has a sports promotion board, which is the single largest sports entity having 50% international players and one third of medal winners. Former captain of Indian cricket team M. S. Dhoni and former Olympian P. T. Usha were drawn from the ticket checking category. Many employees from lower categories have done well in sports due to accessibility of sports facilities and infrastructure in the Indian Railways. Among the 21 Olympic medals India has won, 13 were by railway personnel. Several Arjun awardees were also from the Railways. Stating that free accessibility of large sports infrastructure in the Railways made such achievements possible, he said the latest move by the Centre would deny accessibility of such large facilities to the common man. He appealed to the Minister to retain the stadia under the control of the zonal railways and production units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mp-not-for-commercial-exploitation-of-railway-stadia/article34785505.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps being taken to ensure SOPs in sub-registrar offices’||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected sub-registrar offices at Teppakulam, Tallakulam, Othakadai, Alanganallur, and Sholavandan here on Thursday. Addressing the mediapersons after inspection, the Minister said that steps were taken in sub-registrar offices to ensure compliance to physical distancing norms. He instructed the officials to expedite the completion of registration process without causing much delay to the public. The Minister directed the officials to introduce a token system at the sub registrar offices to avoid crowding. The public would be called through loudspeakers and an electronic board displaying the name and slot allotted for each person would be placed in front of the sub-registrar offices. Mr. Moorthy said these steps would be taken in all the 575 sub-registrar offices in the State. He warned that strict action will be taken against those who are involved in corruption. A circular mentioning all these details will be sent to all the sub-registrar offices, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-being-taken-to-ensure-sops-in-sub-registrar-offices/article34785507.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New SP assumes office||V. Baskaran took over as the new Superintendent of Police (SP), Madurai rural district police on Wednesday. He succeeds Sujit Kumar, who has been transferred to Chennai as SP, NIB-CID. Mr. Baskaran said that habitual criminals would be dealt with an iron hand and stringent action would be taken against those involved in illegal activities and in crimes against women and children. People can contact the SP on 94443-96596 and lodge complaints on WhatsApp. He said that efforts would be taken on grievances and complaints from the public. He appealed to the people to follow all safe precautions and lockdown rules to contain the pandemic. A 2003-batch Deputy Superintendent of Police, Mr. Baskaran has served in Aruppukottai, Tirupparankundram, Ambur and in the Chief Minister’s Security team. He was posted as Additional Superintendent of Police in Kancheepuram. After being promoted as Superintendent of Police, he served as Assistant Inspector General in the office of the Director General of Police. Later, he served as the Superintendent of Police in Theni and Ariyalur districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-assumes-office/article34785502.ece
11 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea to deconcretise Grand Anicut Canal||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday demanded response from the State on a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the authorities to not lay concrete lining along the Grand Anicut Canal and its branch canals. Hearing a petition filed by R. Prakash of Thanjavur, who said laying concrete lining along the canal bed would lead to lowering of groundwater level, a Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice. The petitioner said percolation contributed to recharge of groundwater in shallow and deep bore wells, which were used by the people to get water for drinking and agricultural purposes. He said the project for Extension, Renovation and Modernisation of the Grand Anicut Canal commenced in February with the main objective of improving water-carrying capacity and irrigation efficiency. About 20% of the work had been completed. infiltration process It was only now that farmers and general public learnt that this process could affect infiltration process that was essential for a rise in groundwater level, Mr. Prakash said. This could affect nearby villages and the Grand Anicut Canal must be deconcretised and restored to its original state, the petitioner said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-to-deconcretise-canals/article34786025.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CPWD Executive Engineer and two others remanded in bribery case||An Executive Engineer and two private persons have been remanded in judicial custody by the CBI Court, here on Thursday. The CBI sleuths had arrested them in connection with an alleged bribery case and produced them before the CBI Court for remand. The accused in the case Executive Engineer, CPWD, Madurai Zonal Office V.L. Bhaskar, proprietor of Brahma Developers P.N. Sivasankar Raja and proprietor of S. K. Electricals P. Narayanan have been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The allegations against the accused was that the CPWD Executive Engineer received illegal gratification from the private persons to the tune of Rs. 50,000 for clearing bills and another Rs. One lakh for refunding the Goods and Services Tax. During the trap proceedings by the CBI sleuths, Rs. 70,000 was recovered from the Executive Engineer. This amount he had demanded and accepted from the two private persons. Later, the CBI sleuths recovered Rs. 1.85 lakh from the premises of the Executive Engineer in Madurai. The cash was kept in different covers. The Executive Engineer had allegedly received these amount from various other persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpwd-executive-engineer-and-two-others-remanded-in-bribery-case/article34785504.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medical equipment donated||Swami Sivayogananda of Chinmaya Seva Trust handed over four oxygen concentrators and other necessary medical equipment worth Rs. 5 lakh to Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar here on Thursday. The medical equipment were given for 13 rural government COVID-19 Care Centres. City Health Officer of Madurai Corporation P. Kumaraguruparan and office-bearers of Chinmaya Seva Trust Thilagar, Thirumalaiappan, Ramachandran, Pradeep and Kanagavel were also present.  Masks and sanitisers Shri Shirdi Sai Baba Temple of Andalpuram here has donated medical masks, and hand sanitisers to government department officials here on Thursday. A total of 50,000 masks and 6,000 hand sanitisers were given to Dean of GRH A. Rathinavel, Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar and other senior officials. Also, 25,000 masks and 2,000 number of hand sanitisers were handed over to Madurai Reporters’ Guild and other frontline workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-equipment-donated/article34785503.ece
11 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inspired by YouTube, woman turns robber||A 32-year-old woman, S. Usharani, who robbed an elderly lady on Wednesday to overcome her loss in business was inspired by video clippings on robbery that she watched on YouTube. She is now cooling her heels behind bars. The woman zeroed-in on her relative, A. Minyammal (70). Minyammal was living alone in Meikilarpatti. She sported a male shirt, mask and helmet to hide her identity. After entering the house, she gagged the woman and tied her limbs before relieving her of 10 sovereigns of gold, said Usilampatti Taluk Inspector of Police, V. Mariappan, said. However, the police got a clue after a local person identified the two-wheeler of the accused. Upon interrogation, the woman admitted to the crime and was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inspired-by-youtube-woman-turns-robber/article34785511.ece
11 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||279 new cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 279 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, with which the total number of positive cases in the district went up to 69,320. The district also reported six fatalities to have an overall death toll of 1,009. A total of 1,177 persons were discharged from hospitals and healthcare facilities in the district. The number of fresh cases in Virudhunagar has come down to 294 on Thursday from 336 cases recorded on Wednesday. The district also registered the discharge of 932 persons and two deaths – those of a man and a woman, both aged over 50.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/279-new-cases-in-madurai/article34786006.ece
11 June 2021||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Missing girl found dead in farm well||A 13-year-old girl, who was reported missing a few days ago, was found dead in a farm well at Ladapuram in the district on Wednesday. Police identified the girl as a class VIII student who had come to her elder sister’s house about 20 days ago. She went missing on June 6 and a complaint was lodged by her mother at Perambalur police station the next day. A girl missing case was booked and police launched a probe. The girl’s body was found in a farm well on Wednesday evening. Superintendent of Police S. Mani inspected the spot. Perambalur Police altered the case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/missing-girl-found-dead-in-farm-well/article34786069.ece
11 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Over 3 lakh people vaccinated in U.T.||The COVID-19 vaccination coverage in the Union Territory crossed the three lakh- mark, or approximately 20% of the estimated population of 15 lakh, even as 9 deaths and 507 new cases were reported on Thursday. While the vaccination data show that at least one in every four people in the Union Territory has received at least one shot of a COVID vaccine, the actual percentage of the population that has been vaccinated could be even higher. Rural vaccination “We could see the numbers increase with the ongoing thrust on rural vaccination and street corner camps that take the COVID-19 jab closer to the homes of the beneficiaries,” a health official said. The number of people vaccinated till date stands at 3,02,851.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-3-lakh-people-vaccinated-in-ut/article34785903.ece
11 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Malpractice alleged in GH||The members of Periyariya Unarvalargal Kootamaippu here staged a demonstration near the Government Hospital condemning some the authorities for indulging in malpractice and also for not attending on the COVID-19 patients, which had resulted in rise in number of deaths. The demonstrators appealed to the DMK government to immediately order a probe as there were a number of complaints against some doctors, who had been allegedly indulging in siphoning off medical supplies to some private hospitals. They claimed that they had adequate proof for the misappropriation, coordinator Nageswaran told reporters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/malpractice-alleged-in-gh/article34786008.ece
11 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||500-bed COVID-19 treatment facility opened at SSP||Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji on Thursday dedicated a 500-bed facility with medical oxygen support for COVID-19 treatment on the premises of Salem Steel Plant (SSP) here to the public. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched the functioning of a 500-bed COVID-19 treatment centre on the SSP premises recently and ordered setting up an additional 500-bed facility. The medical oxygen to the treatment centre is supplied from the oxygen plant at SSP through pipelines. Mr. Balaji told press persons, “works were done on a war-footing and the facility would take in patients from Thursday”. The centre is being managed by the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and patients referred from the Hospital are admitted to the treatment centre. Mr. Balaji said that hereafter patients from private and government hospitals could be directly brought to the SSP centre following discussions with GH dean on the patients’ condition. There were 280 patients under treatment at the centre and no patient undergoing treatment at the centre had died, he said. On high number of deaths in the district, the Minister said many persons, despite having symptoms, approached hospitals only when they faced respiratory issues. Hence, the number of special camps and tests had been increased to reduce deaths, he said. Vaccine shortage On vaccine shortage in State, Mr. Balaji said the Chief Minister was targeting 100% vaccination in State and measures were being taken in this regard. There had been stock issues for the past few days and vaccine doses would be supplied soon, he said. Mr. Balaji said they were considering shifting patients and healthcare workers in smaller COVID-19 care centres to GMKMCH or COVID-19 treatment centre on the SSP premises.  Stalin to arrive on June 11 The Minister said the Chief Minister would reach Salem on June 11 evening. He would raise the shutters of Mettur dam by 10.30 a.m. on June 12.  Electricity bill On possibilities of any relaxations in electricity bill payments, Mr. Balaji said lockdown was till June 14 and measures would be taken by the Tangedco after discussions with the Chief Minister. However, deposit charges were not collected, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/500-bed-covid-19-treatment-facility-opened-at-ssp/article34785916.ece
11 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Socialism-Mamata wedding is talk of the town in Salem||The wedding of Socialism with Mamata Banerjee, in the presence of Communism and Leninism, this weekend is the talk of the town in Salem. The wedding invitation has gone viral on social media. Socialism is the son of A. Mohan, district secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI). The bride hails from a family of Congress supporters. Mr. Mohan named his sons after the left ideologies. His first son is named Communism, the second Leninism and the third Socialism. Mr. Mohan grew up in a communist family and became a full-time worker of the CPI. When his wife was carrying their first son, the Soviet Union disintegrated. Many commented that communism was dead. This upset Mr. Mohan. He said, “In 1991, when the Soviet Union broke up, reports were published that communism had come to an end. My wife was pregnant and I was determined to name my first child Communism if it was a son. Communism will not die until the human race exists. Hence, my first son was named so. My second son was named Leninism in memory of Lenin. Communism has to be established for socialism to take shape...” He added that his grandson’s name is Marxism, and these names are quite common at his place. “These names may sound new to the outer world, but it is quite common here. Around 60 years ago, senior comrades here had such names. The names of communist countries and leaders — such as Moscow, Russia, Vietnam, Bupesh Gupta, Jeevanandham, Venmani and Czechoslovakia — were given to comrades here. My children were named similarly.” Ms. Mamata Banerjee is a close relative of Mr. Mohan’s family. She was named after the West Bengal Chief Minister when she was a member of the Congress. The wedding has been scheduled for June 13.  When Soviet Union broke up in 1991, reports predicted the end of communism. I was determined to name my first child Communism... A. MohanCPI district secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/socialism-mamata-wedding-is-talk-of-the-town-in-salem/article34785429.ece
11 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Patient booked||Vallam police have booked a case against Lakshmanan, 28, of Ko.Vallundampattu near here on charges of neglecting home quarantine conditions. According to sources, Lakshmanan tested positive on May 31 and was admitted at the COVID Care Centre at Vallam. He was allowed to leave thecentre on June 3 on the condition that he would remain in isolation at his residence till June 12. On June 4, revenue officials went to his residence and tied the yellow tag on his hand and advised him to follow the home quarantine conditions scrupulously. However, when VAO Manivannan called him over mobile to ascertain whether he was following the instructions, it was found that he moved out of his house frequently. Subsequently, the issue was brought to the notice of Deputy Collector Jaswant Kannan. On Thursday, the Deputy Collector accompanied by revenue and health department officials paid a surprise visit to Lakshmanan’s house and found that the observation of the VAO was true. The COVID-19 positive patient failed to show up at his house despite being asked to return home by the officials. Thus, the Deputy Collector after waiting for a few hours at Lakshmanan’s house in vain, called up Vallam police and directed them to register a case against the patient for jumping home quarantine conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patient-booked/article34786058.ece
11 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Call for panel to check pollution of waterways in State||The Coordination Committee of All Farmers’ Associations in Tamil Nadu on Thursday called upon the State government to set up a committee to look into the issue of pollution of waterways. Talking to reporters here, committee president P.R. Pandian said the practice of letting sewage into waterways such as the Vadavaru flowing on the outskirts of Thanjavur town should be checked considering the fact that the river not only served as a source of irrigation but also drinking water for Thanjavur, Ammapettai, Needamangalam, Mannargudi, Madukkur and Kottur. Already, several rivers in the State such as the Cauvery and Palar were used as a conduit for disposal of sewage or industrial chemical wastes generated in major towns located on their banks. Hence, the State government must set up an expert committee headed by a judge to find a solution to the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-for-panel-to-check-pollution-of-waterways-in-state/article34786065.ece
11 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Naam Tamilar Katchi opposes INO project||The members of Naam Tamilar Katchi staged a demonstration in front of the Forest Office here on Thursday. They said that a big corporate group had sought permission to carry out research activities at Ambarapar Hills in Pottipuram, near Thevaram, where the Central government had earmarked space for establishing INO neutrino project at Rs. 1,500 crore. As the TN Pollution Control Board and the NGT authorities have not given mandatory clearance, the Forest officials should, therefore, not give any permission sought by the applicants. The demonstrators led by east district secretary Jayakumar said that the TN government should take note of the request and give instructions to the Forest officials in this regard. Any action, which may jeopardise the natural resources or agricultural activities in the region should be opposed, he said and added that the eco-system in the Western Ghats should be preserved at any cost. High Court Meanwhile, the issue has been taken to the HC Bench in Madurai by MDMK general secretary Vaiko, who has prayed for the dismantling of the INO project. The MDMK has also held demonstrations in the past by organising agitations including a signature campaign and a fast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/naam-tamilar-katchi-opposes-ino-project/article34786009.ece
11 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Excavation resumes at Adichanallur and Sivakalai sites||The excavation of ancient civilisation sites at Adichanallur and Sivakalai in Thoothukudi district resumed on Thursday after being suspended in May due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Department of Archaeology resumed the second phase of the excavation at Adichanallur and Sivakalai and started the first phase at Korkkai on February 26 this year. But the work was halted on May 10 as an intense lockdown came into force across Tamil Nadu. Burial urns were found at the first two sites, while 2,700-year-old brick works and the remnants of a conch-cutting unit were found at Korkkai. Work expedited The excavation resumed after the curbs were eased. Since the Union government has given permission for excavation till September, the Department of Archaeology has expedited the work. Writer Muththaalankurichi Kamarasu, who petitioned the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for excavation at Adichanallur, Sivakalai and Korkkai, said it should be done at 37 spots cited by a British archaeologist as “archaeologically important areas”. Though the Tamil Nadu government has appointed officials and allotted funds, the excavation is yet to gain momentum. “The recent rain has brought to light burial urns in the Vasavappapuram area on the Tirunelveli-Thoothukudi border, which should be excavated. The Tamil Nadu government should also take steps to locate the buried temples at Kongarayakurichi, near Srivaikundam, on the banks of the Thamirabarani,” Mr. Kamarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavation-resumes-at-adichanallur-sivakalai-sites/article34785553.ece
11 June 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Excavation work resumes in Adichanallur, Sivakalai||Excavation of ancient civilization sites in Adichanallur and Sivakalai in Thoothukudi district resumed on Thursday after being suspended since May last due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. During the second phase excavation in Adichanallur and Sivakalai on February 26 last and the first phase of digging at Korkkai, another archaeologically important site, the Department of Archaeology had unearthed burial urns from the first two sites while 2,700 year-old brick work was found in the third site, where remnants of a conch cutting unit was also found. As the lockdown was clamped across Tamil Nadu, the excavation was suspended on May 10 and the digging resumed on Thursday following lockdown relaxations. Since, the Union Government has given permission for this excavation up to September this year, the Department of Archaeology has expedited the work. Writer Muththalankurichi Kamarasu, who petitioned the Madurai Bench of Madras High seeking excavation of Adichananallur, Sivakalai and Korkkai, said excavation should be done at 37 spots in these places, which were cited by a British archaeologist as ‘archaeologically important areas’. Though the State had appointed officials and allotted funds the excavation was yet to gain momentum. “The recent rains have brought to light burial urns in Vasavappapuram on Tirunelveli – Thoothukudi border, which should be excavated. The State should also take steps for locating the buried temples in Kongarayakurichi near Srivaikundam on the banks of the Tamirabharani,” Mr. Kamarasu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavation-work-resumes-in-adichanallur-sivakalai/article34786011.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CPI activists seek better service, amenities at PHCs in Tiruverumbur||A group of activists belonging to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) conducted a survey of three Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs) and one taluk headquarters hospital in Tiruverumbur and found the quality of infrastructure to be poor. They have filed a report and submitted their findings to the Revenue Divisional Officers (RDO) of Tiruchi. Five members, including A. Mallika, district executive committee member, and All India Democratic Women's Association (AIDWA) visited the Thuvakudi Government Hospital, and Thirunedungulam, Navalpattu, and Aransankudi Primary Healthcare Centres in Tiruverumbur taluk. At the Thuvakudi General Hospital, the activists found that there was no facility to take RT-PCR tests. There was also no vaccination camp being held. “Doctors here told us that only around 50 inoculations were being done per day,” Ms. Mallika said. Shortage of doctors At a hospital where at least eight doctors must be deputed, only four were appointed and they were overstretched, she added. The 45-bed capacity at the hospital was insufficient, and no special arrangements were made for oxygen support for COVID-19 patients. Arasankudi PHC building was in a dilapidated condition and lacked maintenance, Ms. Mallika said. “There was only one doctor who said she lived far away from the centre. She would stay at the hospital throughout the day and return home at night. The nurses handle most cases unless the doctor is required,” she said. The facility lacked space and personal distancing was unheard of here, she added. Some patients also told Ms. Mallika that the roofs leak when it rains, she added. Overworked staff Thirunedungulam and Navalpattu too were short-staffed and in a sorry condition. “The doctors at these places were tired. Some were even working overtime,” she said. On behalf of the CPI(M), a report has been submitted to the RDO and copies will be handed over to the Minister of School Education, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, and Minister for Medical and Family Welfare, Ma. Subramanian. At a time when the entire state is dependent upon the medical infrastructure the government needs to take note of its sorry state in the semi-urban and rural parts, Ms. Mallika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-activists-seek-better-service-amenities-at-phcs-in-tiruverumbur/article34786060.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Solar power panels to make way for integrated bus stand project||Tiruchi Corporation has decided to relocate the solar power panels at Panchapur to pave the way for establishing an integrated bus stand on the land. It is with the aim of harnessing solar power to meet the requirement of the city’s power needs that the Corporation established the solar park at an estimated Rs. 13.5 crore under Smart City Mission. The erection of solar panels began on 13 acres of land near the sewage treatment plant in 2019 and completed in January last. Under the plan, the solar park will produce 2.4 MW power and it will be linked with the gird of Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). The revenue generated will be adjusted with the electricity bills of the Corporation. The ground mounted solar panels have been erected and installed at the site owned by the Corporation. The contractor, who designed and installed the photo voltaic panels, has been entrusted with the task of operation and maintenance. However, it is said the Corporation has decided to set up the Integrated Bus Stand at Panchapur on its land. Though the exact extent of land required for the project is yet to be decided, it is expected that the civic body has planned to allocate about 100 acres out of around 560 acres owned by the Corporation. Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru visited the site recently along with Collector S. Sivarasu and Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian and held discussion on allocating land for the project. A suggestion was made to relocate the solar panels so that hindrance-free land is available for the project. The civic body has sent a proposal to the State government seeking appointment of a consultant for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for the project. Confirming the development, a senior official of the Corporation told The Hindu that it had been decided to relocate the solar panels. The new site had not yet been decided, but the civic body would study an idea to erect the panels atop the bus stand. A clear picture would emerge once the feasibility report was submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/solar-power-panels-to-make-way-for-integrated-bus-stand-project/article34786068.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Soon, ‘Akila’ will have her own swimming pool, walking track||Akila, a 19-year-old elephant belonging to Jambukeswarar Temple at Tiruvanaikoil, has her own bathing pond within the temple complex now. The bathing pond with ramp facility has been set up inside the nearly two-acre Nachiarthoppu situated a few metres away from the elephant shelter located within the shrine. The new facility for the pachyderm became possible, thanks to a donor. Construction of the pond was taken up during the lockdown when entry of visitors into temples were barred. The nearly six-foot deep pond is on the verge of completion, say temple authorities. The structure enables the animal to move easily once it is inside the water and relax under the watchful eyes of the mahout and his assistant who would give it a bath, said a temple official. The animal can sit, lie down and move inside the pond while enjoying its bath. A borewell has been sunk up to 70 feet close to the pond to draw groundwater and release it into the pond when the elephant is brought there. The stagnant water will be pumped out using a motor and let into the temple garden. The bathing pond was created at Nachiarthoppu since it is a huge area located close to the animal’s shelter and to create a natural environment. A mud path has been created to take the pachyderm for a walk. The entire place will turn greener as temple authorities will soon be planting over 200 coconut, jackfruit and mango saplings inside Nachiarthoppu. A borewell will be used to water the saplings. Pits have been dug and planting of saplings will be taken up soon, the official further said. Arrangements have been made to bring water through galvanised iron pipes to Nachiarthoppu as a standby from East Gopuram, where another borewell has been sunk earlier. The famed Tiruvanaikoil temple, situated on 19.5 acres, is a pancha bootha sthalam representing one of the five elements — water. Last year, authorities created a huge green belt inside the temple complex to raise fodder for Akila and for the cows maintained in the ghoshala to avoid buying from outside. There are 15 animals — one bull, nine cows, five calves — in the ghoshala||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soon-akila-will-have-her-own-swimming-pool-walking-track/article34786071.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers disappointed over ‘meagre rise’ in MSP for paddy||A section of farmers’ representatives of Tiruchi and delta districts has expressed disappointment over the “meagre” increase in the minimum support price (MSP) for paddy announced by the Union government on Wednesday. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs had decided to hike the MSP for paddy by Rs. 72 a quintal from last year’s price of Rs. 1,868 to Rs. 1,940. Stating that the hike is not commensurate with rising cultivation costs, the representatives have demanded that the MSP be hiked to at least Rs. 2,500 a quintal. Emphasising the need for implementing the M.S. Swaminathan Committee recommendation of providing for 50% profit over and above cost of cultivation for agricultural produce, Arupathy Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers’ Associations of Delta Districts, said that if that formula were to be adopted, the MSP for paddy would work out to Rs. 2,590 per quintal. “Alternatively, the government can consider sanctioning cultivation incentive to farmers as a direct benefit transfer if it felt that the hike in procurement price will lead to an increase in open market prices of commodities,” he suggested. Mr. Kalyanam also wanted the kharif marketing season to be advanced to start from August 1 instead of October 1 in the changed circumstances as the harvest of early kharif crops, raised using groundwater, began in July. Expressing disappointment over the hike, P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, also pressed for implementation of M.S. Swaminathan Committee recommendation on price fixation. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to double the income of farmers, but the meagre hike in MSP for paddy is not a step in that direction. The procurement price is unremunerative,” he said and urged the Centre to take into account the rising cost of fertilizer and labour. The hike is too inadequate under the present circumstances, especially in view of rise in cost of inputs, fuel and the pandemic situation, said Dikshidar Balasubramanian, president, Tiruchi District Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association. “Rental charges for farm machines such as tractors have been hiked. Labour costs have also gone up. The Centre should take these factors into account and hike the MSP to Rs. 2,500 a quintal,” Mr. Balasubramanian said.  The increase is too inadequate, especially in view of rise in cost of inputs, fuel and the pandemic situation Dikshidar BalasubramanianPresident, Tiruchi District Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-disappointed-over-meagre-rise-in-msp-for-paddy/article34786074.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Relief over CTET/TET validity move||The recent announcement by Union Ministry of Education effecting lifetime validity for Central Teacher Eligibility Test and Teacher Eligibility Test (conducted by States) certificates has come as a huge relief to candidates worried about the lapse of their certification after completion of the earlier specified duration of seven years. As per the announcement, the validity of the CTET/TET certificates will have retrospective effect from 2011 when the guidelines for the test were specified by National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). During October 2020, the NCTE proposed to extend lifetime validity to the CTET/TET, but only with prospective effect. The latest announcement by the Ministry of Education will, in particular, enable eligible candidates to sustain their seniority in employment exchange for posting in government schools, said Balasubramanian, a senior teacher. Erosion in quality Against the backdrop of CTET and TET qualification being made compulsory under National Education Policy 2020, quality infusion in the teaching-learning process will take centrestage in schools — government or private — in the long-run. However, the transition may be rather tough due to enormous erosion in quality caused by appointment of teachers with shortfalls in competency over decades, he pointed out. The cause for worry for managements of private schools is that the pass percentage in TETs has been low at single digit. The IQ levels of those opting for teaching have been witnessing a drastic drop.  The purpose of CTET/TET, according to NCTE, is to send a positive signal to all stakeholders that the government lays special emphasis on quality of teachers. Nevertheless, setting of the benchmark by the Central Government was a dire need in the context of many developing and developed countries recruiting highly qualified teachers to handle kindergarten and primary levels to ensure a strong foundation, a CBSE school functionary in Tiruchi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-over-ctettet-validity-move/article34786064.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss remarks flayed||Reiterating its opposition to 10.5% internal reservation to Vanniyars under the Most Backward Classes quota, the De-notified Tribes Welfare Association has taken exception to a recent statement of PMK founder S. Ramadoss urging the government to guarantee the reservation and not to present “unfounded reasons” against the quota.  Association advisor S. Panneerselvam said in a statement that the State government should not give effect to reservation in education and employment as it was against social justice. If the quota was implemented it would do great injustice to the people of all other castes. The DMK government should conduct caste-wise census so as to provide proportional reservation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ramadoss-remarks-flayed/article34786057.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2,494 new cases in delta||The central districts reported 2,494 fresh cases and 58 deaths on Thursday. Thanjavur reported the highest number of deaths at 16. Karur reported 13, Tiruchi eight and Nagapattinam and Perambalur seven each. Pudukottai reported six ,while one death was reported in Ariyalur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of new cases with 652. Nagapattinam recorded 504 and Tiruchi 470. Tiruvarur reported 294 cases. According to data released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam had 10 ICU beds, Tiruvarur 15, Tiruchi 76 and Thanjavur 57. Pudukottai reported 182 fresh cases, while Karur reported 172. Eight ICU beds were available in Pudukottai. Perambalur recorded 112 fresh cases, while Ariyalur, 108. Perambalur increased its bed capacity and reported that 28 ICU beds were available, while . Ariyalur had one ICU bed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2494-new-cases-in-delta/article34786062.ece
11 June 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Renovation work at Kandigaiperi hospital gains momentum||The second phase renovation work at the hospital in Kandigaiperi, which has been initiated at a cost of Rs. 28.90 crore to lessen the burden of Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) has finally gained momentum. The decades-old hospital at Kandigaiperi, administered by the Tirunelveli Corporation, was handed over to the TVMCH a few years ago with the objective of upgrading it with more facilities to serve in the best possible manner the public especially pregnant women coming for treatment from Alangulam, Paavoorchathram and other adjoining areas. Subsequently, doctors from TVMCH were being posted there. This has lessened the burden of the TVMCH which serves patients from the southern districts. Now, the expansion and renovation of the hospital has been taken-up on an outlay of Rs. 28.90 crore. The project, being funded by Japan International Cooperation Agency, will have 5,329.54 square metres with two floors. While the ground floor will house the emergency and trauma care section and the out-patient section on 1,868.48 square metres, the first floor will have integrated maternal and paediatric wards and general medicine (women) ward on 1,756 square metres. The second floor will have operation theatres, recovery room and general medicine (men) sections with 1,559.43 square metres while the terrace will have the headroom and mechanical rooms in 145.15 square metres. Reviewing the ongoing construction work on Thursday, Collector V. Vishnu asked the Public Works Department officials to complete the project on an early note to serve the public in the best possible way, particularly during the pandemic.   Expansion work  The ground floor will house emergency and trauma care section  The first floor will have integrated maternal and paediatric wards  The second floor will have OTS section and general medicine (men)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/renovation-work-at-kandigaiperi-hospital-gains-momentum/article34786012.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘1 VHN for every 100 houses’||Following the door-to-door check to identify the COVID-19 patients at the early stage that has given excellent results in bringing down the number of fresh cases in the district, the district administration has deployed a Village Health Nurse for every 100 houses to visit the residents every day and check their health parameters in a bid to further fine-tune the early detection. According to Collector V. Vishnu, the recently introduced screening of residents at their doorsteps by the health workers for COVID-19 ensured the early detection of the persons who had contracted the viral infection and remain asymptomatic. Since the visiting health workers lifted samples from the COVID-19 suspects, who were still unaware of their infection, they were sent to the triaging centre for further investigations and appropriate treatment, which drastically curtailed the number of fresh cases and the early intervention averted deaths. Based on the experience shared by the health workers, the district administration has taken this operation to the next level by deploying Village Health Nurses across the district. Mr. Vishnu has also deployed personnel across the district to monitor the movement of the people in home quarantine in violation of the COVID-19 protocol. In this task, all Village Administrative Officers and the health workers have been involved. They have been instructed to keep tab on the patients and the recovered persons in home quarantine for the mandatory period of 14 days. Any information on violation of COVID-19 norms by the persons in home quarantine should be passed on to the COVID Control Room in the Collectorate, where the nature of violation would be recorded. Immediately, the personnel manning the control room would contact the violator over the phone to warn him or her of the consequences he or she would face for this||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1-vhn-for-every-100-houses/article34786016.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Palayamkottai prison official put on ‘compulsory wait’||Superintendent of Palayamkottai Central Prison Krishnakumar has been transferred and put on compulsory wait even as stalemate continues over handing over the body of remand prisoner P. Muthu Mano, 27, of Vagaikulam in the district, who was beaten to death on the jail premises by a few inmates on April 22, to his family members. Superintendent of Tiruchi Central Prison Shankar will succeed Mr. Krishnakumar. Muthu Mano and his associates were arrested by Kalakkad police after they allegedly attempted to murder two brothers from Panagudi and lodged in Palayamkottai Central Prison, where he was beaten to death. Subsequently, Perumalpuram police arrested the seven prison inmates. While the police commenced their probe, the government placed under suspension prison officials Shanmugasundaram, Sivan, Gangaraj, Sankarasubbu, Anantharaj, Vadivel Murugaiah and Sam Albert. Meanwhile, the government transferred the probe to the CB-CID. Relatives of Muthu Mano refused to accept his body even after the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed them to receive it. Against this backdrop, Mr. Krishnakumar had been transferred and put on ‘compulsory wait’ and jailor Parasuraman had been transferred to Madurai Central Prison, sources in the jail said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palayamkottai-prison-official-put-on-compulsory-wait/article34786013.ece
11 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cases declining in rural Tiruppur: Minister||COVID-19 cases in the 13 panchayat unions of Tiruppur district are on the decline owing to the preventive measures taken by the State government, said Minister for Rural Development K.R. Periakaruppan on Thursday. According to a press release, the Minister said after a meeting to review preventive measures in the district that the daily caseload in the rural parts had come down from 629 new cases on May 27 to 268 on Wednesday. Out of the 13,412 persons who were infected in the rural areas, 10,740 had recovered, he said. A total of 345 fever camps were held between June 1 and June 8 across all panchayat unions, which helped in the detection of 2,642 new cases. Assistance centres for COVID-19 patients were set up at each of the 13 panchayat unions and at the 37 primary health centres in the rural areas. As many as 265 teams were formed for door-to-door survey in the rural areas, according to the release. Mr. Periakaruppan told mediapersons that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had urged the Central government to increase the allocation of COVID-19 vaccine doses for the State and that the State government has also been undertaking efforts in procuring vaccines from overseas. The Minister visited Kanakkampalayam village to inspect containment zones, fever camps and COVID-19 care centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-declining-in-rural-tiruppur-minister/article34785907.ece
11 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized from truck in Dharapuram||The Tiruppur District Police launched an investigation into the seizure of Rs. 40 lakh from a truck at Dharapuram on Thursday. According to police sources, a team of police personnel from Dharapuram police station, who were on night patrol, found a truck loaded with cement bags parked on Pollachi Road at around 2 a.m. The personnel approached the vehicle and questioned driver Raghavan (54) and searched the vehicle, during which they found the cash. The driver claimed that he was taking the cash from Karur district to Kozhikode in Kerala for his relative’s wedding. Following the seizure, the Dharapuram police informed the Income Tax Department on Thursday morning and contacted the driver’s relatives in Kozhikode to report to the police station for verification, according to the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cash-seized-from-truck-in-dharapuram/article34785430.ece
11 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Predominance of young elephants a reason for problematic interactions with humans in Gudalur’||A peculiar combination of factors in the Gudalur landscape, including a predominance of young male elephants could be the one of the variables driving a high number of problematic interactions between humans and elephants in the region. After identifying and observing individual elephants over 3 years, researchers and Forest Department officials working in the landscape have found that a majority of problematic human-elephant interactions in Gudalur involve a small fraction of young male elephants between 15-30 years of age. They believe that the large number of young males, with fewer older males and female-led herds, along other behavioral factors could be behind the relatively high level of aggression towards people as well as other elephants. The contention is that these elephants, if managed through this phase of their lives, could become more docile and manageable as they grow older. The implications for this could mean more consideration of factors such as age when dealing with “problem” elephants, especially when it comes to making a decision about capturing them and turning them into camp elephants. Tarsh Thekaekara, co-founder of the Shola Trust, who has studied elephant behavior in Gudalur division, and who is assisting the Forest Department in managing human-elephant interactions in the region, said that in 2016, there were a total of 107 elephants recorded in Gudalur. Of these elephants, the population did not show a ‘normal distribution’ across multiple age groups, but was skewed towards higher numbers of young adult elephants (between 15 and 30 years) and calves, with fewer juveniles and older elephants. In the landscape, older adult males were practically non-existent, with very few individuals remaining, forest officials added. Ageing wild elephants were complex and subjective, and they only used age classes rather than exact numbers. “Most parts of India experienced rampant hunting or poaching of male elephants for ivory up to the 1980s, resulting in highly skewed male to female ratios of up to one male for every ten females or even one male for twenty female elephants. Being long lived animals, these ratios take a long time to change, and are only now balancing out.” District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Kommu Omkaram, said the young male elephants from adjoining Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, once they reach sexual maturity, are driven out of the herd, and may be moving into Gudalur. “In Gudalur, unusually, there seem to be a higher number of males than females (1: 0.7), particularly young males, in the age group of 15-30,” he added. “One of the reasons for more aggression from the young males could be due to this. Since there is no clear dominance hierarchy, it could lead to more fights between elephants and more problematic interactions with people,” he added. “In summary, the Gudalur elephant population consists of largely adults and calves, and a high number of young males. Managing or living with these young males in the Gudalur landscape is going to be a key challenge. Varma et al. (2010) have shown that in captive elephants, the majority of attacks on mahouts occur with male elephants around 30 years old, indicating that older males are perhaps less aggressive. This could mean a more peaceful coexistence in a few decades, but what will happen in the interim is less clear,” said Dr. Thekaekara in his thesis, ‘Living with Elephants, Living with People: Understanding the complexities of human-elephant interactions in the Nilgiris, South India.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/predominance-of-young-elephants-a-reason-for-problematic-interactions-with-humans-in-gudalur/article34785428.ece
11 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Three policemen booked for stealing during raid||A case under two sections of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against three policemen, including a sub-inspector, for reportedly stealing cash and gold ornaments during a prohibition raid conducted in a village atop a hill at Nachimedu, near Ariyur in Vellore district, on Wednesday morning. According to the police, they received information that illicit arrack was brewed in the village. A raid was conducted by a team, which included sub-inspector Anbalagan and police constables Ilayaraja and Yuvraj, from the Ariyur police station. The police team broke into a locked house and destroyed the arrack and fermented wash. After the raids, the villagers said, cash and jewellery were missing from the house. They blamed the policemen for stealing them and prevented them from leaving the village. Inspector A. Suba conducted an inquiry and valuables worth Rs. 8 lakh and 11 sovereigns of gold ornaments were returned to the owners. A case has been registered against the policemen under Section 454 (lurking house-trespass or housebreaking in order to commit offence) and Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the IPC. The police are searching for the prohibition offenders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-policemen-booked-for-stealing-during-raid/article34785602.ece
11 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Match units inspected||Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore, and Sivakasi MLA, G. Ashokan, on Thursday inspected a match unit for compliance of lockdown norms. Mr. Tagore said that since matches were an essential product, the State Government had allowed the industry to function even during the lockdown with 50% workforce. “We came here to see how the workers are functioning by following the standard operating procedures,” Mr. Tagore said. He added that the match unit wanted the Government to organise special camps for vaccination of workers. “Our MLA will raise this issue in the forthcoming Assembly session,” he said. He appealed to the Centre to provide adequate supply of vaccines to Tamil Nadu as it has run out of stock in the last few days. Similar demand for allowing fireworks units also to function has come up, he added. “We appeal to the Chief Minister to allow fireworks units to function as Deepavali was just few months away,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/match-units-inspected/article34786002.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The digital age in a rural setting — the Rane model||The countryside around Tiruchi is known for the Cauvery, green fields, bare rocks and lots of sunshine. In the midst of all this, just imagine centres of learning that, in design and curriculum, are of the highest standard. Welcome to the Rane Polytechnic in Sethurapatti village and the Rane Vidyalaya, a CBSE school in Manachanallur village, in Tiruchi district. Both are ergonomically laid-out campuses, with rooms filled with natural light and a powerful breeze that keeps the ceiling fans moving. The teaching is truly international in its delivery. Since 2020, for instance, when the pandemic struck, both institutions have moved to online teaching with Google Classrooms as the platform, supplemented by augmented reality sessions on dedicated YouTube channels. One of the teachers recently bagged the Excellence Award in the ‘Share Your Best’ Lesson Plan competition conducted at the national level by IISER, Pune. Rane’s involvement with education began early, in the 1930s, when founder Ganapathy Iyer interested himself in a girls’ school at Gopalapuram, Madras. In time, his residence in the locality would be donated to the school and the institution would take his name. Ganapathy Iyer’s son-in-law LL. Narayan, who spearheaded the Group’s manufacturing focus, carried forward the tradition, establishing a chair in the founder’s name at the Madras Institute of Technology and later helping Meenakshi College in a big way. By 1967, the Ganapathy Iyer Trust had been established, with its mission being ‘Working persistently in alleviating the harsh challenges of lack of education, poverty, disease and suffering and apathy towards the environment’. In keeping with that credo, it became part of the Rane tradition to support government schools near all its plants. The DAV Schools were among the beneficiaries. The Trust was renamed as the Rane Foundation in 2008. It was sometime that year that the Group decided that its interest in supporting education ought to go beyond signing cheques. It studied requirements and identified diploma courses in rural areas as a crucial need. Rane had several industrial installations in and around the Tiruchi area, and it was a natural choice for its polytechnic. Established in 2011, it was funded entirely by the Group. On the vast campus spanning seven acres could be seen happy students as they try their hand, for instance, at robotics, a BMW engine and a Hyundai car transmission. Over 1,200 students have graduated from the institution in the past 10 years, and over 70% of them have found placements at several top-ranking organisations in India, with the rest absorbed by the Rane companies. Key competencies The institution is focused on inculcating key competencies. They comprise skill, knowledge and attitude. While the first two are taken care of by the excellent teaching standards and the facilities available for hands-on training, the last aspect is perhaps the biggest benefit that is passed on. In a classic instance of industry participation in education, Rane executives conduct classes for courses such as time management, value education and professionalism. Courses in communication, behaviour and entrepreneurship are also conducted. All of these ensure that those graduating emerge as worthy citizens who can add value to society and their organisations from day one. This eliminates a considerable investment in retraining candidates after recruitment. Out of the 480-odd polytechnics in Tamil Nadu, the Rane Polytechnic is one of just four to have obtained accreditation from the NBA. An impact assessment conducted in 2018 revealed that it had raised the standards of living all around the place. From a time when the Foundation had to canvass for admissions, it is now in demand. Testimonials from alumni, now holding key positions at various organisations, attest to the way the institution is run. In response to an identified need for a high-quality school in the Tiruchi neighbourhood, the Rane Foundation, in 2018, set up Rane Vidyalaya. The school’s board affiliation and course curriculum were designed to fulfil the desires of the parents of children in the area. It caters to villages within a 10 km radius and strives to uplift the entire region by providing school education. As was the case with the polytechnic, the deepest of thought went into the campus design. The focus is on a happy and healthy educational environment with full care for student safety. Both institutions have dedicated faculty who are recruited, evaluated and cared for as they would be in the best of business organisations. It is education of the highest quality for students at the lowest cost for their families. It is truly an instance of the digital age being ushered into a rural setting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-digital-age-in-a-rural-setting-the-rane-model/article34785905.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 2,236 new cases, 20 deaths||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 2,236 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 21,184 active cases of the disease. The Health Department said that 5,057 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. A total of 20 more persons from the district died of COVID-19, taking the official death toll to 1,658. Tiruppur district witnessed a further decline in cases as the daily caseload dipped below the 900-mark with the reporting of 897 new cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 72,037. The Health Department reported 12 new deaths, which took the death toll to 612. The active cases dipped below the 18,000-mark as there were 17,485 active cases in the district as of Thursday. As many as 1,770 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Thursday. Erode district reported 1,390 new cases, taking the tally to 72,262. While 1,990 persons were discharged, 13,102 continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the death toll to 475. As many as 945 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to health officials, 885 cases were indigenous and 310 cases were reported in corporation limits. 60 patients have returned from other districts like Chennai, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Kalakuruchi, Erode and Thiruvallur. As per bulletin, 23 deaths were reported in Salem, including two women patients. In Namakkal, 453 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. A 75-year-old man died at a government hospital in Namakkal. In the Nilgiris, 442 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 24,301. The number of deaths in the district increased from 125 to 128 while 3,969 persons are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 298 fresh cases, and 678 cases discharged with 10 deaths registered. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 2560 cases as of Thursday. A total of 36,342 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 292 fresh cases, and 326 cases discharged with two deaths registered. The total number of cases in the district was 2650. As of date, a total 21,712 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-2236-new-cases-20-deaths/article34785910.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Contributions for COVID-19 management||ACC Limited has provided materials worth Rs. 24.6 lakh as part of its CSR activity to the district administration for COVID-19 management. These were given to Madukkarai GH, Arisipalayam Primary Health Centre, and Coimbatore district administration. The materials given include oximeters, face shields, PPE kits and disposable bed sheets. It has already given materials worth Rs. 8 lakh to the Arisipalayam PHC. Apart from these, dry ration kits worth Rs. 2.76 lakhs are given to those in home isolation and the needy, according to a press release. Kirtilals hands over oxygen concentrators Diamond and jewellery brand Kirtilals handed over 20 oxygen concentrators and health care kits to the Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday. According to a press release, the company has distributed an immunity boosting kit along with preventive medicines to more than 10,000 families in different villages. The company has also contributed medical requirements to Primary Health Care Centres across south India. The company donated 3,000-plus packets of healthy millet foods at different locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-for-covid-19-management/article34785919.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for award||Applications are invited for “Chief Minister’s State Youth Award” to recognise work done by women and men for social development. The award entails recognition of three women and three men for work done towards social development. The awardees will be felicitated on August 15. The award entails a cash award of Rs. 50,000. Applicants shall be between 15 and 35 years of age. As of April 1, 2021, the applicant shall have completed 15 years and as of March 31, 2021, he/she shall not have exceeded 35 years. The applicant’s claim to work rendered towards social development shall have be identifiable, and measurable. Those employed in State and Central government services, public sector undertakings, schools and colleges are not eligible to apply. The applicant’s popularity locally will also be a factor that shall be taken into consideration at the time of deciding the award. A release said interested persons may apply throughwww.sdat.tn.gov.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/applications-invited-for-award/article34785423.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand disposal of biomedical waste||Members of Maramangalathupatti panchayat submitted a petition to Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji here on Thursday demanding proper measures for disposal of biomedical waste. R. Kaviarasi Jagan, president of Maramangalathupatti panchayat, demanded authorities to take steps for disposal of medical waste collected from COVID-19 care centre on Salem Steel Plant premises.  Discarded along roadsides In their petition, Ms. Jagan charged that the biomedical waste from the COVID-19 care centre is being improperly discarded along roadsides of the panchayat. The panchayat president complained that the villagers fear spread of COVID-19 disease due to improper handling of waste. The petitioners demanded immediate action in this regard. Authorised agencies The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board advised hospitals here not to stock medical waste for 48 hours and it has to be discarded through authorised agencies. The board warned of stern action against violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-disposal-of-biomedical-waste/article34785917.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,100 liquor bottles seized, 10 held||The Railway Police have arrested nine persons, including a woman, over the last 10 days and seized 1,100 liquor bottles illegally brought in a Mysuru bound train for Thoothukudi. Following the lockdown in Tamil Nadu due to COVID-19 pandemic, the government had closed down TASMAC outlets as a preventive measure. While trains, which were being operated were not getting adequate passengers due to the lockdown. Utilising the opportunity, some of the bootleggers began smuggling liquor bottles from Karnataka and bringing them in a clandestine manner. The bottles, which were procured for Rs. 300 and Rs. 500, were being sold at Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 1,500 each, a police officer here said. On May 31, two passengers, including a woman, from Thoothukudi were arrested after they confessed to having procured over 100 bottles. The following day, the police team raided the coach and found that two persons from Madurai had 83 bottles. Two days ago, three persons from Kovilpatti and Madurai were held as they had about 300 bottles with them. All the accused were held and liquor bottles seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1100-liquor-bottles-seized-10-held/article34786004.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||Coimbatore   DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence: Student Development Programme – ‘Art of Selling’, 10.30 a.m.  Coimbatore Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Fostering Mental Health and Wellness of Students during the Pandemic’, 11 a.m.  Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Student Development Programme on Human Rights, 10.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34785920.ece
11 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tenders called for assessing mineral wealth in State||The State government has called for global tenders for divining of mineral deposits in the entire State, Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani said in Belagavi on Thursday. “As of now, our knowledge of mineral wealth of the State is limited. Except for some areas with active mining, we don’t know the exact details of which minerals are available in which part,” he said in a meeting of officers. “Divining for minerals across the State is a huge exercise. It will help us in preparing a comprehensive and exact map of the mineral wealth of the State,” Mr. Nirani said. “We are now relying on mining maps that are over 50 years old. We need to update our tools. Divining of minerals today will involve the use of hi-tech gadgets and cutting edge technology. Once the tender is awarded, we will know the exact details of mineral deposits. That will help strengthen the mining industry, create jobs and increase our revenue,” he said. The Minister said that the State government is seriously considering setting up a sand corporation to ensure scientific sand mining, fair distribution and hassle-free supply to builders and house owners. As of now there is some confusion about sand availability, transport and sale. All that will end with the setting up of a public corporation. “We are yet to take a final decision,” he said. The State government also plans to set up a school of mining that will train youth in mining and related activities. That will supply trained manpower to the industry, he said. Mining officials will use drones to spot crushers working without permits. All Mining Department staff will wear uniform and use electronic gadgets to communicate, detect irregularities and file reports, the Minister said. The department will use rehabilitation and other funds to procure ambulances and other COVID-19 management material. Belagavi will get 10 ambulances equipped with oxygen cylinders, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tenders-called-for-assessing-mineral-wealth-in-state/article34785401.ece
11 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘There is no change in leadership’||“The BJP high command has no plans of replacing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa,” Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani said in Belagavi on Thursday. Mr. Yediyurappa is a senior leader. He has spent over 50 years in building the party from the grassroots. He is responsible for the BJP coming to power in South India. His contribution to the party is significant. He will not be replaced. “He will not only complete his term but also will lead us in the next elections,” he told journalists. Asked if he was in the race for the Chief Minister’s post, he said that he had never made such claims, but was willing to consider it if offered. “I have not said I am in the race. Only the media is saying it. Some of my friends and well-wishers may have said it. The BJP is a disciplined party with senior leaders at the top. They will consider all factors before appointing anyone the Chief Minister,’’ he said. “If the high command were to give me any such responsibility, then let us see,’’ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/there-is-no-change-in-leadership/article34785398.ece
11 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Cheque handed over to dead scribe’s wife||Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol handed over in Belagavi on Thursday a cheque for Rs. 1 lakh to Sangeeta Nadiger, wife of journalist Sanjiv Kumar Nadiger who died of COVID-19-related complications here recently. The Minister said that this was his personal contribution and promised to get additional assistance from the State government to the bereaved family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cheque-handed-over-to-dead-scribes-wife/article34785397.ece
11 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders in Belagavi||Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has clamped prohibitory orders in Belagavi to ensure complete lockdown on Saturday and Sunday. The four-hour relaxation period in the morning will not be available on these two days. Buying essential commodities and attending to medical emergencies will be permitted. Belagavi has seen three-day lockdowns in the weekends in the last three weeks. Meanwhile, COVID-19 cases continued to see a decrease in the district. On Thursday, there were 341 fresh cases and 1,097 patients were discharged. There were eight deaths, taking the toll to 663. The total number of active cases has reached 8,100. The case positivity rate has declined to 11.31% in the last 10 days and to 8.9% in the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-in-belagavi/article34785399.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Several districts see significant decline in COVID-19 cases during lockdown||Many districts in Karnataka are seeing a dip in COVID-19 cases over the last four weeks. The decline is more significant in the last two weeks and the week-on-week change is above 80% in five districts. Dakshina Kannada has seen the highest decline with a 89.6% week-on-week change followed by Mandya where the change is 83.6%. Kodagu and Vijayapura have a week-on-week change of 83% followed by Shivamogga with 82.2%, according to data from the State COVID-19 war room. However, several urban areas in the districts are still seeing a rise in cases over the last one month. The top worst hit towns include Humnabad in Bidar district, Boragaon in Belagavi district, Heggada Devana Kote in Mysuru, Chadchan in Vijayapura and Mogalkhod in Belagavi district, data has revealed. “Although active cases are coming down with more discharges and dip in new cases, some districts still have a long way to go before they can be unlocked completely,” sources said. C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, attributed the declining trend to the lockdown. “This is a good sign but it should not make us complacent,” he said. He asserted that it is very important to sustain this decline and prevent another spread. “We have to be extra cautious and ensure there is no reverse transmission from the districts to urban areas after the lockdown is lifted. The surge in districts was because people carried the virus from urban areas when they went to their hometowns before the lockdown,” he said. Pointing out that restrictions on social, political and religious gatherings should mandatorily continue till December, Dr. Manjunath said: “If this is not done, we may invite the possible third wave much earlier than what is being predicted.” V. Ravi, member of the State’s Technical Advisory Committee also said the decline in cases indicates that the lockdown has worked. District committees The TAC has recommended that every district should have COVID-19 district technical expert committees to provide technical guidance to the district administration. This is based on the State’s experience in the first and second wave, the recommendation report stated. Elaborating on this, Dr. Ravi said the entire State can’t be locked down we cannot lockdown the entire State during each wave. “We worked as a State in the first and second wave. Now, we have realised that each district is a different entity and each district should be considered a State,” said the doctor, who is also the nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka. “This is mainly because COVID-19 spread was largely urban centric till the middle of the second wave. But, it is moving rural now. It is more important to have data collection, analysis and interventions planned at the district level,” he explained.  This is a good sign but it should not make us complacent C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer, COVID-19 task force||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-districts-see-significant-decline-in-covid-19-cases-during-lockdown/article34785382.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaint to ED about BSY, family fuels rumour mills||Political circles in the State are abuzz with speculations related to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, his son B.Y. Vijayendra and severalfamily members being under the Enforcement Directorate (ED) scanner. The unceasing talk on leadership change on corruption allegations is being linked to this by the faction seeking his replacement. However, multiple sources in the ED confirmed to The Hindu that the agency is not probing the Chief Minister or his family members, presently. Though a complaint was lodged with the ED, Delhi, by activist T.J. Abraham in November 2020, there has been no FIR in the case by any primary agency, a prerequisite for the ED to join the probe.  “I filed a complaint with the ED and the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Karnataka, in November, 2020. But both the agencies have failed to initiate a probe, forcing me to file a private complaint seeking directions to register an FIR in the Special Court for People’s Representatives. The petition is yet to be heard,” said Mr. Abraham. A senior officer in the ED told The Hindu that only if there is an FIR by a primary agency, that includes scheduled offences under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, can the ED initiate a probe into the case. “In the absence of an FIR, the ED cannot legally initiate an inquiry,” he said. However, rumours fuelled by the Chief Minister’s detractors have gone so far as to claim that Mr. Vijayendra has already been questioned by the ED and the agency also recently conducted raids on the premises belonging to the Chief Minister’s family. Reports of an ED probe began with dissenter Basanagouda Patil Yatnal claiming that Mr. Vijayendra’s recent visit to Delhi was in connection with an ED probe. These reports, however, have now proven to be false. Though the Chief Minister has cases of corruption pending against him, revived recently in a string of legal setbacks, none of them pertain to his present tenure. The complaint filed by Mr. Abraham, however, is linked to this tenure. It alleges that Chief Minister’s family, including his son Mr. Vijayendra and grandson Shashidhar Mardi, received bribes of Rs. 12.5 crore from a contractor, Chandrakanth Ramalingam, and laundered Rs. 5.01 crore, alleged “proceeds of crime”, through a network of shell companies. “A setback in this case will be tough to defend and will weaken his standing as against his detractors,” said a senior party strategist. However, he added that the case was in a preliminary stage at the moment.  (With inputs from Devesh Pandey in Delhi)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complaint-to-ed-about-bsy-family-fuels-rumour-mills/article34785531.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||105 water-level sensors to be fitted in drains||Soon, there will be a system in place that will issue a warning when the water level in storm water drains in the city reaches the danger mark. A total of 105 water level sensors will be fitted along the 804-km stormwater drain network in the city to issue flood warning. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has floated a tender for the Rs. 2 crore project, which includes installation of these water level sensors, backend hardware and software, employing the necessary manpower among other things. The sensors will be solar powered and will transmit real time data on the water level in the SWDs. Already, 28 sensors have been installed on a pilot basis. The last date for applying for the tender is June 29. The technical bid will be opened on June 30. The tender is likely to be finalised next month, said officials. The BBMP and KSNDMC have identified 209 flood prone areas in the city. Of these, 58 have been classified as hyper-sensitive/ highly vulnerable and 151 as sensitive or vulnerable. According to a senior official at KSNDMC, the locations for the sensors were identified following a joint survey with BBMP. Many of the locations are near the flood prone areas. The data, which is transmitted in real time will be colour coded: green or blue to indicate normal water level, red to indicate danger level and black to indicate flooding. When the water level reaches a threshold, the sensors will transmit messages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/105-water-level-sensors-to-be-fitted-in-drains/article34785378.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Black fungus claimed 157 lives’||Mucormycosis or black fungus has claimed 157 lives among the 2,282 persons infected as on June 9, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday. While 1,947 infected persons are undergoing treatment, 102 have been cured and 76 were reported to have left hospitals against medical advice, as per data submitted to a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, which is hearing PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19. As per the data, 787 persons were affected in Bengaluru Urban district of which 692 are under treatment, 55 have succumbed, 31 have recovered and nine have left the hospital against medical advice. Dhaward, Belagavi and Kalaburagi have so far reported 202, 138 and 137 cases, respectively. Meanwhile, the bench directed the State government to immediately provide latest guideline to treat this infection to all hospitals besides placing timely requisition to the Central government for supply of Amphotericin B injection required for treatment. A patient has to be administered 30 doses of injection in a span of six to eight weeks. The State government has also been directed to include in its guidelines the Dos and Don’ts issued by the ICMR for screening, diagnosis and management of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/black-fungus-claimed-157-lives/article34785380.ece
11 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Arun Singh to arrive next week on troubleshooting mission||The Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary in charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, is arriving in Bengaluru next week on a troubleshooting exercise in the wake of dissidence in the party State unit. Mr. Singh has set the tempo for his visit by reiterating that there is no proposal before the party high command on replacing B.S. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. “Mr. Yediyurappa will continue to be the Chief Minister,” he told mediapersons in New Delhi on Thursday. He added that Mr. Yediyurappa and Ministers had done “good work” during COVID-19 pandemic. Seeking to downplay Mr. Yediyurappa’s statement that he would step down when the high command says it does not need him, he said, “That is the confidence Mr. Yediyurappa has in the high command.” Sources close to Mr. Singh said he would hold one-to-one meetings with several leaders, including Minister C.P. Yogeshwar who has raised a banner of revolt against Mr. Yediyurappa. Mr. Singh is expected to stay in Bengaluru for three days. Demand of old guards Some party old guards represented by government chief whip V. Sunil Kumar have demanded that the party high command provide a forum for them to express their views. When Mr. Singh was asked whether he would convene a legislature party meeting, he said he would take a call on the issue after assessing the situation during his visit. On the exchange of remarks by Mr. Yogeshwar and the Chief Minister’s camp, he said no one should issue such statements in public. It is learnt that the Chief Minister’s camp is keen that the high command end speculations on leadership change if it has taken the decision to continue him in the post. His camp feels that it is difficult for the Chief Minister to work as speculations are creating political instability.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/arun-singh-to-arrive-next-week-on-troubleshooting-mission/article34785534.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobile app launched for direct benefit transfer||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday launched a mobile application for transferring money under various welfare schemes through the Aadhaar-based direct benefit transfer (DBT) to beneficiaries. The DBT system uses the Aadhaar number of the beneficiary as financial address instead of the bank account number, which was the practice earlier. The new system would help crackdown on corruption and middlemen in the system, the Chief Minister said. Relief announced by the government for people impacted by COVID-19 pandemic are being credited using Aadhaar-based DBT. The government has announced two packages (Rs. 1,111.82 crore and Rs. 500 crore) for people in the unorganised sector. It developed the DBT mobile app for beneficiaries to track their payment status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-app-launched-for-direct-benefit-transfer/article34785537.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘10.91 lakh slum dwellers vaccinated’||The Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Thursday told the High Court of Karnataka that 10,91,691 of the 30,68,090 persons living in 1,311 slums spread across the city have been vaccinated so far. The BBMP said slum dwellers were vaccinated during special drives conducted through 138 urban public health centres and dispensaries. Similarly, 1.77 lakh frontline workers and persons belonging to priority groups have been vaccinated so far by conducting special drives, the BBMP told the court. Meanwhile, a special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar said that COVID-19 Care Centres that were established due to a surge in COVID-19 cases should not be dismantled till the expert group set up by the State government to prepare for a possible third wave of the pandemic submits its recommendations. Closure of CCCs The bench issued the direction after it was pointed out that BBMP is closing some of the triage centres and CCCs in view of a decline in number of admisssions. However, BBMP counsel V. Sreenidhi clarified to the bench that functioning of CCCs is being suspended owing to lack of patients while assuring that the civic body is aware of the need to revive these centres keeping in mind a possible third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1091-lakh-slum-dwellers-vaccinated/article34785379.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. vaccination plan: Yediyurappa asks party to donate money instead||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has shot down Congress proposal to utilise over Rs. 90 crore from the legislators’ local area development (LAD) fund for the purchase of vaccines. Instead, if the Congress or its legislators wish to donate to the government’s vaccine programme, they could donateto the specified fund or to the organisations that are involved in public vaccination, he said. “It is not appropriate to add up a fund meant for specific government project with that of a party’s fund to provide vaccines to the public. It is also not necessary at the moment,” said an internal noting signed by the Chief Minister. Further, the Chief Minister said,“It was also not right to utilise the government’s fund and portray it as party’s fund to create confusion among the people.” Congress had proposed to utilise the Karnataka Legislators’ Local Area Development (KLLAD) Fund and funds meant for the Members of Parliament that would add up to Rs. 90 crore and add Rs. 10 crore fromthe party to purchase vaccines worth Rs. 100 crore to be given to the public. While each legislator gets Rs. 2 crore annually, the MPs get Rs. 5 crore annually. The Chief Minister, in his letter to the Planning Department, has said that the government had devised vaccination programme and had already decided to fund the entire programme from its resources. “There is no shortage of resources for vaccination or public health in the State,” he added. Minister for Planning and Statistics K.C. Narayana Gowda has informed the Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah about the State government’s decision. In a letter to him on Wednesday, the Minister said the government had already allowed utilisation of 25% of the KLLAD grants towards COVID-19 management, and the rest to be utilised as per the guidelines. He said the Centre hadannounced vaccination programme for those in the 18–44 age group, and there was no dearth of funds for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-vaccination-plan-yediyurappa-asks-party-to-donate-money-instead/article34785535.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to retain 20% of general beds in hospitals||With the second wave of COVID-19 appearing to be on the wane, the civic body has decided to retain 20% of the beds and release the rest in the general category back to private medical colleges and hospitals. Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said the decision was taken following a meeting with Minister for Revenue R. Ashok. “There are more than 13,000 beds [under the government quota] in hospitals. We have decided to retain around 20% of the general beds, and return the rest. A decision on retaining other categories of beds such as High Dependency Unit (HDU), Intensive Care Unit (ICU), ICU-Ventilator (ICU-V), will be taken after another round of discussions,” he said. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), which is waiting for an official order from the health department, welcomed the move. Prasanna H.M., president of the association, said it was only right that the beds that were not being used be returned to private medical establishments so that other patients can be treated. “We had orally communicated this to the government. We have been given to understand that general and oxygenated beds would be returned,” he said. Private medical establishments had handed over around 8,000 beds, of which 2,000 were HDU, ICU and ICU-V beds. “The remaining 6,000 are general and oxygenated beds,” Mr. Prasanna added.  Queue system Minister for Forests, Kannada and Culture Aravind Limbavali launched the queue system on the COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS). Under this system, triage notes of all patients seeking hospital admission will be recorded and hospital/ CCC bed type will be recommended based on clinical conditions. A patient will be automatically allotted a token number during triaging, which will be specific for a particular bed type and zone. This number can be tracked in real time on the public dashboard by patients using either Specimen Referral Form (SRF) ID or Bengaluru Urban (BU) number. An emergency quota had been created just for special cases, such as COVID-19 patients who are pregnant, children and senior citizens. The Minister thanked Infosys co-founder and chairman Nandan Nilekani, who helped in producing the new software, as well as IT experts who volunteered their time to help streamline the bed booking system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-to-retain-20-of-general-beds-in-hospitals/article34785383.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC stays election to the post of Mysuru Mayor||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday stayed the election scheduled to be held on June 11 to the post of Mayor of Mysuru city as restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 are in place. Justice Sachin Shankar Magadum passed the order on a petition filed by Pradeep, a councillor of the Mysuru City Corporation. The court, however, said authorities can decide on holding the election after lifting of guidelines issued underthe Disaster Management Act. The councillor had contended that the election process would result in gathering of councillors and others in violation of the guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-stays-election-to-the-post-of-mysuru-mayor/article34785533.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Meeting with DCs: Former CM writes to Speaker||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has requested Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to issue directions to the State government to allow him to hold virtual meetings with Deputy Commissioners and other officials to seek information on management of COVID-19 in the State. He wrote to the Speaker following denial of permission to hold such meetings by the government.  ‘Breach of privilege’ Mr. Siddaramaiah said curtailing his rights to seek information from officers would lead to breach of privilege. He had permitted the Leader of the Opposition to visit the Deputy Commissioners’ offices to seek information on drought and other issues when he was the Chief Minister, the Congress leader said. “The Leader of the Opposition is a constitutional post. By denying permission to seek information, the government has breached the privileges,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-with-dcs-former-cm-writes-to-speaker/article34785529.ece
11 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIMB ranked top B-school||The Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore (IIMB) has been ranked the top B-school in India for the third time in a row, in Business & Management Studies, in the QS World University Rankings by Subject. Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), a UK-based company that specialises in the analysis of higher education institutions, evaluated more than 5,500 universities in the world to rank the top 1,000 universities in 51 disciplines. IIMB stated that the Business and Management Studies subject secured high ratings in all three categories, making it the best B-school in India. IIMB Director Professor Rishikesha T Krishnan said, “This is certainly a huge achievement. I want to extend my gratitude to everyone who made this possible. We have scored well in Academic Reputation and H-Index Citation parameters and this reflects our efforts in ensuring academic excellence in the subject and research capabilities in the domain.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iimb-ranked-top-b-school/article34785877.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four shops gutted||Four shops were gutted in a fire mishap at Banakal in Mudigere taluk on Wednesday night. Valuables worth over lakhs of rupees were reduced to ashes. The fire was initially spotted in one of the shops located in a complex that belongs to Mahesh Gowda, a resident of Banakal. Gradually, it spread to neighbouring shops. Local people informed the Fire and Emergency Services and the police. A fire tender from Mudigere reached the spot to put out the fire. As it was insufficient to extinguish the fire, another vehicle from Chikkamagalur was called in. District Fire Officer K.P. Shashidhar, who visited the spot, told The Hindu that the operation ended by 4.30 a.m. “Four shops, each measuring approximately 10 sq ft x 15 sq ft, are separated by zinc sheets. The actual reason for the fire is not known. Banakal Police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-shops-gutted/article34785405.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Let his death be the last’||“I have lost my father and my only request to the government is to let his death be the last one,” said Aditya Kaliyanda, son of K.S. Biddaiah who died in an elephant attack last week. Mr. Aditya, who was witness to the incident, said: “My father died just a couple of metres away from his house. No place is safe now. The Forest Department does nothing to save lives. How many more should die? Whenever someone dies, they come home with a cheque. Money is not important for me” . “I have filed a police complaint blaming the Forest Department for my father’s death. The police are hesitant to register the case against the department,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/let-his-death-be-the-last/article34785419.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Lockdown to be extended by a week||Minister for Excise K. Gopalaiah has said that lockdown will be extended for one more week in Hassan, considering the number of fresh cases of COVID-19 being reported every day. Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, on Thursday told media that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has suggested an extension of lockdown in the district. “The number of fresh cases has been coming down from the last week. It will come down further if lockdown is extended,” he said. The second phase of doctors visit to villages has been launched, he said. The Minister took part in a video conference conducted by the Chief Minister earlier in the day. Mr. Yediyurappa will be visiting Hassan on Friday to review the COVID-19 situation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-to-be-extended-by-a-week/article34785406.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Textile unit donates oxygen concentrators||Himatsingka Linens, a textile industry located in Hassan, donated 30 oxygen concentrators to the district administration to treat COVID-19 patients. The representatives of the firm handed over the oxygen concentrators to Deputy Commissioner R. Girish recently. Besides, the industry has donated 35,000 bedsheets and pillow covers and 50,000 face masks. In future, it has plans to conduct a free vaccination drive, said a release from the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/textile-unit-donates-oxygen-concentrators/article34785402.ece
11 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Eshwarappa visits Ganapati Temple||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa and his family members visited Ganapati Temple at Vinoba Nagar in Shivamogga on Thursday. The lockdown norms were in effect. The Minister undertook the visit on the occasion of his birthday, with his wife, children and grandchildren.  The Minister and his family offered prayers in the presence of two archaks. Meanwhile, several leaders of the BJP have extended birthday wishes to Mr. Eshwarappa on social media platforms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/eshwarappa-visits-ganapati-temple/article34785403.ece
11 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Online reading tribute to playwright Girish Karnad||As many as 55 participants, including some from abroad, paid a befitting tribute to playwright and Jnanpith award winner Girish Karnad on his death anniversary on Thursday, through a complete reading of the memoirs of the late author, Aadaadta Asyushya. In the online event that began at 6 a.m. on Thursday, participants from the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany apart from various theatre and literary personalities and enthusiasts took their turns to read out portions from the memoirs allotted to them by Abhinaya Bharati, the Dharwad-based theatre group which organised and coordinated the unique tribute. Abhinaya Bharati president Arvind Kulkarni kick-started the event by beginning the reading session at the scheduled time. And, others followed him one after the other as per the time allotted to them. The reading sessions which was streamed live on the Facebook page of Abhinaya Bharati went on smoothly. Each participant was allotted 20 minutes to read an average of six pages from Aadaadta Asyushya, which is divided into 11 chapters named after places where Mr. Karnad spent his life. Theatre personality and film director T.S. Nagabharana joined the live session that stretched to over 18 hours as the 46th participant and readout the portion allotted to him. Theatre personality Shripati Manjanbail was the 14th reader. Along with Mr. Arvind Kulkarni, Vinayak Naik and Prajna Mattihalli, Jyothi Dixit, Sumit Maitri, Vallish Shastri (from the U.S.), Jai Hanmanthgad (from the U.K.), Revati Shripati Manjanbail and Professor Basavaraj Donur coordinated the event, which saw enthusiastic participation from youngsters to senior citizens. The reading sessions concluded at around midnight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-reading-tribute-to-playwright-girish-karnad/article34785410.ece
11 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SUCI(C) says power tariff hike inhuman||Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) has strongly condemned the power tariff hike in the State, which is scheduled to be implemented retrospectively from April 1 itself, terming it inhuman. In a press release here on Thursday, Dharwad District Secretary of SUCI(C) Ramanjanappa Aldalli has said that the decision to hike power tariff by an average 30 paise per unit and increase deposit is nothing but another blow to the people who have already lost their source of income due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. “At a time when there are instances of abolition of payment of power and water bills to mitigate the sufferings of the people, the decision of the State government to implement the power tariff hike that too with retrospective effect is highly condemnable,” he said. KERC should have asked electricity supply companies to take stringent steps to check revenue pilferage, corruption, unnecessary expenditure and transmission and distribution losses. “The State, on the one hand, is giving a pittance as relief and on the other, it is imposing further burden on the people through a hike in power tariff and petrol prices,” he said. Mr. Aldalli said: “If such is the power tariff situation, though it is under government control, imagine what will happen if it is privatised. One of the demands of farmers agitating on the borders of New Delhi for the last six months is that privatisation of electricity should be dropped. The people of the State should support farmers in their agitation.” SUCI(C) will urge the State government to immediately take steps to stop the power tariff hike order from implementation. Otherwise, the people will be forced to take the path of agitation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sucic-says-power-tariff-hike-inhuman/article34785411.ece
11 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||North Karnataka publishers come up with book gifting options during lockdown||Kannada publishers, who are finding the going tough amid the pandemic like many other sectors, have started special schemes to encourage people to buy books and read. Two north Karnataka-based publishers, Manohara Grantha Mala and Ladai Prakashana, have come up two distinct schemes. Dharwad-based Manohara Grantha Mala, which has to its credit the publication of all the works of Jnanpith award winner late Girish Karnad, has begun a ‘Pustaka Udugore’ (book gift) scheme. “We launched this initiative with the objective of making students develop reading skills, especially during the lockdown which has disturbed the whole education system. We want parents to gift their children books or donate books to anyone,” says Sameer Joshi, manager of the oldest publishing house of Dharwad. In all, there are six packages comprising of six to nine books each and readers can choose from them depending on their interest. They comprise of works of different literary forms.  Gadag-based Ladai Prakashana is doing the same with a different approach. It has collection of books on B.R. Ambedkar and women’s literature and other social issues. “The collection on Babasaheb comprises of 22 books. We have sent out 150 sets already,” Basavaraj Sulebhavi, publisher of Ladai Prakashana. According to Mr. Sulebhavi, also an activist, a good sign is that of increased reading of Ambedkar, particularly among Dalit and progressive youths. Some of buyers of these books have added them to their personal libraries and lend them to youths interested in reading. Both the publishers have received good response for their initiative and they want to come up with more packages depending on the demand. Online requests M.A. Subramanya, proprietor of the oldest publishing house of Hubballi, Sahitya Prakashana, is busy during lockdown as online requests keep coming. He says publishers get an average of 30 online requests per day, indicative of the increased reading habit during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/north-karnataka-publishers-come-up-with-book-gifting-options-during-lockdown/article34785527.ece
11 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Meeting discusses possible flood situation in Ballari||Keeping in mind a good monsoon forecast by India Meteorological Department and possible flood situation along the banks of the Tungabhadra in his district, Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati held a meeting of District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday to discuss precautionary steps to be taken. “Monsoon is already advancing and we cannot rule out the possibility of facing a flood situation along the banks of the Tungabhadra as we had seen last year. The catchment areas of the Tunga and the Bhadra in the Western Ghats are likely to receive good rainfall and the discharge of excess water from the Tunga and the Bhadra dams may result in heavy inflow at the Tungabhadra reservoir. The release of water from the Tungabhadra reservoir may flood the areas along the course of the river in the district. Officials in the district should start making preparations to handle any flood situation,” Mr. Malapati said. As per information provided by officials in the meeting, 32 villages, including 16 in Huvina Hadagali taluk and 10 in Sirugupa taluk, will be affected if excess water is released from the Tungabhadra reservoir. “We may need to set up 32 relief centres in Ballari and Vijayanagar districts to shift people from areas that may be affected by floods. The administration should ensure that people likely to be affected by floods get proper food, accommodation and medication during their stay in these centres. There should be relief centres also for COVID-19 patients. The officers should depute nodal officers to each relief centre to manage them. We have reserved Rs. 10 lakh for each taluk for handling any flood situation. If required, an additional amount could be provided,” Mr. Malapati said. The officer also directed his subordinates to prepare a proper plan for shifting cattle and keeping them in a safe place. “There should be a plan for cattle also. The rescue teams should be ready with boats and other equipment to handle any emergency. Assistant Commissioners of the respective divisions should personally visit the areas and monitor the preparations,” he said. Superintendent of Police Saidulu Adavath, Ballari City Municipal Corporation Commissioner Preeti Gehlot, District Deputy Conservator of Forest Sidramappa Chalakapure, Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath, Probationary IAS Officer Anmol Jain, Assistant Commissioners Ramesh Konareddy, Siddarameshwar and Chandrashekharaiah and other officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/meeting-discusses-possible-flood-situation-in-ballari/article34785408.ece
11 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Second special vaccine camp for disabled, caretakers from today||Ending the classification based on age, under which many differently abled persons and their caretakers were left out in the first phase of a special vaccination drive, the Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority, in association with the district administration, is launching the second phase of special vaccination drive on Friday under which vaccination will be carried out for all disabled persons and their caretakers aged over 18. As many as 5,942 differently abled persons and their caretakers in the city and other areas of Mangaluru taluk will be vaccinated on Friday. A total of 1,456 persons in Mangaluru City Corporation areas will be vaccinated at St. Agnes Special School in Bendoor, Lions Special School in Surathkal and Zilla Panchayat Higher Primary School in Kavoor between 9.30 a.m. and 2.30 p.m. Similarly, 4,486 differently abled persons and their caretakers in 56 gram panchayats of Mangaluru taluk will be vaccinated at 21 vaccination centres. All the beneficiaries have been asked to bring their Aadhaar cards to the vaccination centres. Samarthanam Trust for Disabled will arrange for vehicles to bring bed-ridden differently abled persons to the vaccination sites. Dakshina Kannada District Officer for Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens Yamuna said that the taluk-wise list of differently abled persons and their caretakers have been given to the four taluk health officers who will be organising the camps shortly. In the first phase of the vaccination drive for differently abled persons and their caretakers that was launched on May 26, the district administration vaccinated 5,829 people. As free vaccine doses used for the first phase of the special drive were issued by the State government, only those aged between 18 and 44 were covered. Those aged 45 and above were sent away as there was no stock of vaccine that came from the Union government, which catered to the 45+ age category. Principal District and Sessions Judge and Chairman of Dakshina Kannada District Legal Services Authority Muralidhara Pai B. told The Hindu here on Thursday that after directions from the State Legal Services Authority recently, he held a virtual meeting with officials where issues concerning the first phase of the drive were discussed. “There will be no age classification in the second phase that commences on Friday. All disabled persons and their caretakers will be covered,” he said. Apart from those in the 45+ category, those in the 18-44 age category who failed to attend the earlier drive will receive their vaccine. Those having apprehensions of likely health effects after vaccination have been asked to consult doctors who are treating them. Medical officers will be available for consultation at the vaccination sites, Mr. Pai added. He said that vehicles fitted with loud speakers have been deployed in different parts of the district to make people aware of the second phase of the vaccination drive. On Thursday, Mr. Pai symbolically flagged off one such vehicle meant to be used in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/second-special-vaccine-camp-for-disabled-caretakers-from-today/article34785413.ece
11 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MAHE to waive fees||In a humanitarian gesture, the Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, will fully waive fees of such students who have lost their either father or mother who were the sole earning member of their family to COVID-19. The fee waived will be offered as scholarship to such students till they completed their studies. “The entire course fee will be offered as scholarship across all programmes for the remaining duration of the study. With this, MAHE hopes to ensure that such students do not face financial difficulties and are able to complete their studies in time,” Pro Chancellor of the institute H.S. Ballal said in a release on Wednesday. Vice-Chancellor of MAHE M.D. Venkatesh said: “With this, we hope to give some relief to our students.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mahe-to-waive-fees/article34785396.ece
11 June 2021||Mangarluru,KARNATAKA||Pakistani woman arrested, charged with entering India illegally||The Uttara Kannada police on Wednesday night arrested Khatija Meharan, 33, from Pakistan, on the charges of entering India illegally and staying with her husband at Nawayath Colony in Bhatkal illegally. Superintendent of Police, Uttara Kannada, Shivaprakash Devaraju told The Hindu that following her marriage to Mohideen Rukkudeen of Bhatkal, Khatija illegally entered India in 2014 and stayed with her husband. They have three children. She has also been accused of producing fake documents to get an Aadhaar card, a ration card, a PAN card, and a few other documents. Following a tip-off, the police traced her and examined her documents to conclude that she had entered India illegally. She has been arrested for violating the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946. She was produced before the jurisdictional magistrate, who remanded her in judicial custody, Mr. Devaraju added.  Superintendent of Police, Uttara Kannada, Shivaprakash Devaraju said that following her marriage to Mohideen Rukkudeen of Bhatkal, Khatija illegally entered India in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pakistani-woman-arrested-charged-with-entering-india-illegally/article34785417.ece
11 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tiger found dead in Maddur range of Bandipur||A tiger was found dead in the Maddur range of Bandipur National Park on Thursday. Park officials said the animal was around 11 years old. There were no external injuries on the carcass nor were any of the parts missing, the authorities clarified, thus ruling out poaching as the cause of death. An examination of the area where the tiger was found dead also did not yield any signs of snaring nor were there wounds caused by snare on the carcass, according to the officials. Hence they attributed its death to natural causes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tiger-found-dead-in-maddur-range-of-bandipur/article34785418.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lockdown extension in 11 districts; curbs eased in Bengaluru||All street vendors will be allowed to sell from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. from Monday. All industries and manufacturing units will be allowed to open with 50% staff while garment industries can function with 30% staff. Taxis and autorickshaws will be allowed to operate with only two passengers. Construction activities will be permitted and all shops related to construction work such as cement and steel will remain open. Morning walk For the benefit of morning walkers, all parks in Bengaluru and other 19 districts will be open from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m. No public transport will be allowed till June 21. However, inter-district and inter-State movement will be allowed. Positivity rate Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister held a videoconference with Deputy Commissioners of eight districts with high COVID-19 cases. On an average, Chikkamagaluru district reported 25.17% positivity rate in the first week of June, while Mysuru recorded 22%. The Chief Minister directed Deputy Commissioners to intensify the vaccination drive in their districts, especially in Belagavi, to contain the spread of the pandemic. ‘Intensity has reduced’ The intensity of pandemic has come down due to the stringent measures adopted by the government during lockdown, but positive cases are not decreasing in some districts, Mr. Yediyurappa said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-extension-in-11-districts-curbs-eased-in-bengaluru/article34785878.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Closed chapter||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/closed-chapter/article34785385.ece
11 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||TPR in 14 local bodies in Alappuzha remains above 15%||Although the COVID-19 situation is stabilising in large parts of Alappuzha district, the average test positivity rate (TPR) over seven days is above 15% in 14 local bodies. Pattanakkad has the highest TPR at 29.46%. Of the 577 samples tested between June 2 and 8, 170 returned positive for SARS-CoV-2. It is followed by Pulinkunnu (20.59%), Chennam Pallipuram (20.43), Krishnapuram (18.86), Mararikulam South (17.22), Cheriyanad (16.55), Mannar (16.51), Cherthala (16.50), Thanneermukkom (16.46), Thazhakara (16.46), Muthukulam (15.85), Kayamkulam (15.57), Alappuzha (15.41), and Punnapra North (15.22). In Alappuzha municipality, a total of 841 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the period when 5,456 samples were tested. Review meeting District Collector A. Alexander, who chaired a meeting, has directed the Health Department to increase the number of COVID-19 tests in places where the TPR is on the higher side. Mr. Alexander also asked authorities to shift COVID-19 positive patients from coastal areas and those lacking proper facilities to observe quarantine at their homes to domiciliary care centres. Grama panchayats in the district which are yet to set up such centres have been asked to start them at the earliest. Strict surveillance Local bodies have been directed to ensure that COVID-19 patients and those on their contact list strictly observe home quarantine. “The TPR rate has come down. But there is still a long way to go, and collective efforts are needed to further bring down the positivity rate,” Mr. Alexander said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-in-14-local-bodies-in-alappuzha-remains-above-15/article34786049.ece
11 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Many in State still lax about COVID-19 protocol||A whopping 3,36,560 persons have been booked by the police in Kerala for not wearing face masks since the Statewide lockdown began on May 8 to contain the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. This has raised questions on the reckless behaviour by at least a section of the public in the face of a persistent danger that has claimed more lives and caused serious infections in the State in its second wave. R. Suresh Kumar, senior consultant in neurology and behavioural sciences, attributed it partly to people not being inculcated with civic sense and ethical behaviour during their formative years. “We as a society are inherently insensitive to the well-being of others. Democratic countries are fiercely free-spirited and tend to violate restrictions even in the face of an unprecedented crisis like the pandemic. When the curbs are eased, they overcompensate for the freedom lost as was witnessed in the slackening of basic protocol like wearing face masks, physical distancing and hand hygiene post the first lockdown,” he said. Spread word Dr. Kumar emphasised the need for keeping up the intensity of messaging on the need for adhering to the basic protocol, which, he felt, had dropped from the initial days of the pandemic. “People should realise that responsible behaviour alone can do away with lockdowns affecting their lives and livelihood,” he said. P.T. Zacharia, State president of the Indian Medical Association, said that though vaccination was an effective tool to fight the pandemic, it was not a substitute for the basic protocol. “Responsible behaviour by the public can only be enforced by the police, which they are doing admirably. Political leaders should also set examples in observing the protocol,” he said. Effective policing Additional Director General of Police Vijay Sakhare, who devised the concept of triple lockdown, felt that the general compliance level had improved owing to effective policing. “Non-compliance is mostly borne out of psychological and physiological reasons. People who otherwise comply with the restrictions lower the guard in the company of their friends or dear ones as if that would not spread infections. Then there are people who feel suffocated on wearing masks,” he said. Mr. Sakhare said that violations of the basic protocol were fined for a deterrent effect, while many were let off with a warning.  Democratic countries are fiercely free-spirited and tend to violate restrictions even in the face of a crisis||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-in-state-still-lax-about-covid-19-protocol/article34785577.ece
11 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Confusion on drain near Parade Ground sorted out, says CSML||The confusion over drainage construction works near the Parade Ground in Fort Kochi has been sorted out following a site inspection on Thursday by division councillors, officials of the Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) and Kerala Water Authority (KWA), and people of the locality. “The ground already has drains on three sides. A pair of new drains (of which a section of people had objected to the one bordering the ground) are inevitable on the other side which has a wide road, since residents associations submitted complaints to us about waterlogging. This necessitated a crossing to link the side drain which had to be ended near a tree, in order to prevent axing of the over a century-old tree,” said sources in CSML which is building the drains. “The drain has sufficient gradient and is linked with the main canal which lets out excess water into the sea. It will not cause waterlogging in the road or the ground,” they added, referring to concerns about the historic ground getting inundated due to the construction. “All cobble stones will be relaid on the footpath once the drain work is over while the adjacent road will be resurfaced. All footpath works will be completed in a month, while all pending works in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry, except smart road works by a contractor who has been issued termination notice, will be done by November,” they added. On its part, the KWA has agreed to relocate pipelines from roads which have been identified for developing as smart roads. Referring to complaints by heritage enthusiasts that the roots of many massive trees were chopped, they said this was necessitated due to repaving of cobble stones on footpaths. In addition, the social forestry approved cutting of six trees on K.B. Jacob Road. “Ten times the number of trees that are felled will be planted in the area as part of compensatory afforestation,” they said. Heritage enthusiasts, led by former Mayor K.J. Sohan, had expressed angst at the drain work and pruning of roots of trees with massive canopy that date back to the colonial era. Mr. Sohan said that he would send a complaint to CSML and the Fort Kochi RDO, citing that the drain in question was unnecessary and that it would lead to water entering Parade Ground. “This is because it would be the third drain running parallel to one another in an 18-m space,” he said.  The drain has sufficient gradient and is linked with the main canal which lets out excess water into the sea CSML SOURCES||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confusion-on-drain-near-parade-ground-sorted-out-says-csml/article34785574.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,596 new cases in Ernakulam; TPR 13%||Ernakulam district recorded 1,596 cases of SARS-CoV2 on Thursday with a test positivity rate of 13%. Thrikkakara recorded 72 new cases followed by Kuttampuzha (63), Thripunithura (60), Kumbalanghi (49), Fort Kochi and Mulavucad (38 each), and Elamkunnapuzha and Kalamassery (37 each). Eleven of the newly infected were health workers. A total of 2,043 patients tested negative and the active caseload was 18,297. The district had, as on Thursday evening, 48,234 people under surveillance for COVID-19. New admissions to FLTCs and hospitals were 169. A fresh lot of 12,226 samples were sent for testing on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1596-new-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-13/article34785571.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Don’t scrap weightage to Class 12 marks in KEAM permanently’||The 50% weightage given to Class 12 marks in the KEAM (Kerala Engineering Architecture Medical) entrance examination can be avoided this time, as various educational boards have cancelled the examinations, but it should not be scrapped permanently, R.V.G. Menon, educationalist, has said. Prof. Menon, who led the Entrance Examination Reforms Committee appointed by then government in 2006, had submitted a report in 2008, saying that 50% weightage should be given to performance by aspirants in the qualifying examination. Since 2011, the State has been finalising KEAM ranks on the basis of a 50:50 criteria wherein equal weightage is given to the score obtained through the entrance examination and the marks obtained for mathematics, physics, and chemistry in Class 12 examinations.  Prof. Menon was responding to reports that the government was mulling a proposal to discard the 50% weightage given to Class 12 marks in the KEAM entrance exam for admission to various professional courses. “The 50% weightage given to Class 12 marks cannot be normalised this time, as most school boards had cancelled the written examinations in view of the pandemic. It would be difficult to arrive at an accurate assessment based on the alternative evaluation proposed by the Central boards,” he said. However, Prof. Menon cautioned the government against walking into the trap laid by the Office of the Entrance Commissioner by opting to do away with the 50% weightage given to Class 12 marks permanently. “The 50:50 criteria of finalising the rank list can be restored as and when the traditional form of written examinations is restored at the Plus Two level. From the beginning, the Entrance Commissioner had objected to the committee’s recommendation to give equal weightage to performance in the qualifying examination,” he alleged. Drill-based training In its report, the Entrance Reforms Committee had pointed out that the entrance examination based on multiple-choice questions was not adequate to make comprehensive evaluation of student’s knowledge for admission to professional courses. It encouraged drill-based training by students and favoured those who could afford high-value entrance coaching.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dont-scrap-weightage-to-class-12-marks-in-keam-permanently/article34785484.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Greener options being probed for SilverLine||With environmental activists expressing concern about the need to source aggregate (crushed quarry granite) and earth in bulk for the 530-km-long SilverLine semi-high-speed-rail project, K-Rail officials are learnt to be exploring means to minimise damage to the environment, by probing alternative raw materials like fly ash. Efforts are on to reuse earth that would be levelled all through the alignment for the rail corridor’s embankment to lessen the need to mine earth afresh. There are also alternatives like blending fly ash with earth in the right proportion and using this to fill the embankment. Fly ash as an alternative “Fly ash, a byproduct from thermal power plants, can also be used for concreting, thus minimising reliance on cement and aggregate. Aggregate from quarries can be sourced from other States or even from abroad. All possible means are being explored to reduce the environmental impact of project. A rapid-environmental impact assessment (rapid-EIA) report has been prepared, covering a single season. A comprehensive report will be readied, covering all four seasons of the year. It will detail the alternative raw materials that can be used,” they added. Moreover, the firm that would execute the project would be able to suggest environment-friendly alternatives, based on engineering and environmental principles. “A comprehensive EIA study will shed light on locales where aggregate can be sourced and how to transport it to work sites, while causing least pollution. Construction debris, including those of buildings that would be acquired for the project, too can be reused, thus ensuring that SilverLine is a zero-waste project,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/greener-options-being-probed-for-silverline/article34785595.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||NH Bypass to be widened into six-lane||The entire Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass will be widened into a six-lane stretch, considering the steep increase in vehicular traffic on the 16-km corridor over the past many years, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) sources have said.  “Four-lane stretches will be widened to six-lane by redesigning space that is available on the 45-metre-wide NH Bypass. Different options will be tried out, including reducing the width of the central median from the present 4 metres to a metre. The space in between the NH Bypass and service roads on either side of the stretch also can be added to the tarred carrigeway of the bypass, hewing out 3.5-m space [the width of an additional lane] on each side,” said the sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nh-bypass-to-be-widened-into-six-lane/article34785566.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MPs protest against bar on Lakshadweep visit||Left Democratic Front convenor A. Vijayaraghavan has said that Lakshadweep will not be allowed to be turned into an open jail for the islanders. “Denial of permission to Parliament Members to visit the union territory smacks of a contempt for Parliament,” he said while inaugurating a protest by Left Front MPs Elamaram Kareem, Binoy Viswom, A.M. Arif, M.V. Sreyams Kumar, V. Sivadasan, John Brittas, K. Somaprasad, and Thomas Chazhikkadan in front of the Lakshadweep administration office on Willingdon island on Thursday. He accused the Centre of trying to take away the existing employment opportunities on the islands, besides attempting to destroy the social life and cultural ethos of a people. The effort was to saffronise and corporatise the emerald islands at the expense of the islanders, Mr. Vijayaraghavan alleged. All democratic rights of the islanders were being violated and the authoritarian Administrator Praful Khoda Patel should be shown the door, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mps-protest-against-bar-on-lakshadweep-visit/article34785572.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Rape accused nabbed from Thrissur||An investigation team from the Central police station arrested Martin Joseph, accused of restraining and raping a woman in an apartment at Marine Drive, from a hide-out near Ayyankunnu Industrial Estate at Kiralur in Thrissur district on Thursday night. The team will bring him to Kochi on Friday morning. A team led by the Central Station House Officer had been hot on his heels for days now. His arrest comes hours after three of his alleged aides were nabbed on Wednesday night. The High Court was set to hear his anticipatory bail plea on Friday. “He was caught from the middle of a forest region amidst muddy and wet environs,” said C. H. Nagaraju, District Police Chief (Kochi City). Martin, hailing from Thrissur, and settled in the city, had been absconding ever since the police registered a case against him on the woman’s petition. The police had also issued a lookout circular against him to stop him from fleeing the State. The police said that the accused and the victim had been in a live-in relation for over a year before the former allegedly turned abusive in February this year. The victim, hailing from Kannur and settled in Ernakulam as part of work, managed to flee the rented apartment when the accused had gone to fetch food one day. However, she lodged a police petition only on April 8, a month after she had escaped from the alleged torturous life. The accused had also duped the woman of Rs. 5 lakh on the pretext of investing in the stock market.  The other arrested persons were identified as Dhanesh, 29, Sreeragh, 27, and John Joy, 28. They were accused of having helped Martin to flee the law and arranged him hideouts. Dhanesh allegedly helped Martin flee the apartment in Thrikkakara where he was hiding and move to Thrissur just before the police landed there in the morning hours two days ago. CCTV footage has emerged of Martin leaving the apartment. The other two are charged with arranging him hideouts and food. Meanwhile, another woman has lodged a petition with the Vanitha police station in the city accusing Martin of assaulting and forcibly taking refuge in her apartment. A separate case has been registered against him invoking IPC Section 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rape-accused-nabbed-from-thrissur/article34785496.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Sedition case registered against Aisha Sultana||Budding filmmaker Aisha Sultana has been booked by the Kavaratti police for sedition after the Lakshadweep unit of the BJP filed a complaint against her remarks about the COVID-19 situation in the union territory at a panel discussion on a Malayalam news channel. A case under Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) was registered against Ms. Sultana, a native of Chetlat island, based on a petition filed by BJP’s Lakshadweep unit president, Abdul Khader, who alleged that she had said that the Centre was using COVID as a “bio-weapon” on the people of Lakshadweep. Lakshadweep was without a single case of COVID-19 for nearly a year thanks to the mandatory quarantine for Dweep-bound travellers in Kochi. The administrator of the union territory, Praful Patel, who took charge in December last year, changed the SOP despite protests, resulting in COVID reaching the island’s shores. The union territory has had over 9,000 cases since. Meanwhile, the Lakshadweep Sahithya Pravarthaka Sangham, condemned the sedition charge and maintained that Ms Sultana was only trying to drive home the “inhuman” measures undertaken by the Lakshadweep Administrator. Proclaiming its solidarity with Ms Sultana, the Sangham said it was deplorable that a comment made in passing was being portrayed as a seditious statement.  She has said Centre is using COVID as a bio-weapon on Lakshadweep, as per the BJP unit in the islands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sedition-case-registered-against-aisha-sultana/article34785591.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in custody to be monitored for torture||Medical officers of Kerala will hereafter create a basic health profile of all persons brought to them from police custody. It is following the Rajkumar custodial death case and the recommendations of the K. Narayana Kurup judicial commission, which probed the death, that the State health authorities decided on the health profile. R. Ramesh, Director of Health Services, asked medical officers last week to subject all persons brought from police custody to a series of tests to find out instances of physical torture. The tests Renal profile, Creatine Phosphate Kinase (CPK), Urine Myoglobin, C-Reactive Protein (CRP) and ultrasound scan of abdomen have to be carried out to rule out instances of internal injury, the circular said. The tests will help in generating a baseline health data of those who are brought from police custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/accused-in-custody-to-be-monitored-for-torture/article34785593.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks revised priority list of front-line workers||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday asked the State government to place on record the revised priority list of front-line workers in the18-44 age group in view of the change in the vaccine policy of the Centre. The Bench comprising Justice Anil K. Narendran and Justice Ziyad Rahman A.A. asked the government to inform the court whether workers being engaged independently by various residential organisations for doorstep collection of waste could be included on the list.  Meanwhile, M. Ajay , counsel for the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, submitted that the technical bid of the global tender floated for 30 million doses of vaccines would be opened soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-revised-priority-list-of-front-line-workers/article34785596.ece
11 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Resolve pay revision issues of BPCL staff : MPs||The Left Members of Parliament from Kerala have requested Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to resolve the issues pertaining to the pay revision of the workers in Bharat Petroleum Corporation-Kochi Refinery. In a letter sent to the Minister on Thursday, they pointed out that the long-term agreement related to their pay revision had to be renewed from August 1, 2018. But no pay revision has taken place so far. The methodology for pay fixation as implemented for officers in other public sector undertakings was given to the officers of the BPCL too, it said. Management stance The MPs stated that the company management was not ready to accept the common formula and rejected any discussions on the issue. “We condemn the discriminatory stand of the management,” they said. The MPs also urged the Minister to remove the anomalies in the long-term settlement of the Kochi Refinery workers. They also questioned the clause which stated that the management can make any changes in the salary agreement from June 1, 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/resolve-pay-revision-issues-of-bpcl-staff-mps/article34785575.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector to hold charge as CIAL MD||District Collector S. Suhas has been given additional charge as MD of Cochin International Airport Ltd. The outgoing MD, V.J. Kurien handed him the temporary charge here on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collector-to-hold-charge-as-cial-md/article34785569.ece
11 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||New projects to rev up Kollam road facilities||Road infrastructure in Kolllam district is all set to get a major boost with the takeoff of new projects announced in connection with the national highway development works. According to N.K. Premachandran, MP, Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has approved the alignment of various roads in Kollam for NH development. Along with the new Greenfield Highway, another project for widening the Kollam-Thirumangalan National Highway with modern security measures was given the nod. The road will be constructed parallel to Kollam-Thirumangalan National Highway 744, connecting Thenmala to the district border at Kadambattukonam via Pathadi and Chadayamangalam. Bharatmala project The stretch of Thiruvananthapuram-Kottarakara- Angamaly road being built as part of the Bharatmala project will cut through Mangode, Chingoli, Thudayur- Mannur, Karukone, Alancherry, Ayanimoodu, Venchembu, reaching Pathanapuram. Instructions have been given to prepare a detailed project report of the road, while another project will link it with the national highway at Meenadu village in Chathannur. The roads, both part of Bharatmala project, passes through the less populated green corridor. Project report “A consultancy has been appointed to prepare a detailed project report for the renovation of High School Junction, Thevally, Mathilil- Anchalumoodu, Kundara- Bharanikkavu road on National Highway 183. The project plan for the development of National Highway 66, which also includes converting the Kollam bypass into a four-lane road, is also in the final stage,” said Mr. Premachandran.  Widening of the Kollam-Thirumangalan NH with modern security measures is given the nod||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-projects-to-rev-up-kollam-road-facilities/article34786052.ece
11 June 2021||Kollam,KERALA||1,605 test positive in Kollam district||Kollam district reported 1,605 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,858 recoveries on Thursday. While 1,596 patients contracted the virus through known sources, others include two NRIs, one person from another State and six health workers. Kollam district currently has 35,602 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,69,214. While 3,813 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 2,56,048 primary and 16,642 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha Alappuzha district logged 848 COVID-19 cases and 1,540 recoveries on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 8.69%. It also recorded 12 COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, 842 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six others remains unidentified. The 848 cases include 84 reported from Alappuzha, 51 from Mannanchery, 47 from Mannar, 35 from Aroor, 29 from Mararikulam South and 25 from Muhamma. On Thursday, the police registered 26 cases and arrested nine people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 627 people for not wearing face masks, 460 for violating physical distancing norms and five people for violating quarantine norms. Authorities also seized 171 vehicles. Kottayam As many as 580 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 574 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily TPR of the district reported a further decline, to 10.35%. With 45 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kanjirappally with 43 cases. As many as 742 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 4,923 while 32,269 others remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Pathanamathitta In Pathanamathitta, 429 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but three persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of four cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 12.5%. With 36 cases, Pathanamathitta municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Kunnamthanam with 30 cases. The disease, meanwhile, claimed five more lives in the district. With 315 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 5,748 active cases. The Munnar grama panchayat, which witnessed a spurt in COVID-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, has shown a decline in the numbers. According to a panchayat official, 19 persons succumbed to the disease in the past 40 days. As many as 840 persons were tested positive for COVID-19 so far. The official said that the number of persons currently under treatment has declined to 110.  (with inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, Pathanamathitta and Idukki bureaus)   Kollam district currently has 35,602 persons under observation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1605-test-positive-in-kollam-district/article34786048.ece
11 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||AYUDH volunteers set up helpdesks||Volunteers of AYUDH, the youth wing of Mata Amritanandamayi Math, have come together to set up COVID-19 helpdesks across India. Through the helplines many persons affected by the pandemic are getting access to information and resources. The support desk functions from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. and provides COVID-19-related guidance that includes vaccine registration, disease prevention, and treatment methods. AYUDH is also using its social media outreach effectively to educate people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ayudh-volunteers-set-up-helpdesks/article34786050.ece
11 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Woman succumbs to burns, partner booked||The Anchal police have filed a case against Shanavas, a 32-year-old Edmulakkal resident, in connection with the death of his partner, Athira. According to the police, Shanavas had poured kerosene over the 28-year-old woman and tried to immolate her following an argument on Tuesday. The neighbours who rushed to the scene hearing her screams doused the fire and informed the police. After immolating Athira, Shanavas set himself on fire and both were rushed to the hospital. But Athira, who sustained severe burns, succumbed to her injuries on Thursday. Shanavas is currently undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-succumbs-to-burns-partner-booked/article34786051.ece
11 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||State government to go ahead with desiltation of Meenachil||Amidst a raging debate over the ongoing flood risk management activities in the Meenachil river, the State government has reiterated its plan to desilt the water body and clear fallen trees from riverbanks. Replying to a submission raised by Kottayam MLA Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan, Water Resources Minister Roshy Augustine said in the Assembly recently that the Irrigation Department had taken up a Rs. 45 lakh project for the purpose. “As part of promoting inland navigation, the silt accumulated on the riverbed too will be removed. A part of the silt will be used for strengthening the riverbanks, while the remaining volume will be deposited along the low-lying parts of the water body,” he said. In his submission, the Kottayam MLA had demanded urgent steps for desilting the river and its major tributaries to ensure smooth flow of water. According to Mr. Radhakrishnan, people living in the low-lying areas on the outskirts of Kottayam municipality have to endure great difficulties during the monsoons owing to floods Conservationists caution The government's response, meanwhile, has drawn sharp reactions from conservationists who reiterated that any unscientific development activity would damage the riverine environment. They also called for detailed studies before stepping into desilting and other activities. “As mandated by courts and the National Green Tribunal (NGT), a district-level survey should be carried out before initiating desiltation. Noting that the ongoing flood risk management activities between Chungam and Kanjram are under the consideration of the NGT, the government should also wait till the tribunal pronounces an order on the matter,” said N. Unnikrishnan, secretary, Kottayam Nature Society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-government-to-go-ahead-with-desiltation-of-meenachil/article34786054.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Digital divide stands in the way of children’s home residents||While educational institutions are on the path of transforming students into digital academics, here is a group of residents at two children’s homes in Kozhikode who are yet to have sufficient e-learning tools to feel the change. The continuing digital divide is a painful experience for them, as no one has offered them a helping hand. At the Children’s Home for Girls, there are 32 students who manage with limited number of gadgets to attend online classes. Many of them are high school and Plus Two students who need individual devices to properly attend virtual classes and interact with teachers. At least 10 smartphones are needed there to help out learners. More work According to officials, only two television sets and a laptop are available for girls to attend online sessions. “In the last academic year, the students somehow managed with the available facilities. However, it will not be possible this year thanks to extended teaching hours, individual interactions, and submission of assignments,” they said. The situation is not different at the Children’s Home for Boys. There are 20 students without access to digital learning tools. Not even a smartphone is available at the institution to facilitate virtual classrooms. In the absence of dedicated gadgets, the students depend on staff members’ mobile phones. Just two television sets and a laptop are available at the institution. “We need at least five smartphones to assist high school and Plus Two students. It would be great if we got more from sponsors,” said an official at the institution. Meanwhile, State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Babitha Balraj, who has taken up the matter with the authorities, has sought immediate steps to help out the students. “We hope sponsors will come forward,” she said.  We need at least five smartphones to assist high school and Plus Two students. It would be great if we got more from sponsors an official of Children’s Home||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-divide-stands-in-the-way-of-childrens-home-residents/article34785559.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Questions raised over Oushadi’s drug advert||A classical Ayurvedic drug, prepared according to age-old texts using cow products, and marketed by a Kerala government undertaking, has become a subject of political discussion, also incurring the wrath of activists. Panchagavya Ghrutham is manufactured using cow milk, curd, ghee, dung, and urine as per the Ayurveda classical text Ashtangahridayam . All major Ayurveda pharmaceutical companies have been making it for long. What kicked off a controversy, however, was an recent ad placed by Oushadhi, the Kerala government-owned Ayurvedic drug manufacturing unit. The product description says that it is for the treatment of mental diseases, jaundice, fever and epilepsy and improves memory power and concentration.  Organiser , the right-wing magazine owing allegiance to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, came up with a social media post recently saying that the “Kerala government company is making profit by selling cow dung and cow urine products to boost memory and concentration”. The sarcastic jab was pointed at the ruling Left, which always corners the Sangh Parivar for its thrust on “cow politics”. CAPSULE version The advertisement has not gone down well with public health activists as well. Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE), a wing of the Left-leaning Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad, has lodged a complaint with the State Drugs Controller and the Deputy Drugs Controller in charge of Ayurveda. CAPSULE chairman U. Nandakumar and convener M.P. Anil Kumar said in their letter that mental diseases or disorders of brain, fever and epilepsy were among the 54 diseases whose drugs should not be advertised under Section 3D of the Drugs and Magical Remedies Act, 1954. Also, according to Section 106 Schedule J of the Drugs and Cosmetic Act, 1940, (labelling and packing of drugs other than homoeopathic medicines), indications such as epileptic fits and psychiatric disorders, increase in brain capacity and improvement of memory, jaundice/hepatitis, and liver disorders should not be displayed along with medicines. The details of the product on the Oushadhi website could mislead people, the complaint added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/questions-raised-over-oushadis-drug-advert/article34785590.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NoRKs delighted over priority vaccination drive||Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) who are waiting for their return journey to workplaces abroad have expressed joy over the launch of priority vaccination camps by the Health Department in Kozhikode district. The mega vaccination camp, which was officially launched here on Wednesday, is the result of frequent pleas by various expatriates’ welfare organisations to the State and Union governments. “We are happy that two major issues—priority vaccination and the option to enter passport details in the vaccination certificate using the official portal—have been addressed by the government in time. We have thus crossed our first hurdle to resuming work,” said Faisal Kannoth, district president, Indian Cultural and Arts Society, Dubai. He pointed out that the special drive, if completed in time, would help thousands of NoRKs awaiting a trouble-free return to countries like Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE. Following complaints from NoRKs, people’s representatives too had taken up the matter with the Union and State governments. In their online petitions, they had pointed out that the Pravasi community members and their families were apprehensive of delayed action amid the pandemic scare and tightening of foreign travel rules. Health Department officials said the priority vaccination drive on Wednesday benefited 380 persons who had earlier registered their names using the online option. The first phase organised with the support of the district administration, National Health Mission, and the Kozhikode Corporation will conclude on June 11, they informed. On the other hand, relaxation of rules for those waiting to travel to the United Kingdom has given relief to many job aspirants. “I was asked to submit only a negative RT-PCR result for my journey from Mumbai. Meanwhile, many of my friends awaiting their turn to travel to West Asian countries are helpless in the absence of relaxation in the existing rules,” said Nireesh Antony who reached his workplace in the UK on Thursday. He added that there were no worrying technicalities interrupting his journey. Meanwhile, leaders of a few expatriates’ associations complained that the yet-to-be opened online passport renewal option was troubling many who are waiting to return to countries like Kuwait and Saudi Arabia. The matter should be given top priority, they pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norks-delighted-over-priority-vaccination-drive/article34785558.ece
11 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Content writers in open varsity allege breach of pact||Over a dozen content writers hired by Sree Narayana Guru Open University, Kollam, have accused the authorities of breach of contractual agreement. The university had employed nearly 100 content writers for 15 disciplines at its two work stations in Kollam and Kozhikode recently. A contract of three months was signed between them and the university offering a consolidated salary of Rs. 42,000. The work started on March 15 and continued at the workstation in Kollam till April 28, though intermittently, due to the pandemic. A notification asking the content writers to work from home was issued thereafter. On May 7, a new notification was issued based on a Syndicate decision, saying that the university had decided to make it an output-based engagement for which the remuneration was to be communicated. However, no such steps were taken or communicated to the content writers till early June. Following this, review meetings were held online for all disciplines separately during which the Vice Chancellor asked the content writers to go on a work break to rectify and revisit the completed content. It meant a break from the present unit or block they were working upon as the time was to be spent to rework the already completed syllabus material. There was no mention about the loss of pay during the work break, the content writers claimed. On June 4, another notification was issued specifying that the work break was granted on a mutual agreement for which the content writers would have to forgo the payment. In a complaint submitted to the Registrar on Sunday last, 18 of these content writers said that they disagreed with the new mandate based on output. They alleged that the unilateral change of the mutually agreed upon legal contract and previous offers was a blatant breach of trust as the current contract was valid till June 15 for the Kollam centre and June 18 for the Kozhikode centre. They claimed that break period with no payment was not mutually agreed upon. The content writers said they were not even orally informed during the review meeting that there would be a pay cut for this period. P.N. Dileep, Registrar, however, told The Hindu that the allegations were baseless. There was no question of breach of agreement as their jobs would not go. The Syndicate had also decided to release their salaries since May 7. It was decided to go for an output-based payment method as it could be difficult to monitor their work during the lockdown which was being extended now, Mr. Dileep said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/content-writers-in-open-varsity-allege-breach-of-pact/article34785561.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Eviction of forestland encroachers a vexatious issue: Saseendran||The State government will have to walk a tightrope between evicting encroachers from forestland and complying with the Supreme Court order to regularise encroachments made prior to January 1, 1977. “For various reasons, the government could not evict the encroachers until now. At present, we need to re-examine the complex issue in detail and, if required, hold separate discussions with all stakeholders to reach a positive conclusion,” Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran told The Hindu . The government faces a difficult situation to evict the illegal settlers and take possession of the forestland. “We have to chalk out a mechanism to effectively implement the rules,” the Minister said. Going by news reports, Mr. Saseendran indicated that small and large encroachment of forestland were taking place. “The government is committed to stopping further encroachments.” he said, adding all forestland occupied after January 1, 1977 would be identified and recovered as per the law. On classification of buffer zones, he said the government had already issued some orders to resolve the problems surrounding wildlife sanctuaries, national parks, biosphere reserves, and other protected areas. “This issue will also be examined in detail.” New parameters Steps would be taken to rework the parameters in 123 grama panchayats earmarked by the K. Kasturirangan report as ecologically sensitive areas. “Even after rectifications to review the areas at the ward levels, the government has been subjected to criticisms. We have not been able to satisfy farmers. At the same time, the government is committed to protecting the forestland. An extensive study is required to tackle the issue,” Mr. Saseendran said. On human-wildlife conflict, Mr. Saseendran said the department had to come up with new measures to manage wildlife and protect the resources of human settlements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eviction-of-forestland-encroachers-a-vexatious-issue-saseendran/article34785601.ece
11 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Heritage structures getting a facelift||At least three heritage structures in Kozhikode city are getting a facelift to attract tourists post-pandemic. According to sources, the Tali Temple, Kuttichira pond, and the Butt Road beach are being developed to reflect the cultural heritage of Kozhikode. A sum of Rs. 2 crore is being spent to renovate the Tali Temple pond and surroundings. A museum depicting the history of the Zamorin dynasty is also being set up there. The walls of the temple have the history of the erstwhile royals carved on them. The coronation of the Zamorins, which was called ‘ariyittu vazcha’; Revathi Pattathanam, the debate involving Sanskrit scholars, and Mamangam, the medieval festival held on the banks of the Bharathappuzha have all found their place there. The District Tourism Promotion Council and M.K. Muneer, MLA, have also provided funds for the projects. Walkways have been developed around the Kuttichira pond. Renovation of the nearby park too has been included in the project. The work on Butt Road beach includes a skating track and a musical fountain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heritage-structures-getting-a-facelift/article34785557.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Health Department staff rue lack of powers||The Assembly recently unanimously passed the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2021, empowering the State government to enforce restrictions on public life during epidemic outbreaks. However, Health Department staff claim that they may not get powers to book those who violate the law. An official told The Hindu that only station house officers, police officers in charge of respective stations, had been termed as ‘authorised officers’ under Section 7 of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, which also dealt with the penalties for violators. Though the Ordinance had not specifically given powers to the police, they were included when the rules were framed. The new Bill too does not say that police personnel are the empowering authorities. Another official pointed out that the focus of the Bill seemed to be tackling COVID-19 only. “There should be a long-term approach in dealing with epidemics. We may need the help of the police in containing COVID-19. What happens if there is another cholera or other such epidemics? How will the police be of help,” he asked. “If revenue inspectors, food safety inspectors, rationing inspectors, excise inspectors, and motor vehicle inspectors can take action against the respective legal violations in their department, why not the Health Department staff?” the official asked. Wide network The Health Department has such a wide network of officials, including district medical officers, deputy district medical officers, district technical assistants, medical officers, health supervisors, health inspectors and junior health inspectors. Among them, health inspectors have been trained in dealing with epidemics and have other enforcement powers as well. “Ideally, the authorised officer should have been station house officer/an officer not less than the rank of health inspector,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-department-staff-rue-lack-of-powers/article34785592.ece
11 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IIM-K award programme for PhD students||As part of its silver jubilee celebrations, the Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIM-K) has announced “IIM-K Scholars for Future 2021” award programme for early stage doctoral students (PhD) in management category from institutes and universities ranked in the NIRF rankings. The award programme is the brainchild of IIM-K’s current Director, Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, and invites futuristic and innovative research proposal on selected themes from students pursuing PhD or an equivalent programme enrolled after June 2019. The last date for submitting entries for the award is July 15. Details of the eligibility criteria, themes of submission for interested candidates are available on: https://iimk.ac.in/futurescholars/register/login.php.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iim-k-award-programme-for-phd-students/article34785560.ece
11 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two students killed in accident||Two students were killed in a motorcycle accident at Kuttippala near Mambatta in Mukkom on Thursday. The victims were identified as Ananthu Krishnan, 19, and his relative Sneha Pramod, 14. A tipper lorry hit the motorbike. The incident took place around 12.15 p.m. when both of them were on their way home after collecting Sneha’s textbooks from a school near Mukkom. According to eyewitnesses, the two died on the spot. The Mukkom police said they arrested the tipper lorry driver on the charge of reckless driving.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-students-killed-in-accident/article34785562.ece
11 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Increase vaccination centres, local bodies told||The Kozhikode district administration has proposed to increase more vaccination centres to reduce the rush and boost the immunization against COVID-19 even as the daily test positivity rate fell below 10% on Thursday, for the second time in recent days. According to sources, District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao directed local bodies to add at least one additional centre in their jurisdiction. Community halls or town halls could be used for the purpose. Spot registration would be allowed in areas with low Internet access and places where fishers and people belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes are staying. Services of doctors in mobile medical units could be utilised here. Mr. Rao said that the relaxations in lockdown on Friday would not be applicable to places where the daily test positivity rate for COVID-19 continues to be high. Banks in such places could function between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. Only 50% staff would be allowed to work and only five persons can be inside the office at a time. Meanwhile, a daily TPR of 9.84% was reported on Thursday when 10,506 samples were tested. The number of new cases is 1,008. Earlier, a daily TPR of 9% was reported on April 8 and June 6. According to the district medical officer, 999 cases of local transmission of the infection and nine others without a known source of infection have been recorded. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 281 cases of locally acquired infections, Peruvayal 38, Olavanna 31, and Chathamangalam 30. As many as 1,303 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload dropped to 13,410. A total of 10,122 people are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/increase-vaccination-centres-local-bodies-told/article34785565.ece
11 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML protests against ‘neglect of Malappuram’||Muslim Youth League (MYL) State president Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal on Thursday demanded that the State government sanction funds for the development of Malappuram district. Inaugurating a stand-up protest under the banner of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in front of the Malappuram village office, Mr. Thangal said the LDF government discriminated against Malappuram in the State Budget. Malappuram Municipal Chairman Mujeeb Kaderi inaugurated the protest in front of the KSRTC bus station here. Former councillor Haris Amiyan was present. Sayed Hameedali Shihab Thangal inaugurated the protest in front of the Panakkad village office. P.K. Sakeer Hussain was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-protests-against-neglect-of-malappuram/article34785563.ece
11 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Caution advised against overuse of medicines||People have been advised against excessive use of medicines, as it may lead to many ailments, including mucormycosis. Participating in a webinar organised by the Centre’s Field Outreach Bureau on post-COVID issues related to head, nose, and throat on Thursday, ENT surgeon M.C. Pradeep Kumar also warned against the dangers of self-treatment. He said excessive use of medicines and self-treatment could result in poor immunity. He advised people to ensure good sleep and rest and find ways to avoid stress post-COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caution-advised-against-overuse-of-medicines/article34785564.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi/Kochi,KERALA||Javadekar demands report on tree felling||Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Thursday sought a report from the officials concerned on the alleged mass felling of centuries-old rosewood trees in Wayanad. This was disclosed by Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, who met Mr. Javadekar in New Delhi on Thursday seeking his intervention in the matter. Mr. Muraleedharan told reporters in New Delhi that the Minister sought a report from his officials on the basis of his complaint seeking action against the culprits, who had axed timber worth crores of rupees. He alleged that the trees were cut under the shield of an order issued by the State government last year. Demanding a comprehensive probe into the incident, Mr. Muraleedharan said the order was issued with the complete knowledge of the political leadership of the ruling Left Democratic Front. “The role of two Ministers in the previous LDF government should also be investigated,” he added. In Wayanad tomorrow Mr. Muraleedharan will on Saturday visit various sites in Wayanad, including a tribal hamlet at Vazhavatta under the Muttil South Village office, where felling of rosewood trees was reported, BJP district president Saji Sankar said in a release. ( With inputs from Wayanad bureau )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/javadekar-demands-report-on-tree-felling/article34785585.ece
11 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Konni MCH to open emergency wing||With the annual pilgrimage season in Sabarimala fast approaching, the State government has decided to open an emergency wing at the Konni Medical College Hospital (MCH) by July end. The decision follows a direction to this effect issued by Health Minister Veena George during a high-level meeting in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. A detailed plan of action to open the wing in a time-bound manner has been prepared, while the installation of an oxygen plant will be complete in three months. The meeting decided to augment the existing facilities. Upon strengthening the outpatient (OP) wing, an emergency department, ICU and operation theatre will be set up, while steps will be taken to recruit staff. Employees who have gone out on working arrangements will be recalled while additional staff will be recruited on contract basis through employment exchange. A proposal to create additional posts will be submitted to the government. To help contain a possible third wave of COVID-19, a paediatric ward along with a paediatric ICU will soon be opened. Sewage treatment plant The construction of the hospital block is nearing completion, while the Kerala Medical Services Corporation has already delivered all the major equipment. Funds will be constituted for setting up a sewage treatment plant and fire tank. The meeting also entrusted the Joint Director of Medical Education with coordinating the activities of the medical cllege. Further, the Director of Medical Education has been directed to take necessary steps to start the MBBS programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/konni-mch-to-open-emergency-wing/article34786046.ece
11 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Care centres for migrant workers||Taking note of the rise in COVID-19 cases among migrant workers, the district administration has decided to open domiciliary care centres exclusively for them across the seven block panchayats in Pathanamthitta. A decision was arrived at a meeting convened by District Collector Narasimhugari Tej Lohit Reddy the other day. The care centres, which will function under the supervision of the district administration, block panchayats, Health Department, and Labour Department, will have assistant labour officers as nodal officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/care-centres-for-migrant-workers/article34786053.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vacancies to be filled before PSC list expiry||The State government will take immediate measures to fill reported vacancies before the expiry of Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) rank lists, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Replying to a calling attention motion by P.C. Vishnunath in the Assembly on Thursday, the Chief Minister said the PSC too was working to fill the vacancies. Though PSC examinations could not be conducted in time owing to COVID-19, there had been no delay in reporting of vacancies or issuing advice memos. Moreover, the validity of rank lists that were set to expire between February 5 and August 3 this year had been extended. An online mechanism had been put in place for reporting vacancies in time. Moreover, a committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary and comprising Additional Chief Secretaries of Finance and Administrative Reforms departments, had been formed in February for accurate reporting of vacancies. Mr. Vijayan said that between May 25, 2016, and May 19, 2021, the PSC had published 4,223 rank lists. During the tenure of the United Democratic Front (UDF) government, it was 3,418. During the previous term of the LDF government, 1,61,361 advice memos had been issued. Though under the UDF it was 1,54,384, of them appointments to 4,031 people had been made by the LDF. Department heads, he said, had also been asked to identify instances when regular promotions were hindered by disputes over seniority or lack of candidates eligible for promotion and report these to a panel led by the Chief Secretary. Teachers' appointments He also promised appointment of schoolteachers who had received PSC advice memos. The government had taken the stance that they would be appointed once schools, closed owing to the pandemic, reopened. However, with COVID-19 yet to abate, the government was doing a rethink.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vacancies-to-be-filled-before-psc-list-expiry/article34785489.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State banking on genomic surveillance data||As anxiety over a possible third wave of COVID-19 escalates, Kerala is banking on real-time genomic surveillance data to watch out for the emergence of possible new SARS-CoV-2 variants or any changes in disease patterns amongst various groups that might signal a potential change in disease transmission. While preparing the health system ahead for managing a third wave could be an opportunity to improve the State’s health infrastructure, the third wave is neither inevitable nor is it expected to be more vicious than the second wave. “The second wave peaked mid-May and we expect that the curve will remain on a higher plateau than before, at perhaps 5,000-6,000 new cases a day. Some surge in transmission is inevitable when the unlock happens but unless a more transmissible virus variant emerges, the circulating dominant strain, Delta (B.1.617.2), will continue to maintain the equilibrium it has found,” feels Rakhal Gaitonde, public health expert and Professor, Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies. Since mid-April 2021, the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) and the multidisciplinary research lab at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have been doing targeted genetic sequencing studies. Viral RNA samples are being collected from across districts under five categories. Representative samples Representative samples are being collected from places which recorded a high test positivity rate, from locations where case clusters were reported, samples from persons who had reinfections, who contracted COVID after receiving one/two doses of the vaccine, and those who had no comorbidities but had serious COVID and required ICU care. “We are regularly checking out existing mutations (L452R, Delta, Kappa) and random mutations in the virus. Our effort is to detect any pattern in mutations and if it correlates with any particular category of samples. If so, we can identify the sample location, study the clinical profile of cases and plan further interventions,” says E. Sreekumar, senior scientist at the RGCB. Continous activity While this is expected to be a continuous activity, public health experts say unless the State takes a conscious effort to go beyond laboratory findings and integrate the genomic surveillance data into suitable policy decisions on the ground, these are likely to remain mere academic exercises. “We now have people who derived natural immunity through infection with the virus before it mutated, those who have vaccine-derived immunity as well as those who achieved natural immunity through infection by the mutant strain, Dr. Sreekumar says. “Right now, we have no idea how long this protection lasts or how strong it is because we have seen reinfections in those who got infected by the original strain, as well as breakthrough infections in those who got vaccinated. It is highly unlikely, but we need to watch if a new new variant will emerge, leading to reinfections in those who were infected by the Delta variant,” he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-banking-on-genomic-surveillance-data/article34785599.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,030 new cases in capital||The COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district rose by 2,030 to take the number of active cases to 13,906 on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 16.39% when 12,384 people were subjected to tests. As many as 1,481 people recovered from the illness during the last 24 hours. Five health workers were also diagnosed with the disease. The source of infection was unknown in 94 cases. As many as 38 more deaths have been attributed to the disease, taking the death toll to 2,237 in the district. The district authorities placed 3,391 people in quarantine. With this, the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms stood at 56,168. Various parts of the district that continued to record TPR of over 25% have been designated critical containment zones. These included Chemmaruthy (30.83%), Ottoor (30.57), Aryancode (28.47), Kanjiramkulam (27.87), Uzhamalakkal (27.08), Pallichal (26.45), Malayinkeezh (25.42), Madavoor (25.33), Kollayil (25.27), and Chenkal (25). Containment zones have also been declared in Kurupuzha ward in Nanniyode grama panchayat, Theviyarukunnu, Kanakkuzhi, Valiyakalungu, Parandode and Aryanad town wards in Aryanad grama panchayat. Valiyamoola Colony in Vennicode ward in Cherunniyoor grama panchayat has been declared a micro-containment area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2030-new-cases-in-capital/article34785493.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power, water bill arrears pile up during pandemic||Arrears on electricity and water bills have built up considerably during the COVID-19 pandemic months, show data released by the Departments of Power and Water resources. Dues owed by electricity and water consumers to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) have shot up from Rs. 1,548.5 crore and Rs. 1,111.54 crore respectively in 2019-end to over Rs. 2,000 crore each, according to the latest available data. As of April 30 this year, electricity consumers owe the KSEB Rs. 2,461.82 crore. The biggest defaulters included private establishments (Rs. 911.43 crore), State public sector institutions (Rs. 773.73 crore) and domestic consumers (Rs. 484.66 crore), show data presented in the State Assembly. The KWA too has reported an increase in water bill dues. The State-run water utility is owed Rs. 2,067.25 crore by its consumers. The biggest water bill defaulters include non-domestic category (Rs. 941.96 crore), domestic consumers (Rs. 316.79 crore) and local self-government institutions (Rs. 737.63 crore), as per the latest available data. Arrears on electricity bill payments had stood at Rs. 1,548.5 crore on December 31, 2019, while the outstanding dues on water bills were pegged at Rs. 1,111.54 crore in October 2019. Pandemic restrictions Senior KSEB and KWA officials attributed the sharp increase to the COVID-19 outbreak and the consequent restrictions that badly hit the collection of electricity and water charges. With the pandemic-induced economic downturn upsetting livelihoods, the State government had directed the utilities not to disconnect supply to defaulters. ''Sections in the domestic category and industrial/commercial categories are finding it hard to pay their bills due to the hardships caused by the pandemic. The collection of electricity charges has been hit by about 50%, although meter reading and billing are carried out smoothly,'' said KSEB chairman and managing director N. S. Pillai. ''The pandemic had forced us to shut the cash counters, which hit collection. The counters are now open on select days, strictly adhering to the COVID-19 protocol. The pandemic had also disrupted the meter reading exercise. We hope to take steps in the months ahead to recover the dues,'' said Sreekumar G., Technical Member, KWA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/power-water-bill-arrears-pile-up-during-pandemic/article34785588.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate remains steady||The State on Thursday reported 14,424 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,07,250 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) continues to remain more or less steady around 14-15% and has not shown a significant reduction for the past two weeks. On Thursday, the TPR registered 13.45%. The active case pool declined further to 1,35,298 patients when 17,994 patients were reported to have recovered from the disease. The cumulative fatality now stands at 10,631, with the State adding 194 deaths, which occurred over the past few days, to the official list. Declining trend Hospitalisations are showing a declining trend generally. However, on Thursday, 2,820 persons were admitted to hospitals more than the previous day’s. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals now has come down to 31,966. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State in both public and private hospitals are declining and came down to 3,186. Those requiring ventilator support among these patients was 1,289. The cumulative case burden now stands at 26,88,590 cases. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,030, followed by Kollam 1,605, Malappuram 1,597, Ernakulam 1,596, Thrissur 1,359, Palakkad 1,312, Kozhikode 1,008, Alappuzha 848, Kannur 750, Idukki 673, Kottayam 580, Kasaragod 443, Pathanamthitta 429 and Wayanad 194.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-remains-steady/article34785597.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||12 children test positive at child council-run facility||As many as 12 children who are under the supervision of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Thursday. Four ‘ayahs’ have also tested positive. A mass testing was held at the council headquarters at Thycaud a day after two of the infected ‘ayahs’ had been diagnosed with the illness, shortly after they displayed symptoms. Nearly 30 people were subjected to rapid antigen tests. Among those infected, an infant has been hospitalised at the Women and Children Hospital at Thycaud, while all others, aged below six, have been kept in quarantine at a COVID-19 first line treatment centre at the Institute of Management in Government. While some had mild symptoms, the health condition of none was critical, official sources said. The council accommodated nearly 80 children and employed around 60 ‘ayahs’ to look after them. The remaining children and some of the ‘ayahs’ who had reported for work during the last few days will be subjected to RT-PCR tests on Friday. An official said the disease could have spread through the ‘ayahs’ who return to their homes after completing their two-week shifts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12-children-test-positive-at-child-council-run-facility/article34785491.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Twin genders of crimson marsh glider dragonfly||A part male and part female dragonfly, sighted first by a class 10 student from his homestead at Changaleeri in Mannarkkad, Palakkad, has been recorded as the first case of gynandromorphism (the condition of an individual, especially an insect, showing some male and some female characteristics) in crimson marsh glider. The peculiar dragonfly was first sighted by Ajay Krishna who was exploring his backyard during the lockdown in October 2020. A small pond is located 100 m from where the crimson marsh glider dragonfly was spotted first by Ajay and the Kunthi river flows about 600 m away. Although gynandromorphism has been reported in crustaceans, arachnids and insects, including at least 55 cases in dragonflies, it is the first time that the condition has been reported in a crimson marsh glider ( Trithemis aurora ). The individual was studied in detail by researchers Subin K. Jose and Vivek Chandran of the Department of Geology and Environmental Science, Christ College, Irinjalakuda. The researchers and the young explorer teamed up with Swiss odonatologist Hansruedi Wildermuth and published the findings in the June edition of the international journal Odonatologica . Predominantly female The sighted dragonfly was predominantly female, having the typical yellow colour in most parts except half of the right eye, parts of thorax and abdomen — which were crimson as in the male. Its eyes, thorax, legs, wings and abdomen show ‘mosaic gynandromorphy’. A detailed study has revealed that female characteristics predominate, but significant areas exhibit male characteristics, the researchers said in the article. Gynandromorphs are chimeric individuals having both male and female tissues, and are viewed by the scientific community as a genetic aberration. Though common in some arthropod taxa such as Crustacea and Arachnida, it is very rare in Odonates.     Trithemis aurora is common, widespread and occurs around lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands. It is widely distributed and flies throughout the year, say the researchers. It is usually seen perched on dry twigs, aquatic plants and overhead cables near water bodies. In 2019, a gynandromorphic ruddy marsh skimmer ( Crocothemis servilia ) was sighted in the Kole wetlands of Thrissur but the individual could not be studied in detail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/twin-genders-of-crimson-marsh-glider-dragonfly/article34785487.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poor upkeep led to extra spending on power: CAG||Plant Availability Factor (PAF), an indication of the efficiency, maintenance and upkeep of equipment, of the Idukki, Sabarigiri, and Kuttiyadi hydroelectric projects was affected by ‘forced outages due to improper execution of maintenance works’ during 2014-2019 resulting in a generation loss of 920.71 million units (mu) of power and additional expenditure of Rs. 269.77 crore towards purchase of power for the State. This was cited in the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) on public sector undertakings for the year ending March 31, 2019, laid on the table of the Assembly on Thursday. The three projects did not achieve the norm of 90% PAF during 2014-19. The awarding of renovation works of the Idukki project got delayed by defective technical evaluation, among others. The works on three units of Idukki were to be completed by July 2019. The report found that Unit 4 of the Sabarigiri project failed to perform in accordance with the parameters guaranteed by the contractor. This led to a generation loss of 201.60 mu and an additional expenditure of Rs. 59.07 crore towards purchase of power. Water conservation The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) did not follow the policy of conserving water in reservoirs with large storage capacity during monsoon and utilise it to the maximum during summer when power purchase costs are high. This led to purchase of 86.40 mu incurring Rs. 25.31 crore. In the Kuttiyadi extension scheme, delay in rectifying a defect due to bifurcation of penstock led to generation loss of 178.70 mu and consequent purchase of power incurring Rs. 52.36 crore. The KSEB also did not utilise the uprating potential of first stage units of the Idukki projects and of units 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Sabarigiri. This resulted in loss of generation capability of 212.04 mu per annum. The KSEB purchased 465 MW of power in design, build, finance, own and operate basis from other than lowest bidders in violation to the Request for Proposal (RFP) issued by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-upkeep-led-to-extra-spending-on-power-cag/article34785583.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Domestic tourism will get top priority: Riyas||The Kerala government has said that the State could offset the revenue loss caused by the sharp decline in foreign tourist arrivals by aggressively promoting domestic tourism. Replying to questions during the question hour in the Assembly on Thursday, Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas said COVID-19 had drastically altered the people’s holiday plans. The international holiday travel and leisure cruise industries were on the course to a slow revival. In the hiatus, high-spending tourists opted heavily for nearby holiday destinations. Mr. Riyas said inter-district and inter-State travel for leisure was the current trend. Kerala’s local destinations had swelled with domestic tourists during the hiatus between the first and second waves of COVID-19. Mr. Riyas said Kerala was poised to make most of the projected upsurge in domestic tourism to surmount the loss caused by the breakdown in international travel. The State would do so by decentralising tourism. Mr. Riyas said local bodies would have a higher stake in developing holiday destinations. The State government would improve inter-district and inter-State connectivity. Its pitch would help revive the moribund motor vehicle sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/domestic-tourism-will-get-top-priority-riyas/article34785584.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Novel test during testing times||Nearly 4.5 lakh children , including 32,627 Kudumbashree Balasabha members, on Thursday took part in a novel online exercise that tested their awareness of COVID-19 and monsoon-related diseases. ‘Oru kunju pareeksha’ is fashioned as a four-part examination series – model, quarterly, half-yearly, and terminal examinations – that through questions and answers help create awareness of COVID-19 and how it can be prevented. The first of the exams on Thursday has been extended owing to the positive response from students. The quarterly examination will be held a couple of weeks later. Links for Thursday’s exam reached Balasabhas in each ward through the Kudumbashree community and area development societies. Children were asked 25 questions on COVID-19 and monsoon-related diseases. The next examination will focus on prevention aspects. Children can appear for the online examination any time between 10.30 a.m. to 10.30 p.m. Minister for Local Self-government M.V. Govindan inaugurated the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/novel-test-during-testing-times/article34785488.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sunny Joseph to head PAC||Congress legislator Sunny Joseph will be the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the 15th Kerala Assembly. Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator K.K. Shailaja will be the chairperson of the Estimates Committee, Communist Party of India legislator E. Chandrasekharan of the Public Sector Institutions Committee, and CPI(M) legislator T. P. Ramakrishnan that of the Local Funds Accounts Committee. Each committee has 11 elected legislators, including the chairperson. The Legislature Secretariat has formally notified the setting up of the four committees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunny-joseph-to-head-pac/article34785578.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protocol goes haywire at MCH interview||The pandemic protocol was thrown to the wind when several hundred people thronged the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) to participate in a walk-in interview on Thursday. The hospital authorities invited the wrath of Health Minister Veena George who instituted a probe into the fiasco. The selection process for nurses and cleaning staff on contractual basis attracted numerous people from the district and beyond. Many had turned up as early as 6 a.m., well ahead of the interview at 11 a.m. The authorities failed to streamline the crowd despite a token system being put in place. Soon, the mechanism went kaput forcing the staff to discontinue the distribution of tokens. While the authorities later decided to suspend the process, a large posse of police was rushed to the hospital premises to manage the situation. The Minister made her annoyance known at a meeting to assess the arrangements for COVID-19 treatment at the hospital. Pointing out that the move to conduct an interview during the lockdown was ill-advised, Ms. George instructed Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Rajan Khobragade to submit an inquiry report after identifying lapses in the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protocol-goes-haywire-at-mch-interview/article34785490.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Syro-Malankara archdiocese anniversary||The Major Archieparchy of Thiruvananthapuram of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church will observe the 90th anniversary of its inception on Friday. The Archdiocese had been established by Pope Pius XI through the Apostolic Constitution Christo Pastorum Principi of June 11, 1932. Cardinal Baselios Cleemis Catholicos, the head of the Syro-Malankara Church, will lead the Holy Mass at the St. Mary Queen of Peace Basilica in Palayam. He will formally inaugurate the anniversary celebrations at 3 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/syro-malankara-archdiocese-anniversary/article34785494.ece
11 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guidelines for weekend curbs||The government on Thursday issued guidelines for the enhanced restrictions planned on June 12 and 13. While takeaway or parcels will not be permitted, only home delivery of food will be allowed. Construction activities that adhere to social-distancing norms will be permitted on the days. Such activities must be informed to the nearest police stations in advance. The government has also included mobile repair shops on the list of commercial establishments that have been permitted to function on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guidelines-for-weekend-curbs/article34785586.ece
11 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||BJP objects to ‘witch-hunt’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a Statewide protest on Thursday, alleging that its leaders were being subjected to a witch-hunt by the State government by foisting false cases on them. The party’s State president K. Surendran inaugurated the protest online. BJP supporters burnt Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in effigy in front of the Thrissur Police Club. ‘With police help’ Torchlight protests were held in 5,000 centres in Thrissur district. The BJP alleged that the State government was harassing its leaders with the help of the police. It alleged that the CPI(M) had turned the Police Club into a hub of conspiracy. State leaders of the party participated in the protest at various centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/bjp-objects-to-witch-hunt/article34785581.ece
11 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kodakara case: BJP candidate questioned||The special team investigating the Kodakara black money robbery case interrogated Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district general secretary Ullas Babu, who was also the party candidate in Wadakkanchery in the Assembly elections. Ullas Babu was questioned on the basis of a statement given by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) worker Dharmarajan, who had sent the money with his driver Shamjeer. Ullas Babu, who runs a hotel in Thrissur city, had allegedly paid Rs. 50 lakh of his rent arrears to the Thiruvambadi Devaswom, the owner of the hotel building, soon after the robbery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodakara-case-bjp-candidate-questioned/article34785582.ece
11 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||From now on, it will be Dr. Bindu||Minister for Higher Education Prof. R. Bindu will be known as Dr. R. Bindu henceforth, according to a notification by Chief Secretary V.P. Joy. The Minister, who was Associate Professor at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, had taken oath of office as Prof. R. Bindu. There had been protests from some quarters against using the official designation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/from-now-on-it-will-be-dr-bindu/article34785485.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/on-the-warpath/article34785568.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Taxing fuel prices||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/taxing-fuel-prices/article34785999.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||The ban begins||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-ban-begins/article34785997.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Happy hunting ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/happy-hunting-ground/article34786056.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||With one voice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/with-one-voice/article34785994.ece
11 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur releases credit plan||The primary sector annual credit plan released by the Anantapur district administration on Thursday has projected agriculture credit outlay at Rs. 10,600 crore out of the combined plan of Rs. 17,110 crore. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, NABARD District Manager Usha Madhusudhan, and Lead Bank District Manager Mohan Murali formally launched the credit plan in the city on Thursday. The credit plan provides for Rs. 20 crore each only for educational loans, and Export Credit, while the MSME sector is proposed to be supported to an extent of Rs. 3,250 crore. Out of the total Primary Sector Lending of Rs. 15.010 crore, other allocations include Rs. 130 crore for the renewable energy sector, Rs. 67 crore for social infrastructure, and Rs. 923 crore for housing. In the non-primary sector lending, the banks will lend to an extent of Rs. 2,100 crore. Under the Rs. 10,600 crore agriculture sector lending, the lion’s share of Rs. 8,747 crore goes for short-term loans, Rs. 1,440 crore for long-term agriculture loans, Rs. 188 crore for agricultural infrastructure, and Rs. 217 crore for ancillary activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-releases-credit-plan/article34786100.ece
11 June 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Young doctor performs last rites of COVID victim||At a time when close relatives and even family members are maintaining a ‘safe distance’ from their near and dear ones, who died of COVID-19, a young doctor has set an example for others by performing the last rites of a poor man, as his wife and daughters watched helplessly. “I have not done anything great, and I feel embarrassed to answer the queries from media persons. I had considered it as my responsibility and did it as a common man. The colony residents would have definitely helped the poor woman but for their fear of going near a COVID victim,” Dr. Boddu Ramachaitanya of Narava PHC told The Hindu . “A few days ago, I got a call from an official of the Ward Sachivalayam at Mangalapalem that K. Satyanarayana (40) of the JNNURM Colony died of COVID-19 at his home. His wife and two daughters did not even have the money for the last rites,” he says. “I rushed to their house without a second thought. There was no one to lift the body and place it in the ‘Mahaprasthanam’ vehicle. On learning that I went to the house of the COVID victim, two ward volunteers – Manohar and Hemanth – came forward to assist me in lifting the body. I gave them PPE kits and we three lifted the body and placed it in the vehicle. We performed the last rites at the cremation ground,” says Dr. Ramachaitanya appreciating the young volunteers. He attended to a sick, old man, who was abandoned near a temple at Kothapalem, Gopalapatnam, in the past. He got the blood, liver and kidney function tests done but the old man died, before treatment could be started. Luckily, the old man had tested COVID-19 negative and there was no problem in shifting the body. “I and my colleague were asked to monitor the condition of a 50-year-old man, who had consumed poison, during our posting at a General Medicine ward, during our internship about four years ago. The words of gratitude of the man’s son and daughter ‘you gave us back our dad’ still ring in my ears,” adds Dr. Ramachaitanya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/young-doctor-performs-last-rites-of-covid-victim/article34786134.ece
11 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-battered Chittoor braces for possible third wave||Amid the looming threat of a possible third wave of the pandemic, the district, which was severely battered by the second wave and witnessed more than 1,400 casualties since March 2020, began a massive vaccination drive to cover all mothers having children aged 0-5 on June 10. The immediate priorities before the district administration are enhancing the bed capacity and ensuring oxygen availability at all the COVID hospitals in Tirupati, Chittoor and Madanapalle divisions. In an an emergency meeting here, Collector M. Hari Narayanan instructed the medical and health officials to immediately chalk out an action plan for the conduct of the programme. The administration set a target of covering 30,000 women on day one. He emphasized the urgency of enhancing medical facilities at the COVID hospitals after a few reports hinted at the possibility of children and teenagers being vulnerable to the infection in the third wave. District Medical and Health Officer U. Sreehari informed the Collector that as on date, only 10 children were admitted to SVRR Hospital at Tirupati for COVID treatment, while two were on non-invasive ventilators. “From the beginning of the pandemic till date, the number of children in the age group of 0-10 who tested positive was 8,631 and those in the 11-18 age group were 15,890. All the medical and paramedical staff at the mandal level have been asked to intensify steps to promote COVID-appropriate behaviour among the public, and prevent children from moving without masks in the streets and playgrounds. Pamphlets and posters on COVID awareness are widely distributed all over the district,” the DMHO said. ‘More personnel needed’ Meanwhile, medical officers sought more number of paediatricians and field staff at SVIMS hospital at Tirupati, more medical devices and additional staff for COVID hospital at Chittoor; and 250 KVA generator to launch the oxygen plant at Madanapalle hospital. Disha teams comprising 80 police personnel will visit every village across the Tirupati urban police district and educate the people on the need to continue wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-battered-chittoor-braces-for-possible-third-wave/article34786099.ece
11 June 2021||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Resident welfare associations up in arms against new tax plan||Opposition parties and members of various resident welfare associations have been strongly opposing the proposed new amendments in the property tax by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). About five days ago, the GVMC had issued a draft notification to revise the tax structure based on market price of the property, as against the earlier method of levying property tax based on the rental value. In the notification, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that the corporation has proposed a property tax of 0.15% on the market value of residential buildings, 0.30% on commercial buildings and 0.50% on vacant lands for a year. She also sought suggestions on the draft notice from various sections. “We have been opposing the methodology for many months. With this, the taxes may be revised whenever the Stamps and Registration Department increases the market value of the properties. What could be the market value of a land after capital shifts here?” said vice-president of Andhra Pradesh Federation of Resident Welfare Association (APFERWAS) K.S.R. Murthy. According to Mr. Murthy, if the new amendments come into force, the taxes can be different from one area to another, as the market value of the properties varies. CPI (M) leader and Corporator of Ward 78 B. Ganga Rao said that if the proposed new method of levying taxes came into force, the property taxes would increase by three to five times. This would result in an additional burden of Rs. 700 crore on the residents in Visakhapatnam city, he said. He said, “Consider an 80 sq. yards G+1 house near Peda Waltair, MVP. As of now, the owners are paying about Rs. 1,560 property tax as per the rental value. Now, if the property tax is levied on the market value, then as per the Stamps and Registrations Department, one sq.yard of land is about Rs. 55,000. Now, the market value of 80 sq. yards of land is Rs. 44 lakh. The building/house value is about Rs. 25.60 lakh. Combined, the value is about Rs. 69 lakh. According to the new tax rate of 0.15 %, the new property tax per year would be Rs. 10,440.” ‘Undemocratic move’ Terming the draft notification undemocratic, General Secretary of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) B.B. Ganesh said that amid COVID-19 situation, the State government should focus on reducing the burden on the common man and should not bring such amendments. The members said that the GVMC Commissioner has ignored the council and the Mayor before releasing the draft notification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/resident-welfare-associations-up-in-arms-against-new-tax-plan/article34786127.ece
11 June 2021||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thousands vie for herbal mix in south coastal A.P.||Distribution of a herbal preparation made by Ayurveda practitioner B. Anandaiah was conducted at a brisk pace across south coastal Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday.  A network of volunteers completed distribution of the herbal preparation free of cost to people in Sarvepalli Assembly segment. The preparation was distributed in different parts of Nellore city also by volunteers. In Ongole, it was distributed amid tight security by YSRCP MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy along with his son M. Raghava Reddy. “We planned to provide Mr. Anandaiah’s preparation to 20 lakh people in Prakasam district,” Mr. Raghava Reddy added while overseeing the arrangements made for distribution at the PVR Municipal Boys High School grounds by the MP’s followers. A large number of people waiting in the queues returned disappointed as only 5,000 packets were made available. Simultaneously, a large number of people flocked to Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy’s residence where Ongole Mayor Gangada Sujatha organised distribution of the herbal recipe. “We distributed close to 5,000 packets on Thursday. More packets will be arranged in the coming days,” a YSRCP leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thousands-vie-for-herbal-mix-in-south-coastal-ap/article34786079.ece
11 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||South coastal A.P. sees record 3,851 recoveries in 24 hours||A record 3,851 patients recovered from COVID-19 while the single-day tally was under 900 in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in a span of 24 hours.  Prakasam district witnessed zero deaths for the first time during the second wave of coronavirus. However, one patient succumbed to infection in Nellore district in the last 24 hours ending 9 a.m. on Thursday. The toll went up to 1,709 in the region, with Nellore district accounting for 869 deaths and Prakasam for 840, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/south-coastal-ap-sees-record-3851-recoveries-in-24-hours/article34786077.ece
11 June 2021||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Onus of completing Polavaram R&R on Centre: political parties||Communist Party of India (CPI) State Secretary K. Ramakrishna, A.P. Congress president Sake Sailajanath and other senior leaders from Left parties on Thursday resolved to come together on a common platform to put pressure on the Central government into quickly completing the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) of nearly one lakh displaced families from the affected area of the Polavaram irrigation project. ‘Can’t disown responsibility’ A virtual meeting was organised on the issue, and was moderated by the CPI. “The onus of completing the R&R exercise is on the Centre as per the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014. The Centre cannot disown its responsibility now,” Mr. Ramakrishna said. He also said that pinning hope on the State government to complete the R&R exercise would be unwise, given its present state of finances. “Pressure can be put on the Centre to extend financial aid for the R&R package only with support from all political parties in the State. The State government should also be equally prepared to convince the Centre for the financial grant for the R&R package,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. In his address, Mr. Sailajanath stated that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government has failed to convince the Centre on the Polavaram Irrigation project’s financial components. He added that the Congress was ready to join all parties to fight for the R&R issues. A decision has been taken to conduct the field-level visits in the affected areas of the Polavaram irrigation project to inspect the Resettlement and Rehabilitation exercise by June-end.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/onus-of-completing-polavaram-rr-on-centre-political-parties/article34786076.ece
11 June 2021||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEP not in State’s interests: APTF||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation Srikakulam district president Majji Madanmohan on Thursday urged public representatives to raise their voice in the Assembly and Parliament against the new National Education Policy-2020, alleging that it would deny children of their rights in many ways. He submitted memoranda to Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar and Rajam MLA Kambala Jogulu saying many primary schools would be closed with the plan to merge some primary sections with upper primary and high schools. He added that both Telugu and English medium of instruction should continue simultaneously as teaching in the mother tongue was essential. APTF leaders urged the government to take the opinion of teachers’ unions before implementing NEP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nep-not-in-states-interests-aptf/article34786117.ece
11 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI takes part in ‘Ekantha seva’ at Tirumala||Chief Justice of India Justice N.V. Ramana on Thursday took part in the ‘Ekantha seva’ at the Lord Venkateswara temple here. He was accompanied by his wife Shivamala. After a brief stay at the Padmavati rest house, he proceeded to the temple to take part in the night ritual. Earlier, Justice Ramana, on reaching the town late in the evening, was accorded a warm reception by TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional E.O. A.V. Dharma Reddy, DIG Krantirana Tata, Collector Hari Narayan, Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, SP Ch. Venkatappala Naidu, District Judge Ravindra Babu and other officials at the rest house. Justice Ramana will also visit the temple on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-takes-part-in-ekantha-seva-at-tirumala/article34786082.ece
11 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sundarakanda Patanam completes one year||The popular spiritual initiative ‘Sundarakanda Patanam’ being organised by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) completed a year since on Thursday. It was launched in June last year. The initiative, aimed at the universal well-being, is being organised at the Nada Neerajan Mandapam and it is being telecast live on the SV Bhakti Channel daily. The spiritual programmes of the TTD which initially began with the Yogavasistyam and Dhanvantari Maha Mantra Parayanams from April 10 to June 10 last year in the wake of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic is followed by the launch of Sundarakanda Patanam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sundarakanda-patanam-completes-one-year/article34786102.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested, red sanders logs seized||The sleuths of the Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) arrested two persons on charge of smuggling the precious logs during a combing operation in the KVB Puram reserve forest in Chittoor district on Thursday and seized country-made rifles from their possession. The combing operation was undertaken in the hilly terrains abutting Tamil Nadu following the instructions from Anantapur Range Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Kanthi Rana Tata. Teams led by Circle Inspector Venkata Ravi, Reserve Inspector Krupanand and Forest Range Officer Prasad had been conducting the combing operations in the thick forest for the last three days. On Thursday, the combing party came across some people carrying chopped red sanders logs on their shoulders in the Theerthalakona area. “Seeing the police, the group dumped the logs and fled. However, two members of the group were nabbed after a chase,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (RSASTF) Muralidhar told the media in Tirupati. The accused have been identified as A. Anjaneyulu (50) from Sadasivapuram and Satravada Krishnaiah of S.L. Puram. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-arrested-red-sanders-logs-seized/article34786106.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA creates awareness against use of narcotics||Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has said that he would go to any extent to prevent the youth from getting addicted to narcotics. After submitting a representation to the police to crack the whip on drug mafia, the legislator has been on a walkathon covering the remote colonies to educate the people, especially youth to stay away from the narcotics. He visited Satyanarayanapuram and Jeevakona areas abutting the Tirumala hills on Thursday. He thanked Superintendent of Police Ch. Venkata Appala Naidu for stepping up surveillance in the remote areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-creates-awareness-against-use-of-narcotics/article34786103.ece
11 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister inspects renovation works at temple||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Thursday visited the Vakulamatha temple where the renovation works are in progress. The temple is getting its final shape and is set to be inaugurated soon. Vakula Matha is considered the foster mother of Lord Venkateswara and there is a shrine dedicated to her at the Tirumala temple. The temple is located atop the Peruru hillock. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy instructed the engineers to get the temple ready soon and open it for devotees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-inspects-renovation-works-at-temple/article34786104.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan holds talks with NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman in Delhi||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has requested NITI Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar to include the expenditure entailed by the infrastructure component of ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme, in the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) to ease the burden on the State. He informed Mr. Kumar during an official interaction in New Delhi on Thursday that the government undertook the construction of a total 28.30 lakh houses in 17,005 colonies under the Pedalandariki Illu scheme, for which 68,381 acres of land was acquired. It was targeted to build 15 lakh units in the current year. Basic infrastructure was estimated to cost Rs. 34,109 crore. The Chief Minister also wanted Mr. Rajiv Kumar to facilitate the investment clearance for the Polavaram project as recommended by the PPA and CWC and accepted by the Technical Advisory Committee of Union Ministry of Jal Shakti. He said the government targeted to complete the construction of the project as well as the resettlement and rehabilitation of the displaced people by June 2022. If it was to be accomplished, timely investment clearance was required, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-holds-talks-with-niti-aayog-vice-chairman-in-delhi/article34786109.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC, Inter exams in July if pandemic situation eases||Education Minister A. Suresh on Thursday directed the officials of the School Education Department to prepare the timetables for the conduct of the SSC and Intermediate examinations in July should the pandemic situation eases by then. In a video-conference with the officials, Mr. Suresh asked them to prepare for a review meeting with the Chief Minister on the issue. Contentious issues The Minster also discussed the issues that had become the bone of contention between the teacher unions and the School Education authorities with regard to the implementation of reforms in tune with the National Education Policy. Academic calendar Mr. Suresh said the views of the MLCs representing teachers’ constituencies, teachers, and union representatives should be elicited and discussed thoroughly. He also asked the officials to prepare the calendar for the 2021-22 academic year. Nadu-Nedu works On the ‘Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu’ programme, he said the officials should ensure that the works undertaken in the first phase of the programme were completed within the stipulated time to facilitate commencement of the second phase works. Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar, Director Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director Vetri Selvi, Commissioner, Board of Intermediate Education, Ramakrishna, and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ssc-inter-exams-in-july-if-pandemic-situation-eases/article34786088.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||International Level Crossing Awareness Day observed||Officials of South Central Railway (SCR) celebrated the ‘International Level Crossing Awareness Day’ on Thursday. They conducted awareness programmes for the public at level crossing gates. Speaking on the occasion, railway officials said authorities have taken up the operation to remove the manned level crossings in a phased manner by providing Limited Height Subways (LHS), Road Over Bridges (ROBs) and Road Under Bridges (RUBs) in the zone. As many as 81 manned level crossings have been removed by constructing LHS, ROB and RUBs with the cooperation of the State governments, and steps are being taken to remove the remaining level crossings, the railway authorities said. South Central Railway General Manager Gajanan Mallya appealed to road users to practice safety measures at the level crossings. He asked drivers to stop, look in both directions of the level crossing (railway gates) and only then cross the gates. “Vehicle drivers should observe the alarm, signal light and caution boards arranged at the gates to prevent mishaps,” Mr. Mallya said. Officers and staff at the gates organised awareness programmes at various level crossings in the zone for the public in connection with ‘International Level Crossing Day’ on Thursday. “Most of the accidents occur due to human negligence at level crossings. We appeal to the road users not to cross the tracks when the gate is closed and observe when they approach the level crossing before passing the gate,” said an officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-observes-level-crossing-awareness-day/article34785345.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drive launched to promote e-vehicles||Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy on Thursday launched a ‘Go Electric’ campaign in virtual mode for creating awareness on the benefits of e-Mobility and electric vehicle charging infrastructure. “The government is giving a big push to electric mobility. It has decided to set up 400 charging stations in the first phase,” said the Minister and insisted that electric vehicles were a viable alternative to internal combustion engines by virtue of their lower operational costs. The e-Mobility helps reduce emissions and the dependence on the import of fossil fuels from other countries. The Minister further said that India was heavily dependent on crude oil imports while it was fighting air pollution for cleaner and greener future. Sustainable transport “The campaign will address those two challenges by creating awareness among people on the need for adoption of electric mobility and sustainable transport systems,” said Mr. Srinivasa Reddy. Speaking on the occasion, Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the government was taking measures to promote electric vehicles and setting up charging infrastructure, keeping in view their critical role in energy security and controlling air pollution. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency is monitoring the ‘Go Electric’ campaign, in coordination with the AP State Energy Conservation Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drive-launched-to-promote-e-vehicles/article34786091.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plan to extend drip irrigation coverage||The State government has chalked out plans to extend drip irrigation to one-and-a-half lakh hectares with an expenditure of Rs. 1,190.11 crore during the year 2021-22. Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu, along with Ministers K. Venkateshwara Rao (Civil Supplies) and M. Sankarnarayana (BC Welfare), conducted a review meeting on the procurement and purchase of various crops on Thursday. Mr. Kannababu said the government was planning to extend 90% subsidy to the farmers practising micro-irrigation and holding two hectares of land. In the Rayalaseema region, farmers holding four hectares would be given 70% subsidy and 50% subsidy for those holding five hectares in Prakasam district. In the coastal districts, 50% subsidy would be given, he added. The officials said that 45 lakh tonnes was the target set for paddy procurement during the year 2020-21. So far, 25,25,927 tonnes was procured from 3,78,206 farmers, they added. The procurement was worth Rs. 4,728.81 crore. The Minister said that the farmers would have to register their names in e-panta. The government would purchase every grain produced by them, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plan-to-extend-drip-irrigation-coverage/article34786083.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reach out to fruit growers: Sailajanath||The APCC has urged the government to protect the interests of the fruit growers in the State. In a statement on Thursday, APCC president S. Sailajanath said that in the absence of proper transport and marketing facilities, fruit growers were staring at serious financial losses. The United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organisation had declared 2021 as the International Year of Fruit and Vegetables, the Congress leader pointed out, adding that the aim was to raise awareness and share good practices on the contribution of fruit and vegetables to healthy diets and sustainable lifestyles, while drawing attention to the importance of reducing loss and waste of fruit and vegetables. The State was in the forefront in producing fruits, and yet the farmers were finding it difficult to find buyers for their produce. In these difficult times of COVID-19, absence of remunerative price for the produce was compounding their financial woes, he said. The farmers, who were happy under the Congress rule, were at the receiving end because of the apathy of the successive non-Congress governments, he said. Debts Increase in production cost and diminishing marketing opportunities had pushed the farmers into debts, he added. This year, 740 hectares have been brought under fruit cultivation, and the yield is expected to be nearly 182 tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reach-out-to-fruit-growers-sailajanath/article34786086.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bring research within common man’s reach’||The guiding principle of research should be to bring technology within the reach of the common man, said Telangana State Khadi Textile Park CEO N.J. Rajaram. Addressing the inaugural session of a five-day workshop on ‘Data Science and its Applications’, organised by the Computer Science Engineering Department of SRKR Engineering College at Bhimavaram in West Godavari district in virtual mode, Mr. Rajaram said inter-disciplinary research projects should be encouraged. Principal M. Jagapathi Raju said utilising services offered by the incubation centre in the college, students had set up 18 start-ups so far. Director K. Jeeva Sagar, secretary and correspondent Sagi Vithal Ranga Raju, CEO Nishant Varma, and coordinators R.N.V. Jagan Mohan, G.N.V. Siresha and L.V. Srinivas were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-research-within-reach-of-commoners/article34785340.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students of RVR & JC College hired by Infosys||As many as 137 students of RVR & JC College of Engineering, Guntur, have been selected by IT firm Infosys Ltd., according to the college president Rayapati Srinivas. In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivas said the campus selection drive was conducted in online mode. Secretary and correspondent Rayapati Gopalakrishna and treasurer K. Krishna Prasad said so far 682 students of the college had secured jobs in the academic year 2020-21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rvr-jc-college-students-get-placements/article34785341.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commission patted for helping pregnant women||National Commission for Women (NCW) Chairperson Rekha Sharma praised Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma and other members for the initiatives undertaken by them to help pregnant women during the second wave of coronavirus pandemic. Ms. Sharma spoke to the Chairpersons of Women Commission of different States through video link on Thursday, and enquired about the help being extended to women and the needy during the pandemic. Ms. Padma said that the A.P. Mahila Commission had extended a helping hand to pregnant women in the State. Director R. Suez said that necessary healthcare facilities and oxygen were provided to the pregnant women who had approached the commission. “The Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission, in association with the Police, Women Development and Child Welfare departments, Disha Women Police Stations, One-Stop Centres, Village and Ward Secretariat staff, extended help to the pregnant women who were tested positive,” said Ms. Padma. YSR Clinics The YSR Clinics set up by the government in villages were providing the necessary medical aid to women. The role of NGOs in this regard is laudable, said Ms. Suez and appreciated the officers and staff of the line departments who cooperated with the Women Commission in helping the pregnant women.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/womens-commission-gets-a-pat-for-helping-pregnant-women/article34785344.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘DISCOMs saved Rs. 22.70 cr. on power purchase’||The CMDs of AP-DISCOMs on Thursday said that the normative availability of energy for the generators under Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) was 3,289.30 Million Units (MU) between December 17, 2020 and January 15, 2021. However, the actual energy availability declared for supply was 2,470.79 MU. Responding to a letter written by the APERC regarding power purchases, the CMDs said the actual energy supplied by the generators was 2,253.27 MU and there was a shortfall of 819.3 MU compared to the commission’s orders. DISCOMs scouted for the cheapest power available to bridge the shortfall and saved Rs. 22.70 crore through market purchases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/discoms-saved-rs-2270-cr-on-power-purchase/article34786107.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group-1 exam: Lokesh seeks White Paper on digital evaluation||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national general secretary and MLC N. Lokesh has demanded that the State government must ensure justice to the Group-I mains examination candidates. Taking part in a virtual meeting with the candidates on Thursday, Mr. Lokesh said that the government must explain as to why complaints pertaining to the examination were pouring in. “The digital evaluation was taken up without any prior study on its feasibility. The government has to release a white paper on the digital evaluation to clear the doubts of the candidates,” he said. Mr. Lokesh accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of going back on his ‘much-trumpeted’ election slogan of 'Nenu unnanu, nenu vinnanu' (I am here. I listened). “After coming to power, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy started listening only to the unlawful elements, not to the aspiring youth,” he alleged. The Group-I examination candidates, who took part in the meeting, asserted that the facts would come out only when the government would order an inquiry by a sitting judge of the High Court or by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/group-1-exam-lokesh-seeks-white-paper-on-digital-evaluation/article34786085.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Varla calls for united fight against ‘anti-Dalit’ policies||TDP Polit Bureau member Varla Ramaiah, in an open letter to Dalits on Thursday, urged them to question the “anti-Dalit” policies of the State government. Calling for a united struggle against the government, Mr. Ramaiah said they need to stand by the Dalits who were being targeted by the YSRCP leaders. The TDP leader said injustice was being done to the Dalit officers in promotions. “No action has been taken against a police officer who had allegedly subjected the sister of a retired Dalit IAS officer to domestic violence seeking more dowry,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varla-calls-for-united-fight-against-anti-dalit-policies/article34786089.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Facebook extends $20K as ad credit for Health Dept. page||Social media portal Facebook has extended ad credit worth $20,000 to the Andhra Pradesh’s Health Department page, ‘COVID-19 Response Arogya Andhra’, to boost awareness on the pandemic. In a release, COVID Command Control Centre nodal officer Arja Srikanth said that the Facebook page of the Health Department had over 1.63 lakh followers, which was higher than the follower count of pages of many other States, including Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Odisha. He said that in view of the active participation of the AP page, Facebook had given $20,000 advertisement credit during the COVID-19 second wave. In the first wave, an ad credit of $15,000 was given, he said. He said Facebook also enabled the page with COVID-19 alert option, and reach out to two million Facebook users in the state. He said Facebook was also providing technical help, besides content development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/facebook-extends-20k-as-ad-credit-for-health-dept-page/article34786080.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Collective effort needed to fight virus’||High Court judge Justice B. Krishna Mohan has said that only a coordinated effort by the government, voluntary organisations and the public would help fight COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Krishna Mohan handed over 200 oxygen concentrators donated by the American Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (AAPIO) to the A.P. chapter of the Indian Red Cross Society on Thursday. He appreciated the Telugu non-resident Indians of APPIO and the ICRS, A.P. for helping the needy with oxygen concentrators and medical kits. “As far as the public is concerned, everyone should follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour and keep the virus at bay,” he said. Those in need of oxygen concentrators can get in touch with IRCS by dialling 1800 425 1234.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collective-effort-needed-to-fight-virus/article34785339.ece
11 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covishield available in city||Mothers of children aged below five years and the people of 45+ age group can get Covishield first and second dose at the 12 permanent vaccine centres in the city on Friday. The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials said over 8,580 Covishield doses would be available and vaccination would begin at 7 am. The permanent vaccine centres are located at KBN College, Bhavanipuram Shadhikhana, Kowtha Subbarao Municipal School, MLC MC Elementary School (Old HB Colony), Rajiv Nagar CHC, AKTPM Municipal High School, MK Baig Municipal High School (Singh Nagar) Sadgathi Vidyanikethan (Madhuranagar), GDET Municipal School (Patamata), APSRM Municipal School (Krishna Lanka), Sample Building (Ranigari Thota) and Bishop Grassi School (Gunadala).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covishield-available-in-city/article34785338.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revised method of levying property tax will not burden people, says Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana said that the TDP and other party leaders were levelling baseless allegations against the State government regarding the proposed revised method of taxation by civic bodies. He said that revised method was intended to make urban local bodies financially self-sufficient, maintain uniformity and this would not at all burden the public. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Satyanarayana said that the Opposition parties have been alleging that the State government had brought in the new tax system soon after the municipal elections. But the decision dated back to the pre-election period and was also discussed in the Assembly sessions a few months ago, he said. The Minister said that the decision was taken after conducting a number of meetings. Committees were formed and several teams of officials have gone to various States to study about the taxes, he said. The positives were reviewed and negatives were addressed and opinions of members of various taxpayer associations were also considered, the Minister said. “In the new system, the percentage of tax fixed is between 0.10 and 0.50 of the capital value (CV) for residential buildings and it’s between 0.2 and 2 for non-residential buildings. Only Rs. 50 is levied as property tax for houses below poverty line (BPL) families living in a plinth area of 375 sq.ft,” he said. The new tax hike would be limited to 15% of the existing rate, he said. “The Opposition is falsely portraying that the State would earn thousands of crores from the new system. But we want to clarify that the State would earn an additional revenue of just Rs. 186 crore,” he said. CM’s Delhi tour Mr. Satyanarayana alleged that the Opposition party was politicising the Delhi visit of the Chief Minister. He said that the tour is only to protect the interests of the State and seek funds. He criticised the TDP leaders for saying that Mr. Jagan had gone to Delhi to get the cases against him quashed. “The Opposition failed to speak on State issues that benefit the public like demanding more vaccines from the Centre. But it has been asking the government to distribute Anandaiah’s herbal concoctions. The State government didn’t hold back any welfare scheme even during the pandemic situation to stand by the people in these hard times,” he added. Clean Andhra Pradesh The Minister said that the government would launch Clean Andhra Pradesh (CLAP) programme on July 8, commemorating the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajashekar Reddy. He said that the government is expecting to generate some revenue by collecting Rs. 30 per month from each household for waste collection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/revised-method-of-levying-property-tax-will-not-burden-people-says-botcha/article34786095.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people carry pregnant woman in ‘doli’ for 10 km||The absence of pucca roads to the remote tribal hamlets of Visakhapatnam district continues to be a major problem for the tribal people, who have to carry pregnant women in ‘dolis’ over long distances to reach the nearest road point, which could be reached by an ambulance. Sidari Chilakamma (26), of Kinneralova village, suffered labour pains on June 9 and as there is no proper road to their village, she had to be carried in a makeshift ‘doli’ to the Teegalavalasa road point, 10 km away. Kinneralova is a PVTG (Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group) village of Teegalavalasa panchayat in Hukumpeta mandal. The villagers submitted a memorandum to the ITDA Project Officer at Paderu on Thursday seeking construction of a pucca road from Teegalavalsa Junction to Kinneralova for the benefit of sick persons and pregnant women, who have to be carried in ‘dolis’ in emergencies. CPI(M) State committee member Killo Surendra, Tadigiri panchayat deputy sarpanch Killo Rama Rao and Teegalavalasa Girijana Sangham leader P. Somanna were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-people-carry-pregnant-woman-in-doli-for-10-km/article34786122.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal people’s struggle for power continues||The tribal people of Anantagiri mandal in the district carried heavy poles for 10 km up the hill with the hope of getting electricity. But, that was not to be. Though the poles were erected and the transmission lines laid a couple of months ago, they are yet to get power supply. The disappointed tribals staged a novel protest at Dayarthi village on Thursday by kneeling on the ground and appealing to the officials with folded hands to provide power to their villages. The tribal people of eight villages, who have been living in the dark for the past several years, in the mandal, had a glimmer of hope that they will soon get electricity. When the contractor, appointed by the authorities to carry out the pole laying work, sought their assistance to carry the poles up the hill, they readily agreed thinking he would pay for their labour. “We toiled for nearly two months in carrying the poles. He agreed to pay us money for carrying the poles and wires and digging of earth. The laying of poles and digging of earth for erection of the poles were completed a couple of months ago,” says Rajababu of Dayarthi village. “When we are asking the contractor for payment of our wages, instead of clearing the dues, he wants us to pay Rs. 2,000 for each connection at the Mee Seva centre for provision of meter by the electricity department staff,” says Sidiri Satya Rao of the same village. “There are around 300 families living in the eight villages under Jeenapadu, Pinakota and Pedakota panchayats of the mandal. The material was unloaded at Ballagoruvu village and it was carried up the hills by the tribals,” he says. “A total of 236 non-electrified villages in the Agency have been sanctioned power supply during the previous government. Some of the villages had solar power in the past but the systems had become defunct a few years ago. The meters have to be provided free of cost in the tribal areas to first-time consumers,” says CPI(M) leader K. Govinda Rao. “The rate for carrying a pole, digging a pit and erecting it is around Rs. 2,500 and the tribal people carried 200 poles for the work. The electricity department and the ITDA officials have not initiated any action against the contractor. We will take the issue to the notice of the new Project Officer of the ITDA on June 14,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tribal-peoples-struggle-for-power-continues/article34786093.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Strive for early completion of YSR Jagananna Housing Colonies’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the officials to strive for early completion of YSR Jagananna Housing Colonies and put Visakhapatnam district on top in the implementation of the programme. At a review meeting here on Thursday, the Collector said that 52,050 houses were sanctioned to the district in the first phase. Of these, 27,787 houses would be constructed in 501 layouts. A total of 9,145 houses would be constructed by the beneficiaries themselves in their plots. The remaining 12,000 houses should be grounded by the end of June. An action plan should be formulated and the officials at various levels should strive for completion of the work according to schedules. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector (Development) P. Arun Babu and JC (Housing) Kalpana Kumari were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strive-for-early-completion-of-ysr-jagananna-housing-colonies/article34786125.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 7 deaths, 502 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 502 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,44,309. The death toll also rose to 970 after seven more persons succumbed to the virus. As many as 462 persons who were undergoing treatment for the virus recovered in the last 24 hours. The total number of discharges/recoveries have increased to 1,35,869. The number of active cases stands at 7,470.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-7-deaths-502-new-covid-cases/article34786130.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vendor stabbed to death, 1 held||A street vendor was allegedly murdered reportedly after a drunken brawl at Spring Road under II Town police station limits here on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as B. Subbireddy (37), a resident of Kallupakala Veedhi. The police said that the incident occurred when Subbireddy was speaking with one of his family members. One P. Yugandhar alias Raghava reportedly entered into a heated argument with them in an inebriated condition at around 10 p.m. on Wednesday. Later, Yugandhar allegedly stabbed Subbireddy with a sharp knife. Subbireddy was immediately shifted to a hospital and he died while undergoing treatment, the police said. The accused has been taken into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vendor-stabbed-to-death-1-held/article34786128.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested in two house break-in cases||The city police arrested three persons, who were allegedly involved in two house break-ins in the city, here on Thursday. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that in one case the Dwaraka police arrested B. Lakshmi Tirupatamma (25) and V. Ajay Babu (31), who had allegedly stolen about 14 tolas of gold ornaments from the house of one G. Padma at Madhuranagar area. Mr. Suresh Babu said that Ms. Padma was not present in the house from May 14 to 30. After she returned home on May 31, she found that gold ornaments worth Rs. 4 lakh were missing from the house. Based on the complaint, the city police formed teams and arrested the two accused in Hyderabad. In another case, the Gajuwaka police arrested P. Polipalli alias Raju (35), who had allegedly made good with two tolas of gold ornaments from house of N. Bharathi at Yeduruvanipalem area on May 30. Based on the complaint and acting on a tip-off , the police arrested the accused. The police on Thursday also took a juvenile into their custody for allegedly committing theft of a motorcycle and a mobile phone at Chippada village under Bheemili police station limits on May 20.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-in-two-house-break-in-cases/article34786131.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLSA to conduct virtual Lok Adalat on June 26||A virtual Lok Adalat will be conducted by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Visakhapatnam, in association with mandal-level legal service societies at the District Court in the city on June 26. The virtual adalat, being conducted on the directions of DLSA Chairman and District Judge Avadhanam Hari Haranadha Sarma, will take take up all types of cases pertaining to banks like cheque bounce cases, Negotiable Instruments Act cases, recovery cases, land acquisition cases, revenue cases, labour and family disputes, motor vehicle accidents and compensation and insurance cases, electricity/water/telephone/public utility disputes, criminal cases which are eligible for reconciliation, traffic cases, municipal disputes and pending and pre-litigation cases. DLSA Secretary K.K.V. Buli Krishna noted in a statement issued on Thursday that those who wish to resolve their cases, eligible for reconciliation, at the virtual Lok Adalat, should give prior intimation to the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dlsa-to-conduct-virtual-lok-adalat-on-june-26/article34786123.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nutritional supplements distributed to frontline healthcare workers||GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR) Hospital has received two consignments of nutritional supplements from nutraceuticals company Nutrify on Thursday. They were distributed to frontline healthcare workers at a simple function. GIMSR Medical Superintendent D. Dwarakanath appreciated Nutrify for their gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nutritional-supplements-distributed-to-frontline-healthcare-workers/article34786124.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mass counselling programmes, rallies mark level crossing awareness day||Waltair Division organised rallies and mass counselling programmesas part of the week-long activities, which concluded on the International Level Crossing Awareness Day (ILCAD)-2021 on Thursday. The theme of ILCAD 2021 is ‘distraction’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mass-counselling-programmes-rallies-mark-level-crossing-awareness-day/article34786126.ece
11 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||100 kg ganja seized, five arrested||The district police arrested five persons who were allegedly transporting 100 kg ganja in an auto-rickshaw near V. Madugula mandal in the district on Thursday. Based on credible information, the police teams conducted vehicle checking near Thacheru bridge at V.Madugula mandal, where they intercepted the auto-rickshaw and seized the ganja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/100-kg-ganja-seized-five-arrested/article34786132.ece
11 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Protein-rich diet must for COVID-19 patients’||Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari asked COVID-19 patients to follow a protein-rich diet and take adequate rest for a quick recovery. Minister Botcha Satyanrayana’s family distributed food packets to patients, attendants and hospital staff at MR Government Hospital. Botcha’s Hunger Free Wheels founder Botcha Sandeep Babu said that food packets were distributed among the hospital staff of both MR Government Hospital and Ghosha Hospital as they were unable to get proper food due to closure of restaurants. Former member of AP State Commission for Child Rights Kesali Apparao hailed the Trust’s services in the past one-and-a-half months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protein-rich-diet-must-for-covid-19-patients/article34786116.ece
11 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. hospital gets 10 oxygen concentrators||District Coordinator for Health Services G. Nagabhusana Rao on Thursday said that availability of adequate oxygen was the need of the hour to save patients suffering from coronavirus. The government was trying to ensure oxygen supply to all hospitals with the support of service organisations. Mission Oxygen and LEPRA Society project officer Lanka Ramana handed over 10 oxygen concentrators to MR Government Hospital here. Dr. Nagabhushana Rao said that the death rate had come down significantly with availability of oxygen. DMHO S.V. Ramana Kumari and hospital superintendent Sitarama Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-hospital-gets-10-oxygen-concentrators/article34786118.ece
11 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Open Aadhaar centres at ward secretariats’||Aam Aadmi Party Vizianagaram convener K. Dayanand on Thursday urged the State government to open Aadhaar centers at village and ward secretariats immediately as the existing centres located in banks and other places were unable to provide services to the people during the pandemic. He visited the Aadhaar centers in various places of Vizianagaram where people were arriving as early as 4 a.m. to update their phone numbers and addresses, which was necessary to avail government subsidy schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/open-aadhaar-centres-at-ward-secretariats/article34786114.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Investment clearance for Polavaram project sought||The Chief Minister also requested the Union Minister to consider water supply as an integral part of the irrigation component so that it would be in consonance with the guidelines followed by the Ministry with regard to the national projects. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wanted that the entire expenditure be reimbursed without a restriction on component-wise eligibility. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also asked the Union Minister to reimburse the expenditure incurred by the State government on land acquisition and R&R compensation paid to the project-affected families as per the Right to Fair Compensation & Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation & Resettlement Act, 2013. The Chief MInister also sought shifting of the PPA headquarters from Hyderabad to Rajamahendravaram at an early date. Meet with Javadekar In a separate meeting with Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change, the Chief Minister requested him to take necessary action for solving the problems faced in obtaining environmental clearances for the Polavaram project material stocking works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/investment-clearance-for-polavaram-project-sought/article34786110.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High vigil at inter-State checkposts in Chittoor||Collector M. Hari Narayanan on Thursday informed COVID Task Force teams at all mandals bordering neighboring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu to raise their vigil at the border checkposts in coordination with the area police in order to curb COVID cases in the district. Addressing a meeting with Task Force teams in Madanapalle and Palamaner sub-divisions, the Collector said that apart from intensifying vigil at border areas, the Task Force personnel should take the lead in conducting a fever survey in all villages and wards by the field staff, and achieving the target of vaccination among mothers with children in the age group of 0-5. The task would include identification of the containment zones and distribution of publicity material to reach the public. Meanwhile, the Collector in a press release asked mango farmers not to cut the unripe fruit in a hurry, but instead wait for a few more days before transporting the stocks to the pulp units. He assured mango growers that their entire crop of Totapuri variety would reach the pulp units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-vigil-at-inter-state-checkposts-in-chittoor/article34786101.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A.P. 5th in country in conducting COVID tests’||He also took objection to drawing a comparison with the COVID testing being done in the neighbouring States. The government told the court that the State had conducted 89,732 tests on June 7, while Mr. Ravi Prasad pointed out that only 64,800 tests were conducted on that date.  ‘Comparison uncharitable’ “A comparative statement by the amicus curiae that Telangana has been conducting more than one lakh COVID-19 tests per day is uncharitable, as they are mostly rapid antigen tests,” the Andhra Pradesh government said. In his memo dated June 9, Mr. Ravi Prasad said the imminence of the third wave of the pandemic need not be underscored, and submitted that the court might direct the State to increase the number of tests to control the spread of the virus. Mr. Ravi Prasad also observed that testing was the key to getting back to normal. “The State is lackadaisical in conducting the tests, even while reporting almost 100 deaths every day. Whereas, Telangana has been conducting more than one lakh tests per day, and the deaths reported are less than 20,” Mr. Prasad said. The government also said that the SOP laid down by Central government that nomads, prisoners, inmates of mental health institutions, citizens in old-age homes, beggars and people residing in rehabilitation centres / camps should be given vaccine even if they did not possess any one of the seven photo ID cards, including Aadhaar, was circulated to the District Collectors and nodal officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-5th-in-country-in-conducting-covid-tests/article34786111.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selling like hot cakes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selling-like-hot-cakes/article34786120.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fiery protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fiery-protest/article34786137.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxious wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anxious-wait/article34786113.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article34786097.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking a fair deal||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-a-fair-deal/article34785347.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Active COVID cases now 23,561||The active COVID-19 positive cases in Telangana rose to 23,561 with 1,798 new cases detected as the number of tests continued to be over one lakh with 1,30,430 conducted and results of 1,226 awaited on Thursday. There were also 14 mortalities and number of recovered rose to 2,524, according to the daily bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao. For the first time in last few days, the number of positive cases dipped the 1,800 mark with 1,813 cases detected the previous day. The total number of infected persons since March has risen to 5.98 lakh and recoveries to 5.72 lakh as the official number of fatalities too rose to 3,440. Khammam and Nalgonda districts apart from the capital and its surroundings showed a high number of cases while there was a marked decline in the numbers in other places across Telangana. GHMC had 174, Ranga Reddy 107 and Malkajgiri-Medchal 95. Khammam had a high of 165 and Nalgonda recorded 151 cases. Other districts with relatively high numbers were: Karimnagar 91, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 86, Peddapalli 88, Suryapet 84, Mahabubabad 68, Mancherial 65 and Warangal-Urban 61. Low cases continue to be reported from Adilabad 6, Kamareddy 7, Narayanpet 10 and Nirmal 11. Weekly surge pattern has been witnessed in Khammam from 144 to 165, Malakjgiri-Medchal 81 to 95 and Suryapet 80 to 84. About 322 micro-containment zones have been set up to control the virus spread with the highest number Nalgonda 103, Mahabubabad 68, Jagityal 26, Hyderabad & Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri 15 each, Bhadradri-Kothagudem 13, Karimnagar & Warangal-Rural 12 each, Siddipet 11 and Jogulamba-Gadwal 10. The director said citizens can dial ‘104’ for any grievances or telemedicine or help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/active-covid-cases-now-23561/article34785970.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||US Consulate may open 25% slots for students from June 14||Though the US Embassies and Consulates will open their visa windows to students from June 14, the functioning is expected to be limited to just 25% of the visa slots compared to the non-COVID period. The US Consulate Hyderabad used to issue visa slots up to 800 on an average per day though sometimes the number used to cross 1,000 as well during the pre-COVID days. So students who are planning to apply for the appointments may have to face some disappointment with reduced slots. Similar situation is likely to exist in all the consulates in the country. The visa slots for non-immigrant visas were suspended on April 30 after the deadly spread of the virus in what was called as the second wave in India. In a Facebook chat with prospective visa seekers on Thursday, the Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs, Don Heflin clarified several doubts over the vaccination and appointments. He clarified that there was no rule that students need to get vaccinated to enter the United States and the decision has been decentralised with the universities given the choice. So universities will emphasise on whether vaccination is mandatory and if so what kind of vaccine. So it is better for students to get these details from their respective universities. On the recognition of Indian vaccines, he said it is for the universities to decide on the brand. Some universities may ask students to take a US recognised vaccine again even if they have already been vaccinated. But the US government will not insist on vaccination reports. However, students need to get their RTPCR negative test report 72 hours before the travel. Once they enter the US., they have to take the RTPCR test within three to five days. It is for the university to decide whether the new students need to quarantine or not, he said. Mr Don Helfin ruled out priority to those who have already booked the slots but were cancelled after the Embassy and consulates closed the operations. All the aspirants need to apply again for the new slot. He, however, said applicants can expedite their appointments for emergencies through online appointment system at https://www.ustraveldocs.com/in/expedited-appointment.html. But they must already have a confirmed interview appointment to request an expedited appointment. He also appealed to the aspirants to be patient as the website may give some tough time with huge traffic. Keep on refreshing and try, he said. He also advised students to book slots at their nearest Consulate. The Minister Counselor ruled out giving emergency B1 and B2 visas for parents who wish to drop their children in the universities. Some Indian parents prefer to drop children personally in the US universities but this time they have to send them off at the Indian airports only, he said. The visa application processing fee is now valid till September 30, 2022 and applicants who were unable to schedule a visa appointment due to suspension of routine consular operations can schedule the visa appointment with the already paid fee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-consulate-may-open-25-slots-for-students-from-june-14/article34785989.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jurala gets sustained inflows||Power generation commenced in the second unit of 6×39 megawatt Jurala hydro electric station from early on Thursday and the third unit was run for brief time as the sustained flood of over 16,500 cusecs continued throughout the day. From 18,900 cusecs inflows recorded early in the day, the flood came down to 16,600 cusecs by 6 pm although rain in the immediate upstream catchment areas and release of water through the spillway at Narayanpur dam continued. By Thursday evening, over 7 tmc ft reached Jurala since June 1. Release of water to various lift schemes and canal systems sourced on Jurala also continued on Thursday to maintain the water storage in the reservoir at a safe level below the full reservoir level. At 6 p.m., the storage of water in the reservoir was 9.52 tmc ft against the capacity of 9.66 tmc ft. Similarly, discharge of water into the river course after power generation at Jurala, which was about 5,200 cusecs on Wednesday afternoon, went up to about 14,450 cusecs on Thursday afternoon but reduced to 12,300 cusecs by evening. According to the flood monitoring officials, Almatti was receiving inflows in the measure of around 7,000 cusecs and Narayanpur was getting water being released from the spillway at Almatti due to some maintenance works. Similarly, water was also being released from Narayanpur dam spillway, also for doing some maintenance works. Tungabhadra dam was also getting inflows in small measure. In the Godavari Basin, Singur was getting over 850 cusecs of inflows due rains in the immediate upstream catchment areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jurala-gets-sustained-inflows/article34785978.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rains forecast in next few days||The Southwest Monsoon, which has covered entire Telangana, and the cyclonic circulation in Bay of Bengal brought rains in most places and the forecast is heavy rains in the next few days too. Generally cloudy sky with moderate rain has been forecast for the twin cities too, with temperatures likely to be 30 degree C during the day and 24 degree C during the nights. Temperatures recorded on Thursday were 32.6 degree C in the day and 23.9 degree C during the nights. Chief amounts of rainfall across Telangana were in Asifabad ( Kumaram Bheem) 4 cm, Dharmapuri (Jagtial) 4 cm, Kerameri (Kumaram Bheem) 3 cm, Munipalli (Sangareddy) 3 cm, Khanpur ( Nirmal) 3 cm, Raikode ( Sangareddy) 3cm, Velagatoor (Jagtial) 3 cm. Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) has said during the last 24 hours, highest rainfall of 37.9 mm was recorded at Mamda (Nirmal), highest maximum temperature of 36.5 degree C recorded at Donda Padu (Suryapet) and lowest minimum temperature 20.0 degree C recorded at Pitlam (Kamareddy). Within the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, highest rainfall of 5.7 mm was recorded at Patancheruvu, highest maximum temperature of 33.6 degree C recorded at Narayanaguda and lowest minimum temperature 23 degree C recorded at Hyderabad Central University (HCU).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/heavy-rains-forecast-in-next-few-days/article34785985.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT exports grew 12.98% to Rs. 1.45 lakh cr. last fiscal||Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday said IT and ITeS exports from the State increased 12.98% to Rs. 1,45,522 crore in the fiscal ended March 2021. Substantial considering it came amid the pandemic and the COVID-19 impact on economy, the rate of growth is estimated to be more than twice as much the national average, he said releasing the annual reports for 2020-21 of the IT and Industries Departments in the presence of senior officials, including the Secretary Jayesh Ranjan. In 2019-20, IT/ITeS exports from the State were over Rs. 1.28 lakh crore. Mr. Rao said the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) at which the exports grew -- from Rs. 57,258 crore in 2013-14 -- was 14.25%. He said 46,489 new jobs were added last fiscal taking the IT/ ITES employment to 6,28,615 or an increase of 7.99% compared to 2019-20. Pointing out that the annual reports were being brought out for seven years consecutively, as part of an emphasis on transparency, he said Telangana attracted investments from several marquee firms in 2020-21 too. The list included Amazon Web Services, which is setting up three data centres with an investment of Rs. 20,761 crore ($2.77 billion), Goldman Sachs and MassMutual. The State government as part of its plans to taking IT beyond Hyderabad has developed IT towers in Warangal, Khammam and Karimnagar. While construction of such facilities in Nizamabad (50,000 sq ft) and Mahabubnagar (60,000 sq ft ) were nearing completion, the foundation for another IT Tower in Siddipet (over 1.21 lakh sq ft) has been laid by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. There are plans to develop IT towers in Nalgonda (1,500 seats), Ramagundam (200 seats) and Wanaparthy (250 seats), he said. TS-iPASS or the time-bound project approval system for industries, he said, facilitated cumulative investments of over Rs. 2,14,951 crore and creation of 15.6 lakh jobs. During last fiscal, Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) developed 10 new industrial parks and allotted 810 acres to 453 industrial projects with an estimated investment of Rs. 6,023 crore and potential employment of 7,623. Noting that nearly 20% of the investment made in Telangana were repeat investments, the Minister said existing investors were the best brand ambassadors. Besides consolidating the gains, the State government sought to focus in the current fiscal on growth of the Electric Vehicles (EVs) and food processing sectors. A Special Food Processing Zone, first of its kind in the country, to ensure balanced development is to be set up, he said. The State attracted over Rs. 4,000 crore investments in last one year in electronics, EVs, energy storage systems and new energy space, which are in various stages of implementation, he added. Mr.Rao, while listing the initiatives of the State government for the small and medium enterprises, called upon the Centre to work with the States for the growth of SMEs as they have been impacted severely as a result of the pandemic. Stating that the Centre had announced a Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package for the SMEs, he said “don’t know where the money was spent.” Seeking to highlight the overall growth of Telangana, he said the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) during 2020-21 was Rs. 9.78 lakh crore or 1.26% lower at constant prices (2011-12).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-exports-grew-1298-to-rs-145-lakh-cr-last-fiscal/article34785980.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for selling gutka||Sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (South Zone) on Thursday conducted simultaneous raids at different places at Chandrayangutta, Madannapet and Kanchanbagh and apprehended five persons who were procuring and selling banned tobacco, gutka and foreign cigarettes illegally. The accused are Abu Bakar Bin Ilyas Zumbali (32), Omer Bin Ali Timimi (35) from Chandrayangutta, Abubakar (24)from Gazimillath Colony , P. Gangadhar (56) from Madannapet and Khader Khan (50) of Hafeez Baba Nagar. Banned products worth Rs. 9 lakh were seized from their possession, DCP (Task Force) Chakravarthy Gummi said. Three held Meanwhile, three persons were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (west zone) for selling adulterated gutka worth Rs. 5.5 lakh. The task force raided kirana shops at Mangalhat and Jubilee Hills and apprehended Ram Kishore Kumawath, Satish Bajaj and A.Sai Baba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-held-for-selling-gutka/article34785986.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. initiates auction of lands||Following up the decision of the Cabinet at its meeting on May 30 to sell lands and houses under the control of Telangana State Housing Corporation, the State government has initiated the process by issuing a 15-point standard operating procedure (SoP) that should be followed for e-auction of lands. A high-level steering committee headed by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has been constituted for the purpose. The government had estimated revenue of Rs. 10,000 through sale of lands in the budget presented to the Assembly this year. Lands which are not required for any public purpose and located in prime areas will be identified for e-auction in a transparent manner for realising competitive rates. The decision was taken in view of the land parcels that are not required for any public purpose are scattered across the State and since these are in prime areas, they are prone to encroachments and unauthorised possessions. Therefore, it was decided to permit auction of such lands, the Chief Secretary said in the orders issued on Thursday. According to the SOP issued for smooth conduct and timely execution of sale deeds besides securing fair market value, concerned District Collectors were directed to ensure that the lands identified are litigation-free and that their clear demarcation should be done. All clearances should be obtained through TS-bPASS single window system and GHMC/HMDA should ensure time-bound approval for the layout as well as incorporate them in the master plan. Nodal departments should be delegated powers to approve special terms and conditions and tentative schedule for the conduct of e-auction besides fixing upset price duly considering the prevailing market rates with due diligence. Consultants could be engaged by the nodal agency if need be to arrive at a reasonable upset price. It would be given powers to fix the upset price and issue notifications and further proceedings besides according permissions to engage MSTC as service provider for conducting e-auction. The agency would be permitted to utilise 2% of the sale proceedings towards reimbursement of expenditure incurred for taking up minimal development of the sites, notification and publicity charges, printing of brochures, collaterals, marketing including site visits among others, the order said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-initiates-auction-of-lands/article34785988.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File fresh report on Golconda fort: HC||Expressing dissatisfaction over the government filing a report on 27 historical monuments including Golconda fort in the last minute, the Telangana High Court has declined the government’s request to grant six months to undertake measures for development of those monuments. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the Youth Services and Tourism Principal Secretary to file a fresh status report by July 28 on the plan for re-development of the monuments. The bench was hearing arguments in a PIL plea on the dilapidated condition of Golconda fort and 26 other historical monuments. The bench took up a report filed in a newspaper suo motu as PIL petition and issued notices to the government earlier. During the previous hearing, the bench directed Tourism Principal Secretary to file a report on the measures initiated by a re-development committee which was constituted following directions of the HC. The bench sought to know how many times the committee had met and why minutes of its meetings were not presented to the court. Special Government Pleader Harinder Pershad said the committee had inspected Golconda fort and other monuments on April 19 and prepared a plan of action to develop them. He sought six months to present the report and steps taken by the committee. However, the bench instructed the committee to present the report within six weeks. It directed the committee to conduct a survey of all monuments, including Golconda fort, at the field level and take steps to develop them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/file-fresh-report-on-golconda-fort-hc/article34785972.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB to lead consortium to identify COVID variants||A consortium of four city clusters – Bangalore, Hyderabad, New Delhi and Pune – has been established with eight national labs to upscale SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus genomic surveillance and to complement the national efforts led by INSACOG - Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium on Thursday. Led by Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) in Hyderabad, the consortium currently includes different partners in three other cities. Advisor at CCMB Rakesh Mishra will lead these efforts along with Prof. Satyajit Mayor of NCBS, Prof L.S. Shashidhara, Pune Knowledge Cluster and Dr Anurag Agrawal, CSIR-IGIB. “Our aim is to develop strategies and capabilities to identify ‘variants of concern’ before they spread widely and cause outbreaks. This will also help correlate with clinical symptoms and disease severity, potentially associated with emerging variants,” said the team, in an official press release. The new effort will track the emergence of viral variants correlated to epidemiological dynamics and clinical outcomes. Coupled with intense environmental surveillance and advanced computational techniques, the consortium will also focus on building capabilities for real-time surveillance and epidemiology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ccmb-to-lead-consortium-to-identify-covid-variants/article34785967.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anti-COVID drugs from IICT, Suven||The Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) here, National Institute of Interdisciplinary Science & Technology (NIIST), Thiruvanantapuram and Suven Pharmaceuticals Ltd., (SPL) here, have entered into an MoU for the process technology transfer and manufacturing of the anti-COVID drug Molnupiravir, on Thursday. The antiviral drug was initially developed for the treatment of influenza and is repurposed to completely suppress the COVID virus transmission within 24 hours. IICT would also provide the knowhow for new anti-COVID drug 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose or 2-DG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/anti-covid-drugs-from-iict-suven/article34785968.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held||Three persons were apprehended by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (west zone) for selling adulterated gutka worth Rs. 5.5 lakh. The task force raided kirana shops at Mangalhat and Jubilee Hills and apprehended Ram Kishore Kumawath, Satish Bajaj and A.Sai Baba.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-held/article34785974.ece
11 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Green channel provided||Hyderabad traffic police on Thursday facilitated the transport of live organs (lungs and heart) by providing non-stop movement to an ambulance from airport to KIMS Hospital at Begumpet. The distance of 36.8 km from the Shamshabad airport to KIMS Hospital was covered in 26 minutes from 2.07 p.m. in a coordinated effort by traffic police of Hyderabad and Cyberabad. This year alone, Hyderabad traffic police had facilitated organ transport 14 times, Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/green-channel-provided/article34785973.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cryogenic Oxygen||The GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) handled a massive shipment of cryogenic oxygen containers which arrived at the Hyderabad International Airport at around 19.40 hours by a special Indian Air Force’s Boeing Globemaster aircraft from Singaporeon Wednesday. Special ground handling equipment were used to handle the containers which were later dispatched within a short period, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cryogenic-oxygen/article34785977.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SAIL official gets additional charge||Chief Vigilance Officer of Steel Authority of India Limited Vineet Pandey has taken additional charge as CVO of NMDC. An officer belonging to the 1994 batch of the Indian Railways Service of Electrical Engineers (IRSEE), Mr.Pandey worked in prestigious organisations such as Indian Railways, SAIL, RITES and Central Electricity Authority. He brings in vast experience in corporate coordination, maintenance of probity and integrity, project engineering, system integration, production and maintenance of electrical rolling stock, energy management and green-energy initiatives. A release on Thursday from NMDC said in addition to his present assignment as CVO, SAIL, he will have additional charge of Chief Vigilance Officer, NMDC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sail-official-gets-additional-charge/article34785982.ece
11 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IICT Director gets extension||Director of the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) S. Chandrashekar has been given extension of tenure till he reaches the age of superannuation, according to an official communiqué on Thursday. He has been functioning as the director since 2015 and has just completed his six year tenure. Dr. Chandrasekhar joined the institute for a Ph.D programme and after completing it in 1991 with the then director Dr. A. V. Rama Rao, moved to USA for a post-doctoral position with Prof. J. R. Falck (1991-94). He joined CSIR-IICT as Scientist ‘C’ in 1994 and grew up to the level of director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iict-director-gets-extension/article34785983.ece
11 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two critical care buses for Khammam district||To provide critical care services to COVID-19 patients while in transit, the Lord’s church, an independent organisation, in collaboration with the Hyderabad-based startup Vera Smart Health Care, has rolled out two critical care buses for deployment in the undivided Khammam district. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar along with Collector R V Karnan flagged off one mobile critical care bus (mobile clinic) at Rotary Nagar here on Thursday. The two specially designed giant buses each equipped with ten beds and life saving medical equipment will be deployed one each in Khammam and Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-critical-care-buses-for-khammam-district/article34785992.ece
11 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Home guard beaten up, four arrested||In a shocking incident, a home guard working with Bachupally police station was beaten up by some persons when he went to serve notices to a person at Patancheru. The incident took place on Thursday. According to police, Kanakaiah, a home guard, went to serve notices to the owner of an interior company. Immediately after he entered the premises, he was manhandled and was beaten up and his phone was broken. Based on his complaint, police arrested four persons, registered a case, and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/home-guard-beaten-up-four-arrested/article34785991.ece
11 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Spurious seed worth Rs. 13.50 crore seized||Suryapet police recovered about Rs. 13.50 crore worth spurious seed from an agency that has been allegedly operating without government’s authorisation, lacked mandatory certifications and even recoloured and repacked expired seed, among other violations. Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran, along with his team, disclosed the details of the seizure to media persons on Thursday. They said the raids were joint operations of the police, revenue and the agriculture departments as part of the State-wide drive to check illegal seed practices ahead of kharif season. The police chief said his officials in Chintalapalem mandal were tipped off earlier this week, following which raids were conducted leading to recovery of 992 kg spurious seed from an office-cum-godown at Vanasthalipuram in Hyderabad. By value, 350 kg chilli seed worth Rs. 10.93 crore followed by 480 kg watermelon seed estimated to cost around Rs. 2.40 crore, tomato and ridge gourd seed, about 160 kg in separate packets, rounded to Rs. 18.65 lakh, were recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spurious-seed-worth-rs-1350-crore-seized/article34785990.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt. cancels Class 9, 11 exams||Days after the Central government cancelled the CBSE Class 12 exams due to the pandemic, the Delhi government announced here on Thursday that exams for Class 9 and 11 have been cancelled and students will be assessed based on their performance in the mid-term exams. Students who are unable to take the mid-term examinations will graduate to the next grade through reassessment, with projects and assignments determining reassessment grades. Results will be announced online on June 22 and the Delhi government schools’ admission process for Classes 6 to 9 will begin from June 11 and registration can be done online till month end, it said. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said that while students in Class 8 were promoted without any hassle due to the no detention policy, roadblocks in the promotion of students in Classes 9 and 12 needed to be curbed. Annual examinations of Classes 9 and 12, which were supposed to be held from April 12 onwards, were cancelled by the Delhi government, keeping in mind the safety and security of students, Mr. Sisodia stated. DoE guidelines “Private schools that have already conducted their annual assessments can follow guidelines by the Directorate of Education on promotion policy and declare their result,” the Minister said. For schools that did not conduct any mid-term examination or students who were not able to take all mid-term papers, he stated, assessment will be based on the average of marks obtained in the best two performing subjects out of five main subjects. “Students will receive their result online or via a phone call or WhatsApp,” the Minister said. Reassessment process According to Mr. Sisodia, all students who gave their mid-term exams in only one subject or were unable to give mid-term exams in any subject and students, who did not receive minimum qualifying marks, will be eligible for reassessment. Such students, he said, will be assessed through assignments, projects or school-based tests for promotion to the next higher class and no additional physical or online assessment will be conducted for these students. “Admissions to Delhi government schools will begin from July 5 onwards based on the registration of students. Students who are unable to register in the given date will be eligible to register in the second admission cycle which will begin from July 23 to August 6,” he also said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-cancels-class-9-11-exams/article34785955.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Father’s untimely demise turns youth’s life upside down||An 18-year-old resident of Laxmi Nagar, Kuldeep Chand, now has the weight of his family on his shoulders. Gurbax Singh, a private taxi driver, had died unexpectedly due to COVID-19, leaving behind his wife, Kuldeep and another son. A helpless Kuldeep took to his Twitter handle and sought help. Among those who noticed was Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava, who, with the help of the force, arranged Rs. 10,000 for the youth, now temporarily residing in Punjab. Recalling the night of April 27 that changed his life, he said his father Gurbax Singh complained of chest pain and breathlessness. He, his brother Gurpreet (16) and his mother Kulpreet took him to a nearby nursing home, but his oxygen levels had dropped to 40. “We didn’t know what to do. Doctor asked us to arrange for an oxygen cylinder fearing he had contracted COVID-19. I tried over 500 numbers but couldn’t arrange one. That day, the world proved to be so selfish. One person said he’ll sell the cylinder for Rs. 60,000,” Kuldeep recalled. Left clueless A gurdwara in Indirapuram arranged oxygen for a few hours. But when the family was on its way to a hospital to admit him the next morning, he passed away. In a few seconds, Kuldeep’s world turned upside down. He was all set to go to Canada for higher studies. He is now clueless about sustaining his family. Kuldeep, a second-year undergraduate from IGNOU, took the father’s body to Punjab’s Rupnagar — their hometown — for cremation. “It was my father’s dream to send me to Canada so that I can settle there and eventually take the whole family. I cracked my English proficiency test and also got admission to a college. My father took loans from friends and managed to pay the first instalment but the next is due in July,” he said, adding that over Rs. 4 lakh have been paid and another Rs. 4 lakh was due. Besides, he is crushed by the memories of his father. His father used to address everyone as ‘sir’ or ‘madam’, used to wait outside offices and it was his dream to hear someone address his father as ‘sir’ one day. “But everything seems so blurry now. I am only 18 and suddenly I have the full responsibility of my family, of my brother’s college education, my mother’s health, and my own career,” he said. Staying back Kuldeep said his relatives have suggested they stay back in Punjab, where they can do farming. But Kuldeep doesn’t want to put to waste his and his brother’s education. So the family has resolved to return to Delhi next week. But unable to find any glimmer of light at the end of the tunnel, he tweeted on Wednesday, “i am kuldeep from new delhi as my father was a taxi driver and he recently expired as i left with my mom and younger brother. We are going through the worst days of life, our situation is getting worst day by day please contact us [sic].” He had tagged Delhi Police, which immediately sent an officer who was in Punjab for work. The force helped him with Rs. 10,000 , which Kuldeep has decided to keep for emergency. “When we go back to Delhi, I’ll have some emergency needs. I’ll keep this money for then. I am very thankful to Delhi Police for it,” said Kuldeep, who said if he is unable to go to Canada, he’ll pursue Civil Service and work simultaneously to sustain his family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fathers-untimely-demise-turns-youths-life-upside-down/article34785953.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court denies bail to two accused in murder case||A Delhi court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of two accused in a murder case related to the 2020 north-east Delhi riots, noting that the allegations against the duo are serious in nature. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav junked the plea filed by Rashid and Shoaib who are accused in the murder case of waiter Dilbar Negi whose body was found charred at a local sweet shop. While denying relief to them, the judge relied on the chargesheet, CCTV footage and video footage played in the court by the prosecution and defence, respectively. “It is prima facie clear that the applicants were part of unlawful assembly which was responsible for putting on fire the godown in which deceased Dilbar Negi was there,” the court said. It said both the accused were clearly visible in the CCTV footage carrying a rod in their hands in an agitated posture and instigating other members of the riotous mob. The court said that it is also apparent that the riotous mob armed carrying lethal weapons had engaged in vandalism and looting with a main objective to cause maximum damage to the lives and properties of persons belonging to other community. “The nature of allegations against the applicants are very serious. I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail to both the applicants at this stage,” the judge said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-riots-court-denies-bail-to-two-accused-in-murder-case/article34785949.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth stages own kidnapping to repay debt, brought back to Delhi||A 23-year-old youth, who staged a kidnapping and made repeated calls to his father asking for ransom, was traced in Jalandhar, said the police on Thursday. On June 3, Shahbad Dairy police received information regarding a kidnapping of a man for ransom of Rs. 3 lakh. Police reached the spot and recorded the statement of Veer Pal Singh, a resident of Prahladpur, a police officer said. Mr. Singh stated that on June 1, his son Aman had gone to market, but did not return home. On June 3 around, he received a call from his son who claimed that he had been kidnapped and the kidnapper was demanding Rs. 3 lakh as ransom. During probe, the location of alleged mobile phone was tracked to Jalandhar following which a team was sent there. He was traced and brought back to the Capital on Sunday, police said. “During interrogation, it came to the knowledge that Aman, who is a small time car dealer, wanted to sell a car owned by one Ravi. On June 1, Aman went to Hisar in Haryana where his friend Ankit along with the purchaser met him. The buyer handed over Rs. 2 lakh to Aman and he kept the money in a bag. Ravi cheated Aman, snatched the bag and escaped,” DCP (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said. The buyer was putting pressure on Aman to return the money. Later, Aman went to Jalandhar with Ankit and started working as a labourer. He thought that he won’t be able to return the money with the job and hence staged the kidnapping, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youth-stages-own-kidnapping-to-repay-debt-brought-back-to-delhi/article34785956.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Carjackers arrested from Meerut after dramatic chase||Three men wanted in a carjacking case were arrested after a dramatic chase in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut, the police said on Thursday. The main accused got shot in his leg while trying to escape after snatching a service pistol during a visit to the crime scene, they said. The accused were identified as Mohan (26), Anmol (20) and Satish (27), all residents of Sonipat in Haryana, they said. The robbed car, two stolen mobile phones and the pistol used in the offence with seven live cartridges were recovered, officers said. According to the police, in the early hours of Wednesday, they received information regarding a carjacking incident with three persons threatening the driver at gunpoint. Driver Pushpender, a resident of Mainpuri district in U.P., said the three accused had hired his car from Kaushambi to Bawana. On the way, they stopped the car in a forested area in Narela where they beat him and robbed his car and two mobile phones at gunpoint, a senior police officer said. “With the help of technical surveillance, police reached Meerut and traced the car. They chased the car and overpowered all the three accused,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said. Part of murder plan Mohan disclosed that the stolen mobile phone was thrown near the jungle in Shahpur Garhi where the car was robbed and they were planning to kill one Krishan of Butana village by using that car, the DCP said. The accused were taken to the spot for the recovery of mobile phones. When they reached the spot, Mohan snatched the service pistol of constable Sanjeev and tried to escape into the jungle, police said. When the police chased him, he opened fire at them. Police also fired a bullet that pierced his left leg. He was taken to Maharishi Hospital, police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/carjackers-arrested-from-meerut-after-dramatic-chase/article34785957.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea in HC to postpone FMGE screening test||The Association of MD Physicians has asked the Delhi High Court to postpone the Foreign Medical Graduate Examination (FMGE) screening test scheduled for June 18 due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the country. The association contended that there are a limited number of cities being notified as centres for the FMGE screening test and a large number of candidates will be forced to travel without having received even one dose of vaccine. The petition was opposed by the National Board of Examination (NBE) and the National Medical Commission (NMC) saying that it was only a qualifying exam which can be taken even in December, if not in June and the test should not be postponed at the behest of a few candidates. Justice Amit Bansal will continue the hearing on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-in-hc-to-postpone-fmge-screening-test/article34785948.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lifeline||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lifeline/article34785951.ece
11 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra govt. clears action plan to protect heritage trees||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday passed an action plan to protect and preserve trees older than 50 years in urban areas by terming them heritage trees. The plan includes the concept of heritage tree and plan of action for conservation; method to define age of the tree; compensatory plantation; rules to be followed before hacking trees; formation of the Maharashtra Tree Authority; structure of the local tree authority and their duties; tree census; fixing land of tree plantation; transplantation of trees; and tree cess and fine to be charged. The State will also bring about amendments in the Maharashtra (Urban Area) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act. As per the plan, trees older than 50 will be termed heritage trees. The Environment and Climate Change Department will issue guidelines in consultation with the State Forest Department based on the existing methods. Compensatory plantation will include planting the number of trees equivalent to the age of trees to be cut. The saplings need to be six to eight feet in height while planting and they will undergo geo-tagging with seven years of caring period. The option of monetary compensation has also been given, instead of compensatory plantation. A State-level Tree Authority will be formed to protect and preserve heritage trees. The authority will hear applications seeking permission to cut 200 or more trees that are five or more years old. The local tree authorities will come under this body. Tree experts will be part of the local tree authorities. These bodies will ensure that the tree census is conducted after every five years. They will also be in charge of counting heritage trees, ensuring their preservation, keeping tabs on tree plantation, pruning and caring of trees, and ensuring that 33% of government land is used for tree plantation. The State authority will issue directions for the use of tree cess. The fine amount cannot be more than Rs. 1 lakh per tree in case of violations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-govt-clears-action-plan-to-protect-heritage-trees/article34785472.ece
11 June 2021||Mumbai,||Opportunity to win govt. projects up to Rs. 15 lakh at Maharashtra Startup Week||The Maharashtra government is set to hold the fourth edition of Maharashtra Startup Week from August 9 to 13 to encourage young and innovative entrepreneurs. The Maharashtra State Innovation Society (MSIS) is the nodal agency under the State government’s Department of Skill Development, Employment, and Entrepreneurship, which is responsible for conducting the programme. Applications are open till June 15 and from the total entries, 100 startups will be shortlisted by next month. The final 24 winners will be awarded government pilot projects up to Rs. 15 lakh. The winners will also receive assistance from the State for 12 months. “The Maharashtra Startup Week is a one-of-a-kind opportunity for startups with out-of-the-box innovations to engage directly with the government and also open doors to scale their solutions. The entrepreneurial talent of the country will surely benefit from such a unique programme,” said Nawab Malik, Skill Development, Employment and Entrepreneurship Minister. MSIS aims at the promotion of entrepreneurship and innovation framed under the Maharashtra State Innovative Startup Policy 2018 to promote an innovation-driven entrepreneurial ecosystem in the State. The MSIS has envisaged Maharashtra Startup Week as a platform to bring innovation in government by giving opportunities for startups to showcase and provide their innovative services/products. “After successfully organising three editions, we invite startups to participate in the fourth edition of the Maharashtra Startup Week. Startups from sectors such as education, healthcare, agriculture, environment, skill improvement, clean energy, water and waste management, smart infrastructure and mobility, governance and miscellaneous can submit their applications,” said Deependra Singh Kushwah, CEO of MSIS. He said the top 100 startups would be selected to pitch their innovative solutions to a select panel of judges comprising representatives from the government, industry, academia and investors. Over the past three editions, 72 startups won pilot projects and an opportunity to provide their solutions to different government bodies such as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, the Directorate of Health Services and the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited. Visitwww.msins.in/ startup-weekto participate.  It is a one-of-a-kind opportunity for startups to engage directly with the government Nawab Malik Maharashtra Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/opportunity-to-win-govt-projects-up-to-rs-15-lakh-at-maharashtra-startup-week/article34785470.ece
11 June 2021||Mumbai,||Interest-free crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Thursday cleared a proposal to provide crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh at zero interest rate. Under the Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Interest Concession Scheme, farmers who repay their interest of loans up to Rs. 3 lakh get interest subsidy. The decision was taken at the State Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Finance Minister Ajit Pawar, while presenting the State budget for 2021-22, had announced that crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh will be charged at zero per cent interest. The State government was earlier extending interest concession of 3% to non-defaulters with crop loans up to Rs. 1 lakh and 1% concession in interest rate if crop loans between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh was repaid on time. The scheme was aimed at encouraging non-defaulters. Under the new scheme, those who repay crop loans on time will get 2% additional interest concession for a short-term crop loan between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh. The State government will extend a total concession of 3%. The Central government too encourages timely repayment of crop loans with 3% interest concession on short-term crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh. Combining both the schemes, farmers will get 6% as total interest concession, ensuring short-term crop loans up to Rs. 3 lakh at zero interest rate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/interest-free-crop-loans-up-to-rs-3-lakh/article34785473.ece
11 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||‘Name Navi Mumbai airport after PWP leader’||Thousands of local residents and project-affected people formed human chains on Thursday to express their disappointment over a proposal to name the upcoming Navi Mumbai international airport after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray. Around one lakh villagers held placards demanding that the airport be named after the late Peasants and Workers’ Party (PWP) leader and parliamentarian Dinkar Balu Patil, who was popularly known as D.B. Patil. The human chains were spread across 130 km covering Uran, Ulwe, CBD Belapur, Panvel, Digha, Shilphata, Kalyan, Bhiwandi, Kalwa, Mira-Bhayander, Thane, Chunabhatti and Mankhurd. “From 2012, when the airport project was announced, we had put up a board in the area saying ‘DB Patil International Airport’. All parties had agreed on the name then. Even the Shiv Sena was in support of it. Now, since they are in power, they have decided to name it after Balasaheb Thackeray. We respect Mr. Thackeray, but we want DB Patil’s name on it as it was due to his efforts that project-affected-people are drawing the benefits from government schemes,” Rajesh Patil, who coordinated the human chain in Navi Mumbai, said. The All-Party Action Committee (APAC) that organised the human chain said that the State government should understand the emotions of the villagers and accept their demand. On April 17, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), which is the nodal government agency for the airport that is coming up near Panvel, approved a proposal to name the airport after Bal Thackeray. The proposal was then sent to the State government for final approval. “Three days ago, the Chief Minister held a meeting in which he said that the airport will be named after Bal Thackeray and that we can suggest some other project to be named after D.B. Patil. It was the late PWP leader who had fought for the farmers and project-affected people and ensured that they receive 12.5% of the developed land from CIDCO. Apart from Navi Mumbai, Patil had also struggled for the cause of farmers in Thane and Palghar districts. If not this project, which other project would be apt to bear DB Patil’s name?” said project-affected person who participated in the human chain. Protest on June 24 APAC now plans to hold another major protest against CIDCO’s decision on June 24, the death anniversary of D.B. Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/name-navi-mumbai-airport-after-pwp-leader/article34785474.ece
11 June 2021||Pune,||CHIME telescope yields unprecedented results||Scientists with the Canadian Hydrogen Intensity Mapping Experiment (CHIME) Collaboration, who include researchers at the Pune-based Tata Institute for Fundamental Research (TIFR) and the National Centre for Radio Astrophysics (NCRA), have assembled the largest collection of fast radio bursts (FRBs) in the telescope’s first FRB catalogue. While catching sight of an FRB is considered a rare thing in the field of radio astronomy, prior to the CHIME project, radio astronomers had only caught sight of around 140 bursts in their scopes since the first FRB was spotted in 2007. FRBs are oddly bright flashes of light, registering in the radio band of the electromagnetic spectrum, which blaze for a few milliseconds before vanishing without a trace. These brief and mysterious beacons have been spotted in various and distant parts of the universe, as well as in our own galaxy. Their origins are unknown and their appearance is highly unpredictable. But the advent of the CHIME project — a large stationary radio telescope in British Columbia, Canada — has been a game changer and has nearly quadrupled the number of fast radio bursts discovered to date. With more observations, astronomers hope soon to pin down the extreme origins of these curiously bright signals. The telescope has detected a whopping 535 new fast radio bursts in its first year of operation itself, between 2018 and 2019. “Before CHIME came along, different telescopes had observed a handful of FRBs each, but with their own selection criteria and software. But now, with the help of CHIME, we can observe a large swathe of the sky round the clock and were able to detect FRBs at an unprecedented rate. We could gather the first large sample of FRBs with a single instrument and a single, well-understood selection criteria which is allowing us to get a far better understanding of the properties of the FRBs as a population,” said CHIME/FRB member Shriharsh Tendulkar, also a faculty member at the TIFR-NCRA. The new catalogue significantly expands the current library of known FRBs, and is already yielding clues as to their properties. For instance, the newly discovered bursts appear to fall in two distinct classes: those that repeat, and those that don’t. Scientists have identified 18 FRB sources that burst repeatedly, while the rest appear to be one-offs. When the scientists mapped their locations, they found the bursts were evenly distributed in space, seeming to arise from any and all parts of the sky. From the FRBs that CHIME was able to detect, the scientists calculated that bright fast radio bursts occur at a rate of about 800 per day across the entire sky — the most precise estimate of FRBs overall rate to date. The first FRB catalogue is to be presented later this week at the American Astronomical Society Meeting. Mr. Tendulkar said that observations showed that the repeaters looked different, with each burst lasting slightly longer and emitting more focused radio frequencies than bursts from single, non-repeating FRBs. “We find that repeaters emit bursts of longer duration with the radiation being detected in a narrower range of frequencies compared to the one-off FRBs. These differences strongly suggest that emission from repeaters and non-repeaters is generated either by different physical mechanisms or in different astrophysical environments,” said Pragya Chawla, a Ph.D. candidate at McGill University and a member of the CHIME team. CHIME comprises four massive cylindrical radio antennas, roughly the size and shape of snowboarding half-pipes, located at the Dominion Radio Astrophysical Observatory, operated by the National Research Council of Canada in British Columbia. The telescope receives radio signals each day from half of the sky as the Earth rotates. While most radio astronomy is done by swivelling a large dish to focus light from different parts of the sky, CHIME stares, motionless, at the sky, and focuses incoming signals using a correlator — a powerful digital signal processor that can work through huge amounts of data, at a rate of about seven terrabytes per second, equivalent to a few per cent of the world’s Internet traffic. “Digital signal processing is what makes CHIME able to reconstruct and ‘look’ in thousands of directions simultaneously. That is what helps us detect FRBs a thousand times more often than a traditional telescope,” says Kiyoshi Masui, Assistant Professor of Physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), who will lead the group’s conference presentation at the American Astronomical Society Meeting. For each of the 535 FRBs that CHIME detected, Professor Masui and his colleagues measured its dispersion and found that most bursts likely originated from far-off sources within distant galaxies. The fact that the bursts were bright enough to be detected by CHIME suggests that they must have been produced by extremely energetic sources, he said. As the telescope detects more FRBs, scientists hope to pin down exactly what kind of exotic phenomena could generate such ultra bright, ultra fast signals. According to Professor Masui, the scientists plan to use the bursts, and their dispersion estimates, to map the distribution of gas throughout the universe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/chime-telescope-yields-unprecedented-results/article34785476.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Rain in the offing||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rain-in-the-offing/article34785960.ece
11 June 2021||Washington DC/ New Delhi,||U.S. to donate 500 mn doses to world||The U.S. will purchase half a billion doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and donate them to 92 low and middle-income countries and the African Union. The vaccines will be shipped from August onwards, with 200 million doses distributed this year and 300 million by the middle of next year, according to a ‘fact sheet’ released by the White House. Rich countries have come under increasing pressure to not sit on orders of excess vaccines as many in middle and lower income countries remain unvaccinated. The news of Joe Biden’s plan broke on Wednesday, as the President was en route to the U.K. to attend the G7 meetings. Mr. Biden is expected to formally announce the plan on Thursday evening from Cornwall, following his meeting with U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson. The U.S. will work on delivering the vaccines via COVAX, an international coalition that is involved with global vaccine access. Mr. Biden is expected to emphasise, in his remarks, that his plan will give lower income countries access to mRNA vaccines, which have been mostly used in rich countries to date, partly owing to more stringent cold chain requirements, which are harder for poorer countries to ensure. Pfizer will sell the doses to the U.S. government at a “not-for-profit” price, the Washington Post reported. The doses will be produced at Pfizer’s plants in Michigan, Kansas, Missouri and Massachusetts, with a combined workforce of at least 7,500 people, according to the White House. The current administration has been keen to tie its foreign policy to domestic goals and the local economic impact of the massive vaccine order is something Mr. Biden is expected to stress in his remarks, as per the White House’s outline of the speech. India will benefit Separately, the U.S. has already begun shipping 80 million doses of mostly AstraZeneca vaccines to other countries. Three quarters of these are being allocated through COVAX and a quarter is being shared bilaterally. India is also going to be in receipt of some of these vaccines but numbers are not likely to be more than a few million. When asked at Wednesday’s press briefing, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price did not confirm the total number of doses India would receive. In response to a question on how many vaccines India would receive, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the government was awaiting details of the U.S. plans. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar was in Washington at the end of May to discuss, among other things, vaccine procurement for India, including manufacturing within India. However, regulatory issues remain even as supply chain issues are easing up, partly due to the U.S. releasing AstraZeneca, Novavax and Sanofi vaccines from the purview of its Defence Production Act, which had resulted in export controls for raw materials that go into manufacturing these inoculations. Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla met with U.S. Chargé D’Affaires Daniel Smith in New Delhi on Wednesday to discuss, among other things, cooperation on COVID-19 and vaccine supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-donate-500-mn-doses-to-world/article34785238.ece
11 June 2021||RAMALLAH,||3 Palestinians killed in West Bank||Israeli troops shot and killed three Palestinians, including two security officers, in a shootout that erupted in the occupied West Bank town of Jenin during what appeared to be an Israeli arrest raid overnight, Palestinian officials said on Thursday. Israel and the Palestinian Authority (PA) coordinate security operations in the territory against Hamas and other militant groups seen as a threat to both of them. The coordination has contributed to mounting anger among Palestinians. A spokesman for Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas condemned what he called a “dangerous Israeli escalation,” saying the three were killed by Israeli special forces who disguise themselves as Arabs during arrest raids. The spokesman, Nabil Abu Rdeneh, called on the international community and the United States to intervene to halt such attacks. Israeli media reported that special forces went into Jenin to arrest two operatives from the Islamic Jihad militant group when they came under fire. One of the Palestinian suspects was killed, in addition to the two security officers, the media reports said. ‘Undercover’ forces There were no reports of any Israeli casualties. The PA said the two officers who were killed were members of its military intelligence force. Online video appears to show Palestinian officers taking cover behind a vehicle as gunshots are heard in the background. One shouts that they are exchanging fire with Israeli “undercover” forces. Under interim peace agreements signed in the 1990s, the PA has limited autonomy in scattered enclaves that together make up around 40% of the occupied West Bank. Hamas drove its forces out of Gaza in 2007 when the Islamic militant group seized power. Israel has overarching security authority in the West Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/3-palestinians-killed-in-west-bank/article34785235.ece
11 June 2021||Carbis Bay,||Biden, Johnson seek to sign ‘new Atlantic Charter’||President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson met for the first time on Thursday, looking to highlight their nations’ famed “special relationship” but doing so against a backdrop of differences both political and personal. At their first meeting in the seaside resort of Carbis Bay, the two leaders inspected documents on Thursday related to the Atlantic Charter, a declaration signed by British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt in August 1941, setting out common goals for the world after Second World War. Those goals included freer trade, disarmament and the right to self-determination of all people. It is often cited as a cornerstone of the trans-Atlantic “special relationship.” Mr. Johnson noted that the charter laid the foundation for the United Nations and NATO. “Yeah, I know,” Mr. Biden said. Finding common ground At their meeting, the two leaders plan to sign what they’re calling a new Atlantic Charter, pledging to “defend the principles, values, and institutions of democracy and open societies.” Mr. Biden hopes to use his first overseas trip as President to reassure European allies that the U.S. had shed the transactional tendencies of Donald Trump’s term and is a reliable partner again. But tensions could simmer beneath the surface of Mr. Biden’s meeting with Mr. Johnson. The President staunchly opposed the Brexit movement, the British exodus from the European Union that Mr. Johnson championed, and has expressed great concern with the future of Northern Ireland. And Mr. Biden once called the British leader a “physical and emotional clone” of Mr. Trump. The British government has worked hard to overcome that impression, stressing Mr. Johnson’s common ground with Mr. Biden on issues such as climate change and his support for global institutions. But Mr. Johnson, the host for the G-7 summit that will follow his sit-down with Mr. Biden, has been frustrated by the lack of a new trade deal with the U.S.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-johnson-seek-to-sign-new-atlantic-charter/article34785228.ece
11 June 2021||Yangon,||Myanmar military charges Suu Kyi with corruption||The Myanmar junta has charged deposed civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi with corruption over claims she accepted illegal payments of gold and more than half a million dollars in cash, state media reported Thursday. The country has been in turmoil since the generals ousted Ms. Suu Kyi on February 1, with more than 850 civilians killed in a brutal crackdown by security forces on near-daily protests against the coup. The 75-year-old Nobel laureate, who has been in custody since the putsch, is facing a raft of wide-ranging criminal charges, including sedition and breaching a colonial-era secrecy law. The latest charges relate to allegations by the former Yangon region Chief Minister that Ms. Suu Kyi illegally accepted $6,00,000 in cash from him along with around 11 kg of gold. The Anti-Corruption Commission found evidence that Ms. Suu Kyi had committed “corruption using her rank”, according to the Global New Light of Myanmar, a state-run newspaper. “So she was charged under Anti-Corruption Law section 55.” She is also accused of abusing her authority when renting two areas of land for her charitable foundation. After weeks of legal wrangling, two of Ms. Suu Kyi’s trials are due to start in earnest next week, hearing evidence from witnesses. In Naypyidaw, the remote capital purpose-built by the previous military regime, her trial on charges of violating restrictions during last year’s election campaign and possessing unlicensed walkie-talkies will start on Monday. A separate case is scheduled to start on June 15, where she is charged with sedition alongside ousted President Win Myint and another senior member of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party. Charges ‘absurd’ Her lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, dismissed the corruption charges as “absurd”. “There is an undeniable political background to keep her out of the scene of the country and to smear her prestige,” he told AFP, saying she could face long prison terms on the secrecy and corruption charges. “That’s one of the reasons to charge her — to keep her out of the scene.” Ms. Suu Kyi spent more than 15 years under house arrest during the previous military rule before her 2010 release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/myanmar-military-charges-suu-kyi-with-corruption/article34785233.ece
11 June 2021||Moscow,||Navalny group vows to fight on after court brands it ‘extremist’||Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny’s anti-corruption group vowed on Thursday to fight on after a court branded it an “extremist” organisation and ordered its closure. Western countries and the European Union were quick to condemn Wednesday’s late-night ruling, but senior Russian officials doubled down, describing Mr. Navalny as an agent collaborating with Washington. The court decision was the latest move against critics of President Vladimir Putin. Some of his loudest opponents have fled the country and several prominent activist groups and independent media have closed. The ruling bans Mr. Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) and a network of regional offices from operating and, under a recently passed law, prevents those previously associated with the groups from running in parliamentary elections. The FBK was defiant, saying in a Twitter post: “We woke up, smiled with destructive intent and knowing that we are a ‘danger to society’ will continue to fight corruption!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/navalny-group-vows-to-fight-on-after-court-brands-it-extremist/article34785226.ece
11 June 2021||Lima,||Castillo holds razor-thin lead||Leftist Pedro Castillo held a razor-thin lead on Wednesday in Peru’s polarising presidential election as his right-wing rival Keiko Fujimori made renewed allegations of voter fraud she claimed involved half a million ballots. With 99% of votes counted from Sunday’s presidential poll, rural school teacher and union leader Mr. Castillo retained a small lead of 50.2% over Ms. Fujimori’s 49.7%. On Wednesday, Ms. Fujimori asked the National Electoral Tribunal (JNE) to annul the results of 802 polling stations, the equivalent of 2,00,000 votes. She also asked for another 3,00,000 ballots to be reviewed, so “half a million votes are in play,” she said at a press conference. Ms. Fujimori, the daughter of jailed former President Alberto Fujimori, led in early counting but as Mr. Castillo slowly gained ground, she alleged “irregularities” and “signs of fraud.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/castillo-holds-razor-thin-lead/article34785229.ece
11 June 2021||Geneva,||Delta variant is taking hold of Europe: WHO||The World Health Organization’s Europe director warned that the highly transmissible delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 is “poised to take hold in the region,” as many countries prepare to ease restrictions and allow more social gatherings and travel across borders. During a press briefing on Thursday, WHO’s Dr. Hans Kluge said the delta variant has shown signs of being able to evade some vaccines and warned that many vulnerable populations, particularly those over age 60, remain unprotected. “We have been here before,” warned Kluge, WHO’s European regional director. “Over the course of last summer, cases gradually rose in younger age groups and then moved into older age groups, contributing to a devastating resurgence,” he said. Dr. Kluge said that spike in COVID-19 ultimately led to more lockdowns and deaths in the fall and winter of 2020. “Let’s not make that mistake again.” Dr. Kluge did not say people shouldn’t travel, but urged any travellers to do so wisely. He also called for vaccination and other public health measures to be stepped up across the continent, saying even immunisation coverage “is far from sufficient to protect the region.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/delta-variant-is-taking-hold-of-europe-who/article34785239.ece
11 June 2021||Colombo,||Colombo looks into likely oil slick from ship||Sri Lanka announced an investigation on Thursday into a possible oil slick reported off its west coast where a container ship is submerged after burning for 13 days. Coast Conservation Minister Nalaka Godahewa said local experts were asked to examine an oil patch of about 0.35 sq km, where MV X-Press Pearl ran aground. “I visited the area by boat yesterday and what we noticed was a thin film of oil which looked like diesel,” Mr. Godahewa told reporters in Colombo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/colombo-looks-into-likely-oil-slick-from-ship/article34785237.ece
11 June 2021||VALENCE,||EU--France-Macron Slapped||Damien Tarel, a 28-year-old man on trial for slapping French President Emmanuel Macron, testified on Thursday that the attack was impulsive and unplanned, and prompted by his anger at France's “decline.” He faces possible jail time.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/eu-france-macron-slapped/article34785231.ece
11 June 2021||Islamabad,||Pak cleric threatens to kill Nobel Laureate Malala Yousafzai, arrested||Pakistani Muslim cleric, Mufti Sardar Ali Haqqani, has been arrested under the anti-terrorism act for threatening to kill Malala Yousafzai in a suicide attack and instigating people against the Nobel Laureate, police said.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-cleric-threatens-to-kill-nobel-laureate-malala-yousafzai-arrested/article34785234.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Should retired officials be barred from disclosing information?||Last week, the Government of India prohibited retired officials of security and intelligence organisations from publishing anything about their work or organisation without prior clearance from the head of the organisation. Serving civil servants are barred from expressing their personal opinion on policy matters and criticising the government. But once they retire, many of them take part in public debates and enrich our conversations. In a conversation moderated by Varghese K. George , G.K. Pillai and Syed Akbaruddin discuss whether there should be any restrictions on the freedom of expression of a specific category of retired government officials. And if yes, what the limits of such restrictions should be. Edited excerpts: Mr. Pillai, do you think the restrictions imposed on retired officials of intelligence and security organisations are justifiable? G.K. Pillai:We have the Official Secrets Act [of 1923]. Officers of intelligence and security organisations and other departments are privy to a lot of sensitive information. So, all of us in the service take into account the fact that the government needs some control over that information leaking into the public. The issue is whether it is all information on which there is not yet much clarity or whether it is sensitive information. Who decides what is sensitive and what is not? The government would like to have some control so that existing intelligence security operations are not affected by such leakage of information. But there is this fine balance which has to be struck and we have so far been managing that. Many retired officers who are in these sensitive organisations actually informally get their draft vetted by the current head of the security services, so that there is no information which is of operational nature and could get compromised. The government has now put it down in a formal manner and we have to see how it goes. So, you are in favour of some kind of restrictions. The recent announcement makes this restriction lifelong, and the word ‘sensitive’ is left open to subjective interpretations... GKP:I would put a time limit — say, five years from the time you retire. It is the operational information which is actually more sensitive. In five years, it won’t be of concern in most cases. Unlike in the U.S., for instance, books by former intelligence officials are infrequent in India. Given that, how do you see the move, Ambassador? Syed Akbaruddin:The tradition of understanding history through eyewitness accounts is not new. That tradition, unfortunately, in the past, as far as India is concerned, has been weakened. We gain and the public is better informed of activities, including those taken for the benefit of our own country’s interests, when information is shared from different perspectives. And that should be the broad theme. Increasingly, a large number of people at different levels have returned to the tradition. The former Leader of the Opposition, L.K. Advani, has written an excellent book about his own experiences, for instance. There is always tension between the government’s desire to keep information secret on national security grounds and the public’s right to information held by public authorities. But there is a near-universal consensus among decision-makers, not only in India but elsewhere too, that some measure of secrecy is necessary to protect authorised national security activities such as intelligence gathering, military operations, sometimes confidentiality of deliberations and sometimes personal privacy. So, in a democracy, the public has a right to know. Questions related to national security are considered holy. We have ongoing debates on how best we can ensure democratic accountability of security agencies. Is our problem one of too much of information being in the public domain or too little transparency in the functioning of our national security apparatus? GKP:One way in which information is actually given to the public is through the declassification of files. In the U.S., at the end of 30 years, after a rigorous examination, they declassify most files and make them available in the public domain. In India, we don’t declassify information enough. For example, the Henderson Brooks report on the 1962 conflict with China. It’s been more than 60 years and I really don’t think there’s anything in that report which we should be worried about now. Copies of it are on the Internet. So, why are we keeping it a secret? Similarly, as Home Secretary, I had suggested that we declassify the Justice Mukherjee report on Subhas Chandra Bose and send it to the National Archives. In democracies like the U.S., there is a challenge that the public will have no way of verifying independently what security agencies put out as information. There is a strong case for increasing transparency, but the direction that democracies in general are taking is the opposite — they want to be in control of more and more information. SA:Reconciling these divergent interests of national security and the right of the public to know is an ongoing challenge. A stable security policy is always hard to achieve since the boundaries of official secrecy cannot be clearly articulated. And national security issues keep evolving, sometimes dramatically. So, you will always have an unsatisfactory situation regarding this. That said, I will go back to where Mr. Pillai mentioned declassification. Now, declassification is an important tool in raising public awareness after a specified period. In our case, there are two issues. One is that we are sometimes less than forthright about declassification. We also over-classify things which perhaps need not have been classified at all. For example, five years ago or maybe less than that, we contested many elections in the UN and one was a very tough election. At that time, we sent some messages, cables, etc. All of that was classified then. But today, everybody knows what happened, the success was ours. Do we still need to keep that classified? Coming to the issue of democracies. Now, we need to understand that we don’t want an explosion of deep throats. If you block all avenues of information, or gradually reduce them, you will have to resort to deep throat-kind of activities, which is not good for any society. So, the U.S. itself moved long beyond deep throat. But I think after 9/11, there have been concerns about national security. That’s why a lot of issues relating to national security are being tightened up. So, the phenomenon of non-disclosure of information can be traced back to almost two decades ago. Once you are in that space, it is difficult to roll back because that’s the nature of the beast — that once there is a status quo, you find it difficult to pull back. So, until those are addressed, I would say that this individually will not be addressed so easily. I think both of you broadly agree that the restrictions that you are favouring must be based on operational calculations. Both of you seem to be okay with the sharing of more information... GKP:Yeah, I think so. During the 1971 War, every time Pakistan said India was interfering in Bangladesh, we denied it. Once the war was over, a number of books were written on the topic by top Army Commanders, Border Security Force [personnel] and others on how they operated inside Bangladesh. I don’t think the Official Secrets Act has been invoked against anybody who has written about that. So, we can afford to be much more liberal in terms of declassifying information? GKP:Declassification is an area where everybody plays safe. I think at least 50% of the top-secret files in the Government of India can be declassified straightaway. Thousands of files were declassified when I was in the Home Ministry, but we still have thousands more which can be declassified. This is not a priority for the department. And that is why I’m also in favour of a time limit. Do you think compared to other democracies, India is stricter when it comes to sharing official secrets? SA:If you look at the tradition of these transparency efforts, the first such effort actually goes back to Europe, and by centuries, when parliaments wanted access to the executive authority. However, it was only towards the end of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st century that this proliferation of what we call the right to information in the Indian context took place globally. There are, I think, 95 to 200 countries today which have these disclosure arrangements in place. They still haven’t covered the entire expanse, because there are, of course, caveats to this. But if you see it in the historical context, the availability of information is certainly much more now than it was, say, 25-30 years ago. Whether it is adequate, my answer would be no. Whether it should be expanded — yes. Whether it should be absolute — again, my answer would be no, because no rights to freedom of expression can be absolute; they will always be restricted in certain contexts. It will be best for all of us if these are clarified from time to time, because these circumstances keep evolving and clarification and enunciation of this is a part of the growth of transparency, whether in India or elsewhere. Both of you are custodians of quite a few official and national secrets which you have accumulated through your careers. I assume that both of you will write books soon. How much will you be willing to reveal and what will be your consideration when it comes to how much to tell? How will you balance public interest and the existing regulations and your own intellectual honesty? SA:Your assumption is not wrong; I am working on something. As a citizen of a free and democratic country, which is based on the free flow of information and the right of the public to be aware about situations, I would start from the premise that as much as is feasible can be revealed without, of course, revealing national secrets or difficult situations. In policy debates, you may have differences of opinion. Those differences can be reflected without indicating where individuals are involved. I would come from the proposition that greater transparency, greater public awareness, and the tradition of eyewitnesses providing factual perspectives of their own should be my pathway. P.V. Narasimha Rao once told an interviewer that a lot of secrets will perish with him. How much of the secrets that you know can be shared, Mr. Pillai? More than 50%? GKP:I think about 80% can be shared. Some 20% can’t be shared partly because the people involved are living contemporaries. And especially if they are in the political sphere, you don’t want either their opponents or them to take advantage of what you have written. So, those are some of the reservations we have. Insofar as general administration, governance issues, policy, etc. are concerned, I don’t think there is much of a problem in trying to put some of those things down. Many IAS officers have done it.  In India, we are sometimes less than forthright about declassification. We also over-classify things which perhaps need not have been classified at all. Syed Akbaruddin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-retired-officials-be-barred-from-disclosing-information/article34785224.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The dream of a borderless world||The more I see images of racist violence, of the dispossessed sea of humanity travelling hundreds of miles by foot to reach their homes, of migrants being turned back by xenophobic immigration policies at the Mexican border, of vulnerable hungry people moving from Somalia to Jordan, or Bangladesh to India, or of a white policeman suffocating an African-American with his knee pressed into his neck, the more I am compelled to think that the world needs to rise above the frenzy of labels of race, gender, caste, religion and political bias, and begin, instead, to address as one people the issues that are far more crucial to humanity. More than the biological coronavirus, civilisation is indeed experiencing an excruciating world-wide pandemic of barriers and barricades, a disease that since the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 has jumped from a little more than a dozen border walls to over 60. The real image But a different image comes to mind when you visualise a borderless earth from far away in space. The arsenal of concertina wires and checkposts are not visible. You do not see the barriers of language, culture or distance from here. And you do not see the blockade of Gaza where two million Palestinians “caged in a zoo” that could easily be a toxic slum with negligible access to medicines, food, electricity or drinking water. The landmass or the seas and oceans stretch across the globe interspersed with rivers and mountains. The mind begins to wander across the mountains, an eternal tranquil stretch across the face of the earth. Absorbed in the landscape, I begin to imagine a world undivided by race, gender, religion or nationalities, a global consciousness unabashedly pro-diversity that is like the white cloud moving freely or the blue sky stretching far into the horizon, a peaceful land that gives you a deep sense of belonging. The cloud is not fenced in like many threatened by death behind a razor-sharp fence that is reproduced globally, in every continent, in every nation, in every state. However, at the back of my mind, I can feel the hidden bazooka-like cameras revealing sorrowfully the apprehensive face of a mother crossing the border from Mexico to Arizona to reunite with a lost child. Cold-blooded xenophobic immigrant laws, threats and detentions clash with the deep sense of peace that I experience from the placid landscape before my eyes, resonating a flash of some utopian borderless world that might someday become a reality. Rights for all But as a river bursts out of a dam that its gushing waters find irksome, fences too are broken by rebels incarcerated for no crime but the love of freedom or a happier tomorrow. How long can you keep a human being locked up when the crime is struggling for the human rights of all? The insatiable desire to breakout becomes the carnival of the oppressed, an iconic symbol of that ray of hope that sustains the power of imagination and reclaims the space for freedom and the dream of reality where the past meets the future in the present. The wandering cloud or the effortless river is a souvenir of rebels dancing on the edge of chaos, between the broken and the built, each telling her untold story that profoundly surpasses in its intensity the single overriding story that is always ideologically frozen in its linearity and intransigence. Their action is the action of life, powerful as the winds converging into a whirlwind, distinct, and yet a reflection of the many alliances uniting to target the rich and the powerful in their palaces and in the government buildings gradually beginning to feel insecure. Tyranny of the majority The fence is a testimony of death and terror of race and ultra-nationalism, something Mexicans or Palestinians or we in India can very well realise, cut off as we are from the rest of the world lest we infect it with an unsurpassable wave of death and human suffering. We stand fractured by not only borders but political and economic and social and ethnic differences. Surveillance, lockdowns and military vigilance at the borders are a lame excuse of self defence camouflaging the tyranny of the majority aiming at the expulsion of the “other”. Between the rich and the poor, between the business class and the tourist class travelling in the same plane, reaching the same destination or crashing together, between an upmarket gated community and the suburbia of poverty and hunger, between the mosque and the temple, there is the jarring sense of imbalance, screaming out in a burlesque of the inordinate magnificence of bigotry and self-indulgence. An onslaught Sorrowfully, racism now seems to be embedded in the very idea of the fence. The world overflows with stern vigilantism, the cold and heartless bureaucracy, the secret agents and the terrorising state apparatus. The onslaught is on the people, jobless and homeless, with no choices in their own land. They leave their homes seeking a better way of life as well as serve the host country supplying it the labour that it so desperately needs to uphold its economy. Migration occurs owing to the unbearable suffering in war-torn homelands lacking social security, or the construction of mega-dams that drive out the native farmers from their land, the only means of their subsistence. As the author Naomi Klein says, they “are increasingly treated like cargo, with no rights at all”. Rich nations who believe in free trade do not realise that the migrants who have come to their shores in the face of death are not their “clients but sellers” of their labour, their blood, sweat and tears. How long will they remain silent? If you listen carefully, you can hear the whispering of the voices from below, the voices the rich and the powerful refrain from hearing. How long will they ignore the farmers, the artisans, the builders? How long will they turn a deaf ear to the demands of those who want to break out of the confines of chauvinism or racial fanaticism? How long will their voices go unheard from across the fences, voices fortified with the words of resistance not for rewards but for the vision of peace and freedom, of human rights and dignity that await people of all races, of all colours of all ethnicities, of all genders? These voices cannot submit to the powerful and the rich. They cannot because they are on the other side of the fence opposing the rich nations which meet annually in sickeningly opulent venues, discussing and adjudicating on the poor and the deprived on whose land they now exercise their will and their right. Armed policemen keep the hungry and the deprived out, and if ever they dare to cross over, the unfortunate wither away in detention centres behind the impenetrable walls of the hawk-eyed state. The fence keeps them at bay from vast stretches of land preventing thousands from cultivating on the land that rightly belongs to them. Surely, clean air, drinking water, health care, land and shelter and food are their birthright. The power of peace The only option left is to peacefully send across the fences their messages and songs of resistance that reverberate across the world with the ideas of revolution and hope, of emancipation and freedom from the tyranny of the handful who rule the world. The rebel voices, sooner or later, will remember their poets and the songs of their past that will penetrate the fences, tear them down in globally interconnected social movements when the extremes of wealth and poverty will no longer be endured. The language of diversity and dignity would soon engulf the unilateral predatory game plans of the rich and the mighty. Shelley Walia is Professor Emeritus at Panjab University, Chandigarh and is the author of ‘Humanities at the Crossroads’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-dream-of-a-borderless-world/article34785214.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The rope of federalism and an unwanted tug-of-war||The Centre-West Bengal controversy on the conduct of Bengal’s former Chief Secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay in the final days of his tenure, in May, has thrown up several political and administrative issues that deserve our attention for the future health of our federal polity. In the overall context, there are two elements which need to be kept in mind while discussing this subject. First, India is a ‘union of states’ and in this union, the State governments are not subordinate agencies of the central government. There are, no doubt, matters enunciated in our Constitution, where the Centre’s decisions have primacy over those of the State governments, but this does not extend to holding of meetings, even if these are called by the Prime Minister. A State’s functionaries — both political and administrative — are requested or advised to attend such meetings and this necessitates courtesy and consideration on the part of both sides. It is possible that due to the no-holds-barred electoral campaigns in the recently held Assembly elections, which included West Bengal, these considerations were given a go-by; the result is an unseemly controversy which is best avoided for healthy Centre-State relations. Relief and the third tier Second, the meeting that became a flashpoint was the one called by the Prime Minister on May 28 to review cyclone relief work — in connection with cyclone Yaas — in West Bengal. The allegation is that Mr. Bandyopadhyay reached the meeting late and then left abruptly along with West Bengal Chief Minister, Mamata Banerjee, to visit the cyclone-affected areas in her State. In real life, most relief and rehabilitation work in the event of a natural calamity or management of a disaster is of a local nature and is carried out by the district, sub-divisional and village level officials working under the State governments. Over time, the States have conceded space to the Centre for disaster management for getting financial, technical and logistical support. Even then, the comprehensive framework under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 (https://bit.ly/3ivdlAd) operates mainly at the State, district and local levels. The conduct of Mr. Bandyopadhyay, an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, must be seen in this overall context along with the central government’s reactions which together raise issues regarding the norms of civil service conduct, political and administrative arrogance and revengeful behaviour. New Delhi has sent showcause notices and a charge sheet for Mr. Bandyopadhyay’s failure in fully and properly participating in the meeting called by the Prime Minister in West Bengal for cyclone relief review. He has since replied to the Centre. The services and fine balance The All-India Services, that includes the IAS, were conceived by the makers of our Constitution to provide uniformity and high standards of public service in both the Centre and the States, and to provide a measure of administrative unity in our diverse and plural society. The architecture has been exquisitely designed. To ensure quality and as a measure of convenience, IAS officers are recruited by the Union Public Service Commission and formally appointed by the President of India. But they are ultimately borne in State cadres which makes them subject to the control of the respective State governments as well, especially when they are in the employment of their States. To that extent their position is somewhat different from that of the central services who go through similar recruitment procedures but are under the Centre’s total control. The IAS officers work for the central government on “deputation” from their respective State cadres and during their central deputation, their loyalty is of course to the central government. IAS officers will face acute trust-deficit, if while working for a State government, they show preferential allegiance or loyalty to central government functionaries by reason of the fact that they were initially appointed by the President of India. High-handed approach As a measure of the vindictive assertion of its rights and power, Mr. Bandyopadhyay was initially called to the Centre on ‘deputation’ and asked to report in New Delhi on the day he was to superannuate. It is a different matter that he chose to retire on that day instead of availing himself of the three-month extension given to him earlier. Several commentators have pointed out that the “concurrence” of the relevant State government is required before an officer of its cadre is deputed to the Centre. Also, there must be prior consultation between the Centre and the State for the latter’s viewpoint to be overruled. The Central government did not exactly cover itself with glory by violating these requirements. Further, action has been initiated against Mr. Bandyopadhyay under Section 51(b) of the Disaster Management Act for failing to comply with the Centre’s direction to attend the review meeting taken by the Prime Minister. This is an absurd interpretation of the provision that is meant to deal with cases of defiance of the lawful orders or action of the competent authorities (handling disaster management) under the Act. Besides, Mr. Bandyopadhyay was with the Chief Minister, his administrative boss. It is obvious that in the performance of his official duties, an All-India service officer, or any officer for that matter, will have to act under the direction of his official superior. Obviously, Mr. Bandyopadhyay listened to his boss; this is what it should be when IAS officers work for a State government or any other government; otherwise, there will be chaos and indiscipline in administration. It is very unfortunate that for some inexplicable reasons, a mountain has been made of a molehill, as the cliché goes. In these circumstances one misses the sagacity, wisdom and sophistication of some of our tall political leaders who steered the destiny of our nation in the past. Niranjan Patnaik, a former Minister of the Odisha Government, is presently the President of the Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-rope-of-federalism-and-an-unwanted-tug-of-war/article34785216.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Making peace with nature||There has never been a more urgent need to restore damaged ecosystems. The COVID-19 pandemic is a direct result of the degradation of natural areas, species loss, and exploitation. Zoonotic pathogens are more frequently jumping from wildlife to humans, creating public health emergencies. Healthier ecosystems and a healthier respect for the wild spaces of our world will give us a healthier planet and healthier people. It is time to change how we cultivate our land, use our soils, exploit coastal and marine ecosystems, and manage our forests. The damage has been done over decades and the destruction cannot be reversed overnight. But we need to start somewhere. That’s why this World Environment Day, the UN Environment Programme and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization launched the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration to prevent, halt and reverse the degradation of ecosystems on every continent and in every ocean. India must participate actively in this decade of restoration. Ten years of sustained action to protect and revive the country’s ecosystems will help India to end poverty by enhancing livelihoods, combat climate change by reviving natural carbon stores, and halt the collapse of biodiversity by rebuilding homes for wildlife. Ecosystem restoration benefits people and nature. Path towards restoration Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already set India on this path. In 2019, he announced that India would raise its ambition for restoration, promising an increase in restored degraded land from 21 to 26 million hectares by 2030. There are several steps we can take to build on this commitment. First, there must be a concerted effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Climate change is dangerous to humans, but also to the fragile ecosystems that sustain all life on earth. Globally, we must reduce net carbon dioxide emissions by 45% by 2030 compared to 2010. And we must reach net-zero emissions by 2050 to have a hope of achieving the 1.5°C Paris Agreement target. India needs to work towards this by transforming energy systems, land use, agriculture, forest protection, urban development, infrastructure, and lifestyles. Crucially, this has to be aligned with conserving and restoring biodiversity and minimising air and water pollution and waste. Given the interconnectedness of nature, all problems have to be dealt with simultaneously. We already have the goals, targets, commitments, and mechanisms under international environmental conventions that can direct this ambition. Let us use them. Second, we need to transform our economic, financial and production systems towards sustainability. Including natural capital in decision-making, eliminating environmentally harmful subsidies, and investing in low-carbon and nature-friendly technologies are key elements of this. By making investments in sustainable development financially attractive, we can shift the financial flows and investment patterns towards sustainability. We already have the knowledge base, the scientific expertise, and the policymaking know-how through national and international scientific bodies that can guide this process. Let us use it. Finally, the power to revive our environment lies with us as individuals. For a better future, India must work towards creating food systems that work with nature, reduce waste, and are adaptive to change and resilient to shocks. Empowering small-scale farmers and women farmers, changing patterns of consumption and challenging social norms and business practices are key. This can be achieved through capacity building and education. We already have the power to effect change through cooperation and collaboration, and through changing how we consume, travel and use energy. Let us not shirk this responsibility. As UN Secretary-General António Guterres has stated, making peace with nature is the defining task of the 21st century. Atul Bagai is Head, UN Environment Programme India and Shoko Noda is UNDP Resident Representative, India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/making-peace-with-nature/article34785219.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Terror in the Sahel||The massacre of at least 160 people in a border village in Burkina Faso over the weekend is a grim reminder of the threat the Sahel region faces from Islamist terrorism. Nobody has claimed responsibility, but Burkinabe authorities have named the Islamic State in the Greater Sahara (ISGS), which has carried out hundreds of terror strikes in recent years. The security situation in Burkina Faso, which saw its first major Islamist terrorist attack in 2015, has deteriorated steadily, especially along the borders with Niger and Mali. This has been the case with much of the Sahel region, a 5,900-km-long semi-arid territory. It has seen terrorist groups expanding their networks and stepping up attacks on civilians and soldiers. The Burkina Faso attack occurred after 137 people were killed by jihadists in Niger, in March. In Nigeria, Islamists control swathes of territories and have carried out abductions and attacks, including gunning down 27 people in a village on Sunday. Mali has been fighting terror groups since 2013. Four main terror outfits operate in the region — the ISGS, the Islamic State West Africa Province (ISWAP), the Jama’at Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin, the local al-Qaeda branch in Mali, and Boko Haram. Of these, the ISGS and Jama’at Nasr are reportedly in alliance to expand their influence in the Burkina-Mali-Niger border region, where they shoot down anyone who does not declare their loyalty to the jihadists. Boko Haram and the ISWAP are fighting each other but control territories in northeastern Nigeria. France has deployed troops in the region for counter-insurgency operations and is helped by the U.S., which has a drone base in Niger. The regime change policies of the U.S. and France are partly to be blamed for the problems the Sahel countries are facing today. When a NATO invasion removed Muammar Gaddafi from power in Libya in 2011, the region lost a stable bulwark against militias and jihadists. Libya, having fallen into anarchy and civil war, became a jihadist breeding ground. When trouble spread to Mali, France made a military intervention in 2013. But it did not defeat the insurgency, which spread beyond Mali’s borders. Now, jihadists find safe havens in the lawless deserts of the Sahel. When the IS-militant infrastructure was destroyed in Iraq and Syria, their foot soldiers fled to Africa, regrouping themselves in the region. The recent attacks should serve as a warning to all stakeholders. Major global powers, which worked together with regional players to defeat the IS in West Asia, should not stay away from the growing threat from Africa. They should, along with the UN, help the Sahel countries build capacity and institutions, offer stable governance and adopt sustainable counter-insurgency strategies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/terror-in-the-sahel/article34785210.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Seeds and fruits||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s call for cooperation among non-NDA counterparts in other States to support farmers agitating against three controversial laws made in June 2020 seems part of a larger political project. It is meant to go beyond aiding the farmers, who fear that these laws could make them more vulnerable to market fluctuations. But the focus on farm laws, which the Government says would make farming more competitive and remunerative, is an important start. While the Government reiterated this week that MSP for various crops would continue, the fact remains that regardless of the merits of these laws, they were made without adequate consultations with parties, States and the stakeholders. After a meeting with farmer leaders from Uttar Pradesh, Ms. Banerjee said she accepted their request to speak to other Chief Ministers who are not in the NDA. While reiterating her demand to repeal the three laws, she has proposed a virtual conference of CMs with the farmers and a joint letter to the Centre on the issue. Many CMs are likely to agree with her, despite political rivalries among them. At least two other CMs who were elected along with her in the recent Assembly elections share her position on the farm laws — Kerala’s Pinarayi Vijayan and Tamil Nadu’s M.K. Stalin. In Kerala, the previous Assembly had in December 2020 passed a unanimous resolution seeking the repeal of these laws. That said, all non-NDA CMs may not be willing to be part of a joint platform because of their individual calculations and expediency, and the fear of retribution by the Centre. Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, for instance, had sought the support of other CMs against unilateral actions by the Centre that curtailed the powers of his government. Ms. Banerjee had vociferously supported him, but Mr. Kejriwal was not reciprocative when she raised concerns of overreach by the Centre. The recent joint efforts by some CMs to persuade the Centre to withdraw its previous vaccination policy did not get wholehearted support from others. The CMs of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, Naveen Patnaik and Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, have sought to keep the Centre in good humour. Nevertheless, the joint efforts by CMs did lead to a change in the vaccination policy. Joint strategy on farm laws could be more difficult as their impact is uneven across States. But a broader point raised by Ms. Banerjee, about the Centre’s tendency to ignore the States while formulating policy, is salient. She has also called for a continuing mechanism for CMs to cooperate on issues of Centre-State relations. Turning this into a combative platform could do more harm than good, but it is a suggestion worth pursuing. Cooperative federalism, a concept that Prime Minister Narendra Modi advocates, can be pursued more meaningfully through continuous and harmonious communication with CMs. A conversation on farm laws could be a good beginning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/seeds-and-fruits/article34785209.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Learning to take questions||As a reporter covering school education for The Hindu ’s Chennai city bureau, my work entailed speaking to teachers and school heads — of both public and private institutions — regularly. Some of them have given me crucial tip-offs about policy changes, and shared valuable insights on trends that only they, as practitioners, would understand. Many of these schools, especially those privately run, consider themselves ‘top brands’ in education. They believe every event held on their premises — be it the annual day, sports day, science project, literary club inauguration, or some Rotaract club activity — is worthy of publicity. In their view, some coverage, any coverage, is justified for their effort and “innovativeness”. “Even a few lines would be an encouragement for our children,” the charismatic school principals would say. All the same, these schools proved thin-skinned when their institutions were in the news for the wrong reasons. Some of the reactions following the recent, troubling allegations of sexual harassment in city schools reminded me of that aversion to any scrutiny or criticism. Responses from the school managements and many alumni reflected a staunch belief that their school could not err. Past pupils’ loyalty to their alma mater seemed to trump reason. It took me back to two important stories from a decade ago, whose coverage invoked similar reactions at the time. One was a swimming pool accident in 2012 at a famous city school, in which a nine-year-old boy tragically drowned. A subsequent police case meant the issue, while taking its legal course, received wide coverage, and rightly put the spotlight on children’s safety in schools – a concern that is never redundant. Another story I covered was in 2011, two years after the historic Right to Education Act was passed. One of its clauses mandated that private schools reserve 25% of their seats to children from weaker sections and disadvantaged groups in the neighbourhood, and provide them free and compulsory elementary education, for which the government would bear the cost. Some schools reacted in telling ways — from terming the rules “very damaging to the class and the entire school”, to asking parents to protest against the Act through letters that said: “Your child’s quality of education will suffer seriously as the teachers will have a very difficult time managing and educating a few children who are not qualified for the particular class or who are very difficult to manage.” The institutions barely hid their class bias. Their pride and brand consciousness outweighed everything else, including any sensitivity to the Act’s thrust on fairness or social justice. A few school heads even casually threw in the “I’ll speak to your editor” line when we sought a reaction. Clearly, they did not appreciate the media asking them questions. As far as our reporting requirement goes, we need to establish the facts, give the context, with the perspective of those affected, as well as the reaction of the said schools to the concerns raised. But invariably, these private schools suggested that they were beyond public scrutiny. If critical thinking and a spirit of inquiry is at the heart of education, it is ironic that schools are so averse to questions, let alone the slightest introspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/learning-to-take-questions/article34785218.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Crisis in Japan over Constitution||Tokyo, June 10: A political crisis is developing in Japan over Article 9 of the Constitution, under which the nation renounces war forever. While the Japanese Government slowly and cautiously reviews the country’s Constitution — in contrast to the current constitutional convention fever in the Philippines — a strong rightist bloc, headed by the former Prime Minister, Mr. Nobusuke Kishi, is seeking to legalise a five-year plan to expand Japan’s “self-defence” forces by doing away with Article 9 completely. Japan’s forces now total 1,80,000 men. Despite the large support which Mr. Kishi has in the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (L.D.P.), the government is reluctant to provoke parliamentary opposition and Japan’s largely pacifist public opinion into a repetition of the anti-war frenzy which overwhelmed the country in 1950 when the Japan-U.S. mutual security treaty was signed. A Constitutional Review Council, under Mr. Osamu Inaba, is quietly working out a consensus between the Kishi partisans — numbering 264 out of the 540 L.D.P. — and the anti-revisionists within the party who are reluctant to rock the ship of state at this particular time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/crisis-in-japan-over-constitution/article34785217.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Auto retail sales more than halved in May from April: FADA||Automobile retail sales in the country declined by 55% in May as compared with April as lockdowns across various States amid the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic hit vehicle registrations, automobile dealers’ body FADA said on Thursday. All segments were hit as showrooms across various States were forced to down shutters amid the restrictions. Total registrations across categories in May dropped to 5,35,855 units from 11,85,374 units in April. According to the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations, which collected vehicle registration data from 1,294 out of the 1,497 regional transport offices, passenger vehicle sales slumped 59%. Two-wheeler sales also declined 53% to 4,10,757 units last month. Similarly, commercial vehicle sales dropped by 66% to 17,534 units last month, from 51,436 in April. Three-wheeler sales saw a decline of 76% to 5,215 units, while tractor sales witnessed a dip of 57% to 16,616 units. “The second wave of COVID has left the entire country devastated as there may not be a single household which did not get affected,” FADA President Vinkesh Gulati noted. “Apart from urban markets, this time, even rural areas were badly hit.” He added auto retailers were in dire need of support. “While a handful of OEMs... have announced financial help to their channel partners, others are yet to do so. Hence, FADA humbly requests all those OEMs which have still not announced any financial assistance to kindly do it urgently,” he said. He also appealed that instead of restructuring, banks should allow a moratorium of 90 days to all categories of dealers sans a turnover limit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/auto-retail-sales-more-than-halved-in-may-from-april-fada/article34785200.ece
11 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘IT, pharma, e-com buck job losses, witness hiring surge’||Information technology (IT), pharma and e-commerce have bucked the trend of job losses, emerging as top hirers between February and April, said a top HR official. The hiring surge comes in the backdrop of an estimated 8.6 million salaried jobs, especially in tourism and hospitality, being lost in the same period, as data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy showed. In the three months, the IT industry saw a surge of more than 100% in demand growth for skilled technical job roles, said Sudhakar Balakrishnan, group CEO, FirstMeridian, a human resources (HR) firm. “In IT, some specialised roles are commanding a wage premium of 30- 50%,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. Since demand for medicines has risen, the pharma sector is also hiring , he said. In healthcare, the government’s decision to employ medical and nursing students who are yet to pass the qualifying examinations, to bridge the demand-supply gap, has enhanced employment, he said. “In healthcare, over three lakh jobs have been created.” Home delivery of food and grocery as well as closure of markets has led to increased pressure on e-commerce firms that have been hiring in thousands. The warehousing sector is also hiring to support e-commerce. “Almost 75,000 temporary jobs are available, led by sectors such as e-commerce, retail, IT/ITeS and financial services,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-pharma-e-com-buck-job-losses-witness-hiring-surge/article34785194.ece
11 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Air traffic to recover fully only by Q4 of FY23: Crisil||Air traffic is expected to slump in fiscal year 2022 and fully recover only by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, because of the debilitating consequences of the second COVID-19 wave in India, Crisil said in a report. But, the credit quality of airport operators will continue to be supported by strong business models and healthy liquidity covers amid low debt servicing needs this fiscal, it added. With localised lockdowns, night curfews and other restrictions on movement of people, passenger traffic at airports has nosedived, with average daily domestic passenger traffic halving in May 2021 from February 2021, or to a mere 10% of pre-pandemic levels seen in May 2019, the ratings agency said in the report. “Second wave will push back revival of business travel and pick-up of international traffic, which account for over half of overall traffic,” said Manish Gupta, senior director, Crisil Ratings. “Given this backdrop, we now expect traffic volumes this fiscal to be 60% of fiscal 2020 levels,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/air-traffic-to-recover-fully-only-by-q4-of-fy23-crisil/article34785189.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST: FinMin revamps Groups of Ministers||The Finance Ministry has modified the composition of ministerial groups studying pending Goods and Services Tax (GST) issues. Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar has been appointed convenor of the Group of Ministers (GoM) monitoring IT-related challenges, replacing former Bihar Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi. Mr. Modi’s successor in the Bihar government Tarkishore Prasad has also been included in the GoM, while former Haryana Minister Captain Abhimanyu has been replaced by the State’s Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Mr. Pawar replaced former Maharashtra FM Sudhir Mungantiwar, while Assam’s Himanta Biswa Sarma has been replaced by the new FM Ajanta Neog. The ministry notified the changes in the GoMs on Wednesday along with changes to two other groups set up in January 2019. Gujarat Deputy CM Nitin Patel has been made convenor of the GoM to analyse revenue under the GST regime, replacing Mr. Modi. Mr. Patel stays convenor of the the real estate sector- focussed GoM, which now includes Mr. Pawar and Kerala FM K.N. Balagopal. Mr. Balagopal is the new convenor of the GoM overseeing implementation of e-way bills for moving gold and precious stones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-finmin-revamps-groups-of-ministers/article34785195.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Real estate hit worse by second wave than first’||About 90% of real estate developers feel that the second wave of the COVID-19 has been more ‘devastating’ on their business than the first one, as new sales and collections have fallen drastically since April this year, as per a survey by realtors’ body Credai. Most developers (95%) fear project delays because of localised lockdowns across States. The association, which has about 13,000 members in various States, released a survey of its 4,813 members from 217 cities, conducted across the country between May 24 and June 3 to assess the impact of the second wave of COVID-19 on the real estate sector. Labour shortage, financial constraints, approval delays, increased construction costs, and weakening customer demand are key challenges highlighted by developers. About 95% of builders said customers had postponed purchase decisions due to the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/real-estate-hit-worse-by-second-wave-than-first/article34785198.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Centre to auction ‘major’ fields of ONGC, OIL||The Centre will auction unmonetised, large oil and gas fields of state-owned ONGC and OIL to boost hydrocarbon production, Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Thursday. Speaking at the start of the third round of auction of small discovered fields, he said companies cannot indefinitely sit on resources they may have discovered. These resources belonged to the nation and would be monetised by auctioning them out to interested entities, he said. As many as 32 oil and gas blocks with 75 discoveries have been offered in the Discovered Small Field (DSF) round-III. Under DSF, liberal terms including pricing and marketing freedom are offered, making them viable. “There will be no DSF next time. Next time, it will be a ‘major’ round (auction of large fields),” Mr. Pradhan said. He said the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons, has the “full mandate” to identify unmonetised major fields that could be offered for bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/centre-to-auction-major-fields-of-ongc-oil/article34785204.ece
11 June 2021||new delhi,||Food-unit bills to carry FSSAI licence details||Food safety regulator FSSAI has mandated food business operators to mention FSSAI licence or registration number on cash receipts or purchase invoice with effect from October 1. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) has issued a latest order in this regard. Since complaints remain unresolved due to lack of specific information, this move will help consumers who can lodge an online complaint against a particular food business using the FSSAI number, it said. “Licensing and registration authorities are directed ensure its implementation mandatorily with effect from October 2, 2021,” the FSSAI said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/food-unit-bills-to-carry-fssai-licence-details/article34785201.ece
11 June 2021||new delhi,||GST Council to mull tax cut on June 12||The GST Council, chaired by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, will meet on June 12 to decide on GST rate cut for COVID essentials, according to officials. In the previous meeting of the council on May 28, a Group of Ministers (GoM) was set up to recommend tax relief on COVID essentials including PPE kits, masks and vaccines, to the GST Council. The GoM submitted its report on June 7. Officials said the GST Council would discuss the report as well as consider tax rate cuts for black fungus medicine. Currently, 5% GST is levied on domestically made vaccines and 12% on COVID-19 drugs and oxygen concentrators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/gst-council-to-mull-tax-cut-on-june-12/article34785202.ece
11 June 2021||new delhi,||‘Patent-waiver plan has made huge progress’||The proposal of India and South Africa on providing temporary patent waiver at the World Trade Organization (WTO) to deal with the pandemic has achieved ‘tremendous’ progress as the member-countries have agreed to start text-based negotiations, a top government official said. The TRIPS Council of the WTO has agreed to start the negotiations on a proposal submitted by India and South Africa seeking patent waivers. Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan said it meant that the members have in-principle accepted the objective behind the waiver proposal. “India and South Africa’s proposal has achieved tremendous mileage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/patent-waiver-plan-has-made-huge-progress/article34785207.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Yes Bank board approves plan to raise up to Rs 10,000 cr via debt||Yes Bank on Thursday received board approval for raising up to Rs. 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities. The board of directors in its meeting held on June 10, 2021, considered and approved seeking shareholders’ approval for borrowing funds in Indian/foreign currency up to Rs. 10,000 crore by issuing debt securities, Yes Bank said in a filing.pti||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-board-approves-plan-to-raise-up-to-rs-10000-cr-via-debt/article34785196.ece
11 June 2021||Paris,||Pavlyuchenkova one step away||Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova held a steady course to beat a wildly erratic Tamara Zidansek and reach the final at Roland-Garros, showing all her experience to win 7-5, 6-3 on Thursday. Slovenian World No. 85 Zidansek made a flying start with her aggressive style earning her an early break but Pavlyuchenkova soaked up her opponent’s best shots and proved way too solid in the end. Zidansek, like Pavlyuchenkova a Grand Slam semifinal debutant, cracked down 27 winners but struggled to contain errors at key moments of the match and handed over the first set with a double fault. The 29-year-old Pavlyuchenkova forged 4-1 ahead in the second set and then snuffed out an attempted Zidansek comeback, clinching victory when her opponent blazed a backhand wide.  On Wednesday, a fired-up Novak Djokovic repelled a stirring fightback by Italian Matteo Berrettini to claim a 6-3, 6-2, 6-7(5), 7-5 victory to set up a mouth-watering semifinal showdown with defending champion Rafa Nadal. The 34-year-old bellowed a series of frightening roars after completing a victory that at one stage looked like a formality but became increasingly fraught as Berrettini threw the kitchen sink at the Serb. “This match had it all: falls, crowd, break,” he told reporters. “It was a lot of intensity. I just felt under tension the entire time and missed some chances to end it in three. “It was just super, super stressful to constantly be under pressure... the reaction in the end was just me liberating that tension that was building up for the entire match.”  Pavlyuchenkova is the first woman to play more than 50 Majors before reaching her first Grand Slam final Pavlyuchenkova is the seventh Russian woman to reach a Major final after Myskina, Dementieva, Sharapova, Kuznetsova, Safina and Zvonareva Before Pavlyuchenkova, Sharapova was the last Russian woman in a Grand Slam final (2015 Aus Open, lost to Serena)    Evenly poised  In the second semifinal, Sakkari and Krejcikova were 5-5 in the third set after splitting the first two||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pavlyuchenkova-one-step-away/article34785310.ece
11 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Boxing star Dingko Singh passes away||Asian Games gold medallist Dingko Singh, who inspired a generation of Indian boxers with his feat in Bangkok in 1998, passed away at Imphal on Thursday after a prolonged battle with cancer. His death was confirmed by a close family friend. Dingko was 42 and is survived by his wife, son and daughter. He had been battling cancer since 2017 and recovered from a bout of COVID-19 last year. According to boxers close to Dingko, the iconic pugilist’s health started deteriorating about three months back. The end came early on Thursday. Rise from the depths Dingko rose to prominence by winning the 1997 Kings Cup in Bangkok. He could not make it to the 1998 Asian Games squad after his second-round exit in the Kuala Lumpur Commonwealth Games and took to alcohol out of frustration. Dingko was included in the squad at the last minute and gave his best to bring India its first boxing gold medal in 16 years. In an earlier interview, Dingko said his semifinal bout against local favourite and World No. 2 Wong Prages Sontaya was the toughest fight of his career. The Thai supporters threw beer cans at him after the bout. Dingo beat World No. 3 Timur Tulyakov of Uzbekistan in the bantamweight final to corner glory. On his return to Imphal, he was accorded a hero’s welcome. The Manipur Government even named a road after him. He was conferred the Arjuna Award in 1998 and Padma Shri in 2013. “Dingko was a great fighter with great determination. Like Vijender’s Olympics bronze medal, Dingko’s Asian Games gold popularised boxing, especially in the northeast,” said G.S. Sandhu, who was the head coach in 1998. Middleweight boxer Jitender Kumar, who was Dingko’s teammate at the 1998 Asian Games and 2000 Olympics, walked down memory lane. “Dingko gave his best in the final and was completely exhausted. The crowd was hostile, but he never reacted.” Vijender Singh, who led an initiative to raise funds for Dinko’s cancer treatment, was emotional and said, “It is shocking.”  Tough coach Dingko also left his legacy as a coach. He coached the Navy to team championship victory in the 2009 inter-Services meet and groomed some top boxers, including Olympian Anthresh Lakra and Commonwealth Games champion Suranjoy Singh. “He was a hard taskmaster, but was friendly after the training. His mantra was ‘no pain, no gain’,” said Suranjoy. After retiring from the Navy, Dingko joined the Sports Authority of India (SAI) at Imphal. The 2019 National boxing championships at Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, where he served as Manipur’s head coach, was one of Dingko’s last assignments before the recurrence of cancer last year.  You were a true hero of our nation. You leave but your legacy will live among us Mary Kom   Won bantamweight gold at the 1998 Asian Games Lost pre-quarterfinals at the 2000 Sydney Olympics Conferred Arjuna Award in 1998, Padma Shri in 2013||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/boxing-star-dingko-singh-passes-away/article34785351.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA to serve show cause notice to Azharuddin||The Apex Council of Hyderabad Cricket Association, which met on Thursday here under the chairmanship of vice-president K. John Manoj, authorised secretary R. Vijayanand to issue a show-cause notice to its president Mohd Azharuddin. Azhar didn’t attend the meeting even though he was served a 14-day notice of the same, the secretary told The Hindu . “This is in response to the show-cause notice issued to the members of the Apex Council by Azhar a few days ago as his move was against the rules of Memorandum of HCA,” he said. Meanwhile, Azhar in a statement late in the evening said the Apex Council members who met today were already facing an enquiry before the Ombudsman and a notice to this effect had already been issued. Not eligible “So, there is no point in these tainted people conducting the so called Apex Meeting and issuing show cause to the president. These people are not eligible to conduct any meeting pending enquiry against them,” he said. “These type of actions will not cause me to back off. I never will. The fight will be on until corrupt are out of the institution and till Hyderabad Cricket has gained it’s lost glory, with the support of my like minded campaigners-the member secretaries,” Azhar said. Cricket resumption Vijayanand also said that cricketing activities will commence in the first week of July with coaching camps planned in different age groups as per the State Government’s COVID-19 guidelines. “The Cricket Committee will soon finalise the schedule of the League season as we are very keen to resume action out there in the field,” he said. The secretary also handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh to the family of former Hyderabad Ranji fast bowler Ashwin Yadav, who passed away last month. Also present were HCA joint secretary Naresh Sharma and John Manoj.  These type of actions will not cause me to back off. I never will. Mohd. Azharuddin||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-to-serve-show-cause-notice-to-azharuddin/article34785963.ece
11 June 2021||London,||Will France do the rare double of World Cup and Euro?||Euro 2020 finally kicks off on Friday as Portugal prepares to defend its title and world champion France seeks a rare double a year after the tournament was delayed by the coronavirus pandemic. France’s fearsome forward line makes it favourite to win a third European crown at the pan-continental event, while top-ranked Belgium and a youthful England side will be major threats. For the first time, the tournament is taking place in 11 cities across Europe — instead of one or two countries — despite the lingering shadow cast by the COVID-19 crisis. Favourite France is not in action until Tuesday in the headline act of the first round of group matches when it takes on Germany in Munich. All eyes will be on 33-year-old forward Karim Benzema, who was recalled after an international exile of five-and-a-half years following a prolific season for Real Madrid. Portugal and Hungary complete Group F, dubbed the tournament’s group of death. Better squad Cristiano Ronaldo is now 36 but is still going strong and is supported by a better squad than five years ago, which also boasts the outstanding talents of Joao Felix, Bruno Fernandes, Bernardo Silva and Ruben Dias. England has the carrot of knowing both semifinals and the final will be played at Wembley, while Italy and the Netherlands are eager to impress after failing to qualify for recent tournaments. But despite the ongoing COVID-19 threat, UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin has been bullish, insisting Euro 2020 will be safe. Packed to capacity The clearest illustration of that is set to come from Budapest, where it is hoped the new Puskas Arena will be packed to capacity. Each of the host cities will welcome back fans, with capacities of between 25 percent and 100 percent apart from Munich, which aims to host a minimum of 14,500 fans — around 22 % of capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/will-france-do-the-rare-double-of-world-cup-and-euro/article34785319.ece
11 June 2021||BIRMINGHAM,||Burns and Lawrence shine||Rory Burns and Dan Lawrence were the standout performers for the hosts as England ended day one at 258 for seven in the second Test against New Zealand here on Thursday. Lawrence (67) and Mark Wood (16) were at the crease. Opting to bat first, England got off to a steady start as openers Dominic Sibley and Burns saw off the new ball, playing out 29 overs and scoring 67. Matt Henry broke the partnership, dismissing Sibley for 35. Zak Crawley went for a duck and captain Joe Root for four as England slid to 85 for three. Burns, however, continued the battle and made 81 before getting out to Trent Boult. Lawrence’s fighting innings further boosted England’s total.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/burns-and-lawrence-shine/article34785304.ece
11 June 2021||Paris,||COVID curfew forces angry fans to leave||Novak Djokovic's quarterfinal against Matteo Berrettini was delayed for about 22 minutes while thousands of spectators were cleared out of the stadium because of an 11 p.m. coronavirus curfew. Restrictions were eased to allow 5,000 inside Court Philippe-Chatrier on Wednesday rather than the 1,000 for the previous matches, and it was quite an atmosphere until the rule was imposed. "The conditions were strange with the fans here and then the atmosphere was a bit different (afterward)," Djokovic said later. "You have to find a different motivation because the energy from the fans is special." Some disappointed fans jeered and even sang “We've paid, we'll stay” as they refused to leave at 10:45 p.m. as curfew approached. Shortly before 10:55 pm, both players packed their bags and walked off while fans shouted in frustration. The top-ranked Djokovic was up 2-1 in sets and leading 3-2 in the fourth when play was halted. Berrettini waved to the crowd as they chanted his name shortly before the players departed. The big-hitting Italian said he felt for them. He also felt some sting was taken out of his game. "I think it's a shame, it's something that I didn't like. But it's bigger than us, it's not what you can do something about," the ninth-seeded Berrettini said of the curfew.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-curfew-forces-angry-fans-to-leave/article34785316.ece
11 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand to face Aamir, Chahal||Viswanathan Anand, Aamir Khan and Yuzvendra Chahal have something in common: love of chess. Aamir and Chahal are just two of the celebrities who will play Anand on chess.com . Actor Riteish Deshmukh, singers Arijit Singh and Ananya Birla, film producer Sajid Nadiadwala and businessmen Nikhil Kamath and Manu Kumar Jain will also take on Anand in the series of matches to be streamed live on YouTube, from 5 p.m. on Sunday. They are coming together for a noble cause: to raise funds for COVID-19 relief. “I am looking forward to the event, which I expect will be a lot of fun,” Anand told The Hindu. “I also hope we will be able to raise good money.” He is delighted with the response from the celebrities. “I played Aamir in an exhibition match, six years ago and I found him a good player who is not going to drop anything in a hurry,” he said. “Chahal would be a stronger opponent as he used to be a tournament player.” The wrist-spinner is one of the three FIDE-rated players in the event. Ananya and Nikhil are the others. “The proceeds from this event will go mainly to Akshaya Patra Foundation,” said Rakesh Kulkrani, director of chess.com (India). “We are also supporting the AICF’s COVID-19 fund. We were all pleasantly surprised by the enthusiastic response we received from the celebrities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-to-face-aamir-chahal/article34785303.ece
11 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||KTR assures prompt action on Shobha’s plea||Double Olympian and heptathlon National record-holder J.J. Shobha’s hopes of getting a house site after a 14-year-long struggle may soon be realised. The 41-year-old Shobha met Telangana IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao at the initiative of Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy on Thursday and briefed him about how she has been running from pillar to post for so many years for a house site. "Yes, I have requested KTR Sir to allot me a house site, gently reminding him that many athletes had been given that privilege over the last few years," Shobha told The Hindu . Shobha represented India at the 2004 Athens and 2008 Beijing Olympics. Her fighting spirit won accolades at Athens, where despite a serious injury in the javelin competition, she ran the 800m and finished a creditable 11th overall. Shobha said she had urged the Minister to "kindly allot at least 200 square yards even though many were given 1000 and 500 square-yard sites." The two-time Asian Games bronze medallist said she was pleased with Mr. Rama Rao’s spontaneous response. "The Minister told me that he had not been aware of my case but assured prompt and positive action," Shobha said. The Sports Officer, was accompanied by her husband and hockey player-turned-golfer Ajay Bharathi — a gold winner at the 2015 World Railways golf championship. SATS chairman Venkateshwar Reddy said: “Shobha deserves a fair deal having also won the 4x400m relay gold in the 2002 Asian meet in Colombo besides a bronze and a silver at another Asian meet."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ktr-assures-prompt-action-on-shobhas-plea/article34785962.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,||Kerala athletics trials for Nationals||Trials to select the Kerala team for the 60th National inter-State athletics championships will be held at the Calicut University stadium at Thenipalam, near Kozhikode, on June 15 and 16. A State can send three entries in an event and the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has fixed entry standards for the Nationals which will be held in Patiala from June 25 to 29. The selection will be based on the overall results of the trials and the State championships, held at the Calicut University stadium in February. The national campers from Kerala will also be selected to the State team. After all these, if there are any spots vacant in the team, the performance of athletes in the last three years in the National, State or any AFI-recognised meets will also be considered. Athletes are to bring the result of their COVID-19 negative test, taken within 72 hours before the trials, to the event. The trials begin at 7.30 a.m. on June 15. COVID-19 protocol State Government’s COVID-19 protocol will be followed during the event and the Kerala State Athletics Association has made it clear that athletes will be competing in the event at their own risk. Entries can be mailed to keralaathletics@gmail.com by June 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-athletics-trials-for-nationals/article34785539.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||AICF makes course correction||Apart from some much-needed constitution amendments, the All India Chess Federation (AICF) has decided to take a zero-tolerance stand against corruption and indiscipline. \ All 21 amendments, including a few to set right some startling anomalies, were passed unanimously in the Annual General Meeting here on Thursday as part of the process to fall in line with the Sports Code of the Sports Ministry. These include shifting of headquarters from Chennai to New Delhi, formation of the Ethics Commission, an Appellate Authority and giving the competent courts in New Delhi “the exclusive jurisdiction to hear and decide any and all cases against the AICF.” The AGM also decided to disaffiliate an already-suspended Bengal Chess Association and gave affiliation to Sara Bangla Daba Sangsthan. Show-cause notice The AICF joint-secretary Atanu Lahiri has been issued a show-cause notice for anti-AICF activities. Further, an FIR will be filed against Lahiri’s colleague from Bengal, Antarip Roy for maligning AICF on social media platforms. Y. Suman, erstwhile office-bearer of the Andhra Pradesh, faces an FIR for having not paid the prize-money of Rs. 20 lakh following a tournament in the State. “These decisions are part of AICF’s ‘zero-tolerance’ approach to corruption. We will recover the last rupee from the defaulters in different parts of the country,” declared AICF President Sanjay Kapoor after the meeting. The meeting also decided to send Grandmaster K. Humpy’s application for Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna this year. The applications of GMs Vidit Gujarthi, B. Adhiban, S. P. Sethuraman and M. R. Lalith Babu will be forwarded for Arjuna Awards. For Dhyan Chand Award, GM Abhijit Kunte will be AICF’s choice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aicf-makes-course-correction/article34785352.ece
11 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Suns scorch Nuggets||Chris Paul scored 17 points and handed out 15 assists on Wednesday to propel Phoenix Suns to a crushing 123-98 victory over Denver and a 2-0 lead in their NBA playoff series. Veteran point guard Paul was the keystone of the Suns' dominant victory, pulling down five rebounds and finishing the night without a turnover. Every starter scored in double figures and the Suns did not give the Nuggets a chance to celebrate the NBA Most Valuable Player award that Nikola Jokic received on Tuesday. Devin Booker scored 18 points for the Suns. Deandre Ayton added 15 points and 10 rebounds and also kept Jokic in check for most of the night. Jokic finished with 24 points, 13 rebounds and six assists, sitting out the fourth quarter with the Suns in full control.  The result: WC semifinals: Denver Nuggets 98 lost to Phoenix Suns 123 (Suns lead series 2-0).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/suns-scorch-nuggets/article34785358.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Refugee athletes Luna, Mahdi to shoot in Tokyo Olympics||Refugee athletes Luna Solomon and Mahdi have been selected to shoot in the Tokyo Olympics. Both were chosen and trained by triple-Olympic gold medallist Niccolo Campriani since 2018, in collaboration with Abhinav Bindra. Luna will represent the Refugee Olympic Team while Mahdi will represent Afghanistan. “In sport, I have finally found peace. At the range, there is just me, my rifle and the target. In Tokyo, this will be no different, and I am ready to make my mark,” Luna said in a statement. “I have dreamt of the Games every day since being selected for this project and it feels incredible for this dream to have now become reality,” said Mahdi. Hard work “It has been an honour to coach Luna and Mahdi, and I am so proud of what they have achieved. They have both worked relentlessly for this opportunity and I can say with all my heart that they deserve it,” said Campriani. “I have seen the power of sports to change lives first hand. I know it changed mine. I was really taken in by the story and more importantly by Campriani’s passion for the concept,” said Bindra. The shooters had trained in Bengaluru at Abhinav Bindra Targeting Performance Centre last year. During their week-long stint in India, the biomechanical assessment was done and they were given customised training plans. “I am sure the journey of Luna and Mahdi will inspire former and current Olympians to take on such initiatives and uplift lives through the power of sports,” added Bindra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/refugee-athletes-luna-mahdi-to-shoot-in-tokyo-olympics/article34785359.ece
11 June 2021||Nottingham,||Ramkumar & Hoang knock out top seeds||Ramkumar Ramanathan and Antoine Hoang of France knocked out top seeds Luke Bambridge and Jonny O’Mara of Great Britain 7-6(3), 3-6, [10-7] in the doubles pre-quarterfinals of the €132,280 Challenger tennis tournament on grass here. In the Challenger in France, Sumit Nagal and Francisco Cerundolo of Argentina defeated second seeds Evan King and Hunter Reese of the USA 17-15 in the super tie-break of the doubles pre-quarterfinals. Kamran fights In the $25,000 ITF women’s event in Madrid, Karman Kaur Thandi saved five match points in the 12th game of the decider, before she lost 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(3) to third seed Robin Anderson of the USA in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   €618,735 ATP, Stuttgart: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Ariel Behar (Uru) & Gonzalo Escobar (Ecu) bt Nikoloz Basilashvili (Geo) & Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-2.   €132,280 Challenger, Nottingham: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Antoine Hoang (Fra) & Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Luke Babridge & Jonny O’Mara (GBR) 7-6(3), 3-6, [10-7].   €88,520 Challenger, Lyon: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Francisco Cerundolo (Arg) & Sumit Nagal bt Evan King & Hunter Reese (USA) 4-6, 7-5, [17-15].   $25,000 ITF women, Madrid: Pre-quarterfinals: Robin Anderson (USA) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 4-6, 6-2, 7-6(3).   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Pre-quarterfinals: Eliakim Coulibaly (CIV) bt Siddhant Banthia 6-4, 6-3 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramkumar-hoang-knock-out-top-seeds/article34785360.ece
11 June 2021||Paris,||Styria, Austria to host capacity crowds||: Capacity crowds will be allowed at the Styria and Austrian MotoGPs, which will both be held at the Red Bull Ring in Spielberg, organisers said on Friday. In a statement, MotoGP promoter Dorna Sports said the two races “will welcome fans back to the grandstands” as long as they are “either vaccinated, tested or recovered from COVID-19”.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/styria-austria-to-host-capacity-crowds/article34785364.ece
11 June 2021||MUMBAI,||MCA apex council to discuss Ankeet Chavan’s letter||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) apex council, on Friday, is set to discuss Ankeet Chavan’s letter, following the left-arm spinner having served his suspension in the 2013 IPL corruption scandal. Chavan was, in September 2013, handed a life ban along with S. Sreesanth and Ajit Chandila for after being arrested by Delhi Police while representing Rajasthan Royals. Last month, the BCCI’s Ombudsman had granted relief to him, reducing the quantum of his punishment to seven years.  Since the suspension period is over, Chavan is awaiting a formal clearance from the BCCI to resume competitive cricket. Chavan has requested the MCA to forward his request to the BCCI for facilitating his return to the field. When he was embroiled in the episode, Chavan had emerged as Mumbai’s key spinner. The lanky left-arm spinner has been a part of three Ranji Trophy triumps. Besides Chavan’s request, the apex council is also set to discuss renewal of the contract of its two main curators — Ramesh Mhamunkar and Madhukar Botle — which expired on April 30. Besides, the apex council agenda has also listed finalisation of the eligibility criteria of women cricketers for membership at its facilities at Bandra Kurla Complex and Kandivali. To reply next week Meanwhile, after hearing the petitions about alleged unconstitutional dissolution of the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) and alleged misconduct in allotting maintenance contract, the Bombay High Court, on Friday, has asked the MCA to submit a reply by June 17. Former MCA president Ravi Savant (CIC dissolution) and former managing committee member Ravi Mandrekar (maintenance contracts) had moved court last week for the two issues. After seeking MCA’s reply, Justice Suresh Gupte and Justice Makarand Karnik have listed the matters for June 19. While denying interim relief to the petitioners on granting a stay on the functioning of the reconstituted CIC, the high court noted that it has the right to reverse the decisions, if required. After appointing Amol Muzumdar as Mumbai’s head coach, the CIC, headed by Jatin Paranjape, is scheduled to conduct interviews for selection committee aspirants next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mca-apex-council-to-discuss-ankeet-chavans-letter/article34786036.ece
11 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Dhawan to lead in Lanka||Shikhar Dhawan will lead India in the white-ball series against Sri Lanka in July. The senior selection committee, which picked the squad on Thursday, has named Bhuvneshwar Kumar as vice-captain. All matches will be played in Colombo.  The squad: Shikhar Dhawan (Capt.), Bhuvneshwar Kumar (vice-capt.), Prithvi Shaw, Devdutt Padikkal, Ruturaj Gaikwad, Suryakumar Yadav, Manish Pandey, Hardik Pandya, Nitish Rana, Ishan Kishan (wk), Sanju Samson (wk), Yuzvendra Chahal, Rahul Chahar, K Gowtham, Krunal Pandya, Kuldeep Yadav, Varun Chakravarthy, Deepak Chahar, Navdeep Saini, and Chetan Sakariya.   Net Bowlers: Ishan Porel, Sandeep Warrier, Arshdeep Singh, Sai Kishore, Simarjeet Singh.   The schedule: ODIs: July 13, 16 and 18.   T20Is: July 21, 23 and 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dhawan-to-lead-in-lanka/article34785308.ece
11 June 2021||GROS-ISLET (ST. LUCIA),||Nortje runs through West Indies top-order||South Africa fast bowler Anrich Nortje took three wickets for eight runs as West Indies tumbled to 48 for four at lunch on the first day of the first match of the two-Test series on Thursday. Shai Hope (15), captain Kraigg Brathwaite (15), Nkrumah Bonner (10) and Kyle Mayers (1) were all out and the host team was under pressure after opting to bat first. Roston Chase (7) and Jermaine Blackwood (0) were at the crease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nortje-runs-through-west-indies-top-order/article34785313.ece
11 June 2021||Southampton,||Indians undergo first group training session||India carried out its first group practice session at a ground adjacent to Ageas Bowl here on Thursday, five days after being allowed staggered training in the run-up to the World Test Championship final against New Zealand, commencing on June 18. It was the first time the players mixed with their teammates on the ground after being allowed to run in the gymnasium and the main playing field at different time slots on completion of the third day of their hard quarantine in the UK. In full swing “We have had our first group training session and the intensity was high Fire. #TeamIndia’s preparations are on in full swing for the #WTC21 Final,” the BCCI wrote in a twitter post along with a short video of the training session. The players had a full net session, where the likes of skipper Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma, Cheteshwar Pujara and Rishabh Pant batted for a considerable amount of time and faced throw-downs as well. The bowlers too had an intense session with all the main players — Ishant Sharma, Mohammed Shami, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj and Ravichandran Ashwin — participating in the practice session. The nets were followed by a fielding session under fielding coach R. Sridhar, which mostly focused on catching in the slip cordon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indians-undergo-first-group-training-session/article34785315.ece
11 June 2021||Rome,||Italy takes on Turkey in the opening game||The biggest crowd to gather in Italy for a year and a half will witness an Azzurri squad aiming for the title play a Turkey team aiming to spring a surprise on Friday at Stadio Olimpico in Rome. After embarrassingly failing to qualify for the 2018 World Cup, Italy won all 10 of its qualifying matches for Euro 2020 and enters on a 27-match unbeaten run.  Turkey, meanwhile, took four points off France in qualifying, including a 2-0 win over the World Cup champion, and lost only one of its matches to finish second in its group. Italy has won its past eight matches without conceding a goal and has 20 clean sheets in 32 matches since Roberto Mancini took over as coach. The Italian government decided that the Stadio Olimpico can be filled to 25% capacity for the four games it will host.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-takes-on-turkey-in-the-opening-game/article34785317.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Safety measure||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/safety-measure/article34785349.ece
11 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Aadithya Pradeep wins title||Aadithya Pradeep (Palakkad) won the title in Grand Prix 2 of the Chess Kerala Covid Vaccine Challenge Grand Prix series. Aadithya tallied 8 points from nine rounds and finished ahead of Harshit Ranjan Sahu (Odisha), who also had 8 points. Nimmy A. George (Ernakulam) was third with 7.5 points.  The standings:   1. Aadithya Pradeep (Pkd 8 pts), 2. Harshit Ranjan Sahu (Odi 8), 3. Nimmy A. George (Ekm 7.5), 4. Sumit Balan (Tsr 7.5), 5. Harish Sharma (Del 7.5).   6. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz 7.5), 7. M.K. Padmesh (Tvm 7), 8. Debarghya. Samanta (Ben 7), 9. J. Saravanan (TN 7), 10. R. Vishnu Menon (Tsr 7).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aadithya-pradeep-wins-title/article34785540.ece
11 June 2021||KOCHI,||Neeraj opens season with gold||Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra opened his international season with a very promising 83.18m effort that brought him the gold in the City of Lisbon athletics meet at the Lisbon University Stadium in Portugal on Thursday. The conditions were windy and Neeraj, the Asian Games champion who set a National record with an 88.07m throw in the Indian Grand Prix in Patiala in March, had a foul-ridden series messing up three of his six rounds. His best came in the last round. He opened with an 80.71 and his other legal throw was 78.50 in the fourth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/neeraj-opens-season-with-gold/article34785305.ece
11 June 2021||GENEVA,||Brisbane tipped to host 2032 Olympics||Brisbane could be officially named host of the 2032 Olympics when the IOC meets in Tokyo next month. IOC president Thomas Bach said after an executive board meeting on Thursday that Brisbane can be awarded hosting rights at a July 21 meeting ahead of the Games.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brisbane-tipped-to-host-2032-olympics/article34785306.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pooja eyes glory at Olympics||Boxer Pooja Rani (75kg) is not happy with just winning gold at the recently concluded Asian championships. She has set her sights on the Olympics and is leaving no stone unturned to attain ultimate glory.  “Before the Asian championships, we all were mentally down because people around us were testing positive for COVID-19. Then we went to Pune for a camp. Our coach told us not to think about the Asian championships and focus on the Olympics.”  Pooja felt the Indian boxers stand with a good chance of winning medals at Tokyo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pooja-eyes-glory-at-olympics/article34785362.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI:,||Bhavesh stuns Prithu||Bhavesh Mahajan stunned top seeded Grandmaster Prithu Gupta in the third round of the National (under-18) online rapid chess championship on Thursday. Bhavesh is among the 21 leaders with three points after as many rounds. Top seed Mrudul Dehankar led 11 leaders at three points in the girls’ section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhavesh-stuns-prithu/article34785363.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 10:50 IST,||Sudoku — June 11, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-11-2021/article34786319.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The Indian in the army of Stamford Bridge||Vinay Menon had never really watched a football match — live or on television — till he found himself at the Stamford Bridge stadium in 2009, watching Chelsea play. He did not need tickets: because this 46-year-old from India is the football team’s wellness consultant. Now, during season, he spends his days training with the team, and watching their multiple matches. “Cherai to Chelsea” is how he likes to describe his story. Incidentally, that is also the name of the biography his wife, Flomny Menon, wrote, which was published last year. “Cherai is a small village near Kochi in Kerala. Whenever I go back, I sit by the door, drink chai and look at the backwaters. That feeling of being home is wonderful,” says Vinay over a call from London. Seated on his balcony, overlooking the Thames, he narrates his story. “The only footballer I knew of was Diego Maradona,” he laughs. So, 12 years ago, when he was introduced to the team playing for Chelsea, he was not star struck despite big names like Didier Drogba being in the locker room. Vinay was working in Dubai with the Jumeirah Group, when he received an offer to join Roman Abrahamovich, owner of the the Chelsea football team, as his personal coach in London. Eventually, Vinay took on his new role with the team, also known as The Blues. The journey to Chelsea Though Vinay wanted to be a police officer, when he completed his Bachelor’s, he did not find an opening in the police force. So, he went on to pursue a Master’s in Philosophy in Physical Education at the Pondicherry University. “I also began training street children in physical education for free,” he adds. Following that he did a course in Yoga Science from Kaivalydhan Yoga Institute in Pune, before working as a senior wellness practitioner at Ananda in the Himalayas. There, not only did he discover the world of luxury wellness, he also met the most important person in his life: his wife. They moved to Dubai next. “I started something called full moon yoga. I often felt like Madonna. I would be dressed in a whitekurta, standing on a stage at the five star resort and instructing my clients,” he laughs. His current lifestyle in London is not something Vinay had ever planned or imagined. “My cousins worked in Mumbai or abroad and when they visited Cherai they spoke in English. I only spoke in Malayalam,” he says. But he always wanted to do something that brought recognition to his village, his State. “I always tried to walk a different path.” In his current role, Vinay is often a sounding board for Chelsea players. As he is “not a fan”, he can detach and critically evaluate the footballers, no matter how big a star they are. But back in Kerala, he is plain old Vinu (as he is fondly called), who walks around inchappals. “It is important to detach, especially for mental wellbeing,” says Vinay. This is his advice for the team. “If you want to perform at the peak, you have to have equilibrium.” It would then be fair to credit him for playing his part in Chelsea’s recent win at UEFA Champions League, where he admits he was overwhelmed. “I created ARFA. It stands for Awareness. Recovery. Focus. Achievement. I use this process to train players,” he says. He adds that fun is important to achieve best results. “If you are not enjoying something, you cannot be an elite performer.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-indian-in-the-army-of-stamford-bridge/article34785432.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||At the top of his game||‘We Are The People’, the official song of UEFA EURO 2020 is set to kick off on June 11 in Rome. When the football anthem was launched on DJ Martin Garrix’ 25th birthday on May 4, 2021, by Sony Music Netherlands, the collaboration with U2 greats, Bono and The Edge, was one of the big surprises for fans. In an email interview, Garrix reveals that as the tournament was pushed back due to the pandemic, they had to keep the secret for nearly two years. “Just being in the studio with them has been a surreal experience. Bono has such an iconic voice; I had goosebumps during the whole session. I love that they were so open-minded and involved in the creative process of the song,” he says. The EDM virtuoso rose to fame with the electronic theme titled ‘Animals’ in 2013, at the age of 17. Garrix has collaborated with Usher, Dua Lipa, Bebe Rexha, Troye Sivan and Khaled. Still, composing for an event like the EURO Championship is a special honour, he says. “My first response when UEFA reached out was disbelief, then when things were confirmed, it turned into being very nervous, but also excited and grateful that they put their trust in me.” The past year has been creatively challenging. “It was weird for me to make festival music without live shows. Normally this is the music I test at festivals, get the response, go straight back to the studio with the adrenaline and excitement from the show, polish it, and test it again.” “When we get back, the first shows will be absolutely insane. I think they’re going to be such an explosion of adrenaline, excitement, love, euphoria. It’s going to be really, really beautiful.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/at-the-top-of-his-game/article34785435.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Watch out for Suruli||Actor Dhanush made his debut on Twitter Spaces while interacting with the team of his upcoming Tamil film Jagame Thandhiram , due to release on Netflix on June 18. “People have a lot of stress in their lives now but Jagame Thandhiram might help them relax a little. Suruli [the name of his character] is one of my favourites. I have already been bugging Karthik [director Karthik Subbaraj] to write a sequel,” said Dhanush. Suruli, Dhanush said, will have some shades of Rajinikanth. “I am a huge fan of Rajini sir, and so is director Karthik. Earlier, in my films, I have made a conscious attempt to stay away from any Rajini-isms that might creep into my performances. But for Jagame Thandhiram , Karthik said, ‘Let Rajini be there.’” Dhanush is currently in the U.S., where he is shooting for Hollywood flick The Gray Man starring Ryan Gosling and Chris Evans. “It [ The Gray Man ] has been a huge learning opportunity. Though I had only 20 days of shoot, I had to stay for a long time because of COVID-19 protocols. I underwent one-month action training for my part. I have been here for four months now; I am really missing Chennai and home food. I hope to be back in the next two weeks.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/watch-out-for-suruli/article34785433.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The science behind his flight||While Meghnath is busy learning more advanced sciences, Hanuman is flying around with his Air Molecule friends.  Hanuman: Hey Molecules, whatever took place while I was chasing the sun seemed like a dream. But now, I slowly remember experiencing several bizarre things.  Air molecules: Like what, Hanuman?  Hanuman: In the beginning, till we reached the rainy clouds. everything seemed fined. But after flying a few kilometres past them, it was freezing. Why?  Air molecules: To understand that, you will need to learn about gravity, air density, altitude, pressure and temperature.  Hanuman: Woah! That seems like a lot of science!  Air molecules: Everything you experienced at that time is science.  Hanuman: Fine. As long as you don’t put me to sleep...  Air molecules: Ha ha! Don’t worry, we will explain it to you in a way that you will understand. Now, what do you know of gravity ?  Hanuman: Anything with mass will have some pulling force. For planets like Earth, we call this force as gravity, which tries to pull everything towards its centre.  Air molecules: Exactly! Basically, everything that exists on Earth is being pulled towards the centre of Earth. The closer you are, the more gravity you experience.  Hanuman: Next, what is density ?  Air molecules: It is simply the number molecules packed within a certain area; be it in air, a solid or liquid. Gases are less dense than solids and liquids because their molecules are far apart. With regards to air density, there are more air molecules closer to the ground. Do you know why?  Hanuman: Because the pull of gravity is more?  Air molecules: That’s right! Now, let’s move on to temperature ...  Hanuman: You mean, heat?  Air molecules: Temperature and heat are different. Heat is the transfer of thermal energy between molecules and measured in joules. Temperature is the average kinetic energy of molecules and is measured in Celsius, Kelvin or Fahrenheit.  Hanuman: What is kinetic energy?  Air molecules: Kinetic energy is the energy that a molecule possesses due to its motion. Don’t confuse yourself. Just remember, kinetic means movement.  Hanuman: Okay. Let me see if I understand. When we are closer to Earth, there is more gravity; due to this, there is more density of air molecules; due to more density, there is more kinetic energy, and more kinetic energy means higher temperature. Am I right?  Air molecules: You are super smart, Hanuman! So, what do you think happens as we move away from the ground?  Hanuman: Gravity reduces…  Air molecules: Exactly. As gravity reduces, density of air molecules decreases, thus kinetic energy decreases, lowering the temperature.  Hanuman: So that is why we go to hill stations. The temperature is less there!  Air molecules: Shall I teach you a trick? It will be useful when you fly and reach great heights.  Hanuman: What’s that?  Air molecules: As you move up every 1 km, the temperature drops by 5.45 to 6 degrees.  Hanuman: In that case, if the ground temperature is 30°C degrees, when I fly up 5 km, it becomes zero?  Air molecules: That’s right. But this calculation works only until 20 km. After that it’s different, as we would have crossed the ozone layer, and the sun’s direct high energy radiation starts hitting the molecules.  Hanuman: Oh! I will remember that.  Air molecules: The concept of pressure is also similar. As there are more molecules closer to ground, there is more pressure.  Hanuman: Pressure is force per area, right?  Air molecules: Yes. More the number of molecules and movement, more the pressure. Lesser the air molecules, lesser the pressure.  Hanuman: Wow! It took my guru a whole year to make me learn all this! You are great teachers, Molecules.  Air molecules: Thank you! If you start looking at the science around you practically, it becomes more fun and magical.  Hanuman: I would love to learn more!  The author is the founder and CEO of Vaayusastra Aerospace, an IIT-Madras incubated ed-tech startup that offers Air Science workshops for children between five and 14 years.   As you move up every 1 km, the temperature drops by 5.45 to 6 degrees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-science-behind-his-flight/article34785684.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A disaster and a discovery||In 1768, when the Royal Society and the Admiralty in England wished to conduct their first scientific expedition to the Pacific, sailor and explorer James Cook was their natural choice. Forty-year-old Cook was hastily commissioned as a lieutenant and given the four-year-old HMS Endeavour , a British Royal Navy vessel. Set sail Cook had three missions to accomplish on this trip. The first was to establish an observatory at Tahiti to record the transit of Venus on June 3, 1769. The second was to record natural history led by 25-year-old Joseph Banks. And, finally, the secret goal — sealed orders with instructions to seek out the ‘Great Southern Continent’, an undiscovered landmass that was believed to lie near the bottom of the globe. From Tahiti, he sailed south and southwest andfound and charted New Zealand, a job that took him six months. He then crossed the Tasman Sea and, on April 19, 1770, came upon the southeast coast of Australia. While on the Coral Sea, Cook’s ship HMS Endeavor ran aground on a reef. There was no way it could be dislodged. With no way out, the ship’s crew unloaded ballast, including six cannons. (These were recovered from the water only in 1969.) Luckily for them, they caught a high tide and were dislodged. The badly damaged ship was repaired and Cook continued his search for the fabled ‘Great Southern Continent’. Cook did not realise the magnitude of the discovery that he had unwittingly stumbled upon: the largest structure of living organisms in the world or The Great Barrier Reef, which is recognised as a site of environmental importance and is a World Heritage Site.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-disaster-and-a-discovery/article34785654.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Brownie saves the day||Aparna sat up in bed and stared at the skinny brown dog in Papa’s arms. “What breed is it?” she asked excitedly, putting one hand out to touch it. “It’s a rescue dog; a street dog,” he said. “But I wanted a pure breed!” Aparna wailed. “You’ll soon love Brownie; he’s just around six months old and you’ll be able to manage him, as he grows. You can take him for a walk…” “I can take him for a walk?” asked Aparna, her eyes widening in delight. “When you’re well again…” promised Pa. While Aparna was recovering from her long illness, Brownie grew plumper and bigger. He seemed to understand everything. Aparna sometimes sat in the garden with him, throwing a ball and laughing happily, as he jumped to catch it. Sonia’s surprise Then one Saturday morning, several weeks later, Ma and Pa awoke to shrieks from Aparna’s room. They dashed in and found Sonia, Aparna’s elder sister, standing on her bed in her shoes while Brownie danced around, yipping with delight at this new person in his life. “Get it away from me!” she screamed. “Get your shoes off the bed!” cried Ma. “What is wrong with you?” “There’s a dog in the room!” screeched Sonia. “That’s what’s wrong!” Aparna piped up, “He’s my dog, Didi. His name is Brownie and he’s great!” “How could you do this?” cried Sonia, glaring at her parents. “You got her a dog when you know I don’t like them! I’m moving into the spare room right now. I can’t bear the smell in here.” It was lunchtime before peace returned to the house and Sonia recovered enough from her shock to join them at the dining table. “Your surprise visit home turned into a surprise for you, huh, Didi?” said Aparna. On Sunday evening, Pa and Ma went out and Aparna was alone at home with Brownie. Sonia had cycled to her friend Bhavna’s house. When she was returning a little after dark, a group of stray dogs were on their way to be fed at a neighbouring house. One of them went for her cycle tyre and the others followed, snarling and snapping. To the rescue Hearing Sonia’s screams, Aparna went into the garden with Brownie. Before she could say or do anything, Brownie jumped over the wall and raced towards Sonia. He went for the leader of the pack in a flash of fur and fangs. All the dogs lost interest in Sonia and turned their attention upon him. Sonia didn’t wait. She pedalled in through the gate held open by Aparna. Then both of them shouted for Brownie, terrified that he would be torn to pieces by the angry dogs. Just in time, however, the neighbour put the food out and the entire pack lost interest in Brownie and ran to eat. “Thank goodness they got their food!” said Aparna, as Brownie came back over the wall, looking unscathed except for a missing patch of fur on his rump. “But if they weren’t being fed, those dogs wouldn’t be hanging around here,” snapped Sonia. She turned to enter the house and almost fell over Brownie. She looked at him in exasperation. “You’re always in my way, aren’t you, Brownie?” she said. Then she leaned down and patted him. “But I’m really happy you are! You saved me!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/brownie-saves-the-day/article34785678.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Soaring high||Thirteen-year-old Amy Alden’s life is suddenly overturned when her mother dies in an accident. From New Zealand, she now moves to Ontario, Canada, to live with her father, Thomas, and his girlfriend, Susan. As she adjusts to her new life, Amy finds a cluster of goose eggs, which she incubates in a barn on her father’s property. The eggs hatch and Amy finds great pleasure in taking care of the goslings. Thomas reaches out to the authorities for help and officer Glen Seifert arrives to tell them how to care for the geese. However, when he points out that, according to law, domestic geese must have their wings clipped so that they cannot fly, Amy is upset. Thomas tells Glen to leave, which leads the latter to threaten that he will confiscate any goose that is found flying. When Thomas realises that geese have to be taught about their migratory routes, he plans to use an ultralight aircraft to teach them. But the geese have adopted Amy as their parent, so Thomas teaches Amy to fly the aircraft. They plan to take the geese to a bird sanctuary which is under threat of being converted into a coastal housing unit. During Amy’s practice sessions, the weakest gosling goes missing. While they’re searching for him, Glen turns up at the Alden’s farm and takes away the other geese. Do Thomas and Amy manage to get the geese back? Do they get the birds to safety? Do the birds learn their migratory routes? Fly Away Home answers all these questions and more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/soaring-high/article34785697.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House A dream come true||Shalu’s hands shook as she peeled away the tape. “Just rip it away,” Samit suggested. “I couldn’t do that!” Shalini said, shocked. “What if I tear the wrapping paper?” “So what?” Samit said. “It’s only paper!” A happy memory How could her brother say that? Specially about this green and gold wrapping paper? If stored carefully, it would stay fresh for years, a happy memory of her birthday. But when she tried to tell Samit this, he said, “Sometimes, Shalu you are so sill...” He stopped abruptly and Shalu guessed it was because Amma had frowned at him. “Go on,” Samit said, trying to sound eager, “open your gift!” But Shalu knew that, behind his smile, he thought she was silly to care about the wrapping paper. How could her brother have changed so much? In the past, Samit had helped open her gifts carefully so she could save the wrapping paper. All those papers were spread out under Shalu’s mattress, rustling every time she tossed and turned. “Open it!” Samit’s voice jerked Shalu out of her thoughts. She looked at her gift and felt excitement curl slowly in her stomach. What a big box it was! Suddenly eager, she pulled away the tape and the wrapping paper fell apart with a rustle. For a moment Shalu stared, too stunned to react. “Shalu,” Amma asked anxiously, “you like it, don’t you?” “Oh, yes,” Shalu smiled hugely. “It’s what I’ve always wanted!” “The Castle of Your Dreams” read the words on the box. Above a picture of a large castle, complete with a tower and a drawbridge, it said, “More than 10,000 blocks! Hours of fun!” Shalu’s heart thundered. How long she had waited for this! But Amma hadn’t thought that Shalu could build her own castle. “It’ll take you days to put together,” Amma had warned. “And a lot of patience!” To prove her wrong, Shalu and Samit had built a castle. Of course, it hadn’t been as fancy as this one. They had use cardboard boxes and built one with a drawbridge that could actually be pulled up. Shalu knew that they had been able to build it only because of her brother, who had researched castles, drawn detailed plans before they began and known what to do and how. Shalu had followed him, gluing things and painting the cardboard to look like worn grey stones. Their hard work had been worth it, Shalu thought, gazing at the box. Amma and Papa were convinced she could complete this build-it-yourself project. The only problem was that, in the time between asking for the castle and getting it, Samit had changed. He was no longer her full-of-plans, always-happy-to-help brother. Instead, he had turned into a gruff stranger, too busy to play with his younger sister. What, Shalu wondered, was the use of a castle when she had no one to build it with?  To be continued   Shalu’s heart thundered. How long she had waited for this!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-a-dream-come-true/article34785645.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||First day of Summer||It was just yesterday when the nights were clear and dark and the new moon allowed one to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters. In fact, another celestial delight enthralled the people of Russia, the Arctic Ocean, western Greenland, and Canada — an annular solar eclipse, which occurs when the moon is too far away from the Earth to completely cover the Sun. This results in a ring of light around the darkened moon. Also keep an eye out for the brightest planet Venus and red planet Mars in the early evening sky throughout June.  June Solstice: The Earth orbits the Sun once every 365.242 days, and this is the period over which the cycle of solstices and equinoxes — and consequently all the Earth's seasons — repeat from one year to the next. Solstices occur because the polar axis of the Earth’s spin is tilted at an angle of 23.5° to the plane of its orbit around the Sun. The North Pole of the earth, which is tilted toward the Sun, will reach its northernmost position in the sky. It will be directly over the Tropic of Cancer at 23.44°. The first day of summer in the Northern Hemisphere and the first day of winter (winter solstice) in the Southern Hemisphere will officially begin on June 21. It will also be the longest day of 2021 in the northern hemisphere.  Full Moon, Supermoon: On June 21, the moon will be located on the opposite side of the Earth as the Sun and its face will be fully illuminated. Known to early Native American tribes as the Strawberry Moon, it coincides with the peak strawberry harvesting season. This moon has also been known as the Rose Moon and the Honey Moon. It is the last of three supermoons in 2021. The moon will be near its closest approach to the Earth and may look slightly larger and brighter than usual.  Conjunction of Moon and Saturn, Jupiter: The moon and Saturn will share the same right level in the sky on June 27. At around the same time, the two objects will also make a close approach, technically called an appulse. The pair will be visible to the naked eye or through a pair of binoculars. The same routine will happen again but this time with Jupiter on May 29.  Tips  When looking at faint objects such as stars, nebulae, the Milky Way and other galaxies, it is important to allow your eyes to adapt to the dark to achieve better night vision. Allow 15 minutes for your eyes to become sensitive in the dark and remember not to look at your mobile phone or any other bright device when stargazing. If you’re using a star app on your phone, switch on the red night-vision mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/first-day-of-summer/article34785702.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Page turners||With climate change and human interventions pushing many creatures to the brink of extinction, we need to be more aware of the consequences of our action. This is the message from this book that has stories of five rare animals — the Pink-headed Duck, Indian Bustard, the Red Panda, the Snow Leopard and the Ganges River Dolphin —from the Indian subcontinent. The protagonists of these stories indicate that a little bit of care can go a long way in ensuring that these species thrive once more on our planet. The stories have been illustrated in colour by Zainab Tambawalla, who has used different styles and mediums for each story. Nilavoli and Amma travel down a lagoon in Mattakalappu, listening to the mysterious sounds that rise from the deep. As little Nilavoli listens in wonder, Amma dives into folklore and fishes out spellbinding tales of mermaids from around the world. From the royal mermaid Mélusine of Luxembourg to Julnar the sea-born from West Asia, from the shapeshifting Menana of the Ottawa Nation to the mermaid princess Suvarnamaccha, a daughter of Ravana who fell in love with Hanuman, the stories are all touched with magic. A picture book on the enchanting and fascinating mythical creatures. The world has stood still. The streets lie empty and schools are closed. All work has dried up and people keep whispering the word ‘Corona’ all the time. Jamlo walks down a long and hot road, alongside hundreds of men, women and children whom Tara watches on a screen. Jamlo walks as Rahul watches the streets turn quiet. Jamlo walks and walks in a world that needs to be kind and just and equal — a world where all lives are seen as important. The book shows the impact the 2020 lockdown had on Indians, especially migrant labourers and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/page-turners/article34785690.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Lingua Franca||Across  1. ____ Language is for the hearing impaired (4) 3. Language spoken in Denmark (6) 6. Greek prefix used to name very small things (4) 7. Mandarin is spoken here (5) 9. A made up language from Star Trek (7) 11. Using abusive language on social media (5) 13. Language spoken in Thailand (4) 15. Panch, cinco, pente (4) 17. Seven, in Roman numerals (3) 18. Neela, azul, blau (4) 19. Language spoken in Nigeria (4) 20. ‘Sir’, in German (4)  Down  1. A very ancient language (8) 2. Prefix that means “new” (3) 4. A distinctive way of pronunciation (6) 5. A language spoken in Sri Lanka (7) 8. For example, for short (2) 10. ____ language, or mother tongue (6) 12. Au _____: Till we meet again (6) 14. Hello, in Spanish (4) 15. Bona ____: Genuine (4) 16. Ferrum, in Latin (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/lingua-franca/article34785672.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||What are atoms?  The universeis made up of matter. The most basic unit or the building block for all matter is referred to as an atom. While atoms themselves are small, they are made up of even tinier particles called electrons (that have a negative electrical charge), protons (that have a positive charge), and neutrons (which have no charge). The last two form the nucleus or the central part of the atom and the electrons move around this nucleus. One kind of atom will have equal number of protons and electrons; most atoms have as many neutrons as they have protons. When electrons are shared with other atoms, they undergo a chemical reaction and change.   How dosnakes hear ?  Snakes do nothave an external ear like humans and other animals but they do have an inner ear structure. They use a bone called the quadrate, found in the jaw to pick up vibrations from the ground. Snakes, however, cannot hear sounds transmitted through air. But, this doesn’t matter, as they rely primarily on other senses like smell, for instance. When a snake flicks its tongue out, it is actually picking up smells from the area around it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34785641.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34785633.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34785674.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||‘If you can speak, you should sing’||Gopalakrishnan was barely eight when legendary Carnatic vocalist Chembai Vaidyanatha Bhagavathar asked him to accompany him on the mridangam at a concert in Thripunithura in central Kerala in 1940. His father, hailing from a family that had been palace musicians for two centuries, was obviously reluctant, thinking that Gopalakrishnan was too inexperienced to play with a musician of Chembai’s calibre. But Chembai insisted. Although there was another mridangist on stage, at the pallavi, Chembai asked Gopalakrishnan to take over. And the boy fearlessly played a four-kalai pallavi without a stutter. Chembai was impressed and asked Gopalakrishnan’s father to send him to Chennai to pursue a career in music, but his father wanted him to finish his studies first. The boy stayed back but played for the veteran musician whenever he came to town. Under Chembai’s wings, he blossomed not only on the mridangam, but also in vocal music. By the time he was 14, he was performing vocal concerts too. And it was a few more years before he joined Chembai in Chennai. What followed was a remarkable career and the emergence of an institution in his own right. Dr. Tripunithura Viswanathan Gopalakrishnan, fondly called TVG, has traversed different genres and forms, and, perhaps most importantly, is an inclusive and secular teacher who has created a legacy that’s held aloft by top-class musicians ranging from Ilaiyaraja and A.R. Rahman to Ghatam V. Suresh and violinist S. Varadarajan. As he turns 90 today, it’s hard to summarise his career: an excellent mridangam exponent who has accompanied stalwarts; a vocalist who sang in both the Carnatic and Hindustani styles; a scholar and composer; a cross-over star who shared the stage with the likes of George Harrison, Dave Brubeck, and Pt. Ravi Shankar; and, above all, an astute talent-spotter and mentor. “What makes him stand tall is his openness to all genres, his allegiance to aesthetics, and his innate passion to share knowledge,” says Devie Neithiyar, singer and disciple, who manages the TVG Academy of Music and Arts. Varadarajan says that but for TVG, he wouldn’t have become the musician that he is today. “A transformation happened when I started learning from TVG sir in 1987. New perspectives, techniques, and a deeper understanding of all aspects of music and performance. Under TVG, I was not just learning the violin, but music in its totality.” “Music is everything for me. The most occupying thing in my mind. Everything I do is an extension of my music,” says TVG. In the Carnatic world, that can often be an exclusive socio-cultural ecosystem, TVG is an exception. Nobody else has democratised access to Carnatic music as he has over the last many decades. “I want more people to learn. Music is cosmopolitan. It’s for everyone, every occasion.” Although deeply entrenched in classical music, TVG doesn’t take sides. “What is classical? Classical means there should be grammar and tradition. That it should conform to some form.” But doesn’t he think there is something that is still pulling Carnatic music backwards, keeping it from being more contemporary? That even some highly skilled young musicians are bogged down by ‘tradition’? Why, for example, should there be so much affected voice mannerisms when straighter notes sound more pleasing? Singing with mannerisms “Some don’t identify the difference between mannerisms and music. Some think that it becomes Carnatic music only if they sing with the mannerisms. Many connoisseurs also like Carnatic music to be on the beaten track. But singers should realise that after 50, the body starts protesting; by 60, their ability to express what they want declines, and the music that they developed with mannerisms will also fail to express itself. There will be problems with sruti and stamina. In fact, when one sings sudhaswarams, it sounds smooth, but many people are used to music with mannerisms. Unfortunately, for about 90%, Carnatic music is nostalgia, as if what I heard and what I know is my benchmark,” says TVG. When teaching, how does he ensure that his disciples explore and pursue more sudhaswarams rather than drowning in mannerisms? “During phonation, nothing should move except the vocal cords, the necessary mechanism for making sound. That’s how singers like S.P. Balasubramaniam, S. Janaki and Parveen Sultana sang. Clarity, pitch accuracy, vowel movement shouldn’t suffer because of mannerisms. In music, the vowels carry the sound. If you sing like that, music will be easy on the ears. The same with instruments too — if you play without mannerisms it will sound good. Tradition doesn’t mean it should sound old.” He adds, “Madurai Mani Iyer’s concerts used to draw large crowds. His music was 100% pitch perfect and in delectable layam. All living things respond to purity of tone and rhythm because that’s basic. But this purity shouldn’t be misunderstood as conservatism.” A singer’s identity TVG also doesn’t subscribe to the idea of good and bad voices. “Voice is a singer’s identity. But the main problem is that some people imitate. Some tend to sing like their teachers, and the teacher’s responsibility is to prevent them from doing that.” In TVG’s world, Carnatic music is universal, with unparalleled depth and diversity. “It’s so panoramic. Endless forms, endless repertoire, widely assembled and analysed rhythms, stunning aesthetics, and so many languages. No other music in the world has so many languages. It’s all-encompassing and very structured. Our rhythm is measured to infinity. Carnatic rhythms are the most evolved and refined,” he says. Does one need to be mathematically oriented to be a mridangist? “No. Carnatic rhythm is only arithmetic.” So can people who are poor in mathematics play the mridangam? “Why not,” he replies. Ghatam V. Suresh, one of his foremost disciples, says that his guru believes that layam cannot be cramped within some highbrow mathematical calculations, which can at most aid a performance. “He insists instead that the nada from each stroke on the instrument has an emotional connect with the listener, the perpetuation of which makes someone a true musician.” TVG founded his academy to take music to everyone, particularly those from underprivileged backgrounds, and also to train teachers in the TVG training method to build, repair and free both vocalists and instrumentalists. “Every person should have music in their life. If you can speak, you should sing,” says TVG. And that epitomises his art and practice.  The writer is a journalist-turned-UN official-turned-columnist   based in Travancore.      In TVG’s world, Carnatic music is universal, with unparalleled depth and diversity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/if-you-can-speak-you-should-sing/article34785159.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Brand Sanjay||Carnatic musician Sanjay Subrahmanyan recently launched a series titled ‘On That Note’ on his YouTube channel. The series consists of clips that are roughly two minutes long, in which Sanjay sings a refrain from a chosen raga and then shares some anecdotes from life. The singer speaks in English interspersed with Tamil. The episodes, branded with a distinctive logo, end by urging viewers to buy a membership into ‘Sanjay Sabha,’ a forum that shares digital content exclusively with patrons. Says Sanjay, “The main intention of the series is to engage with listeners. I have been camera-shy earlier, unwilling to talk much, preferring to sing. The pandemic, unfortunately, has created a long period of uncertainty and, as a performer, I am missing the live experience. While singing and sharing music is still primary, social media has been encouraging of people talking and interacting directly with the audience. There is a personal element to an artiste talking on camera.” In 2020, Sanjay kept his YouTube channel going by uploading several songs, and montages of clips, from his past live concerts — recorded painstakingly by his wife, Aarthi, for over a decade now. While recording concerts for sabhas for the virtual Margazhi festival last year, Sanjay realised there was a market for high-quality paid programming. This led to the launch of his paid channel in January. “The pandemic has made digital concerts the only substitute for active performers. The reason behind my collaboration with Bhargavii Mani, a branding and communication professional, for the series is to make the content visually appealing. It was she who convinced me to produce my first music video ‘Tamizhan’.” Bhargavii runs Edge Design House and was inspired to produce ‘On That Note’ from ‘Going Places,’ a series Sanjay was already doing for subscribers of his channel. “I wanted a byte-sized concept for everyone else. Most of us love stories; that’s why we decided to have Sanjay narrate anecdotes.” Once the concept was decided, Sanjay, Aarthi, Bhargavii and her team worked on the title and logo, and storyboarded the episodes, recording six right away before the lockdown began the following day. Bhargavii adds that the logo was based on Sanjay’s own acoustic tambura (the sole source of sruti he uses on stage) with the colour palette inspired by the impressionist art that Sanjay enjoys. Spontaneous by nature, Sanjay rarely sticks to script, adding whatever comes to mind while filming. “So the challenge is to try and condense what I want to say into a short capsule. It is also helping me become more comfortable before the camera.” Will his paid channel remain sustainable when the situation returns to normal? Sanjay thinks so. “Several sabhas have told me they intend to continue digital streaming options for live events. I think this format democratises the situation, breaking a lot of entry barriers and making it easy for anyone, anywhere, to access what is being offered. After all, music was being shared and consumed online even before the pandemic.” Says Bhargavii, “It has not been difficult to take the concept across to music lovers since we have a great performer with varied interests and a brilliant sense of humour. He is a very strong brand.” The author writes on classical music and musicians.   Spontaneous by nature, Sanjay rarely sticks to script, adding whatever comes to mind while filming||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/brand-sanjay/article34785187.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Two tales from one city||The Merlion is the official mascot of Singapore, a half-beast, half-fish creature of the land and sea, which juxtaposes the myths of the Chinese dragons, Grecian phoenix, and the Indian Garuda and Naga. Poet Edwin Thamboo, of Tamil and Teochew lineage, often considered Singapore’s unofficial poet laureate, established the Merlion as a personification of the island nation. The creature is as much about Singapore’s spirits as it is about identity, always an issue in any nation. This concern is clearly envisioned in Naam and Parambarai, two recent series from Singapore that have become rather popular among Tamil viewers worldwide.  Naam: One Love One Life brings together the lives of six musicians, from various backgrounds, struggling to prove their worth. Though each has her own way of living and perceiving the world, together they mesh in a unique way to produce compelling music. But bitterness and betrayals break the band, until the arrival of an intruder gives them a chance to reflect on their misunderstandings.  Parambarai, a four-part miniseries focusing on inter-generational trauma, follows the powerful matriarch, Rajathi, and her lineage as the family navigates scandals, vendettas and a dark secret. It shows how the remnants of our past live on through the generations we leave behind. Our present life becomes our future’s past. With so much at stake, how far will one go to redefine legacy and change destiny? Jaya Rathakrishnan, the screenwriter of Parambarai , who has worked on a lot of popular Singaporean series over the past two decades, says, “I began my script with excerpts from my grandmother Kamatchi’s journey to Singapore during World War II. It was about her thoughts about Singapore then, which was to become her second home for life. I represented the spirits and the thought processes of the Indian diaspora, the Tamil settlers who came during the invasion of Malaya and the fall of Singapore. I was inspired by the ideologies of Periyar and Bharathiyar and thus characterised Rajathi and Krishnayya, the protagonists, in such a way as to evoke the identity and spirits of the Tamils in Singapore in those days.” The stories then took on a life of their own. As she wrote the script, Jaya was conscious of Indians being the earliest settlers on the island. “We carry the DNA of our motherland and we made Singapore our home, creating an identity here. It’s really hard to explain our heart, our culture as Indian, and our identity as Singaporean. We actually mutate ourselves as new individuals, making the best of both worlds,” says Jaya. The minutiae of location, costume, the Chola dialect, etc., are captured to make Parambarai a historical account. Compelling music The director of Naam is T. Suriavelan, who wrote, directed and acted in the first Indian indie musical trilogy: Usuraiya Tholaichaen, Sagiyae and Vilagathey , which trended globally for its stunning visuals, screenplay and some compelling music by Stephen Zecharia. Naam is partially an autobiographical recounting of this journey. Says Suriavelan, “Frankly, Naam is our team’s dream project. The 32-part series released last year speaks through its script making and music to audiences across nations.” In Naam, he says, more than a director, he worked with minute aspects of the screenplay. “The intense visuals, balancing the good and bad characterisation, blurring the lines between right and wrong, drawing the timeline back and forth to tell the story of 360 Entertainment Productions was a bit tricky.” The series has extensive detailing even in the title posters, for instance, the personification of a black shawl. Says Suriavelan, “I tried my best to unfold the real nature of the characters; to keep it authentic. I wanted to highlight the clashing of ideas.” One major aspect of Naam ’s success is the musical track and background score by Ajmal Tahseen and Suman Battuer, which are trending. Says Suriavelan, “One thing I kept in mind was to write songs with simple diction to express philosophical thoughts.” The series has five single tracks along with a title track for the introduction. The tracks are elegant and classical in diction, but with sounds and notes that suit a 21st century audience. In both series, the identity of the Singaporean Indian is examined, a unique mutated identity that merges DNA, culture, and traditions. The series explore the edges of the new vision of Indians in Singapore and see them cast in the image of the Merlion. Both series are available for free viewing at meWATCH, a Singaporean digital video-on-demand service.  The writer is a researcher in Linguistics, History and Culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/two-tales-from-one-city/article34785179.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Music, camera, action||“Stupid boy! There is no free pizza. There’s never free pizza,” announces the maestro in delightfully hammy vein, closing his eyes in triumphant disdain. We see the said boy, presumably, sitting tied up on a settee and being fed a slice of pizza by another lad. A pair of flautists, flanking them, play on. The scene is from the trailer of a new Thai film, The Maestro , in which the eponymous character, a down-and-out composer, lures a group of musicians, who are unemployed thanks to the pandemic, to his country mansion. He assembles them into an orchestra and forces them to play his latest and greatest symphony, but they are his captives and must live in terror of his baton as he descends into madness. Going by the trailer, the maestro is indubitably the star of the show. He emotes, he cajoles, he explodes. And for followers of the classical music scene, he may well be a familiar face. The role is played by Somtow Sucharitkul, 68, Thailand’s star composer. The rest of the cast is a mix of professional actors and musicians from the Siam Sinfonietta, a youth orchestra founded by Somtow in 2010, as a way to train young musicians professionally. They’ve all come together to produce this homage to horror B-movies, and it serves as a vehicle for bored performers to flex their musical muscles and reach the public during the lockdown. The Sinfonietta has had remarkable success over the past decade, winning numerous prizes and performing at major international venues like New York’s Carnegie Hall. It is run with remarkable rigour, accepting members of all backgrounds and educational qualifications but with two conditions: Everyone must audition every year. And when they reach the age of 25, they have to step down. The Sinfonietta had elaborate plans for 2020. Cue the pandemic, and everything had to be set aside. Venues were shut and gatherings of more than 20 people banned as part of lockdown restrictions. By December, Somtow sensed a growing malaise among his idle musicians, and was worried about both their musical growth and mental health. He spoke to his friend, British-born filmmaker Paul Spurrier, who has been based in Thailand for two decades. Spurrier had similar stories to tell about actors, technicians and others in the film industry. Time to ideate and rehearse It was during these conversations that they suddenly saw a loophole in the restrictions — groups of more than 20 performers could gather if it was for the production of a film or TV show. This meant the Sinfonietta could rehearse and perform if it could be worked into a film. Spurrier came up with the idea of The Maestro , which appealed to Somtow, also famously a horror and sci-fi author. Spurrier would direct, and he insisted that Somtow himself play the maestro. They set about raising funds and recruiting actors, and some of Thailand’s top actors such as Vithaya Pansringarm, Sahajak Boonthanakit and David Asavanond agreed to take part for much less than their usual fee. The actors and musicians soon developed a collaborative spirit on set. “Musicians helped actors to actually feel the music, and actors helped the musicians to expose their personalities to the camera,” says Spurrier in a press release. Asavanond, an actor, learned how to conduct an orchestra to play the role of a rival conductor, while musicians became actors; soprano Jirut Khamlanghan, for example, plays the young Maestro’s abused mother. The soundtrack was, of course, at the heart of it all — the 100-minute film is almost “wall-to-wall music,” says Somtow, in his emailed responses. He describes how, unusually, much of the score was composed and recorded ahead of filming: “There were extensive sequences of “pure cinema,” where music and image are the only things experienced by the audience. Paul decided I would compose the music first for these scenes, and then he would shoot the film and edit it to fit. There are 45 minutes of the soundtrack that were composed this way. Paul would provide a detailed [chart] — almost a shot list — with each edit marked in seconds. I had to write the music for a full orchestra while imagining what this film, which did not at that point have a single frame of music shot, would look like… So the bulk of the music was composed in a far closer-than-usual partnership between director and composer. I can’t think of a more tightly knit unit in the history of film — maybe the relationship between Hitchcock and Bernard Herrmann in those classic films like Vertigo .” Filming was completed in April, shortly before the third wave of COVID-19 hit the country. So it will have to wait to hit theatres, but when it does, this will be the first Thai film produced during the pandemic. And also the first Thai film ever with a full orchestral score performed by Thai musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/music-camera-action/article34785156.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Manodharma in abhinaya||When it comes to abhinaya, one can never forget T. Balasaraswati. While it is undeniable that she was a crucial link to the past by way of her illustrious lineage, representing seven generations of hereditary performers, she also had the extraordinary ability to floor audiences through her extempore abhinaya. One recalls American ethnomusicologist Robert E. Brown’s words, “Balasaraswati performed the same piece 15 times during a concert tour, yet rendered each version anew by deploying a wide range of references and poetic tropes in improvised sections.” Balamma, as she was affectionately called, emphasised improvisation in abhinaya because she believed that ‘composing’ dance for narrative sections was not in vogue among the dancers of her generation. This forms the foundation of the Bala Bani, which is being taken forward by Balamma’s grandson, Aniruddha Knight. The vocalists who accompany Aniruddha sing ‘Thiruvotriyur Thyagarajan’, the Atana padam, which is a crown jewel in the Dhanammal family heirloom. There are no rehearsals with the co-artistes when it comes to these expressive pieces; even the kalapramanam or speed is not discussed beforehand. The musicians perceive the pace when Aniruddha begins singing the song and from the indicative stamping of the feet, accompanied by the clanking of the anklets. The dancer determines the speed and the overall flow of the composition through his intimate compatibility with the musicians. The musicians are not told how many times each line needs to be sung; Aniruddha subtly indicates, through his singing and head movements, when the orchestra may progress to the next line. This makes ‘choreography’ a moot word in the lexicon of the Bala Bani’s abhinaya aspect. It also leaves no room for dancing to recorded music, a live musical ensemble becoming core to this style, thus accomplishing a performative effect through parity and mutual respect between dancer and musicians.  Bala’s teaching methods Although Balamma taught abhinaya, her students attest that the content of the lessons varied from student to student. She would come up with new ways to perform a song in each session. Abhinaya was a deeply personalised presentation, and Bala believed it was an important tool to exhibit the dancer’s creativity and command. However, across the ages, Bharatanatyam became increasingly institutionalised, leading to manodharma abhinaya largely becoming a fading aesthetic. Veteran dancer-choreographer Sudharani Raghupathy recollects her long association with Balamma, which began in 1952. “Her manodharma in abhinaya was unequalled. Her prowess was the result of her experience and scholarship as well as mastery over the grammar of Bharatanatyam. I am intensely influenced by her approach to abhinaya. I had several discussions with Balamma on how I could tackle a particular padam or varnam.” Aniruddha says, “Abhinaya is not something that can be entirely pre-decided or rehearsed. Since the conveying of emotions is the salient purpose of abhinaya, it definitely is not possible for me to put my emotions in a box. How my grandmother and mother [Lakshmi Knight] would perform a particular composition on a day depended on their mindset and orientation at that moment.” True to their vision, even today Aniruddha does not perform a particular expressive number the same way in any two concerts. Although the style is bountiful when it comes to repertoire (with a rich supply of hundreds of musical treasures mostly handed down generation to generation), manodharma abhinaya lends perpetual relevance to the Bala Bani. Is it possible for sancharis to emerge spontaneously on stage, in sync with the music and the rhythm? The dancer uses a basket of appropriate expressions and gestures to convey what is necessary for a song. It is similar perhaps to the stringing of words by a poet to create a poem — the words are known already but the poem is written afresh. As Aniruddha explains, it then becomes necessary for the dancers to educate themselves not just in the religious texts, but also to absorb and internalise the subtleties from diverse dance styles and artistes, various genres of music, and from painting, architecture and art. “After all,” he says, “exposure to the world determines one’s thinking. Intelligent abhinaya is a result of the ability to perceive and reproduce — it certainly should help someone step outside their comfort zone.” Says dancer Anita Ratnam, “I once saw Bala perform abhinaya for the first line of Papanasam Sivan’s Varali kriti, ‘Kaa Vaa Vaa’, for 40 minutes in a lecture demonstration at The Music Academy.” Balasaraswati’s style, says Anita, is a challenging one that demands meditative surrender from the dancer. Rasikas who have seen Bala perform live often speak of how the music was visual and the dance aural in her performances. In this style, the dancer either sings in parts or in full when performing compositions like padams. Needless to say, singing while dancing is another striking feature that has largely become extinct in Bharatanatyam performances. As Anita says, “Manodharma abhinaya performed by the Bala school shines because it brings out the dancer’s natural sense of musicality and rhythm. The emotion behind a piece triggers the impulse as opposed to the lyrics alone.” A lifelong process Learning and executing abhinaya, says Aniruddha, is a lifelong process and can only come from absorption and assimilation. He learnt this from his guru and mother Lakshmi. The intent behind each nuance becomes more pronounced as one grows as a dancer. Knight had this transformative experience late in life — particular expressions that came to him as he performed a piece. He says he could not have realised some of these as a student. The art unfurls itself to the seeker gradually and in the most uncanny ways. Sudharani says, “Guru K.P. Kittappa Pillai would challenge me by giving me one line from a varnam on Brihadeeshwara and asking me to dance what came to my mind. Over the years, I had to read up on the Shiva Purana and several other texts to come up with refreshing interpretations.” Every tradition needs worthy torchbearers to be propelled into the future. A very demanding style like Balasaraswati’s requires patience, perseverance and introspection. Aniruddha is passing on the centuries-old legacy he has inherited to the next set of learners through the Balasaraswati Institute of Performing Arts, where students are not only taught dance but also the unique dance music that is intrinsic to this style. A majority of Aniruddha’s students are from unconventional social backgrounds with limited access and exposure to the classical arts, but they inherit the rich artistic values of the Dhanammal lineage.  The writer is a rasika of classical music and dance and also plays the veena.   Abhinaya was a deeply personalised presentation, and Bala believed it was an important tool to exhibit the dancer’s creativity and command||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/manodharma-in-abhinaya/article34785173.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Ode to friendship||There is this song ‘Adida melathai’ from the Tamil film, Kannukkul Nilavu (2000), composed by Ilaiyaraja. Sung by S.P. Balasubramaniam, S.N. Surendar and Arun Mozhi, the song opens with SPB telling the rest of the group to keep rhythm. “Yei ennadaa nadai? Thaalam thaputhu! Yei thaalathula nadaraannaa…” This is not my favourite Raja song, but is striking for the opening lines. In any conversation of his songs in a group of Raja admirers, there will surely be a discussion on his rhythm design. His imagination of the nadai and tala is unique, creating an unforgettable sonic experience. However, everyone concedes, it is not easy to decode the pattern. In that sense, the above lines seem like a comment about his own music. Let us stretch the idea a bit. In an evident melody to rhythm relation, every musical thought moves in harmony with the rhythm cycle or tala pattern. But how does Ilaiyaraja build his melody in relation with rhythm? From recognising the movement in his songs, it is both direct and indirect. While it is within time, it is also beyond, often moving towards the eternal and timeless idea of laya. Ilaiyaraja, one must remember is a master of technique. With this knowledge he harks to the everlasting. The late S.P. Balasubramanyam, a playback singer with few parallels, was composer Ilaiyaraja’s good friend. Their relationship spanned over 50 years. During those days, SPB mostly sang Hindi film songs while the Pavalar Brothers (Ilaiyaraja, Varadarajan and Gangai Amaran) were providing orchestral support in the Tamil industry. Later, when SPB got a break in Tamil films, Ilaiyaraja and his brothers were still struggling musicians. The late singer took them on his two-wheeler around Madras, introducing them to people he knew in the industry. This is the long story cut short. Interesting anecdotes SPB often spoke of their early years with great fondness, narrating anecdotes and episodes, calling Ilaiyaraja a god of film music. He also said it was nothing less than a divine plan that Ilaiyaraja and he were born in the same period of musical history. In contrast, Ilaiyaraja rarely indulged in nostalgia. Time, for SPB, was a continuum from past to present. The past was fixed and multiple, and they moved into the many Nows between which he operated. Till the his end, he cried when he sang a Mohammed Rafi song. He carried his gratitude to Kodandapani sir always. He could not help remembering the great masters. Time for SPB was memory, admiration, emotion, friendship... all of which coalesced into the immortal song. Time for SPB was here, and now. It flowed continuously. For Ilaiyaraja, time is beyond the physical realm. The past is a part of his spiritual recollections, and hence, whenever asked to speak about his musical formation, he refers to the ‘unexplainable,’ the ‘unsaid,’ the mysteries of human endeavour. He rarely narrates stories, even though he remembers them. For Ilaiyaraja, time is a conversation with the timeless, with Bach, Tyagaraja and Ramana. It is a dialogue with the everlasting vivacity of folk. The 18th century philosopher Immanuel Kant says that “time is the form of inner sense and it is apriori condition of all appearance whatsoever”. Ilaiyaraja’s music is a recognition of this, and so he asks, “How to name it?” One also needs to realise that it is unscientific to understand music in terms of its formal elements, torn out of its context. Music, therefore, is a matter of style that represents the intention of its culture, and not that of habit. Ilaiyaraja’s music is a relentless negotiation with time (laya as well), and while he gives you the experience of a fixed rhythm, he quickly removes you from that secure knowing. Music is unknowing, for him it is neither about people nor about a particular time, it is that enigmatic coming together of people and time. In the song, ‘Sundari kannal’ ( Thalapathi ), sung by SPB and Janaki, Ilaiyaraja creates many ‘times’ on the emotional plane. He operates with two rhythm schemes and creates a sonic aura that are so totally different from each other. Ilaiyaraja uses established tala cycles and interprets it in a way that is not easily recognisable. You can see this in the Kannada songs, ‘Hey kavithe neenu’ or ‘Yaarigaagi aata’. The ‘Engulle engulle’ song has no percussion support at all, but Ilaiyaraja uses guitar as the rhythm instrument. In sweeping away old musical horizons, Ilaiyaraja creates a boundless universe. In this universe, he dismantles temporal vocabulary. In the light of all this, one feels that the nadai that he warns is failing is probably one of perception. Through his incredible talent, SPB could play out this inner sensorium of Ilaiyaraja. He sensed time, and disseminated the timeless. Ilaiyaraja created stories, SPB was the storyteller.  The Bengaluru-based journalist writes on art and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ode-to-friendship/article34785183.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Remarkable performer||Some scenes remain etched in memory. For instance, in the 1959 film Anari , Raj Kapoor looks at Nutan and says, “Ek tasveer, ek tasveer jo main barson se banaana chahta hoon, aaj ankhon ke saamne aakar khadi ho gayi” (a picture that I had been wanting to make for many years today stands before my eyes). It was a simple shot, but Nutan’s expression made it unique. Though she had already worked in hit films like the award-winning Seema , Paying Guest and Dilli Ka Thug , Anari gave her career a further fillip. Once again her grace, simplicity and natural beauty charmed filmgoers, while her acting skills and performance in Sujata , Bandini and Main Tulsi Tere Aangan Ki wowed the critics. Fond memories Nutan’s 85th birth anniversary was on June 4. Her death in 1991 at the age of 54 came as a huge loss to the film community and to fans, who till today fondly recall her performances and hum songs picturised on her. ‘Chand phir nikla’ from Paying Guest , ‘Tera jaana’ from Anari , ‘Kaali ghata chhaye’ from Sujata and ‘Saawan ka mahina’ from Milan are favourites on radio, stage shows and talent contests even today. The actress arrived at a time when Nargis was at her peak, and Madhubala, Meena Kumari, Bina Rai and Geeta Bali had huge hits to their credit. Being the daughter of filmmaker Kumarsen Samarth and actress Shobhna Samarth, she had been exposed to the industry as a child and, in fact, started acting as a 14-year-old in her mother’s 1950 production Hamari Beti . She had three siblings, including Tanuja, who became an actress too. Nutan studied in Panchgani, Maharashtra, and later in Switzerland. After a few small roles, the big break happened at age 19 with the Balraj Sahni film Seema . The role of a convicted girl, Gauri, fetched Nutan her first Filmfare award. Nutan and Dev Anand tasted success with Paying Guest , which also became popular for S.D. Burman’s music. They came together again in Tere Ghar Ke Saamne , and Nutan’s expressions in the title song, where Dev Anand imagines her inside his glass of wine, were a delight to watch.  Tere Ghar Ke Saamne was preceded by two films which proved Nutan’s versatility as an actress. Both were directed by the inimitable Bimal Roy. She played an untouchable orphan in Sujata , and a woman serving a life term for murder in Bandini . As expected, Nutan won the Filmfare best actress award for both films. Nutan’s marriage to Lt. Commander Rajnish Behl in 1959 and the birth of their son Mohnish two years later slowed down her career, but only temporarily. By 1963, she was back in full swing. She acted in Dil Hi To Hai with Raj Kapoor, and looked gorgeous as Jameela Banu in the qawwali-inspired song, ‘Nigahen milane ko jee chahta hai’. The two were earlier seen in Anari and Chhalia . Besides Dev Anand and Raj Kapoor, Nutan did some good films with Sunil Dutt. After the success of Sujata , the two teamed up in Khandaan and Milan . What impressed audiences about Nutan was her ability to switch roles. She was as comfortable doing intense movies as she was in frothy romances. Despite their moderate success, her performances in Dil Ne Phir Yaad Kiya with Dharmendra, Saraswatichandra with Manish, and Saudagar with Amitabh Bachchan were appreciated. On the personal front, much was written about Nutan’s dispute with her mother over financial matters. However, they reconciled after two decades. As she turned 40, her approach to acting and roles changed. She played strong supporting roles in Raj Khosla’s Main Tulsi Tere Aangan Ki, Naam , Meri Jung and Karma . She also played an important role in the teleserial Mujrim Haazir . Besides acting, Nutan was also known for her singing skills. According to son Mohnish, she was trained in Hindustani music and Kathak. Lata Mangeshkar said Nutan lip-synced her songs perfectly. The actress actually sang two songs, including ‘Ae mere humsafar’ in the 1960 film Chhabili , which had music by Snehal Bhatkar, besides a few lines in Paying Guest . She also used to organise a show called Nutan Musical Night, where she would sing. For many actresses, Nutan was an inspiration. Sadhna and Smita Patil often expressed their admiration for her, and Sadhna admitted that her performance in Parakh was inspired by Nutan. The writer is a Mumbai-based music journalist.  Nutan was as comfortable doing intense movies as she was in frothy romances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/remarkable-performer/article34785152.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Arriving at a formula||The function of rhythm in a composition is to maintain balance in the music as Prof. Sambamoorthy explained. The famous aphorism, ‘ Sruti Matha, Layam Pitha ’ (Sruti is the mother and layam is the father) brings out the importance of singing to accurate sruti and time. The presumption about tala is that it is in the Chatusra gathi, i.e., four matrais between two beats. This time frame, which contains four, can be made to accommodate three, five, seven or nine as well. Then they become tisra, khanda, misra or sankeerna gathis. Based on this, well-known musician Abhishek Raghuram and his team have conceptualised a unique tala ensemble, named 4=5. As 4 becomes the new 5, so do a few other numbers change as well. Interesting combinations In an 18-minute video, Abhishek Raghuram, on the kanjira, initiates the tani avartanam in the basic chatusra gathi (four) at a medium pace in chathusra jathi triputa talam. He is joined by Sai Giridhar (mridangam) and Krishna Sriram (ghatam). The trio slowly switches over to Khanda gathi (five) and then divides the Khanda (5) into fours, making the tempo of this ‘fours’ in khandam as adi talam, and increases the tempo. They then play chatusra in these fours of khanda and continue to play tisram on that new chatusra gathi. From this, they arrive at another new, fast-paced chatusram, only to play khandam again. This is further divided into a fast-paced chatusram and the trio plays misram (seven), ensuing in a fascinating crescendo of the laya vinyasa in the new, superfast chatusram. All these variations, played with mathematical precision, are based on the initial Chatusra nadai. All three artistes vie with each other in keeping up with the increasing tempo. Abhishek Raghuram has proved again that he is a worthy grandson of the legendary mridangist Palghat Raghu. That Abhishek successfully straddles his passion for laya along with his devotion to vocal music deserves appreciation. The audio recording and mixing by Shri Sainath merits special mention. Similarly, video and editing by S.R.Manivannan, Muthu Krishnan and Balaji Manivannan are brilliant. Stage design and background are by Nandini SaiGiridhar. This video can be watched on Abhishek Raghuram’s YouTube channel. As their journey continues, their quest deepens, since the scope for innovating, experimenting and evolving new concepts is infinite.  The Chennai-based author writes on music and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/arriving-at-a-formula/article34785166.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||The bond between Annamayya and Kuchipudi||In 1922, in an epochal discovery, 2,500 copper plates were found in a secret chamber opposite the hundi inside the temple in Tirupati. These copper plates that enshrined songs composed by Tallapaka Annamacharya had remained mysteriously hidden away from the world for nearly 400 years. It is said that a succinct mention of these compositions in a book by a 19th century Englishman, Alexander Duncan Campbell, A Grammar of the Teloogoo Language , led to a dedicated search and the vast corpus of compositions, known as Sankeertanas , finally came to light. The widely accepted number of keertanas penned by Annamayya is 32,000! However, only about 13,000 have been recovered in the form of copper plates. This figure, by itself, is formidable. The interesting fact, however, is that although his name remained obscure for centuries, some of his compositions were in use despite their writer being unknown — the lullaby ‘Jo achutananda’ is an example. Born in Tallapaka, a village in Kadapa district of Andhra Pradesh on May 22, 1408, Annamacharya is often hailed as the progenitor of the Telugu pada kavita format of writing, a genre unheard of in his time. Well deserving of the Telugu epithet, Pada Kavita Pitamaha , it was he who set the standards for latter-day vaggeyakaras such as Tyagayya and others. The formula of a pallavi and three charanams was his invention, and is still popular. Out of anonymity To Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD), the trust that manages the affairs of the temple, goes the credit of pulling Annamayya out of four centuries of anonymity. In the 1950s, doyens like Veturi Anandmurthy, scholar and littérateur, and Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, considered a modern-day vaggeyakara , were roped in to set these compositions to tune and popularise them. Over the years, other musicians also threw in their might and tuned Annamayya compositions, chief among them were Rallapalli Ananta Krishna Sharma, Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, Garimella Balakrishna Prasad and Balantrapu Rajanikanta Rao. These songs have remained etched in the musical consciousness, and most of them have been adapted to Kuchipudi. Among the songs that made their way into the world of dance are ‘Alarulu kuriyaga’, ‘Adigo alladigo’, ‘Mudugare Yashoda’, ‘Narayanate namo namo’, ‘Paluku tenela talli’, ‘Cheri Yashoda ku’ and ‘Brahmam okkate’. The movement gained a definitive thrust in 1978 under the stewardship of Annamayya scholar Kamishetty Srinivasulu. TTD launched the Annamayya Project to bring the composer’s works to light. The project led to HMV releasing a slew of LP records with the redoubtable M.S. Subbulakshmi singing Annamayya compositions. Perfect medium This was also the beginning of another beautiful relationship — between Annamayya and Kuchipudi. Kamishetty Srinivasulu commissioned Vempati Chinna Satyam to choreograph five songs to popularise the composer’s works, realising that dance was the perfect medium to accomplish this. While Shobha Naidu danced Guru Vempati’s choreographies, Uma Rama Rao, one of the earliest female Kuchipudi gurus, choreographed a solo production, ‘Annamayya Katha’, on the life of the composer, which was performed by her prime student, Alekhya Punjala. Several other Annamayya songs that had already gained popularity were painstakingly choreographed and presented in small towns and villages over months, as a promotional tour. “We took great care in both choosing and choreographing the songs. If sringara rasa was predominant in some songs, others spoke of sharanagati (surrender) and others had philosophical overtones,” recalls Alekhya. She further adds that the compositions were so diverse in theme and content that they made them ideal for dance, citing the example of a melukolupu, ‘Meluko sringara raya, meti Madana Gopala ’ or a s ringara padam, ‘Emuko chigurutadharamuna’ or a highly philosophical song like ‘N anati batuku natakamu’.  The perfect marriage of Annamayya's compositions and Kuchipudi owes its success to the fact that Telugu lends itself effortlessly to the dance. As dancer and Annamayya scholar Anupama Kylash explains, “Annamayya was such a genius that his writing encapsulated complex ideas in descriptive phrases, often employing the vernacular to connect with the common man. This adroit use of language and ideas offer immense choreographic possibilities to the dancer.” In fact, G.B. Sankar Rao, research scholar on Annamacharya literature, even suggests that Kuchipudi’s popular operatic ‘Bhama Kalapam’ may have been influenced by Annamayya's Desi Suladi, which is based on goddess Alamelu Manga, but is very similar to ‘Bhama Kalapam’ in treatment. The portrayal of Satyabhama with all her quirks is peculiar to the Telugu storytelling tradition, not found in any puranic text. For example, Satyabhama hitting Krishna with her braid is mentioned in Annamayya's work too. One may thus infer that Kuchipudi has been enriched by Annamayya in more ways than one, being part of one seamless desi sampradaya of spreading Krishna tatva across ages. Kuchipudi’s association with Annamayya continues to grow stronger as scholar-dancers like Anupama explore his lesser-known pieces in their choreography. The work of researchers like Sankar Rao is also noteworthy as he is credited with not just bringing to light Annamayya’s compositions but also those of other Tallapaka poets. Such is the inexorable draw of Annamayya’s writings that even Bharatanatyam dancers have begun to look there for inspiration.  The writer is a dancer and artistic director of ‘Feet on Earth’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-bond-between-annamayya-and-kuchipudi/article34785164.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Reaching a milestone||Natya Tarangini - Performing Arts Centre, established by gurus Raja-Radha Reddy, celebrates its 45th anniversary on June 12, 6 p.m. On the occasion, several Kuchipudi dance pieces, choreographed by Raja, Radha and Kaushalya Reddy, will be presented by the students of Natya Tarangini. Focussed on promoting cultural awareness about Indian classical dance through the Kuchipudi style, Natya Tarangini has been hosting several online and offline programmes including the Kuchipudi dance festival, the National Festival of music and dance - the Parampara series, and the Mahasivaratri festival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/reaching-a-milestone/article34785168.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Artistes unite for a cause||The U.K.-based dancer and choreographer Usha Raghavan’s Kalasagara in association with Paallam Arts presents ‘Unite for India’, a fundraiser dance marathon for Covid relief, from June 12, 9 a.m. to June 13, 11.30 a.m. It brings together artistes from across the world. The non-ticketed virtual event will feature music and dance concerts, talks, interviews, etc. The funds will be raised on the GiveIndia platform. The performances can be viewed on Facebook live@Paallam.arts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/artistes-unite-for-a-cause/article34785170.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||A gap in the new Kalakshetra governing body||The names of the new members of the Kalakshetra governing board were announced recently. The list comprises Carnatic and Hindustani musicians, Odissi, Kuchipudi and Kathakali dancers, folk artistes and an architect, but strangely, no alumni of the renowned institution is on the list or even any Bharatanatyam dancer. The institution was founded by Rukmini Devi 85 years ago primarily to train students in Bharatanatyam, so it is ironical that the governing body would not have a single artiste with an understanding of this dance form, its history and ethos. Though Rukmini Devi with her broad artistic vision encouraged learning and performance of different styles at the institution, it is seen as important that the governing body have at least one member familiar with both Bharatanatyam and her distinct approach and ideas. Adding a Bharatanatyam dancer to the governing board can ensure that the future of the dance remains a strong part of Kalakshetra’s plans. Since the announcement of the board members, there have been murmurs in the world of Bharatanatyam, with senior exponents such as V.P. Dhananjayan, Anita Ratnam and Ananda Shankar Jayant expressing their disappointment through their social media posts. The main point of contention is that when institutions dedicated to other dance forms have artistes from those fraternities, the same principle seems to have been ignored for Kalakshetra. There is some hope that the central government, under whose aegis the institution falls, will rectify the strange omission, although no formal petition has been sent yet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-gap-in-the-new-kalakshetra-governing-body/article34785175.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Odissi music camp||For the past 22 years, Mahagami Gurukul has been conducting a 15-day residential camp, Sadhana, which focuses on inter-disciplinary dialogue within and between art forms, training in gurukul method, creating narratives with different art forms on various topics, and on living as a community that can induce and sustain an environment of wellbeing. Recently, under the folds of Sadhana, online workshops on yoga, calligraphy,  devotional music, dhrupad, Kathak and Odissi were organised. Mahagami will next conduct a three-day online workshop on Odissi vocal music from June 13 to 15 (9 a.m. to 11 a.m.). Partcipants of any age and background can join. For registration, for log on tohttps://forms.gle/gbHzqVMg5virkHjx6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/odissi-music-camp/article34785176.ece
11 June 2021||June 11 2021 00:00 IST,||Dorje spills||Despite the thunder, lightning and patchy phone connection, Sparsh Agarwal is undeterred. He bounces around his home at the Selim Hill tea estate in Darjeeling, recently renamed ‘Second Chance’ by his mother, in search of a better phone signal each time this interview is stalled by the storm. It is this cheery resilience that could give Darjeeling’s celebrated, but now struggling, tea estates a second chance to shine. But first, an experiment, which begins with an annual subscription plan that launches tomorrow, needs to go according to plan. “When Darjeeling tea is the pride of India, why are most of the 87 estates barely breaking even, some on the brink of collapse?” asks Sparsh, adding that the romance of this “champagne of teas” has drawn buyers from across the world, for two centuries. Over the past decade, however, a declining export market, climate change and now the pandemic are threatening the survival of many of the estates, which in turn threatens all that is special about Darjeeling. “The Selim Hill tea garden has been under my family’s stewardship for four generations, since 1871. Half of it is under forest cover, home to everything from hornbills to elephants,” says Sparsh. “We do not want to sell because we need to protect this ecology. But we needed to find a way to support the estate.” After a year of field research, Sparsh, who was working with the Centre for Policy Research, and his business partner Ishaan Kanoria, an investment banker, decided to quit their jobs and launch Dorje Tea, an innovative and sustainable model that re-introduces Darjeeling tea, embracing all its quirks, to an Indian audience, instead of exporting it piecemeal. Their mentor is the legendary Rajah Banerjee, whose family ran Makaibari tea estate for four generations before he recently moved on. A trailblazer, he created an organic oasis at Makaibari, inspiring other estates to follow suit, Rajah is a powerful influence in Darjeeling, and an ambassador for its tea. Seasonal moods Grown with a Chinese cultivar, Darjeeling tea captivated international buyers with its potent aroma and unique muscatel flavour, a pleasing sweetness with musky, spiced undertones. “However it never focussed on the domestic market and is seen as unaffordable,” says Sparsh, explaining why: “There are four seasonal flushes. While the first and second, which are spring and summer, are sold at premium, there isn’t a market for monsoon and autumn flush teas — though each has a unique taste, aroma and liquoring, which is additionally influenced by terroir.” Popular in Europe, America and Britain particularly, the spring and summer flush get exported at heady prices, while the monsoon and autumn flush are undervalued. Since the best tea is exported, and profits ride on sales of just the spring and summer flushes, often estates barely break even, says Sparsh. “The flush system is unique to Darjeeling and adds to the romance of our teas. Customers should be having all four. The biggest mistake is thinking there is a hierarchy.” There is another catch. “International clients want the whole leaf grade, so the tea is machine sorted. For one kilo of tea, only 30% is whole leaf, which means that the rest sells at a loss,” says Sparsh. “But, in the inconsistencies lie the charm of the product.” Stating that he is fundamentally against the export market, which buys relatively small quantities, and “destroys the harvest for rest of the year,” Sparsh says Dorje will be reaching out to Indian buyers with a subscription plan. “For an annual subscription of Rs. 2,100 per kg, we will send tea from each flush to customers through the year.” Since all flushes will be equally celebrated, without being wastefully broken up and graded, pricing is competitive, enabling customers to drink this champagne of teas everyday. Sparsh and his family are launching the Selim Hill Collective, helmed by Rajah Banerjee, to focus on the non-commercial rejuvenation of the tea garden, starting with a reforestation campaign. “Even as we work on getting the commercial part right, we want to focus on community welfare and wild life conservation,” says Sparsh, adding, “Within this crisis, there is opportunity.”  To order log on to https://dorjeteas.com/||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dorje-spills/article34785434.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘One in nine health workers got infected even after two doses’||A study done by faculty members of a government medical college says that nearly one in nine healthcare workers contracted COVID-19 infection, even after receiving both shots of a vaccine. The study is yet to be peer reviewed and has currently appeared in preprint on an online platform. As per the study done by faculty of Delhi government’s Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), 36 of 326 healthcare workers at a Delhi hospital, who were part of the study, had breakthrough COVID-19 infections. Breakthrough infections are occurrences of COVID-19, 14 days after taking both doses of a vaccine. “A total of 36 breakthrough infections were reported in the HCWs (healthcare workers)... Furthermore, COVID-19 infections occurred in 65 HCWs vaccinated with at least one dose of vaccine but prior to receiving their second dose or <14 days post second dose,” a preprint of the study published online read. Past history “Most breakthrough infection cases [94.4%] were mild and did not require supplemental oxygen therapy. Conclusion: nearly one in nine HCWs experienced a COVID-19 breakthrough infection in the present study,” it further read. The study also said that the HCWs with a past history of natural COVID-19 infection and later recovered, were 4.5 times less likely to experience a COVID-19 infection after partial vaccination. “Variant strains may be by passing the immunity created by the vaccine. So, even after vaccination we have to take precautions,” said Pragya Sharma, professor at Department of Community Medicine of MAMC, who is one of the authors of the study. The preprint said that a cross-sectional analysis was conducted at a medical college and hospital complex in Delhi through telephonic interviews among HCWs who had received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine during January to March. Remain vulnerable “These findings suggest that in real-world settings, a significant proportion of vaccinated individuals with high risk of exposure remain vulnerable to COVID-19 infection albeit with reduced disease severity in most cases,” the report said. In this study, a history of a natural infection and recovery, was observed to be protective against a subsequent COVID-19 infection or reinfection in HCWs who had been administered at least a single dose of COVID-19 vaccine. The study also warned that since infection status of the HCWs was based on self-report, mostly symptomatic breakthrough infections diagnosed with RT-PCR test were likely to be captured, while asymptomatic infections were potentially omitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/one-in-nine-health-workers-got-infected-even-after-two-doses/article34785463.ece
11 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Hidden agenda behind farmers’ stir, says Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday said the farmers’ protests seemed to have a “secret agenda” other than the opposition to the three farm laws as they had failed to point out any objections to the legislations. The All India Kisan Sabha Haryana unit has objected to the Minister’s remarks as ‘outrageous’. Mr. Vij’s statement comes in the wake of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s assertion on June 9 that the government was ready to resume talks with the farmers but the unions must point out their objections to the provisions of the three farm laws with sound logic. Mr. Vij, in a statement to the press, said: “The farmers had been unable to point out objections even once in the dozen round of talks.” Speaking on the invitation to the farmers for talks, Mr. Vij said the Union government had so far kept all doors open for dialogue. He said Mr. Tomar had always kept the window of dialogue open. Taking strong exception to the statement, Inderjit Singh, vice-president, Haryana, All-India Kisan Sabha, said Mr. Tomar’s statement was ‘deplorable’ and not in consonance with the willingness towards resumption of talks with the struggling farmers, while the remarks of the State Home Minister were even more ‘outrageous’.  ‘Highly provocative’ “This is highly provocative that he has yet again raised questions over the motives of the farmers’ movement. Ironically the public display of ignorance by Mr. Tomar over the stance of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is nothing but his total incompetence of holding the charge of such a crucial portfolio of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare of our large country,” said Mr. Singh in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hidden-agenda-behind-farmers-stir-says-anil-vij/article34785945.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Govt. has asked States not to share info on vaccine stocks’||AAP leader Atishi, who shares the daily vaccine bulletin of the Delhi government, on Thursday claimed that the Central government has asked States not to share details of stocks of the vaccines. “We are surprised by the fact that, yesterday, the Central government has sent a letter to all State governments where they have mentioned that no government will be allowed to share the information about how many vaccines have been administered and what is the stock position,” Ms. Atishi said. The AAP leader said that they believe that the people of Delhi have a right to know whether there is any vaccination available. “They want to know about the availability of the vaccines and where they are being administered, whether the slots will be opened up or not,” she said. The AAP leader alleged that amid a vaccine scarcity, the Central government finds hiding numbers more important than inoculating its citizens. “It is our appeal to the Central government that instead of hiding information regarding the vaccines, focus on providing the vaccines. It is the right of every citizen because it is this very vaccine that can save the people from COVID-19,” she said. Vaccines available Meanwhile, updating about the vaccine stock, she said, “For the 18-44 age group, 1,74,000 doses of the vaccine are available out of which 1,24,000 are of Covishield and 50,000 doses of Covaxin are available. Yesterday 29,800 doses of the vaccine were added for the 18-44 category. The vaccines for 45+ we have a stock of two days of Covaxin and 26 days of Covishield. For those between 18-44 years, we have four days of stock of Covaxin and eight days of Covishield. This means those who have been administered the first dose of Covaxin, they can comfortably get their second dose administered in the next four days.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-has-asked-states-not-to-share-info-on-vaccine-stocks/article34785456.ece
11 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Release SC scholarship funds, Punjab govt. tells PM Modi||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking release of the State’s pending amount and revised sharing pattern under the Post Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Castes (PMS-SCs) for 2017-2020. He said non-release of funds would adversely affect the education of SC students. The Chief Minister said though the government of India had, on December 31, 2020, amended the guidelines for the scholarship to introduce a revised sharing pattern (60:40), the same had been made effective only from April 1, 2020. No decision had, however, been conveyed for April 1, 2017- March 31, 2020, thus jeopardising the future of scores of SC students, he said.  ‘Rs. 1,563 cr. pending’ The Chief Minister said he had in his earlier letters of October 2018 and February 9, 2020 brought to the Prime Minister’s notice the State’s concern regarding Rs. 1,563 crore for 2017-20 still pending with the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. Pointing out that Punjab has the highest percentage of SC population in the country, the Chief Minister said the State deserves special attention on this count. Further, being a border State, it needs to be ensured that its youth get the opportunity of education and employment so that they do not fall prey to anti-social and anti-national elements. “Therefore, non-release of scholarship funds under the PMS-SCs would adversely affect the education of the SC students, who are unable to pay the fee from their own pocket.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/release-sc-scholarship-funds-punjab-govt-tells-pm-modi/article34785942.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Have ramped up oxygen storage capacity’||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Delhi government had installed three 57 MT oxygen storage and generation centres in the city with a combined capacity of 171 MT, and 19 more oxygen plants were to be inaugurated within a day or two.  On war footing Mr. Kejriwal made the announcement while visiting a 57-MT oxygen storage and generation centre in Siraspur here, adding that arrangements were being made to ensure that residents did not face any oxygen-related problem during the possible third wave. He said that work in this regard was being done on a war footing. “The Delhi government is rapidly making arrangements in case a third wave comes. In the second wave, the biggest challenge that was faced was shortage of oxygen, because of which the people of Delhi had to struggle a lot for a few days,” he said. “Therefore, preparations for that are being made that in case, a third wave emerges then there should be no shortage of oxygen. Today, we are standing in front of the 57-MT oxygen storage centre in Siraspur. Two more oxygen storage centres have been set up in Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and DDU Hospital,” he said. The Chief Minister also took to Twitter to state that the cryogenic tank of 57 metric tonnes of oxygen storage capacity had been installed at the site along with an oxygen-generation plant with a production capacity of 12.5 tonnes per day. Two oxygen generation plants, with a combined capacity of 13,500 MT, were in the process of being set up. In this way, Mr. Kejriwal said, oxygen facilities were being created at various locations in Delhi. As many as 19 more plants were to be inaugurated within a day or two. “Across Delhi, facilities for oxygen storage, oxygen generation are being created. We faced a lot of problems regarding the tankers such that when we had to get oxygen from Haryana and other States, we did not have tankers. So, we are also getting tankers. All preparations are in swing,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/have-ramped-up-oxygen-storage-capacity/article34785458.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Smog tower to be ready by Aug. 15, experts to study outcomes: Rai||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said that a smog tower being constructed near Connaught Place will be completed by August 15 and the experts will study the outcomes of this tower. On January 13 last year, the Supreme Court had ordered the Delhi government to build a ‘smog tower’ at Connaught Place in the city by April 13 to control air pollution. Deadlines missed On the same day, the court had also ordered a smog tower to be installed in Anand Vihar by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) by the same time. But, both the governments missed the deadline. On July 29, the Supreme Court threatened contempt action against the Indian Institute of Technology (Bombay) on learning that the premier institution has opted to pull out of the court-ordered project to instal the smog tower. “We are making this tower on a pilot basis and based on the success of this work such towers will be built across the Capital. The work has been delayed due to the second wave of the COVID pandemic but today, I have directed to escalate the work,” said Mr. Rai. Joint work “The total cost of this tower is Rs. 20 crore. The height of this tower is around 25 metre. It has a capacity of air purification of 1,000 cubic metres per second. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) of the State government is the nodal authority of making this tower. However, IIT, Mumbai, NBCC and Tata Project are also working jointly with the Delhi government to build this tower,” he added.  The total cost of this tower is Rs. 20 crore. The height of this tower is around 25 metre. It has a capacity of air purification of 1,000 cubic metres per second   Gopal Rai Delhi Environment Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/smog-tower-to-be-ready-by-aug-15-experts-to-study-outcomes-rai/article34785461.ece
11 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT pulls up Haryana govt. for not acting on Murthal garbage issue||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the Haryana government for not taking requisite action on a plea seeking remedial action against illegal dumping of garbage by restaurants in Murthal. The green panel directed the Haryana Chief Secretary to take remedial measures, including action against erring officers. Compliance status A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “We find that beyond saying that action will be taken by the State of Haryana in terms of standard operating procedure issued by the CPCB [Central Pollution Control Board], there is no mention of compliance status.” Taken it lightly “The authorities appear to have taken the matter lightly treating the filing of a status report to be a formality. The tribunal expected meaningful action on the ground level which has not been taken in spite of long time available after the last hearing and finalisation of the SOP by the CPCB long back,” the Bench said. The Chief Secretary was also directed to furnish a compliance report by October 22. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Abhay Dahiya and others against illegal dumping and burning of garbage and discharge of untreated water by several establishments, including restaurants. Earlier, the tribunal had directed authorities to expedite the setting up of solid waste treatment plant for the management of waste generated by the restaurants and had questioned why a decentralised treatment plant had not been set up by the eateries in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-pulls-up-haryana-govt-for-not-acting-on-murthal-garbage-issue/article34785468.ece
11 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Anti-graft group forms political party in Nagaland||Members of a group that had stood up to “multiple taxations” by extremist groups such as the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN) factions have formed a political party. The Rising People’s Party (RPP) was registered with the Election Commission of India on June 7. Its president is Joel Naga, one of the founding members of Against Corruption and Unabated Taxation (ACAUT) that had “done the impossible” in 2013 by organising a mass movement against “taxes” imposed by at least half a dozen extremist groups. The group had also taken on fuel adulteration and backdoor appointments in the State government departments. No woman in Assembly One of the objectives of the RPP is to ensure that a woman gets into the Assembly. Nagaland had a lone woman MP in Rano Shaiza (1977-1980) but is yet to elect one to the 60-member House.  ‘Change the system’ “Our basic goal is to change the system. But one can do that by entering the system as shouting and protesting from outside changes nothing,” Mr. Naga told journalists. He said his party would be “realistic” about its prospects in view of the performance of two new political parties – the Assam Jatiya Parishad and the Raijor Dal – that did not live up to the pre-election hype. The RPP had more time to work among the masses for changing a system that had long been dictated by money power, Mr. Naga said. Assembly elections are due in Nagaland by February 2023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/anti-graft-group-forms-political-party-in-nagaland/article34785938.ece
11 June 2021||Guwahati,||Tiger reserve union calls off strike||The Pakke Tiger Reserve Workers’ Union on Thursday withdrew their indefinite strike after the State government assured payment of four months’ wages within 15 days. The contingency workers of the 862-sq. km Reserve in Arunachal Pradesh’s Pakke-Kessang district struck work from June 9 demanding their wages since December 2020. “We decided to call off our strike following a request from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) that the pending wages for four months up to March 2021 are expected to be released within 15 days,” union president, Taniam Kino said. “The PCCF has given us a written assurance for the release of our pending salary but the other demands such as regularisation of job of the Special Tiger Protection Force and other contingency staff who completed more than 15 years of service of the department have not been met.” The union hoped the government would not force its members to raise their voices again. “Please know that the entire department and the State government have their greatest concern for the welfare of its frontline staff. You are hereby requested to call off the strike and get back to your respective camps and duties…” the letter from PCCF R.K. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tiger-reserve-union-calls-off-strike/article34785939.ece
11 June 2021||Guwahati,||COVID-19 widows to get Rs. 2.5 lakh in Assam||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has announced a one-time financial support of Rs. 2.5 lakh for every woman in the State who lost their husband due to COVID-19. Marking the completion of a month of his BJP-led government on Thursday, he also announced a scheme that entails parking Rs. 7.81 lakh as fixed deposit in the bank in the name of each child orphaned by coronavirus. The Chief Minister said a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 3,500, to be realised from the fixed deposit, would be given to each beneficiary child till he or she attained 24 years of age. The principal amount would be credited to the bank account of each child after turning 24. The Rs. 3,500 included the Central government support of Rs. 2,000 a month. “We hope the Chief Minister’s Sishu Seva Scheme would help the children who have lost their parents due to the virus,” Dr. Sarma said, adding that the COVID-19-induced widows would also be entitled to the benefits of the Arunodoi scheme along with the monthly widow pension scheme besides the Rs. 2.5 lakh. Arunodoi scheme The Arunodoi scheme, introduced during the Sarbananda Sonowal government, entails Rs. 830 a month for women in poor households. The amount is expected to be increased to Rs. 3,000. “For children under 10 years and adolescent girls with no guardian, the State government will take steps to house them in one of the child care institutions and provide adequate funding towards their upkeep including educational expenditure. Orphaned adolescent girls will be given accommodation in suitable and reputed institutions to ensure their sensitive care and proper protection,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-widows-to-get-rs-25-lakh-in-assam/article34785940.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP has increased trade licences by 17 times: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday alleged that during the pandemic the BJP-led municipal corporation increased trade licence rates by 17 times, which added to the financial pressure faced by small businesses. “The BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation has increased the rates of trade licences by 17 times. Trade licence fee has been increased from Rs. 500 to Rs. 8,625 for A-B category. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has increased the rates of trade license for C and D category from Rs. 500 to Rs. 5,750 per square metre. He said that the BJP-ruled East Delhi Municipal Corporation has increased the rate of trade licence for A-B category from Rs. 200 to Rs. 3,000 and for C-D category from Rs. 200 to Rs. 2,000 per square metre,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. “All small and big shopkeepers have to take a trade licence from municipal bodies and pay its fee every year. EDMC and North body have made a tremendous increase in the trade licence,” the AAP leader said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that Mr. Bhardwaj has mastered the art of issuing “misleading statements”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-has-increased-trade-licences-by-17-times-aap/article34785465.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP wants ACB probe into new low-floor buses ‘scam’||Alleging a “largescale scam” in the purchase of new buses, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Thursday asked Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal to have the matter investigated by the Delhi Anti-Corruption Branch. In a letter to the L-G to this effect, Mr. Gupta alleged there was “no transparency” in the purchase of 1,000 low-floor buses as there had been contrary statements by the State Transport Department and Transport Minister. “It smacks of a largescale scam and hence, in public interest, should be investigated at the highest level,” he demanded. Rotting ration In a related development, former Delhi BJP president and Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta alleged the Delhi government was chanting about its doorstep delivery of ration scheme to divert the attention of the people from its accountability in relation to rotting ration in the Capital. The Rohini MLA said that the L-G had ordered the Chief Secretary to take action regarding spoilt ration after he urged him to take action in the matter in a letter on June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-wants-acb-probe-into-new-low-floor-buses-scam/article34785454.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||No adequate preparation for jab drive: North Mayor||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Thursday said that while the new vaccination campaign ‘Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination’ started by the Delhi government for citizens above 45 years of age was a welcome step, preparations for it to be rolled out on a city-wide basis seemed to be wanting. The North Delhi Mayor said there were 13,765 polling stations in Delhi and every polling station required one doctor, three nurses, a data entry operator and civil defence personnel for the camp; more than one lakh staff would be required for it, he said. “If the Delhi government has not completed the preparations then they should also inform about how this campaign will start simultaneously in the whole of Delhi,” Mr. Jai Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-adequate-preparation-for-jab-drive-north-mayor/article34785459.ece
11 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana moved backwards under BJP rule: Deepender||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Thursday said Haryana in the past seven years of BJP rule has moved backwards instead of moving ahead in all spheres. “The latest data of the NITI Aayog shows that Haryana has slipped in most areas but has taken up the top slots only in crime and unemployment rates. Government of India’s NITI Aayog report, which tracks the performance of the State governments on 17 parameters, has exposed the all false claims of the Haryana government,” he said at a virtual press conference. Mr. Hooda said the Sustainable Development Report (SDG) index released by NITI Aayog now puts Haryana in the top 3 States in ‘unemployment and crime’. Apart from this, the State has also lagged behind in education, industrial and economic growth, he said. The MP said the State government has completely failed to deal with the second wave of COVID-19 and its attitude has been arrogant and unfortunate. “There was a shortage of life saving medicines, oxygen was in short supply when it was needed, beds, ventilators etc. across the State were all found short,” he alleged. He also criticised the government over its refusal to hold meetings with the Opposition parties. “The government should tell us if discussion in Parliament and assemblies should also be stopped for fear of criticism from the Opposition,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-moved-backwards-under-bjp-rule-deepender/article34785946.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||City reports 305 new cases||The Capital reported 305 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,30,433, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 44 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,748. A total of 75,133 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,01,473 people have recovered and there are 4,212 active cases. The test positivity rate was 0.41% which means that less than one person out of 100 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia directed officials to tie up with e-commerce organisations to ensure vaccination for delivery persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/city-reports-305-new-cases/article34785464.ece
11 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Package for Yaas-affected Odisha farmers||The Odisha government on Thursday announced a package for farmers affected by the cyclonic storm Yaas . Small and marginal farmers who suffered 33% loss in non-irrigated areas will be given an input subsidy of Rs. 6800 per hectare. The input subsidy for irrigated areas will be Rs. 13,500 per hectare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/package-for-yaas-affected-odisha-farmers/article34785947.ece
11 June 2021||New Delhi,||Over 1,300 people fined in Delhi for flouting COVID-19 norms||Over 1,300 people were fined in Delhi on June 9 for violation of COVID-19 guidelines, the police said on Thursday. According to data shared by the police, 1,349 challans were issued on Wednesday, of which 1,167 were for not wearing face masks.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-1300-people-fined-in-delhi-for-flouting-covid-19-norms/article34785467.ece
