13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||GST brought down on 14 COVID relief goods||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council on Saturday decided to waive the tax levied on two critical drugs against COVID-19 and mucormycosis — tocilizumab and amphotericin B — and reset the tax rate to 5% for 14 major pandemic relief items, till September 30. Non-BJP-ruled States registered a strong dissent, terming the continued imposition of GST on critical COVID supplies and drugs as ‘insensitive’ and ‘totally anti-people’. They alleged that their proposals for zero-rating or reducing GST rates to 0.1% on critical supplies were ignored by the Union Finance Ministry at what turned out to be another stormy Council meeting. Mitra’s remarks deleted West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra said the Council’s chairperson, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, allowed his comments to be deleted at the behest of his Uttar Pradesh counterpart, and accused the Ministry of muzzling his voice and cutting off the virtual conference link when he was trying to voice objections. The 5% GST levied on vaccines was left unchanged, following the recent changes in the country’s vaccine procurement strategy that puts the Union government in charge of augmenting supplies. The GST rate on Remdesivir and anti-coagulants like Heparin has been reduced from 12% to 5%. The Council recommended that the same rate be levied on any other drug that may be recommended by the Health and Family Welfare Ministry and the Department of Pharma for COVID-19 treatment. Ms. Sitharaman announced that the Council had accepted all but three recommendations on COVID-19 supplies’ tax rates submitted by a group of ministers (GoM) under Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma on June 6. Ambulances, which are currently taxed at 28%, will attract a GST levy of 12%, while temperature checking equipment and electric furnaces used in crematoriums will attract a 5% GST instead of 18%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gst-brought-down-on-14-covid-relief-goods/article34802144.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Recovery rate rises to 91.39% in State||A month after the recovery rate plummeted to 70% in the State, it has picked up again rising to 91.39% as on June 11. During the second wave, with the pandemic spinning out of control and availability of beds becoming a challenge initially, COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on the fourth or fifth day if they developed clinical stability. Despite this, the recovery rate had reduced considerably during April and the first half of May. This was mainly because most patients developed complications and landed in hospitals in an advanced stage and took longer time to recover. Even after walking out of hospitals, they were sent to step down hospitals or to COVID Care Centres till they could be categorised as recovered. While Karnataka’s recovery rate was 90.7% till October last and improved further to 98.1% by the end of February this year, it started plummeting thereafter steadily. It touched 70.91% on May 15. However, from May 17, it started rising again and touched 76.07% on May 20. By May 31, the recovery rate rose to 86.84% and touched 91.39% as on June 11. Among all districts, Bidar, Kalaburagi and Yadgir have the highest recovery rate of above 97%. Gadag and Chitradurga had the highest recovery rate at 91.76% and 90.51% till May 8. However, Chitradurga now has the lowest at 84.99%. Overall, 24 districts have a recovery rate above 90% including Kodagu and Bengaluru Urban that had the lowest (around 61%) last month. Recovery rate is calculated by dividing total recoveries by total positive cases and multiplying it by 100. COVID-19 experts attribute the rising recovery rate to fall in new cases. V. Ravi, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee member and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said it is natural for the recovery rate to be low during the surge period and high once the curve is on a downward trend. “When you are on the upper part of the curve there will be fewer recoveries. But the rising recovery rate should not make us complacent. District administrations should continue to strictly monitor the situation and follow the guidelines on graded unlock,” Dr. Ravi said. Post-COVID monitoring C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said those who have recovered should be monitored closely for at least two weeks. “While oxygen saturation and blood sugar levels should be monitored daily, vital markers such as D-dimer, Ferritin and LDH should be tested again, especially in those who had required ICU care. If these vital markers are high, they may have to be put on blood thinners to prevent heart attack or stroke,” he explained. Pointing out that several patients have been complaining of palpitation, breathlessness and sleeplessness even after discharge, Dr. Manjunath said: “Several patients have developed new onset of diabetes post discharge or the condition has worsened in those who had pre-existing diabetes.” “Those who required oxygen supplementation during their hospital stay should do the six-minute walk test at home and seek medical advice if the saturation drops by 4% after the walk,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recovery-rate-rises-to-9139-in-state/article34802164.ece
13 June 2021||Kochi,||Retrenched bus crew in dire straits||Empanelled bus crew of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) who are in dire straits after the agency discontinued their services in March 2020 are on the warpath, with most of them bereft of an alternative source of income. Many of them were recruited over a decade ago from the Employment Exchange list and are unable to apply for new jobs, since they are either in their middle age or have crossed it. “I joined the KSRTC as a driver in 2010 and served till March 2020, after the agency cited a High Court order to discontinue our services,” said T.K. Santosh from Kolenchery. “Being the sole breadwinner of my family, I am now finding it difficult to look after my family, including the educational expenses of two children and my aged mother. Most like me have little or no savings either, since all that we got was Rs. 500 per duty day. On an average, a driver did no more than 13 duties each month, since we needed to take a break to sleep,” he said. There are over 1,200 such empanelled personnel who were employed as drivers, conductors, and mechanics till March 2020. “Neither the government and the management nor trade unions are taking up our cause. We are unable to register for new jobs, since we have not been served relieving orders. In such a situation, the KSRTC or the government must provide us at least Rs. 3,000 per month for our sustenance. We must also be reinstated into the rolls of the KSRTC or KSRTC-Swift once normal services resume,” he said. Then there are others like A.V. Bindumol of Muvattupuzha and T.M. Rafeeq of Kangarapady — empanelled crew members who worked for over a decade with the agency, following which their services were discontinued in March 2020. Both pleaded that the KSRTC or the government extend urgent help to sustain their families. Kerala State Transport Workers’ Union (INTUC) State secretary Aliyar M. I. said empanelled workers were among the worst hit, since they were not eligible for getting monetary relief under the government’s welfare schemes, because they were considered KSRTC employees all through. “They have been left to fend for themselves, although we submitted many memoranda to the government,” he added. ‘KSRTC-Swift crucial’ On the predicament of empanelled workers, KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said the agency, which was finding it difficult to pay the salaries of even permanent employees, was in no position to extend them any monetary help. “The best that we can do is to accommodate a few of them in KSRTC-Swift, which will be an independent entity, since the High Court has directed discontinuation of their services in the KSRTC. Unfortunately, we are unable to constitute KSRTC-Swift, since two unions have challenged its formation before the High Court,” he added. Yet another probability is to appoint eligible personnel in the lorry division that has been envisaged, wherein the KSRTC will be able to operate and maintain lorries of other government departments, Mr. Prabhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/retrenched-bus-crew-in-dire-straits/article34802391.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New declassification policy gets nod||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday approved a policy on archiving, declassification, compilation and publication of war and operations histories by the Ministry of Defence (MoD). However, declassification of older wars like the 1962 war is not automatic and will be taken up on a case by case basis by a committee to be constituted under the policy. “According to the policy, records should ordinarily be declassified in 25 years. Records older than 25 years should be appraised by archival experts and transferred to the National Archives of India once the war/operations histories have been compiled,” the Ministry said on Saturday. Confidential cases Asked about cases like the highly confidential Henderson Brooks report on the 1962 war with China and the Operation Bluestar of 1984, a defence official said a committee will take a view on the earlier wars and operations. The compiled history on wars and operations, within five years, will be for internal consumption first, and later the committee may decide to publicly release whole or parts of it, considering the sensitivity of the subject, the official said. “The policy mandates constitution of a committee headed by Joint Secretary, MoD, and comprising representatives of the Services, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs, and other organisations and prominent military historians for compilation of war and operations histories.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-declassification-policy-gets-nod/article34802135.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,||With rules getting relaxed, people return to Bengaluru city in droves||K. Natesh, a software engineer who had returned to his native village near Udupi with his family days before the State government imposed a lockdown during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19, came back to the city on Thursday. “As the cases started rising exponentially and there was shortage of beds and oxygen, I thought my village was safer. But as it turned out, several of my family members in the village contracted COVID-19. Now that the lockdown is being lifted, we have returned home,” he said. The lockdown in Bengaluru will be partially relaxed from June 14, but people like Mr. Natesh who had left the city have started returning in droves over the last three days. The toll gates at various entry points have been seeing long queues. “In the last three to four days, we have been seeing heavy traffic volume, several times more than what was there over the past one month,” said Abdul Mujeeb, who works at Nelamangala Toll Gate. A senior police official from Bengaluru Rural district said long queues of vehicles were observed at all entry points into the city – Nelamangala, Attibele and Devanahalli. Gayathri Vasudevan, CEO of Labour Net, said compared to last year, not many had left the city, but those who did are returning. “There are issues with transport, especially from North and Eastern India. But people from other districts are definitely coming back,” she said. Sources in the construction industry also said labourers, from within the State especially from Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur and Vijayapura districts, who worked in Bengaluru were returning. “We were working at a construction site in the city, but work stopped during the lockdown, forcing us to go back to Kalaburagi. We came back three days ago, since the mesthri called us saying work will restart from Monday,” said Mallamma, a construction labourer. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also expressed concerns over the influx into the city on Friday. “We have only brought in some relaxations in lockdown norms, not lifted it entirely. We need to continue to be careful to prevent the spread of the virus,” Mr. Bommai said. Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said it was natural that people were returning to the city as the lockdown was being relaxed. Responding to demands for mandatory testing of returnees, Mr. Gupta said it was administratively not possible to test everyone coming into the city. “But we are taking measures to increase testing at bus stands, railway stations and at places where migrant labourers are working, including construction sites. We are conducting over 70,000 tests every day, highest for any city today,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-rules-being-relaxed-people-return-to-city-in-droves-long-queues-at-toll-gates/article34802165.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Breach exposes govt. officials’ data to hackers||Emails and passwords of hundreds of Union government officials have been exposed to hackers due to the recent data breaches of Air India, Domino’s and Bigbbasket, the government has warned officials. The internal communication, accessed by The Hindu, said the compromised emails on government domains such as @nic.in and @gov.in are potential cyber threats as they are being used by “adversaries” to send malicious mails to all government users. Days after the alert was sent on June 10, several government offices, including Defence Ministry officials, were targeted by a malicious web link sent on WhatsApp and SMS, asking them to update their vaccination status. The message asked officials to click on https://covid19india.in to generate a digital certificate of COVID-19 inoculation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/breach-exposes-govt-officials-data-to-hackers/article34802136.ece
13 June 2021||Kolkata,||Bhawanipur bypoll widens Cong.-Left rift||The by-election to the Bhawanipur (Bhabanipur) Assembly segment in Kolkata, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is set to seek re-election, will test the strength of the five-year-old Left-Congress electoral alliance in West Bengal. Differences in the alliance have come out in the open on whether to field a candidate against the Chief Minister, who will be contesting after her loss in Nandigram. West Bengal Pradesh Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury has made it clear that he is not in favour of putting up a candidate against Ms. Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhawanipur-bypoll-widens-cong-left-rift/article34802138.ece
13 June 2021||Patna,||‘JD(U) should get a berth in Union Cabinet’||Amid talk of expansion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, the BJP’s ruling alliance partner in Bihar, the Janata Dal (United), said on Saturday that every constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) should be represented at the Centre. JD(U) national president R.C.P. Singh told the press, “Every constituent of the NDA should get participation in Cabinet. And, being an ally, JD(U) too should naturally get a berth. In an alliance, every constituent should be respected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jdu-should-get-a-berth-in-union-cabinet/article34802323.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Up in smoke||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-in-smoke/article34802568.ece
13 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD, BSP to jointly contest Punjab polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal and the Bahujan Samaj Party joined hands on Saturday to contest the Assembly polls due in Punjab in early 2022. Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra made an announcement in this regard. “The Akali Dal will contest 97 seats and the BSP 20 — eight seats in the Doaba region, seven in Malwa and five in Majha region of the State,” Mr. Badal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sad-bsp-to-jointly-contest-punjab-polls/article34802569.ece
13 June 2021||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 10,697 new cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 10,697 new COVID-19 cases, taking the case tally to 58,98,550, the health department said. As many as 360 deaths were recorded during the day, taking the State’s total death toll to 1,08,333. In all, 14,910 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the recovery count to 56,31,767. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 95.48% and the case fatality rate is 1.84%.  Mumbai reported 749 cases and 18 deaths. The total cases in the city rose to 7,14,965, and the death toll surged to 15,097.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-reports-10697-new-cases/article34802653.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Mumbai stranded||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mumbai-stranded/article34802322.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Vaccinate students before classes resume’||Amid fears that a potential third wave of COVID-19 will put children at risk, colleges want students who are 18 years and above to be fully vaccinated before physical classes resume. Many colleges have started holding camps for eligible students and staff members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccinate-students-before-classes-resume/article34802167.ece
13 June 2021||Kolkata,||Now, Rajib Banerjee reaches out to TMC||A day after Mukul Roy severed ties with the BJP and joined the Trinamool Congress, another key BJP leader, Rajib Banerjee, reached out to Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-rajib-banerjee-reaches-out-to-tmc/article34802325.ece
13 June 2021||Guwahati,||‘Crimes against women rising in Assam’||The Assam Pradesh Mahila Congress slammed the BJP-led government in the State for failing to check crimes against women. It also panned the government for high maternal and infant mortality rates despite claiming to have ramped up the healthcare infrastructure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crimes-against-women-rising-in-assam/article34802326.ece
13 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s daily COVID-19 cases drop below 5,000||Odisha reported less than 5,000 daily COVID-19 cases for the first time in 53 days, with the State reporting 4,852 cases on June 12. The State last reported less than 5,000 cases at 4,851 on April 21. Odisha’s total case load stands at 8,47,313.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odishas-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-below-5000/article34802327.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||CM launches 22 oxygen plants at 9 hospitals||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated 22 oxygen plants at nine Delhi government hospitals. The Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants have a total production capacity of 17.3 metric tonnes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-launches-22-oxygen-plants-at-9-hospitals/article34802571.ece
13 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Sisodia’s accusation atrocious, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday described as “atrocious” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s accusation that the former had a “secret” friendship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Sisodia’s made the comment after Punjab secured the top rank in school education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sisodias-accusation-atrocious-says-amarinder/article34802572.ece
13 June 2021||Patna,||‘JD(U) should get a berth in the Central Cabinet’||Amid talks of expansion of PM Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, JD(U) national president R.C.P. Singh said being an ally, his party too should get a berth in the Cabinet. “In an alliance, every constituent should be respected.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jdu-should-get-a-berth-in-the-central-cabinet/article34802573.ece
13 June 2021||Mysuru,||50-year-old ‘assaulted’ by Virajpet police dies||Eight policemen have been placed under suspension pending an inquiry into the death of a 50-year-old man in Virajpet, who was allegedly assaulted by the local police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/50-year-old-assaulted-by-virajpet-police-dies/article34802169.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,||FIRs against actor for remarks on ‘Brahminism’||The city police have registered two FIRs against Kannada actor Chetan Kumar for allegedly “hurting religious beliefs” and “imputations prejudicial to national integration”, for his recent remarks on Brahminism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/firs-against-actor-for-remarks-on-brahminism/article34802168.ece
13 June 2021||Hassan,||Govt. will introduce geofencing: Sudhakar||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, on Saturday, said the State government has decided to introduce geofencing to monitor the attendance of doctors in the government health institutions. This system will help to keep a tab on doctors who skip duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-will-introduce-geofencing-sudhakar/article34802259.ece
13 June 2021||Chennai,||Security beefed up after alert on infiltration||Security was intensified along the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu late on Saturday evening following a specific input that armed suspects sailing in a boat from Sri Lanka had planned to enter the State with a sinister design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-beefed-up-after-alert-on-infiltration/article34802209.ece
13 June 2021||Chennai,||Chennai reports less than 1,000 new cases||With 15,108 fresh infections, the number of COVID-19 cases reported daily in Tamil Nadu continued to fall for the twenty-second consecutive day on Saturday. Fresh cases reported by Chennai went below the 1,000-mark for the first time after 72 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-reports-less-than-1000-new-cases/article34802210.ece
13 June 2021||Salem,||T.N. will set a record in food production: Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin raised the shutters of the Mettur dam to release water for Kuruvai cultivation in the Cauvery delta region on Saturday and said the State would soon set a record in food production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-will-set-a-record-in-food-production-stalin/article34802212.ece
13 June 2021||Mumbai,||Pawar-Kishor meeting kickstarts anti-BJP front||The Nationalist Congress Party on Saturday clarified that it has not given any responsibility to poll analyst Prashant Kishor in the party but the party was working on setting up a national front of anti-BJP parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pawar-kishor-meeting-kickstarts-anti-bjp-front/article34802655.ece
13 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Over 17,000 treated at NMMC’s COVID centre||A total of 17,023 COVID-19 patients have so far received treatment at the COVID Care Centre set up by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation at the CIDCO Exhibition Centre in Vashi. It plans to build an oxygen plant for the facility to make it more capable of handling the third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-17000-treated-at-nmmcs-covid-centre/article34802656.ece
13 June 2021||Chandrapur,||Man's body found in Tadoba tiger reserve||The body of a 65-year-old man was found in the core area of the Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur district of Maharashtra on Saturday, with officials suspecting that he might have been killed by a tiger. The body was found lying in compartment no. 138.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mans-body-found-in-tadoba-tiger-reserve/article34802657.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Reviving the spirit of multilateralism||As the leaders of seven nations — the U.S., Germany, the U.K., France, Canada, Japan and Italy — meet in Cornwall in south-west England, they would be marking the 47th edition of the “Group of seven” summit. Besides the international milieu in which this summit is being conducted — the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic — its significance lies also in who is not attending the summit: former U.S. President Donald Trump. The G7 prides itself as a group of nations that steadfastly promote liberal democracy and enjoy economic prosperity, which they seek to institutionalise through multilateral cooperation. When Mr. Trump was at the helm in the U.S., his transactional approach to international relations showed disdain for multilateralism, evidenced in particular in the way he pulled the U.S out of the Paris Accord, and openly complained about the summit itself being “outdated”. The current President of the U.S., Joe Biden has sought to reorient his country’s policy towards multilateralism, which includes closer coordination with traditional allies in the Global North and this sets the stage for a renewed emphasis of purpose for the G7 as they meet in Cornwall. Already, the Finance Ministers of the G7, who had met on June 4-5 in the run-up to the summit, had agreed to backing a minimum global tax rate of 15% for multinational corporations, thereby setting the stage for MNCs to pay a fairer share of taxes in jurisdictions where they make money and profits, rather than playing governments in a race where they will compete on who will tax them the least and allowing MNCs to take advantage of “tax havens”. Even considering the fact that the tax rate of 15% is low according to some critics (Mr. Biden had himself proposed 21%), this move will herald corrective steps that could benefit both large and medium economies. The U.S. in particular is desperate to shore up its revenues as its government announced big spending plans to tide over the economic crisis wrought by the pandemic. The Biden administration has hinted that it could gain nearly $500 billion in tax revenue over a decade if the global minimum tax idea comes to pass. More steps remain for this to become reality — the G7 countries would have to convince other nations in the broader G20, which includes China, India, Russia and South Africa. According to the U.K.-based Tax Justice Network, India suffers an annual loss of $10 billion due to lax tax laws on MNCs globally and countries such as India should also agree to this deal, but getting a sign-in from others such as Ireland, which benefits from lower taxes on MNCs, will not be easy. Even within the U.S., where President Biden’s power to get legislation passed rests on a razor-thin majority at the Senate and House of Representatives of Congress, the going would not be easy as the Republican Party is loath to taxing corporations. Yet, for the G7 to have made a global minimum tax a possibility was a “multilateral” breakthrough of sorts for cooperation among these nations. Despite its collectively large economies and a commitment to liberal democratic values, the G7 is no longer the behemoth that it was. Formed in 1975 in the aftermath of the 1973 Oil Crisis, the G7 then collectively produced 70% of the world’s GDP, a number that has dropped to 40%, as the Economist points out. The larger G20 has become a more relevant multilateral body due to the inclusion of economies such as Brazil, China, India and South Africa but the ability of the G7 summit to set the tone for cooperation on global issues has not diminished.  Economic differences When the G7 summits begun in the mid-1970s, the heads of states sought to resolve economic differences related to exchange rate policy, growth, inflation, energy policy among others and this set the stage for multilateral trade arrangements and negotiations with the European Union and Japan assuming greater responsibilities on multilateral issues along with the U.S. Interestingly, the consensus among these nations, especially in the 1990s, to promote policies for the ease of flow of multinational capital and a concomitant reduction in expansive welfarism by the states, set the tone for the “tax competition” among states which went on to benefit MNCs. As the summits progressed, the emphasis on economic issues remained salient and endured, but the heads of States began to prioritise other matters as well, especially after the end of the Cold War — the environment, debt relief for developing countries, and the strains on globalisation. Terrorism also became a key agenda for discussion and action. The G7 also became the G8 with Russia’s admission into the group in 1998, despite its limited national wealth compared to the other countries. The G8 reverted to the G7 again in 2014, following Russia’s expulsion after its annexation of Crimea. The Cornwall summit includes invitees in heads of state from outside the G7 as well — Australia, South Korea and India with Prime Minister Narendra Modi set to attend it remotely. The presence of these three countries is seen as a nod to the recognition of their discontent with the influence of China, which persists with what the West believes is an anachronistic single party regime but is also an economic superpower. In the summit, G7 leaders unveiled the Build Back Better World project, which pledges hundreds of billions of infrastructure investment in low- and middle-income countries based on "values-driven, high-standard and transparent" partnerships. It is seen as a counterweight against China's multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative. While U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has sought to hail the traditional trans-Atlantic ties with the U.S. and a revival of their mutual role in setting the multilateral tone for G7 and beyond, the Brexit issue has cast a shadow over their ties. Mr. Biden, unlike Mr. Trump, had steadfastly opposed Brexit and his advisers have raised concerns over the Britain’s dispute with the EU over Northern Ireland Mr. Johnson might be pressed to make concessions to address such concerns. Global health More significantly though, the G7’s declaration on global health in which they commit to resources to quickly develop and license vaccines, medicines and diagnostics for future diseases is an important step that recognises the havoc that COVID-19 has wrought across the world and the need to prepare for future epidemics. Mr. Johnson has said he wishes for the entire world to be vaccinated by 2022, but has not specified details as to how this can be achieved. If the summit manages to agree to substantially extend vaccine availability for low-income countries, that would be a great achievement. After all, the disparity in vaccine availability with the U.S. and EU cornering vaccines far more than what their populations need while other countries, India and those in Africa, are hampered by shortages, is a consequence of the autarkic turn during the Trump period. If the G7 seeks to revive its multilateral emphasis in the spirit of globalisation, addressing the vaccine disparity will truly take it forward from the dregs of Trumpism.  In Focus  Formed in 1975 in the aftermath of the 1973 Oil Crisis, the G7 then collectively produced 70% of the world’s GDP, a number that has dropped to 40% now  The G7 became the G8 with Russia’s admission into the group in 1998. But it reverted to the G7 in 2014, following Russia’s annexation of Crimea  Over the years, the group has taken up a host of issues ranging from economic growth to environmental issues and terrorism. The latest summit seeks to address global health challenges   The Finance Ministers of the G7, who had met on June 4-5 in the run-up to the summit, had agreed to backing a minimum global tax rate of 15% for MNCs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/reviving-the-spirit-of-multilateralism/article34802085.ece
13 June 2021||Srinagar,||Two policemen among four killed in militant strike in J&K||Two civilians and as many policemen were killed in a militant attack in Baramulla in north Kashmir on Saturday. The incident took place around noon in the main market area in Sopore town when unidentified militants fired indiscriminately upon a police party. “The policemen were performing duties to enforce COVID-19 SOPs (standard operating protocol) at the time of the attack,” Inspector-General of Police Vijay Kumar said. Four policemen and four civilians sustained bullet injuries. “Two policemen and two civilians succumbed to their injuries,” Mr. Kumar said. He said Lashkar-e-Taiba militants were behind the attack. The deceased policemen were identified as constables Showkat Ahmad and Waseem Ahmad. The civilians were identified as Manzoor Ahmad Shalla and Bashir Ahmad, both residents of Sopore. A police spokesperson said a team of policemen was investigating all the circumstances of the crime. The regional parties in Jammu & Kashmir, while condemning the attack, unanimously said that “dialogue and not gun is the solution to any problem”. “The solution of Kashmir is not a gun. Neither through guns of New Delhi nor the guns taken up by local youths here. Such attacks only defame Kashmir as a solution lies only in dialogue,” PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti said. In a joint statement, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah, said, “We mince no words in our condemnation of the outrageous bloodshed. Violence in all its forms and manifestations constitutes the most serious threat to the dignity of human life and universal peace.” CPI(M) leader Mohammad Yousuf Tarigami said violence in any form was not in the interest of the people of Jammu & Kashmir. “Violence and killings can never be a solution to any problem. Violence must come to an immediate end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-policemen-among-four-killed-in-militant-strike-in-jk/article34802051.ece
13 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||SAD, BSP to jointly contest Punjab polls||As the battle for the upcoming Assembly election in Punjab gains momentum, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) joined hands on Saturday to contest the polls due in the State in early 2022. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal and BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra made an announcement in this regard here. “Under the seat-sharing arrangement, the SAD will contest 97 seats and the BSP 20 — eight seats in the Doaba region, seven in Malwa and five in Majha region of the State,” Mr. Badal said here at a press conference. There are a total of 117 Assembly constituencies in Punjab. Mr. Badal said the alliance was not a temporary one and would remain intact as both parties will contest not just the upcoming Assembly poll but other elections together as well. “Both the SAD and the BSP have the same ideology and had always worked for the welfare of farmers, poor and farm labourers,” he added. Hitting out at the ruling Congress government, Mr. Badal said: “The Congress party has not initiated a single welfare scheme for the weaker sections and is instead responsible for closing down schemes such as the SC scholarship scheme. It was because of these factors that there was a demand from the grassroots level workers of both the SAD and the BSP to form a common front.” He thanked BSP president Mayawati for her decision to join forces with the SAD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-bsp-to-jointly-contest-punjab-polls/article34802066.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Voices muzzled, says Bengal FM||Terming the GST Council’s move to retain tax levies on COVID relief materials as a ‘totally anti-people decision’ that was ‘thrust’ upon members, West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra accused the Union Finance Ministry of muzzling his voice in the Council, in a strongly worded dissent note. Mr. Mitra said he repeatedly tried to voice objections after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the Council’s decision as its chairperson, but “the Secretary brought the meeting to a close and the virtual link was cut off”. “Whither GST Council!” Mr. Mitra remarked in a missive addressed to Ms. Sitharaman, marked to all State Finance Ministers. The West Bengal Finance Minister said that he, along with several Ministers, proposed zero-rating or imposing a 0.1% GST on COVID related materials for a limited period, keeping the likely third wave of infections in mind. Even former Bihar Finance Minister Sushil Kumar Modi, now a BJP MP in the Rajya Sabha, has recommended a 0.1% GST as a solution “cutting across party lines”, Mr. Mitra said. “Unfortunately, you decided not to agree with the suggestions of so many Ministers,” the West Bengal Minister told the Union Finance Minister. “”The GST Council was to consider providing significant relief to the sufferings of the common people and the struggling health infrastructure... The consumers of the COVID materials in this hour of need would be greatly benefited with only a 0.1% GST,” he wrote. “As representatives of the people, we have no way to justify these decisions of draconian nature. Therefore, you have left me no option but to record my dissent against these anti-people decisions which will hurt millions of people,” he emphasised. Mr. Mitra said that Ms. Sitharaman referred to several of his observations towards the end of the Council’s meeting, but he was not allowed to respond. “Instead, you gave the floor to the Minister from Uttar Pradesh, who sought deletion of some of my comments by name and shockingly, you agreed. I could never imagine that this would come to pass in a GST Council meeting where my voice is muzzled, despite the restraint and decorum I have maintained in 44 meetings of the Council,” the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/voices-muzzled-says-bengal-fm/article34802079.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A bureaucrat for all seasons||When the news of Anup Chandra Pandey’s appointment as Election Commissioner came on Tuesday night, it surprised many because the buzz in Delhi’s power corridors was about a few other names who retired from the Government of India at the secretary level. However, the government picked the retired Chief Secretary of poll-bound Uttar Pradesh for the coveted position. A former IAS officer of the 1984 batch, the 62-year-old Mr. Pandey joins the three-member Commission as its third member. Former Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman Sushil Chandra, who is the Chief Election Commissioner, and former Finance Secretary Rajiv Kumar are the other two members. Mr. Pandey retired after an extended tenure as the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh. He became Chief Secretary in June 2018 and retired in August 2019, after a six-month extension. As the Election Commissioner, his first major task would be to conduct the Assembly election in Uttar Pradesh, where Yogi Adityanath will seek re-election. However, a cursory glance at Mr. Pandey’s career suggests that he has been a man for all seasons and has enjoyed crucial postings during all governments. “He served at important positions in all governments in the State and his tenures have remained mostly non-controversial,” a political insider in Lucknow said. Apart from his wide experience in industries, finance, health, education and development administration, Mr. Pandey is known for his networking in the industrial sector, strategic planning and crisis management, as per the observer. In his LinkedIn profile, Mr. Pandey describes himself as a “career bureaucrat” with more than three-and-a-half decade experience in the administration at the State as well as in the Union level in various positions. “Strong skill-set to handle complex administrative problems,” he writes in his bio, referring to his strengths. Mega events Further, he credits himself for successfully piloting schemes and holding mega events such as the farm loan waiver, investors’ summit in 2018 in Lucknow, Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj and Pravasi Bharatiya Divas in Varanasi, the Prime Minister’s Lok Sabha constituency, in 2019. ‘Able official’ In August, 2019, when he retired as the Chief Secretary, Chief Minister Adityanath showered him with accolades calling him an “able and proficient official” who carried out the tasks given to him efficiently. In almost all major policy initiatives of the U.P. government or politically important schemes such as farm loan waiver, Mr. Pandey’s imprints could be seen. The political bosses in Delhi, who are very choosy about appointing officials in high-profile positions, apparently saw several plus points in him besides his seeming closeness with the government in Lucknow. Interestingly, under the NDA government, he is another ex-Chief Secretary to be appointed in the poll body. Earlier, former Gujarat Chief Secretary A.K. Joti was made the Election Commissioner. Another factor that also swung in his favour is his amiable nature to work with colleagues as well as subordinates which could help him create a sense of balance in the three-member body, which recently saw the two incumbents sparring over the holding and handling of the Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. As Election Commissioner, Mr. Pandey will see crucial Assembly polls starting with Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand and Manipur in early next year and then Gujarat and Himachal Pradesh in the last month of 2022. Subsequently, in 2023, there will be Assembly polls in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. He will demit office in February 2024, just before the next Lok Sabha polls. As per the age criterion guiding the Election Commissioners, the retirement age has been fixed at 65 years. With his appointment, all the three members of the poll body have a common thread — U.P. Chief Election Commissioner Chandra is a former Indian Revenue Service officer from U.P. and so is Rajiv Kumar, a former Jharkhand cadre official. Mr. Pandey was born in Punjab but was allotted the U.P. cadre after he passed the civil services exam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-bureaucrat-for-all-seasons/article34802083.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The rise of the daughter||A new party will be born in Telangana on July 8, the birth anniversary of former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, when his daughter, Y.S. Sharmila, begins a new political journey. When news broke about her plans to float a political party in Telangana, many wondered what impact her move would have on the State’s politics as she hailed from Kadapa in Andhra Pradesh, where her elder brother, Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, is the Chief Minister. Ms. Sharmila had never been into the rough and tumble of politics until June 2012, when she campaigned for her brother in his absence in byelections to 18 Assembly and one Lok Sabha constituencies. Jagan, as Mr. Reddy, president of the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP), is popularly known, was then in jail in connection with a dozen assets cases. The YSRCP then won 15 Assembly seats and the lone Nellore Lok Sabha constituency in the polls, which took place after Jagan parted with the Congress. In October 2012, Ms. Sharmila launched a 3,112-km padayatra (journey on foot), from her father’s grave in Idupulapaya near their hometown Pulivendula in Kadapa. The yatra culminated at the column “Vijaya Vatika”, constructed to symbolise the success of the ‘Maha Prasthanam’ yatra of her father at Ichapuram in Srikakulamin 2003. Ms. Sharmila was received by huge crowds at the over 150 public meetings she addressed en route . She had to take a two-month break in the midst of the yatra because of a fractured knee, which required surgery. During the speeches, she invoked memories of her father, with his trademark wave to crowds with the left hand. She walked 13 km a day and held several racha banda meetings (interaction with village communities). She remained at home following Jagan’s release on bail after a year and a half of imprisonment in September 2013. He then resumed his own “Odarpu yatra”, to console the families of his father’s supporters who died. Nearly five years later, Ms. Sharmila shot back to fame again, this time with an 11-day bus yatra to campaign for the YSRCP in the 2019 Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. The yatra went with a brand name “Bye bye Babu” and the bus had a ticking clock, suggesting that it was a countdown for Chandrababu Naidu, who was then the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh. The YSRCP secured a resounding victory in the polls. Differences in family With the rout of Mr. Naidu in the elections and Jagan becoming Chief Minister, Ms. Sharmila and her mother, who was the honorary president of the YSRCP, became silent. There were reports that differences had cropped up in the family when Ms. Sharmila made public her political ambitions by convening a meeting of her supporters from Telangana at her Lotus Pond residence on February 9. Jagan’s chief adviser and YSRCP general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy claimed that the differences were sorted out. “We have tried our level best to dissuade Sharmila from plunging into active politics, which is a tough area, but her decision is [her] conscious choice. She feels there is a political vacuum in Telangana,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. He made it clear that neither Jagan nor the YSRCP will have anything to do with Ms. Sharmila’s party. Ever since, there has been hectic political activity at Lotus Pond. A close aide of the family, Vaduka Rajagopal, applied for registration of the party as YSR Telangana Party with the Election Commission. Ms. Sharmila then announced formation of the party at a public meeting in Khammam, following a series of meetings with supporters. She also held a hunger strike at Dharna Chowk in Hyderabad, focusing on unemployment in Telangana, but she was moved away by the police in a day after giving permission for three days. Ms. Sharmila visited a village in Medak district to console the kin of youth who committed suicide due to unemployment on Telangana State formation day (June 2) and also paid tributes to Telangana martyrs memorial in Hyderabad. On Twitter, she is lashing out at the government. She seems determined on what should be done — build a political party as a counterweight to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi like her brother did in Andhra Pradesh. It's to be seen whether she would manage to pull it off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-rise-of-the-daughter/article34802087.ece
13 June 2021||Patna,||‘JD(U) should get a berth in Cabinet’||Amid talk of expansion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Cabinet, the BJP’s ruling alliance partner in Bihar, the Janata Dal (United), said on Saturday that every constituent of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) should be represented at the Centre. Speaking to mediapersons in Patna, JD(U) national president R.C.P. Singh said: “I too have come to know about the Cabinet expansion of the Union government. Every constituent of the NDA should get participation in the Cabinet. And, being an ally, the JD(U) too should naturally get a berth in the Central Cabinet. In an alliance, every constituent should be respected.” The buzz in political circles is that the Modi Cabinet would be expanded before the monsoon session of Parliament. Earlier in May 2019, Chief Minister and then JD(U) president and Nitish Kumar had said his party would not be part of the NDA government as the BJP’s offer was only “symbolic representation”. “They [the BJP] said they want to give one Cabinet rank to every ally. Then we said that we will discuss it with party members and then only we can say anything over this symbolic representation. I spoke to my party leaders and the unanimous view was that we should stay out of the Ministry. Everybody felt there should be proportional representation in an alliance government,” Mr. Kumar had said after the oath-taking ceremony of the Union Cabinet of NDA-2. Mr. Singh, Mr. Kumar’s close confidant, had been among the frontrunners for a Cabinet berth at that time. The Bihar Chief Minister was said to have insisted on “proportional representation” for his party in the Union Cabinet. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the JD(U) won 16 of the total 40 seats in Bihar, while the BJP got 17 seats. The JD(U) has also six members in the Rajya Sabha. Now, after Mr. Singh’s comment, names of three JD(U) leaders have started floating as probables for the Union Cabinet. Besides, party president R.C.P. Singh, names of MPs Rajiv Ranjan Singh, alias Lalan Singh (Munger) and Santosh Kumar Kushwaha (Purnia) are also doing the rounds. However, NDA leaders declined to comment on the issue. “Only party’s top leadership can say anything on this,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jdu-should-get-a-berth-in-cabinet/article34802057.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘No trade-off between lives and livelihoods in the long run’||As the world stumbles through a second year of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is clear that both its catastrophic toll on human life and the severe socio-economic dislocation it has caused matter equally. Yet there is growing inequality associated with governments’ and private citizens’ responses to the pandemic regarding access to vaccines and policies to support vulnerable groups. Professor Branko Milanovic , of the Stone Center on Socio-Economic Inequality at the City University of New York, and former lead economist in the World Bank’s Research Department for almost 20 years, share his perspective on the relationship between inequality and different forms of capitalism across the world.  You have for decades studied capitalism, analysing its sub-types — liberal and political capitalisms — in your 2019 book “Capitalism Alone.” The pandemic has thrown its features into relief. How would you describe the way capitalist systems across the world have responded to this global crisis? If I were to summarise now the situation, I would say that both the U.S. and China have played up to their strong suits, and really have played very miserably in the areas where they were weak. China did a pretty bad job in the beginning, not because it did not stop the pandemic immediately, but because the political system in China is such that lower levels of administrative units, in this particular case the province of Hubei and the city of Wuhan, had an incentive to not reveal what was happening to the higher authorities hoping that actually they will be somehow able to push it under the carpet. That proved to be a disastrous decision. Then, the good side of the Chinese system kicked in, in their ability to share very strong centralised decisions, to have a disciplined population, to implement draconian measures quickly and to have everybody or most mostly everybody agree to that. The U.S. [response] also has two sides. The negative side was the total disarray, which is not only due to the Trump administration, but general inability to impose any measures, sniping between different levels of government, whether it is the federal, state, or county governments. That’s why the U.S. still has the highest number of deaths and cases. But on the other hand, the technology of the U.S. and Western Europe kicked in and the success in vaccines was absolutely extraordinary. It has never been the case that in 12 months, we have actually developed a vaccine for an entirely new disease and the rollout of the vaccines in the U.S. was quite successful. Vaccine shortages have hobbled India’s battle against the coronavirus with deadly consequences during the second wave. Is this a case of domestic inequality getting exacerbated by global inequality? In India’s case we have to be a little bit careful. If we had this conversation in February, India was actually considered a success case compared to the expectations, which were actually quite dire for India, taking into account what happened in 1918, and the fact that is an enormous country with many people living in close proximity. But that’s the issue with the virus — whatever you say now, three months later, that turns out that you’ve been half wrong. Now the situation in India is improving. But it was, as you mentioned, disastrous only months ago. It could be said that the disregard by the government of the dangers of the virus coming back, and maybe the disregard by the people who believed that the virus was behind them, led to the catastrophe that we have witnessed in the last two months. While mRNA vaccines are seen as cutting edge, and they’ve been largely deployed in the U.S. and parts of Europe and the U.K., India has not had that. This is the result of what is called vaccine nationalism in the U.S., U.K. and to a much less extent Europe. These countries have decided that they are not going to export vaccines until they have finished vaccination at home. This shows the talk about cosmopolitan approaches and everybody being equal to be wrong. Is India doing enough by way of welfare measures to support those who otherwise lack a safety net during economic shocks associated with the pandemic? India has a problem that is different to and deeper than the problem that the rich countries have. Rich countries such as the U.S. and Europe have been able to go through massive stimulus packages and the support packages, which have never been seen in history. It is much more difficult for countries that do not have resources like that. India could have printed that money, but then you have other issues to face. Second, the poor population in India is huge. But it was pointed out from very early on that the lockdowns are not really a trade-off in the sense that the lockdowns were saving lives and enabling a relatively fast return to economic activity. There is a trade-off on a daily basis but if you maybe extend it to one or two months, the trade-off disappeared. Does India’s model of capitalism fall between the liberal capitalism of the West and the political capitalism of China, and if so, will it continue to face challenges of inequality and corruption? It’s not by accident that India had a Planning Commission, given the very strong influence of the Soviet Union in the organisation of the economic sphere, in terms of planning the economy so as to be able to grow faster. That was the similarity which India had in the past. If you look at India today, it is much closer to liberal capitalism because of this political system. But it is also true that under [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi, there are certain features that really make India [akin to] hybrid liberal capitalism, [including] the general emphasis on growth, and disregard of certain democratic norms.  But that’s the issue with the virus — whatever you say now, three months later, that turns out that you’ve been half wrong||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-trade-off-between-lives-and-livelihoods-in-the-long-run/article34802071.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Coast Guard inducts three ALH Mk-III helicopters||The Coast Guard on Saturday inducted the first batch of three Advanced Light Helicopters (ALH) Mk-III designed and manufactured by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL). “The ALH Mk-III marine version has been designed and developed with in-house customisation of 19 additional equipment by HAL to meet Coast Guard requirements,” a Coast Guard statement said. “The HAL will supply 16 ALH Mk-III to the ICG by mid next year,” it stated. On induction, the 16 ALH Mk-III will be positioned at four Coast Guard squadrons in Bhubaneshwar, Porbandar, Kochi and Chennai. The Navy inducted the first batch of three ALH Mk-III helicopters into service at INS Hansa in April. Early this week, the Navy inducted three ALH Mk-III at INS Dega in Visakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coast-guard-inducts-three-alh-mk-iii-helicopters/article34802043.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,||72,899 cases, 1,558 deaths recorded||India recorded 72,899 COVID-19 cases and 1,558 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Saturday. The country has so far reported 2,94,63,255 cases and 3,69,135 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 15,108 new infections, followed by Kerala (13,832) and Maharashtra (10,697). Maharashtra recorded 1,966 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (374) and Kerala (171). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Odisha, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, and Ladakh. The data is sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19.89 lakh samples were tested on Friday (the results for which were made available on Saturday). About 34.33 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Saturday, which is nearly 1.6 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. However, it is 2.16 lakh fewer than what was recorded during the corresponding period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations continues to increase. It stood at 29.96 lakh on June 12, which is more than the 26.42 lakh recorded a week before (June 5). Vaccine doses About 21.6% of adults, 42% of those aged above 45, and 45.8% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of vaccine until 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. While 14.9% of the population has received at least one dose, only 3.4% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. The share of people who are fully vaccinated in comparable economies such as Brazil, Russia and South Africa is 11.07%, 9.59% and 0.81% respectively. Among the neighbours, 2.57% of Bangladesh’s population is fully vaccinated while the figure for Pakistan and Sri Lanka stood at 1.15% and 1.81% respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/72899-cases-1558-deaths-recorded/article34802074.ece
13 June 2021||SRINAGAR,||Onus of dialogue on J&K lies with Centre: Gupkar alliance||CPI(M) leader and Gupkar alliance spokesman M.Y. Tarigami on Saturday said the onus of engagement and dialogue lay with the Centre and there had to be a credible agenda for it. “Have we [J&K parties], together or separately, ever obstructed any dialogue since August 5, 2019 [when the Centre ended the special status]? In fact, on August 4, 2019, we appealed to the Prime Minister to provide us a chance to be heard but instead the leaders were placed in preventive custody. The onus of engagement and dialogue now lies with the government of India,” Mr. Tarigami said, in an interview to The Hindu . Mr. Tarigami, who is also a spokesman for the amalgam of five political parties, said no one had approached the group so far. “J&K has seen a major assault without consulting its political class, civil society, traders, etc. We remain a deprived lot,” he added. Dropping broad hints at being open to engage New Delhi 22 months after the abrogation of J&K’s special constitutional position, Mr. Tarigami said, “It’s the Centre that obstructed the processes of debate, discussion and dialogue and it [the Centre] should come up with a credible agenda for engagement.” In a veiled demand, Mr. Tarigami said the Centre reduced J&K to a Union Territory and there was no harm to restore the status of statehood unilaterally. “Both the Prime Minister and the Home Minister had publicly promised to return statehood to J&K at an appropriate time,” he pointed out. He said it was unfortunate to see Prime Minister Narendra Modi becoming adamant on Kashmir. “It does not suit the PM and his stature. He is the leader of the country and should hear and respond to people’s demands,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/onus-of-dialogue-on-jk-lies-with-centre-gupkar-alliance/article34802064.ece
13 June 2021||Kolkata,||Visva-Bharati in news for wrong reasons||For the Rabindranath Tagore-founded Visva-Bharati, 2021 was meant to be a year of celebrations, marking 100 years of the university, but it stands overshadowed by COVID-19 and constant clashes between the Vice-Chancellor and the staff. On Friday evening, Manas Maity, a Professor of Physics, filed an FIR at the Santiniketan police station against Vice-Chancellor Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty for humiliating teachers during an online meeting on June 8. While it is highly unlikely that anything of significance is going to come of the complaint, the FIR is an indication how the university is marking its centenary. “I guess something must be happening [to mark the centenary] but most of us have no idea about it,” said a teacher who has been employed with Visva-Bharati for over two decades now. Ever since Prof. Chakrabarty took charge in November 2018, the university has been in news for all the wrong reasons: a gag order on staff, several new dos and don’ts imposed on teachers of an institution that has been in existence for a century, constant issuing of show-cause notices seeking to discipline employees, eviction of “erring” students from hostels, construction of high walls around the campus, and conflict with the local population. ‘Value landmarks’ “As humans we tend to live through landmarks like birth anniversaries, a decade, or a centenary. Our natural tendency is to value these landmarks as course-correction moments. Visva-Bharati has completed 100 years, one would justifiably wish this would be a year of introspection, but the institution seems to be hurtling along the path of all the ills that have befallen it under the present dispensation,” said educationist Sudripta Tagore, a former student of the university and a descendant of Rabindranath’s family. “Denial is one such ill that plagues the institution today — that is the gift to Visva-Bharati by its administration on its hundredth year. Another gift is walls, both literal and figurative,” Mr. Tagore said.  Several questions A senior academician who was closely associated with Visva-Bharati for many years but who did not wish to be named, said: “How does the Tagore model of education square up to the much-touted New Education Policy; why it is important for the entire world to emulate the nature-based education system that Tagore had envisaged; what is the value of interfacing with the community; why we must integrate the sciences and humanities with creative arts — these are some of the questions that Visva-Bharati could have addressed in its centenary year.” “But the present administration is busy with all non-Tagorean thoughts such as erecting walls around the campus, alienating the community by eviction, humiliating the teachers by summary suspension and issuance of show-cause notices. There is no discernible attempt to put the COVID-derailed educational system back on track. Instead, a fear psychosis is being created all around.” Visva-Bharati was formally established as a university in 1921, even though it had existed as an educational centre — in the form of an ashram school — since 1901. Together with the Banaras Hindu University (1916) and Aligarh Muslim University (1921), the three institutions were rooted in traditional Indian values and, unlike other Indian universities of the time, did not follow the British model of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visva-bharati-in-news-for-wrong-reasons/article34802574.ece
13 June 2021||Kolkata,||Now, Rajib Banerjee reaches out to Trinamool leadership||A day after Mukul Roy severed ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party and joined the Trinamool Congress, another key BJP leader, Rajib Banerjee, reached out to Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh on Saturday. Mr. Banerjee, a former Minister in the Trinamool Congress government, who contested and lost the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket, met Mr. Ghosh at his residence in Kolkata. Though he described his meeting as a “courtesy call”, Mr. Banerjee reiterated his displeasure with the BJP and said he maintained that it was not proper to threaten a government that has won such a massive majority with the imposition of President’s Rule under Article 356. Mr. Banerjee was one of the BJP’s prize catches before the Assembly polls and the party had sent a private jet so that he and a few other leaders could travel to Delhi and join the BJP. He contested from Domjur and lost by a margin of over 40,000 votes. Mr. Banerjee maintained that “he was with the BJP till now”, but also added the politics of religious division won’t succeed in the State of West Bengal. Like Mr. Roy, Mr. Banerjee has been absent at meetings of the West Bengal BJP after the results of the Assembly polls were declared. There were frantic political developments in the day, with reports of Mr. Roy trying to reach out to a number of BJP leaders and MLAs. Biswajit Das, BJP MLA from Bagda, also praised Mr. Roy and stated that he respected Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Mr. Roy hails from North 24 Parganas and is said to have considerable influence in the district. Sources in the BJP said Mr. Roy had reached out to several BJP MLAs, both in south Bengal and north Bengal. During the day Mr. Roy also met TMC general secretary Abhishek Banerjee at his office. On Friday, the 67-year-old former Railway Minister had joined the TMC in the presence of Ms. Banerjee after his 3-year-7-month stint as a BJP leader. “We are not worried about committed workers [because they will stay in the party]. The defectors (‘ aaya Ram, gaya Ram’) do not make much difference,” State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-rajib-banerjee-reaches-out-to-trinamool-leadership/article34802063.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Claims of CoWIN hacking and data leak are baseless: Centre||The government on Saturday dismissed the claims of hacking of the CoWIN portal, which facilitates the national COVID-19 vaccination drive, and data leak as “baseless”. In a statement, the Union Health Ministry said the matter of the alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system has been investigated by the Computer Emergency Response Team of the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. R.S. Sharma, Chairman of the Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration, clarified that “the claims of so-called hackers on the dark web, relating to alleged hacking of the Co-WIN system and data leak, is baseless.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/claims-of-cowin-hacking-and-data-leak-are-baseless-centre/article34802080.ece
13 June 2021||Kolkata,||In its centenary year, Visva-Bharati stays in the news for wrong reasons||For the Rabindranath Tagore-founded Visva-Bharati, 2021 was meant to be a year of celebrations, marking 100 years of the university, but it stands overshadowed by COVID-19 and constant clashes between the Vice-Chancellor and the staff. On Friday evening, Manas Maity, a Professor of Physics, filed an FIR at the Santiniketan Police Station against the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Bidyut Chakrabarty, for humiliating teachers during an online meeting on June 8. While it is highly unlikely that anything of significance is going to come of the complaint, the FIR is an indication how the university is marking its centenary. “I guess something must be happening [to mark the centenary] but most of us have no idea about it,” said a teacher who has been employed with Visva-Bharati for over two decades now. Ever since Prof. Chakrabarty took charge in November 2018, the university has been in news for all the wrong reasons: a gag order on staff, several new dos and don’ts imposed on teachers of an institution that has been in existence for a century, constant issuing of show-cause notices seeking to discipline employees, eviction of “erring” students from hostels, construction of high walls around the campus, and conflict with the local population. “As humans we tend to live through landmarks like birth anniversaries, a decade, or a centenary. Our natural tendency is to value these landmarks as course-correction moments. Visva-Bharati has completed 100 years, one would justifiably wish this would be a year of introspection, but the institution seems to be hurtling along the path of all the ills that have befallen it under the present dispensation,” said educationist Sudripta Tagore, former student and a descendant of Rabindranath’s family. “Denial is one such ill that plagues the institution today — that is the gift to Visva-Bharati by its administration on its hundredth year. Another gift is walls, both literal and figurative,” Mr. Tagore said. A senior academician who was closely associated with Visva-Bharati for many years but who did not wish to be named, said: “How does the Tagore model of education square up to the much-touted New Education Policy; why it is important for the entire world to emulate the nature-based education system that Tagore had envisaged; what is the value of interfacing with the community; why we must integrate the sciences and humanities with creative arts — these are some of the questions that Visva-Bharati could have addressed in its centenary year.” “But the present administration is busy with all non-Tagorean thoughts such as erecting walls around the campus, alienating the community by eviction, humiliating the teachers by summary suspension and issuance of show-cause notices. There is no discernible attempt to put the COVID-derailed educational system back on track. Instead, a fear psychosis is being created all around.” Visva-Bharati was formally established as a university in 1921, even though it had existed as an educational centre — in the form of an ashram school — since 1901. Together with the Banaras Hindu University (1916) and Aligarh Muslim University (1921), the three institutions were rooted in traditional Indian values and, unlike other Indian universities of the time, did not follow the British model of education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-its-centenary-year-visva-bharati-stays-in-the-news-for-wrong-reasons/article34802329.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. working to unite rival Rajasthan factions||The Congress party’s top leadership is working on a formula to bring the rival factions of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot to a compromise, but differences over the number of Ministerial portfolios to be allotted to the Pilot camp is holding up the expansion of the State government in Rajasthan, a highly placed source said on Saturday. However, contrary to media reports, there were no meetings between Mr. Pilot, who arrived in Delhi late on Friday evening, and the central leadership, on the issue of Cabinet expansion. Of the nine available Ministerial slots in the State Cabinet, the source cited above told The Hindu that  the Pilot camp expected six-seven positions. They argue that this was what was promised to them by the late Ahmed Patel, one of the key negotiators with Mr. Pilot when the latter had revolted against Mr. Gehlot in July 2020. After Mr. Pilot led an unsuccessful rebellion against Mr. Gehlot last July, his camp lost three slots, including Mr. Pilot’s position as the deputy CM. The Pilot camp had then complained that the Chief Minister had kept far too many portfolios with himself. But the Congress party’s central leadership has to proceed cautiously as the Gehlot government has to keep in mind 18 lawmakers — 12 independent MLAs and six former Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs who merged with the Congress — who also expect to be “rewarded” by the Gehlot government. “Once both sides agree to a number, the next stage of identifying the Ministries and the criteria to become Ministers won’t be a problem,” said a senior Rajasthan leader. This leader said that the criteria to become a Minister would include seniority of the MLAs as well as the caste and region they represent. “We not only have to ensure no first time MLA from the Sachin camp becomes a Minister as we have more than half a dozen MLAs who have won five-six terms, it is also important that the new Cabinet represents the State in terms of regions and castes,” he said. On Friday, All India Congress Committee in-charge Ajay Maken had asserted that there would soon be an expansion of the Ashok Gehlot government but hadn’t spelt out a specific timeline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-working-to-unite-rival-rajasthan-factions/article34802061.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Monoclonal antibody treatment beneficial’||Monoclonal antibody treatment is now seen as a relatively effective and safer alternative in treating COVID-19 patients, with doctors stating that, as with any other drug, timing is very important for the administration of the therapy. Monoclonal antibody drugs fight disease by enlisting natural immune system functions. If given within 72 hours of the appearance of symptoms, it is proven to show good results and could be the way forward in tackling the SARS-CoV-2 virus, doctors note. Monoclonal antibodies have previously been used to treat infections such as Ebola and HIV. “Monoclonal antibody treatment isn’t a one-size-fits-all therapy. It is to be given only to mild COVID-19 patients who are not requiring oxygen, and there is high risk of progression or hospitalisation due to existing comorbidities,” warns Akshay Budhraja, senior pulmonologist, Aakash Healthcare. Outwitting the virus “Antibodies for COVID target specific proteins and destroy them before they initiate inflammation, which causes worsening of symptoms like breathlessness, blood clotting and severe pneumonia. In simple words, antibody response, which takes 7-10 days after infection, gives the virus the window period to attack the body. This window period is covered by injecting monoclonal antibodies, which help in reducing the symptoms and disease progression,” said Dr. Budhraja. In the national capital, the therapy was successfully used in two patients recently — a 36-year-old healthcare worker and an 80-year-old male at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. According to the doctors here, both patients showed improvement within 12 hours of administering the treatment. Treating physician Pooja Khosla, senior consultant, Department of Medicine, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said that the two patients were administered REGCov2 (Casirivimab and Imdevimab), designed to produce resistance against the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus. “Monoclonal antibody treatment could prove to be a game changer in times to come if used at the appropriate time. It can be given up to 10 days from the beginning of the symptoms and is not for low oxygen level patients. This awareness about early identification of the high risk category in our population and timely therapy with monoclonal antibody as day care treatment may reduce the burden of cost on the healthcare sector,” Dr. Khosla said. The doctor added that monoclonal antibody therapy cost Rs. 60,000-70,000 and significantly reduced hospital stay. “The key principle while using the therapy was that it should be given at the right time to the high risk group,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/monoclonal-antibody-treatment-beneficial/article34802072.ece
13 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Expand GST waiver, urges Punjab Minister||Punjab’s Finance and Planning Minister Manpreet Singh Badal questioned the GST Council’s decision to temporarily cut tax rates on COVID-19 essentials instead of waiving them altogether and asked if COVID-19 is going to end in sync with the tax concession deadlines. Demanding that all COVID-related goods be zero-rated during the pandemic, Mr. Badal, along with other Finance Ministers representing the Congress, vehemently opposed the imposition of GST on COVID-related items and recorded their note of dissent. He also reiterated the Congress’ concerns about no representative from the party being included in the GST Council’s Group of Ministers (GoM) that reviewed the tax rates on COVID-19 essentials. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman dismissed the charge saying that GoM members are not selected or excluded on the basis of ‘party’. The GoM should “stop acting like a shahenshah (emperor) amid a once in a century crisis”, Mr. Badal said. “COVID-19 GST should be zero-rated… How would a consumer feel seeing GST reflected on an invoice on COVID-19 treatment?” he remarked, terming the retention of GST levies on several preventive material and treatment essentials as “insensitive”. While the Council exempted two medicines — tocilizumab and amphotericin-B — from GST altogether, other medicines and goods such as masks, PPE kits, hand sanitisers as well as medical grade oxygen, testing kits, ventilators, biPAP machines and pulse oximeters continue to be taxed at a lower 5% rate. “Stop collecting revenues on furnaces for crematoriums. Stop taxing RT-PCR machines. They are already purchased at concessional rate, and practically all States also regulate the price of the COVID-19 test,” he pointed out. “It is preposterous that the principal opposition party of India in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha has been excluded in the GoM,” Mr. Badal said. Mr. Badal cautioned that the attempt to pick and choose exemptions on the grounds of inverted duty structure or cheaper imports would end up destroying the very foundation of GST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expand-gst-waiver-urges-punjab-minister/article34802076.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Operation Olivia’ to the rescue of Olive Ridleys||Every year, the Indian Coast Guard’s “Operation Olivia”, initiated in the early 1980s, helps protect Olive Ridley turtles as they congregate along the Odisha coast for breeding and nesting from November to December. “For optimal results, round-the-clock surveillance is conducted from November till May utilising Coast Guard assets such as fast patrol vessels, air cushion vessels, interceptor craft and Dornier aircraft to enforce laws near the rookeries,” a Coast Guard officer said. “From November 2020 to May 2021, the Coast Guard devoted 225 ship days and 388 aircraft hours to protect 3.49 lakh turtles that laid eggs along the Odisha coast.” The Olive Ridley ( Lepidochelys olivacea ) is listed as vulnerable under the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red list. All five species of sea turtles found in India are included in Schedule I of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and in the Appendix I of the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), which prohibits trade in turtle products by signatory countries. Odisha has also formulated laws for protecting Olive Ridley turtles, and the Orissa Marine Fisheries Act empowers the Coast Guard as one of its enforcement agencies. “Studies have found three main factors that damage Olive Ridley turtles and their eggs — heavy predation of eggs by dogs and wild animals, indiscriminate fishing with trawlers and gill nets, and beach soil erosion,” the officer said. Dense fishing activity along the coasts of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal, especially ocean-going trawlers, mechanised fishing boats and gill-netters pose a severe threat to turtles. Coordination of efforts is done at various levels, the officer explained, including enforcing the use of turtle excluder devices (TED) by trawlers in the waters adjoining nesting areas; prohibiting the use of gill nets on turtle approaches to the shore; and curtailing turtle poaching. Nesting habits The Olive Ridley has one of the most extraordinary nesting habits in the natural world, including mass nesting called arribadas. The 480-km-long Odisha coast has three arribada beaches at Gahirmatha, the mouth of the Devi river, and in Rushikulya, where about 1 lakh nests are found annually. More recently, a new mass nesting site has been discovered on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, with more than 5,000 nests reported in a season, according to the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Fisheries. “Sea turtles generally return to their natal beach, or where they were born, to lay eggs as adults,” the Coast Guard officer explained. Mating occurs in the offshore waters of the breeding grounds and females then come ashore to nest, usually several times during a season. They crawl ashore, dig a flask-shaped nest about 1.5 to 2 feet deep, and lay 100 to 150 eggs in each clutch. Hatchlings emerge from their nests together in seven to 10 weeks. “Between the arrival of the mother and the hatchlings’ retreat to the sea, they go through various challenges. It is estimated that only one in a thousand survive to adulthood,” the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/operation-olivia-to-the-rescue-of-olive-ridleys/article34802045.ece
13 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan gives subsidies to agri. power consumers||In a major relief to the agricultural power consumers, the Congress government in Rajasthan has announced new subsidies under the Chief Minister’s Kisan Mitra Urja Yojana during the COVID-19 pandemic. The metered consumers will get a subsidy of Rs. 1,000 on their bills every month. The new subsidies will lead to a financial burden of Rs. 450 crore annually on the State government, according to the official sources here. The total subsidies for a farmer will not exceed Rs. 12,000 in a year. Those consuming less electricity will be paid the amount of difference through deposit in their bank accounts. The sources said the new agricultural electricity connections would be released within 90 days after the deposit of demand charges to facilitate the sowing of kharif crops on time. The tube-wells will also get electricity connections within 15 days for ensuring adequate supply of water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-gives-subsidies-to-agri-power-consumers/article34802575.ece
13 June 2021||Mumbai,||Pawar-Kishor meeting kickstarts anti-BJP front||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Saturday clarified that it has not given any responsibility to poll analyst Prashant Kishor within the party but the party was working on setting up a national front of anti-BJP parties. Sources within the party have identified over 400 Lok Sabha seats where regional players could play an important role against the BJP if a front of these parties is set up. “Prashant Kishor is a political strategist. He looks at the politics from different point of view. Our president has already discussed the need to unite all Opposition parties. He wanted to go to West Bengal during elections but could not due to ill-health. But he will ensure that all Opposition parties are united,” said senior NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik. He said Mr. Kishor shared the experience of West Bengal elections with party president Sharad Pawar with discussions on current national politics. Mr. Malik clarified that the NCP was constantly working on setting up an united front against the BJP. “This process continues even today and will continue in future as well,” said Mr. Malik. Mr. Kishor has, however, said that the meeting between him and Mr. Pawar was only over a “private lunch” and no politics was discussed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pawar-kishor-meeting-kickstarts-anti-bjp-front/article34802037.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Mehul Choksi denied bail by Dominica High Court||The Dominica High Court has denied bail to fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi in the case of illegal entry into the island country after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda, where he has been staying as a citizen since 2018 after fleeing from India, local Caribbean media reported. The court on Friday gave the ruling by concluding that Mr. Choksi was a “flight risk”, did not have any ties with Dominica, and the court could not impose any conditions which would stop him from leaving the country, news outlet AntiguaNewsroom said. Mr. Choksi had approached the High Court after the magistrate rejected his bail petition. The 62-year old diamantaire, who has an Interpol Red Notice against him, had mysteriously gone missing on May 23 from Antigua and Barbuda. He was detained in Dominica for illegal entry after a possible romantic escapade with his rumoured girlfriend. Mr. Choksi’s lawyers had filed a habeas corpus petition calling his arrest illegal and alleging that he was abducted, tortured and handed over to Dominica authority to deny him rights available to him in Antigua and Barbuda as a citizen. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the External Affairs Ministry have sought to implead in the habeas corpus petition by filing two affidavits in the Dominica High Court, officials said here. The agency would focus on establishing criminal culpability of Mr. Choksi, fugitive status, pending warrants against him, Red Notice and chargesheets, while the External Affairs Ministry would argue that Mr. Choksi continued to be an Indian citizen, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mehul-choksi-denied-bail-by-dominica-high-court/article34802039.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Breach exposes govt. officials’ data to hackers||It then redirected them to a page “@gov.in” that resembles the government website mygov.in , and asked for the official e-mail and password. According to Rajshekhar Rajaharia, cyber researcher, the website was hosted in Pakistan in June. “The page mentioned @nic.in email IDs to make the official believe it is a government page. The purpose seemed to be getting the e-mails and passwords of only government officials and get unauthorised access to government systems, the page does not accept any other domain such as gmail.com,” he said. Air India informed passengers on May 15 that its passenger service system, provided by multi-national IT company SITA, was subjected to a sophisticated cyberattack in the last week of February which affected around 45 lakh “data subjects” in the world registered between August 26, 2011 and February 3, 2021. Government officials are frequent Air India flyers. The alert sent to officials said, “It is intimated that recent data breaches of Air India and other companies like Domino’s, Big Basket etc. have resulted in exposure of e-mail ID and passwords of many users, which includes lots of government email IDs as well. All such compromised gov. domain emails are potential cyber threats as they are being used by the adversaries to send out malicious mails to all gov. email users. It may please be noted that largely these are name based email IDs which are available with the malicious actors.” It added that the malicious actors try to attack government officials through various means such as phishing where attackers send e-mails to officials and make them click on such attachment or web-link and provide permission. “Either their systems will get infected/compromised or e-mail credentials will be captured by C&C (command and control) server under control of adversaries… Emails coming from any such random user of .gov domain, on any subject line, asking to click on a link or download an attachment are to be considered as malicious and to be ignored and to be deleted. Users are advised to change the password of their e-mail ID which is registered with Air-India, Dominos etc.,” the alert mentioned. An official said while such phishing attempts were common, in the past one year it had intensified.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/breach-exposes-govt-officials-data-to-hackers/article34802041.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bhawanipur by-election widens Congress-Left rift||“The Trinamool Congress won the Assembly elections with a huge mandate and Mamata Banerjee has been elected Chief Minister. Elections at Bhawanipur are a foregone conclusion. Bhawanipur has been our seat and I do not see any rationale behind putting candidate against the Chief Minister,” Mr. Chowdhury said. As part of an electoral understanding with the Left, the Congress had fielded candidates in the Bhawanipur seat in the 2016 and 2021 polls. In 2021, it fielded Md. Shadab Khan. He secured 5,211 votes. The electoral experiment of the Samyukt Morcha, where the Left and the Congress tied up with the Indian Secular Front, failed miserably in the 2021 poll. While Trinamool secured a massive victory, winning 213 seats, Ms. Banerjee lost the Nandigram seat. Bhawanipur MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigned a few weeks ago paving the way for the Chief Minister to contest. A section of the Congress leadership in Delhi has always backed Ms. Banerjee, and with Mr. Chowdhury, who is among her most vocal critics, taking a soft stand, questions are being raised on the future of the Left-Congress alliance. Several CPI(M) leaders were of the opinion that if the alliance did not field a candidate, it would send a wrong message to the supporters. “There is no question of backing out from the fight. We cannot allow it to be Trinamool-BJP contest,” senior CPI(M) leader Asok Bhattacharya said. “Victory has many parents and defeat is an orphan. One can come up with various reasons for our defeat, an alliance with Congress, the setting up of Samyukt Morcha,” CPI(M) leader Rabin Deb said. He added that the Left parties were not agreeable to the idea of not fielding a candidate against Ms. Banerjee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bhawanipur-by-election-widens-congress-left-rift/article34802046.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||GST brought down on 14 COVID relief goods||For oxygen concentrators, medical grade oxygen and related devices such as ventilators, BiPAP machines, the GST rate has also been brought down to 5% from 12%. The same reduction has been approved in the levies on COVID-testing kits and pulse oximeters. The 5% rate will apply to personal imports of oxygen concentrators as well as pulse oximeters, while the 18% GST payable on hand sanitisers has been reduced to 5%. Revenue Secretary Tarun Bajaj said the tax rate changes, to be notified over Sunday and Monday, were aimed at providing some succour to the people amid the pandemic and were not driven by revenue considerations. “When it (the GST on vaccines) was discussed, it was mentioned that the Centre is buying 75% of the vaccines and will remit the GST on it and the revenue on that will be shared 70% with the States,” Mr. Bajaj said, explaining that this will have no tax implications for people as they will receive the vaccine for free. The rates will remain effective till September 30, but could be extended further based on later assessments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gst-brought-down-on-14-covid-relief-goods/article34802052.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||New declassification policy gets nod||The History Division will be responsible for coordination with various departments while compiling, seeking approval and publishing of war and operations histories. The policy also sets clear timelines with regard to compilation and publication of war and operations histories, the Ministry said, adding that the committee should be formed within two years of completion of war and operations. Thereafter, collection of records and compilation should be completed in three years and disseminated to all concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-declassification-policy-gets-nod/article34802053.ece
13 June 2021||Guwahati,||‘Crimes against women rising in Assam’||The Assam Pradesh Mahila Congress slammed the BJP-led government in the State for failing to check crimes against women. It also panned the government for high maternal and infant mortality rates despite claiming to have ramped up the healthcare infrastructure. The criticism followed the publication of the NITI Aayog’s Sustainable Development Goals India Index 2020-21, which marked Assam and a few other northeastern States as poor performers. “It was once announced Assam would become one of the early States, if not the first in the country, to work towards achieving sustainable development goals by 2030. But the NITI Aayog’s report has accentuated the fake and false promises, particularly in the field of protecting, educating and improving the health of girls and women,” State Mahila Congress president Nandita Das said. She said the number of crimes against women increased from 4,46,116 during the 15-year tenure of Tarun Gogoi to 5,97,095 during the five years of the BJP-led government under Sarbananda Sonowal. “Assam’s maternal mortality rate is 215 per one lakh compared to 43 in Kerala. The infant mortality rate in Assam is 47 per 1,000 children compared to 10 in Kerala,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/crimes-against-women-rising-in-assam/article34802054.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi/Bhopal,||Row over Digvijaya’s comments||A row erupted on Saturday over Congress leader Digvijaya Singh’s purported comments in an audio chat on social media that his party will have a “relook” at Article 370 revocation and Jammu and Kashmir’s lost statehood if it returns to power, with the BJP accusing him of speaking “the language of Pakistan” and spewing venom against India. Mr. Singh’s remarks to a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin, were seized by its leaders to unleash a torrent of criticism against the opposition party and demand statements from Congress president Sonia Gandhi and her son Rahul Gandhi on the issue. “The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue,” Mr. Singh said, according to excerpts of the Clubhouse conversation available on social media. He was responding to a question about the “way forward” on the issue “once the Modi government is gone”. “It was the Congress which committed the sin of imposing Article 370 in Kashmir…Congress speaks the language of Pakistan,” Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/row-over-digvijayas-comments/article34802059.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Modi govt. has failed on every front: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a scathing attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday over his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, said he behaved like a “coward”. “Indians do not come first for the Prime Minister, politics does,” Ms. Vadra alleged in a social media post as part of her Zimmedar Kaun (Who’s responsible?) campaign. “The government failed us in every front. They could have managed the situation so that we could have had enough oxygen in the hospitals; they could have listened to experts and increased the number of beds; they could have ordered vaccines when other countries ordered them, back in June, July and May, 2020. They did none of this and just left people to fend for themselves,” Ms. Vadra said posting a 39-second video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/modi-govt-has-failed-on-every-front-priyanka/article34802060.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The fight continues||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-fight-continues/article34802068.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Covaxin: data on Phase 3 trial out soon||Bharat Biotech on Saturday said scientific standards of the indigenously-developed Covaxin are transparent, and the company has so far published nine research studies on its safety and efficacy. “Covaxin’s scientific standards+commitment is transparent. Academic journals, peer reviewers, NIV-ICMR-BB researchers-scientists, 9 studies & data published,” Bharat Biotech co-founder and joint managing director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. “Currently, data from both efficacy and safety follow-up of Covaxin’s Phase III trial is being analysed and compiled. The company will make the data from the final analysis public soon,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covaxin-data-on-phase-3-trial-out-soon/article34802069.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Anurag Thakur blames ‘poor connection’||Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said it seemed as if West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra, who said his voice was muzzled at Saturday’s GST Council meeting, did not have a ‘stable VC connection’ for the meeting. “Revenue Secretary (Tarun Bajaj) repeatedly informed him his line was breaking, that he was not properly audible and to turn off his video for better connectivity,” Mr. Thakur said in a series of tweets. “During the speech made by the Uttar Pradesh Finance Minister, nobody heard Dr Mitra ji speak up nor did he ask to have his opinion heard. Other members can attest to this,” Mr. Thakur asserted. “The Finance Minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council,” Mr. Thakur added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anurag-thakur-blames-poor-connection/article34802077.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||IMA to hold protest on June 18||The Indian Medical Association will hold a protest on June 18 against assault on doctors. In a statement, the apex medical body asked all its State and local branches across the country to observe the protest, with the slogan of ‘save the saviours’, by wearing black badges, masks, ribbons and shirts and running an awareness campaign against violence targeting healthcare professionals. The IMA said press conferences will also be organised, and they will also meet local NGOs and voluntary service leaders. It termed “extremely disturbing” a series of violence against doctors in the past two weeks in Assam, Bihar, West Bengal, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and other places. It demanded the implementation of the Central Hospital and Health Care Professionals Protection Act with the Indian Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, standardisation and augmentation of security in each hospital, and declaring hospitals as protected zones, among others. It further said that June 15 will be observed as a National Demand Day and press meets will held across the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ima-to-hold-protest-on-june-18/article34802081.ece
13 June 2021||MUMBAi,||Sudha Bharadwaj seeks default bail from Bombay HC||Trade unionist and lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj, accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, moved the Bombay High Court on Saturday seeking default bail. Her plea said the Pune sessions court judge was not authorised to take cognisance of the supple- mentary chargesheet against her and the other accused. “It was not the designated special court under the National Investigation Agency Act, which has exclusive jurisdiction to try scheduled offences like the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, and therefore, not the competent court,” the petition said. The matter is expected to be heard on June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sudha-bharadwaj-seeks-default-bail-from-bombay-hc/article34802040.ece
13 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||NCPEDP announces fellowship on disability issues||The National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) has announced a three-year immersive grassroots fellowship programme for the differently-abled youth interested in disability rights and inclusion and seeking a career in the development sector. The last date to apply for the fellowship via www.ncpedp.org  or by mailing to ncpedp.fellowship @gmail.com is August 11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ncpedp-announces-fellowship-on-disability-issues/article34802049.ece
13 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal court grants bail to Punjab YouTuber in racial slur case||A court in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh, on Friday granted bail to Punjab-based YouTuber Paras Singh, who was arrested on May 27 for racial barbs against Congress MLA Ninong Ering and people of the northeastern State. The court of the chief judicial magistrate allowed Mr. Singh’s plea for bail on the execution of a personal bond for Rs. 10,000. The court asked him not to leave the country and not interfere with the investigation process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arunachal-court-grants-bail-to-punjab-youtuber-in-racial-slur-case/article34802055.ece
13 June 2021||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to trace two prisoners||The police on Saturday sounded an alert to arrest two prisoners, who were released from the sub-jail in Jayamkondam without a bail order. According to sources, the jail authorities had received a bail order from a court to release three prisoners of a group of five persons except Velankanni Robert (36) and Balakumar (22) of Malathankulam. But, apparently due to poor understanding over the bail order issued in English the authorities had allegedly released them from the jail. The issue came to light when a Public Prosecutor brought to the attention of the jail authorities that they were not ordered to be released on bail. Following this, the police registered a case and launched a hunt to trace them. Robert and Balakumar were among about 50 persons recently arrested by the Prohibition Enforcement Wing on the charge of illicit brewing of arrack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-trace-two-prisoners/article34802661.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Builders, cement makers spar over price hike||Real estate developers and cement producers in the State are yet again sparring over the increase in cement prices. Real estate developers warn that it would lead to an increase in apartment prices, while the cement industry attributed it to an increase in their input cost. The rise in cement prices has been a politically sensitive topic and both parties have been engaged in a war of words over the issue in recent years. Developers have alleged cartelisation by the cement industry, a charge which has been denied by the other side. In turn, the cement manufacturers alleged that the developers should bring down their inflated apartment prices first. Builders claim the retail cement prices have increased by 13% from Rs. 460 in May to up to Rs. 520 per 50 kg bag in June. “When it comes to construction there are two important ingredients — cement and steel. Prices of both have gone up in the last two months. Anyone undertaking a project now will have to spend additional money and because of this, apartment prices are likely to go up,” Suresh Krishn, Tamil Nadu president, The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), said. According to an analyst at research firm Emkay, cement prices in Tamil Nadu have gone up by 3.4% at the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) over the past four years. It has increased around 20-22% in FY21 from FY20, and further up by 3-4% in the last 3-4 months. Padam Dugar, vice-chairman and managing director of Dugar Housing Limited and president of CREDAI - Chennai Chapter, pointed out that there was a huge price difference between the cement sold in Tamil Nadu and neighbouring States like Andhra Pradesh. “A Rs. 50 increase in the cement price will result in a Rs. 20 hike in cost per square feet. Taking into account the time and other inflationary factors, we need to ensure that the burden of increase in final real estate cost is equally shared by the developers and customers,” said Arun Mn, founder and managing director of Casagrand. A senior cement industry executive said input costs had gone up, and to that extent there was an increase in price. He pointed out that petroleum coke (petcoke) prices, a key input for manufacturing cement, had gone up from $45 to to $130 per tonne, while diesel prices had gone up from Rs. 60 to Rs. 90 per litre, thereby resulting in increased freight cost. Natasha Trikha, analyst, CARE Ratings, pointed out that the all-India wholesale and retail prices of cement had increased by 4.4% and 3.3% to Rs. 358 and Rs. 371 per 50 kg bag respectively on a yearly basis for the month of March. Further, it averaged at Rs. 370 (wholesale) and Rs. 378 (retail) per 50 kg bag for the period between April and May. Mani Rangarajan, group COO, Housing.com, Makaan.com and Proptiger.com, said among the various components which go into apartment pricing, the land cost had the highest share. But the steep rise in prices of raw materials, especially since March, would also have a bearing on the final price of properties, he added. “They (State government) should call the manufacturers and the end users to discuss the issue,” Mr. Krishn said. Recently, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said the Chief Minister would be consulted on the issue and prices would be brought down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/builders-cement-makers-spar-over-price-hike/article34802220.ece
13 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Cases continue to fall, Chennai reports less than 1,000 infections||With 15,108 fresh infections, the number of COVID-19 cases reported daily in Tamil Nadu continued to fall for the twenty-second consecutive day on Saturday. Fresh cases reported by Chennai went below the 1,000-mark for the first time after 72 days. The last time it reported less than 1,000 cases was on March 31. The fresh infections reported by Coimbatore went below the 2,000-mark. The State reported 374 deaths and 27,463 recoveries. The total number of deaths stood at 29,280. Tamil Nadu had 1,62,073 active cases. Coimbatore reported 1,982 cases, the highest in the State, followed by Erode (1,353), Chennai (989), Salem (894), and Tiruppur (844). Thanjavur (645) and Chengalpattu (586) were the other two districts that reported more than 500 cases. Another 28 districts reported more than 100 cases, while only Ariyalur and Perambalur reported less than 100 cases. Compared with Friday, the districts of Tiruvannamalai, Sivaganga, Theni, and Tirupattur reported a marginal increase in cases, while all other districts registered a decline. Of the 374 deaths, 145 were women and 229 were men. A total of 195 were aged above 60. The oldest was a 97-year-old woman from Chennai, while the youngest was a 17-year-old girl from Tiruvallur district. Chennai reported the highest of 73 deaths, followed by Salem (30), Tiruvallur (29), Coimbatore (27) and Dindigul (21). Highest tests Even as the cases continued to fall, the number of persons tested continued to increase. According to the official bulletin, 1,73,724 persons were tested, the highest ever in the State. Consequently, the daily test positivity rate dropped further to 8.7%. Following a week of decline due to the lack of supplies, vaccination picked up again with the arrival of fresh doses. A total of 3,26,573 doses were administered as against 38,737 doses the day before. This was the highest number of doses administered in a day so far. On May 27, the State administered 3,23,915 doses, the second highest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-continue-to-fall-chennai-reports-less-than-1000-infections/article34802239.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thunderstorms set to continue in a few districts of Tamil Nadu||Thunderstorm activity will continue in one or two districts of Western Ghats, Kanniyakumari and other interior districts till June 16. Dry weather will largely prevail over other parts of the State and rains would take a break for the next few days, according to the Meteorological Department  As southwest monsoon becomes active over the west coast, influenced by the low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal, there are less chances for convective activity and thunderstorms over most parts of the State, including the coast, said officials. Thunderstorms with light to moderate rains may mainly be concentrated around a few districts. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Saturday, Sholayar in Coimbatore district recorded 2 cm rainfall. Places like Chinnakalar and Valparai in Coimbatore district, and Avalanche and Devala in the Nilgiris district registered 1 cm of rainfall each. On Saturday evening, some parts of Chennai enjoyed light, sporadic showers. The weather stations in Nungambakkam and Ennore recorded light rain and the maximum temperature in the city remained close to normal at 37.9 degree Celsius for the day. Officials of the Meteorological Department said that a similar weather pattern of cloudy sky and light showers may continue on Sunday. The maximum temperature may be around 37 degree Celsius. N. Puviarasan, Director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Chennai, said whenever the monsoon current is strong and impacting other regions, rains would largely decrease over Tamil Nadu. If the low-pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal weakens, easterly winds would begin to prevail and convective activity may revive particularly in coastal areas and trigger rains, he said. The total rainfall over the State so far during this southwest monsoon has been 43% excess than the average of 2.4 cm since June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thunderstorms-set-to-continue-in-a-few-districts-of-tamil-nadu/article34802228.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Corporation to keep ICU beds ready||The Greater Chennai Corporation is planning to get ICU beds ready in its hospitals as part of the preparation to deal with a possible third wave of COVID-19. Following a meeting with public health experts and epidemiologists in Ripon Building, the civic body has decided to have ICU beds at the community health centres in various zones of the city. Pointing to the difficulties faced by officials in finding ICU beds for COVID-19 patients from the hotspots during the second wave, the team of experts has advised the Corporation to increase the number of ICU beds to manage any rise in the number of cases during a third wave. In the first phase, at least 15 Corporation hospitals will get ICU beds. “This is an opportunity to scale up our community health centres,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Health) Alby John Varghese. The civic officials said the initiative would benefit close to 20 lakh poor people, who depend on the Corporation hospitals for healthcare. Another key suggestion at the meeting was the genomic surveillance of COVID-19 samples to manage the pandemic in the event of a third wave. The data from genomic surveillance and a serosurvey could be used for interventions at each hotspot in the 15 zones of the city, the officials said. The Corporation plans to step up its surveillance as more commercial activity was likely to be allowed in the city in the coming weeks. A multi-pronged approach has been prepared. This includes random testing in select hotspots to prevent clusters, intensified vaccination of vulnerable groups, penalising those not following standard operating procedures (SOPs), and creating awareness among the public to maintain social distancing and the compulsory wearing of face masks. Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi said as the State government was set to relax more lockdown norms, the civic body in association with the Greater Chennai Police has planned to be vigilant against any eventuality. New strategy Three special squads called zonal enforcement teams comprising police and corporation officials have been formed for each of the 15 zones in place of one special squad. Mr. Bedi said the special squads in each zone would be involved in checking lockdown violation, compliance to SOPs by commercial establishments and markets, and would create awareness about maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks among the public through the public address system fixed in 45 vehicles. Random swab testing camps were being held in various markets and places where people congregated in large numbers. In May, the Corporation conducted swab tests for 9,000 people in the Koyambedu market. Of these, 15 samples tested positive. Similarly, this month 3,400 tests have been conducted till date and one has been found positive. The fever survey workers have been directed to identify and vaccinate people with co-morbidities such as diabetes and hypertension . The Corporation, since the launch of special squads from May till June 11, has fined more than 3,000 shops and 13,000 individuals for not following SOPs, not wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing. Mr. Bedi said Rs. 2.60 crore has been collected as fine. The civic body has prepared a handbook on when to get tested, what to do if one tests positive, things to follow in home isolation, how and where to get emergency care, and the need to get oneself vaccinated, as part of its awareness campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-corporation-to-keep-icu-beds-ready/article34802251.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Security up after infiltration alert||Security was intensified along the coastal districts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday evening following an input that armed men sailing on a boat from Sri Lanka planned to enter the State with a sinister design. Police sources said the alert was issued by a coastal security agency after a caller from Sri Lanka informed a police station in Madurai city that the men in possession of assault rifles were heading towards the Rameswaram coast. Investigators were verifying the caller’s identity and trying to establish the identity of the suspects whose names were given as Ameer, Bharkath and Naseer, the sources said.  Armed guards deployed Though there was no information on the organisation to which they belonged, the sources said the caller had claimed that the trio conspired to launch an attack. While vigil along the coastal districts was stepped up with intensified night patrolling, armed guards were deployed at checkpoints on the roads leading to the coastal belt, the sources said. The police were coordinating with coastal security and intelligence agencies to establish the veracity of the alert. Random checks were being conducted in remote buildings along the eastern coastline. Policemen were in touch with fishermen and members of the village vigilance committees in fishing hamlets to check whether they saw any strangers or came across any suspicious activity along the coastline in the last 24 hours, the sources said. Heightened security arrangements have already been in place in Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts ahead of the first death anniversary of trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks. They died after an alleged assault by policemen at the Sattankulam station last year. Police presence along the coastal districts of Ramanathapuram and Kanniyakumari was enhanced last week following an input that hazardous chemicals from the Singapore-flagged merchant vessel, X-Press Pearl, that sank off the Colombo coast in the first week of June could get washed ashore, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/security-tightened-after-infiltration-alert/article34802256.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class XI admissions in State to gather pace from tomorrow||With schools being allowed to undertake administrative and admission works from Monday, admissions to Class XI are expected to pick up in Tamil Nadu. Earlier this week, the School Education Department issued the guidelines. The board examinations for Class X students of the 2020-21 batch were cancelled because of COVID-19. “Given these special circumstances, we expect that a majority of these students will be allotted the group of their choice in government schools. Wherever the number of applications is high, we may have to use their Class IX marks as recommended by the government,” said K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association. The State government is, however, yet to issue guidelines to prepare the Class X results. “Admissions, however, can go on since all students will have an all-pass certificate, and we are hoping that this benefit is extended to private candidates who were supposed to take up the Class X examinations so that their admission process is made easier,” Mr. Suresh said. For vocational groups in Class XI, teachers said there would not be any change in the trends. “Students who usually score between 250 and 300 marks in their Class X board examinations seek vocational groups. We do not expect any big change in the number of students opting for vocational courses in the absence of board exam marks — students who fully understand their capabilities will pick the right groups and not opt for a tougher stream,” said S.N. Janardhanan, president, Tamil Nadu Vocational Teachers Kazhagam. The principal of a private school in the city said that since the school conducted assessments online through the last academic year, a mix of the Class IX and X performance of the students in the school-level examinations could be considered. “We usually see at least 5%-10% of the students of our school joining other schools for Class XI. This year, however, less than 5% of the students chose to leave owing to uncertainty in schooling due to the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/class-xi-admissions-in-state-to-gather-pace-from-tomorrow/article34802236.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Polytechnic admissions through Class IX marks||Admission to the first year of the polytechnic courses at the 51 government-run colleges will be based on the Class IX annual examination marks, Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi said on Saturday. The students will be admitted based on the same norms as for Class XI. Those who passed Class X last year will be admitted based on their Class X marks. Normally, admissions are done through scores obtained by students in the Class X public examinations. But these exams were cancelled this year owing to the pandemic. The government cancelled the exams for Classes X, XI and XII this year. Lateral admission to the second year of the polytechnic courses would be based on the award of marks in Classes XI and XII, officials said. However, school teachers said Class IX students did not take the annual exams as the government declared all of them promoted in the academic year 2020-21. This year, too, the government exempted students from the Class X board exams. Polytechnic teachers said that in the academic year 2020-21, students were admitted based on the mark sheet submitted by the School Education Department. “The Department had prepared a mark sheet based on their performance in the quarterly, half-yearly and monthly tests. We don’t know on what basis they will prepare the mark sheet this time,” said the principal of a government polytechnic college. The rules to appear for the arrears exams in polytechnic colleges will be similar to those of Anna University. The students who have arrears in the sixth, seventh and eighth semesters will be allowed to write the exams at one stretch. Until now, students were allowed to bunch their arrears examinations in a group of four semesters. A student who had arrears in the sixth, seventh and eighth semesters had to wait after taking up the sixth semester arrears exams before he could write the seventh and eighth semester arrears exams. The Higher Education Department has done away with this waiting period. Students can take the sixth, seventh and eighth semester arrears exams in one go. If students wanted to appear for the re-exams, they were expected to pay for all the papers even if they had to write the arrears exams for just one paper in a semester. Also, students were expected to pay Rs. 750 in fees for each paper during the grace period given to complete the course. These rules were dispensed with, and now students will have to pay just Rs. 750 for the grace period, besides Rs. 65 for each arrears paper. The government plans to form a panel under an IAS officer to inquire into irregularities in appointments at Madurai Kamaraj University, Periyar University and Annamalai University, Mr. Ponmudi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/polytechnic-admissions-through-class-ix-marks/article34802241.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Vaccination crucial for persons with diabetes’||It is recommended that persons with diabetes, and associated conditions such as hypertension and heart diseases, take the COVID-19 vaccines as early as possible. These conditions put persons at a higher risk of complications if infected with COVID-19, according to A. Ramachandran, chairman and managing director of Dr. A. Ramachandran’s Diabetes Hospitals (ARH). Speaking at a webinar on ‘Diabetes Management during COVID-19’ held as a part of The Hindu Wellness Series presented by Diahome and ARH, he said non-COVID-19 medical care was a casualty during the pandemic. “A large number of patients with chronic diseases such as diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases, who need regular medical care, are suffering due to the pandemic for more than a year. These diseases, especially diabetes, are also age-related and increase the risk of complications and adverse undesirable outcomes in COVID-19 infection,” he said. It was estimated that about 80% of deaths during COVID-19 were among people with comorbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart diseases, he said, adding that their study among 1,000 patients, who were hospitalised for COVID-19 in Chennai, found that mortality was twice as high in diabetics when compared to those without diabetes, and all complications were significantly higher among diabetes patients. “We also found that the level of control of diabetes was directly correlated with adverse outcomes of COVID-19 infections. Therefore, keeping diabetes under good control during COVID-19 is of utmost importance,” he said. Nanditha Arun, director and consultant diabetologist, ARH, said higher the HbA1C, which indicates blood glucose level for the three months prior to testing, increases the risk of complications and death due to COVID-19. HbA1C of more than eight indicates poor glycemic control. “In previously non-diabetics, there are new manifestations of high glucose that we find in some patients in COVID-19 infections — stress-induced hyperglycemia and new onset diabetes — which is peculiar,” she said. As a post COVID-19 recommendation, she said patients with diabetes should check blood glucose regularly, get a good diet plan and start exercise under medical advice. Arun Raghavan, director and consultant diabetologist, ARH, highlighting the importance of vaccination, said those with diabetes, hypertension and other comorbidities, who were in the high-risk group, should get vaccinated at the earliest. Elaborating on Diahome (Diabetes Care Comes Home), an app from ARH, he said, it could provide comprehensive diabetes care at home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-crucial-for-persons-with-diabetes/article34802243.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Keep Tasmac shut, cut fuel price: Panneerselvam to CM||Questioning the DMK government over its decision to reopen the Tasmac shops, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Saturday wondered whether the ruling party was taking a stand depending on the situation. In a statement, Mr. Panneerselvam recalled the protests and black flags by the DMK in May 2020 when the daily COVID-19 deaths were only about 30. “Then the Leader of the Opposition and present Chief Minister hoisted a black flag in front of his house,” he said. When the spread of COVID-19 and the deaths too have tripled compared to last year, the Chief Minister should think it over as to whether it was appropriate to have decided to reopen Tasmac shops, Mr. Panneerselvam contended. “I urge the Chief Minster to revoke the decision to reopen the State-run liquor outlets from June 14 on the grounds that human lives are important than revenue to the government,” he said. In another statement, the former Deputy Chief Minister urged the State government to reduce fuel prices as promised in the DMK’s election manifesto for the recent Assembly polls. Pointing out that the hike has resulted in the increase of prices of essential commodities, Mr. Panneerselvam said the poor and downtrodden were being affected the most.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/keep-tasmac-shut-cut-fuel-price-panneerselvam-to-cm/article34802218.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Women can become priests’||Women, if trained, can be appointed in temples as priests, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) P.K. Sekar Babu said on Saturday. Addressing reporters after a review meeting of regional joint commissioners of the department, he said that many women had submitted petitions seeking permission to perform puja at temples. “Already we have women who perform pujas in rural areas. Temples like Mel Malayanur and Mel Maruvathur have women as priests. In fact, we have women who have been appointed as Odhuvars,” he said. About appointing archakas (temple priests) from all communities in temples, he said that it would be done soon by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. “If required the 200-odd persons would be provided a refresher course by the department since it has been a long time since they underwent training,” he noted. Temple priests too would be given a refresher course on performing archanais in Tamil. “We plan to install boards in temples with names and phone numbers of priests, who will perform the archanai in Tamil,” he said. The department was taking stock of the vacancies of archakas and temple staff and the vacancies would be filled up soon. B. Chandramohan Secretary, Tourism, HR and CE department; and J. Kumaraguruparan, Commissioner HR and CE, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/women-can-become-priests/article34802253.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CCB unearths ‘app racket’ that offered to double investments in 24-35 days||The Central Crime Branch of the Chennai City Police has busted a racket involved in cheating potential investors through mobile apps, ‘Power Bank’ and ‘Tesla Power Bank’. Sources said the scammers had been circulating fictitious online investment applications on social media and mobile messaging platforms. A group of fraudsters was arrested by the Delhi police recently but even after that the racket continued. They also were offering to double the investment amount in 24-35 days. The police mentioned that these scam investment apps offered returns on an hourly and daily basis, and had investment options starting from a few hundreds to several lakhs of rupees. The police said the fraudsters would not share any bank details of theirs with investors. Instead, they would ask potential victims to credit the investment through mobile wallets. Initially, a small amount would be returned to gain the investors’ confidence. Later, they would get the victims to make huge investments but with no returns.  The CCB has booked a case following complaints from 34 persons, who were conned through the ‘Power Bank’, and three through ‘Tesla Power Bank’ app and took up the investigation. Chennai City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal appealed to the public not to download any unknown mobile application and not to invest money in them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ccb-unearths-app-racket-that-offered-to-double-investments-in-24-35-days/article34802257.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar explores trends in medical education||The medical field has always been important and the COVID-19 pandemic only reinforced that. But what has been the impact on medical education? This was the topic of the webinar held on Friday as part of the Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, conducted by SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu . The session — moderated by Ramya Kannan, Chief of Bureau-Tamil Nadu, The Hindu — opened with Dr. S. Rajasekaran, Chairman, Department of Orthopaedics and Spine Surgery, Ganga Hospital, Coimbatore, talking about medicine as a profession and the widening scope for it in the time of a pandemic. Dr. Bhuvaneswaran, Director, PSG Superspeciality Hospitals, Coimbatore, spoke of the various options available for students now as well as how the modes of learning have evolved. He stressed on the impact that doctors have been able to make on people’s lives. Dr. Ravikumar Arunachalam, Pro-Vice Chancellor, Medical & Health Sciences, SRMIST, highlighted the importance of commitment, the will to learn, as well as the role educators play in medical education. He then spoke of how medical education had transformed by including hybrid modes of learning in the past year and a half. The session ended with the panelists answering questions asked by the audience on entrance exams and procedures to apply. The webinar can be watched at https://youtu.be/d7ZHHyR8jPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/webinar-explores-trends-in-medical-education/article34802233.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hyundai donates COVID relief material||The Hyundai Motor India Foundation (HMIF), the philanthropic arm of Hyundai Motor India Ltd., on Saturday handed over 25 oxygen concentrators, 3,100 PPE kits, 5,000 N-95 masks, 700 pulse oximeters and 600 litres of sanitiser to the Kancheepuram Government Hospital. They were handed over to the hospital’s joint director Dr. A. Jeeva.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hyundai-donates-covid-relief-material/article34802213.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals to get upgrades, says Minister||Work to construct new buildings at three major hospitals and to upgrade 18 government hospitals with funding from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is under way, according to Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian. The Minister on Saturday inspected the ongoing construction work for a new building on the premises of the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. “Three major government hospitals are getting new annexe buildings, while work to upgrade 18 government hospitals — seven government medical colleges and 11 district government hospitals — with funding of Rs. 1,634 crore from JICA is in progress,” he told reporters shortly after the inspection. At the KMC, the new building is coming up at a total cost of Rs. 275 crore. While Rs. 141 crore would be spent on constructing the building, Rs. 134 crore would go towards equipment, he said. “The building at KMC will be completed by August 2022. Once this is ready, it will be an additional facility for residents of north Chennai. It will have 500 beds,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-to-get-upgrades-says-minister/article34802217.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. relaxes norms for oxygen plants, extends deadline to start work||A month after it sanctioned a special package of incentives to promote investment in oxygen facilities, the Tamil Nadu government has relaxed the norms to enable more beneficiaries to receive such incentives. Earlier, one of the conditions to receive the incentives was that a liquid oxygen plant must start commercial operations by the end of this year. Now, the government has extended the deadline to December 31, 2022. The government order was issued by Industries Secretary N. Muruganandam on June 8. The decision followed representations from M/s. INOX Air Products Private Limited and M/s. CVI Trade Private Limited. The government said the eligible companies would receive incentives in land cost, stamp duty, electricity tax, training subsidy, intellectual property creation and quality certification as envisaged in the Tamil Nadu Industrial Policy 2021. Liquid oxygen plants must have a minimum capacity of 10 metric tonnes a day with a minimum investment of Rs. 50 crore during the investment period between January 1 and December 2021. INOX has proposed to make an additional investment of Rs. 150 crore to open a state-of-the-art plant in Hosur to produce ultra-high pure cryogenic medical and industrial gases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-relaxes-norms-for-oxygen-plants-extends-deadline-to-start-work/article34802234.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Financial assistance for children who lost parents to COVID-19||Children from below poverty line (BPL) families will be eligible to receive cash assistance announced by the Chief Minister if he/she has lost any one of the parents due to COVID-19. A G.O. issued in this regard, however, said in case of a child losing both his/her parents, the child would be eligible under the scheme irrespective of the annual income of the parents. It also framed the operational guidelines which have restricted the eligibility of beneficiaries under the scheme to receive financial assistance. “In cases where the child has lost any one of the parents to COVID-19, and if the deceased is the only breadwinner, instead of seeking the income certificate of the deceased, it shall be verified that his/her name is found in the list of approximately 60 lakh BPL families identified and maintained by the Tamil Nadu Corporation for Women Development (TNCWD),” it said. In cases where the name of the parent is not found in the above said list, immediate steps shall be taken to ascertain whether the family is eligible for inclusion in the list, it said. If the case was found to be eligible, action would be taken by the District Collector concerned to include the family in the BPL family database. To know more, visit http://bit.ly/TNCOVIDChildren||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/financial-assistance-for-children-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19/article34802240.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to identify children forced into work||On the occasion of World Day Against Child Labour on June 12, the Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch and the Campaign Against Child Labour have asked the State government to form a committee to assess the number of children who have started to work during the pandemic and initiate urgent steps to enrol them in schools. According to R. Karuppusamy, a study conducted by the the Campaign Against Child Labour has revealed that child labour, among vulnerable communities, has increased by nearly 280% in the State during the pandemic. It also found a big jump in the proportion of working children from 28.2% to 79.6% because of the impact of COVID-19 and school closure. “We conducted a survey among 818 children across 24 districts. 18.6% of them also complained of some form of physical abuse at work. Districts like Coimbatore, Erode, Namakkal, Ramanathapuram and Madurai reported a higher incidence of child labour,” he added. He said the government should conduct a survey with the help of NGOs. “The children should be enrolled in schools and their families provided with some schemes to make a living so that they can come out of poverty and avoid sending their children to work,” Mr. Karuppusamy said. Andrew Sesuraj, convener, Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, said the right to education should be extended up to 18 years to ensure that every child would be in school. “The schools should be opened in a phased manner following all COVID-19 protocols. This would help the educational institutions monitor and prevent children becoming labourers, getting married and being trafficked.” The government should immediately regulate fee collection by private schools as fleecing parents with high fees during the pandemic would lead to an increase in the number of drop-outs and child labourers. “Besides, the school closure implemented in the name of merger of government schools should be reversed,” he said. Mr. Karuppusamy said child protection committees in villages and wards should be strengthened to ensure the protection of the rights of every child. “All the children who lost either of their parents or both during this pandemic should be brought under the child protection net and they should be provided with continuous educational opportunities.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/identify-children-forced-into-work-govt-urged/article34802224.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chargesheet filed against three Maoists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against three the CPI (Maoist) members before the special court in Poonamallee for unlawful activities. The NIA cited as accused, Vivekanandan alias Vivek, Suresh Rajan, of Moovendar Nagar, Madurai, and Mohan Ramasamy alias Advocate Mohan, Jaihindpuram, Madurai, under Sections 120B (Criminal Conspiracy), 124A (Sedition) and 505(1) (b) (Causing fear to public) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. The case was initially registered on September 1 at Tallakulam police station relating to the uploading of objectionable content on a Facebook account, “Thozhar Vivek”, denigrating the celebration of Independence Day. Later, the NIA had re-registered the case in March this year and took over the investigation. An investigation and scrutiny of posts uploaded on social media accounts of the accused persons have revealed their support and active role in propagating cause and ideology of CPI(Maoist), a proscribed organisation and its frontal organisations. Further investigation into the case continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chargesheet-filed-against-three-maoists/article34802249.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Form panel to check raw material cost’||DMDK chief Vijayakant on Saturday urged the Centre and the State government to set up a regulatory commission to control the prices of construction material. In a statement, Mr. Vijayakant pointed out that the prices of cement, sand and steel, among others, have gone up by 25%-30% and have affected the construction industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/form-panel-to-check-raw-material-cost/article34802215.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Liquor sale should not lead to COVID spread, says CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Saturday urged the State government to reconsider its decision to open the Tasmac liquor shops in 27 districts, where the spread of COVID-19 had come down. “Though the infection rate has come down to some extent, opening of Tasmac shops should not lead to an increase in the spread,” he said, elaborating on a resolution adopted by the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/liquor-sale-should-not-lead-to-covid-spread-says-cpim/article34802221.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No new positive cases in two areas||There’s good news from the Coimbatore Corporation: two areas that saw a spike in COVID-19 positive cases in the recent past have no positive cases reported in the last few days. The positive case count in the last three days in Nanjundapuram and in the last four days in Athikuttai, near Goldwyns, is zero, say corporation sources. Nanjundapuram had only 51 positive cases – 22 on day one, 22 on day two and seven on day three. Likewise, in Athikuttai, the cases count was only 31. But, somehow, rumours spread that the number of positive persons and death toll was high and caused by a new mutant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The corporation swung into action in both the areas as the people from low economic group lived in a tightly knit place that had all the conditions to aid the quick spread of the virus. It sent all the positive persons in both the areas to either hospital or COVID-19 Care Centre and did not give them the option of remaining in home isolation. To prevent the COVID-19 spread in the area, the corporation had deployed health workers, medical teams and volunteers for sanitation, collecting and testing samples and door-to-door survey respectively and in doing so the teams also had to overcome resistance from the residents, the sources add. In the city too, the daily case count has dropped in the last nine days. From 1,204 cases on June 1, the case count gradually dropped to 716 cases on June 9. And, in the last 14 days the total case count was 14,564, the number of people in home isolation - 7,638 and COVID-19 Care Centres - 4,390. The reduction in case count has come even as the corporation went about increasing the samples tested, from 5,182 on May 30 to over 7,000 in the last couple of days. This only shows that the city is seeing a gradual reduction in number of cases, the sources say and add that while the situation is under control it is not yet time to let down the guard: city’s residents should continue to adhere to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-new-positive-cases-in-two-areas/article34802300.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High cost of construction materials hits public, workers||Construction costs have shot up here due to spiralling raw material prices, affecting workers and the public. A property promoter said that taking into account the taxes and the raw material prices, the construction cost works out to more than Rs. 2,000 a sq.ft now. According to Paneerselvam, chairman of Builders Association of India (Coimbatore chapter), works started last week at sites where labourers and materials were available. While availability of construction materials is not a problem, the hike in prices has become a matter of concern. The prices of construction materials are up nearly 20 % during the recent months. Higher wages In the last one year, construction costs have gone up by 40 %. While the demand is subdued, workers are also demanding higher wages. The builders may be able to negotiate for cost escalation with some clients. But, the public who are constructing smaller buildings are the worst affected, he said. K. Ravi, general secretary of Tamil Nadu AITUC Construction Workers Union, said in a press release that the uncontrolled prices of construction materials were affecting lakhs of construction workers as the construction costs were up and becoming unaffordable. So the jobs of workers were at stake. The prices of cement, sand, blue metal, bricks and steel had shot up. Compared to Andhra Pradesh, the price of a sack of cement is Rs. 120 higher in Tamil Nadu. The prices should be restored at least to pre-election level, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-cost-of-construction-materials-hits-public-workers/article34802560.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Police step up action against liquor smuggling, illegal brewing||With the lockdown to be extended for another week and Tasmac outlets remaining closed, the demand for liquor has also gone up in the district. According to the police, many people venture into the smuggling of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) from other States like Karnataka, sale of illegally brewed arrack and tapping of toddy from coconut and palmyra palms. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police S. Selvanagarathinam said that more than 2,000 cases have been registered in connection with the above offences since the lockdown started in the second wave of the pandemic. “The Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) has intensified checks to prevent illegal sale of liquor during the lockdown. Vehicles checks are being done to check smuggling IMFL from Karnataka and toddy from Kerala. We are also keeping a tab on old offenders,” he said. Social workers say tapping of toddy was happening in large coconut groves in places like Sulur, Sulthanpet and Karamadai. The illegal activity has been happening on the pretext of tapping neera or padhaneer, a non-alcoholic beverage. “ Neera or Padhaneer is made by applying lime inside the pot in which the sap from the palms gets collected. The sap becomes alcoholic beverage toddy if the pot is not coated with lime,” explained a tapper. With the police tightening vehicle checks to prevent the flow of IMFL from other States, many in rural areas have resorted to distilling of arrack from wash – a fermented mix of widely made of jaggery, water, fruits, spices and other ingredients. To avoid the police and others getting a whiff of the stench during the fermentation and distillation process, the activity is done in remote locations, farm houses and poramboke lands, say sources with the PEW. On Saturday, the PEW of Periyanaickenpalayam conducted drone surveillance at Kattanjimalai, a government poramboke land which was recently declared reserved land by the district collector, to check illegal brewing. A team consisting Deputy Superintendent of Police Sundararajan, inspector Balamurugan, sub-inspectors Rajaprabhu and Chinnakamanan checked 10 to 12 km area using a drone of Coimbatore Rural Police. The Forest Department is also checking illegal brewing in forest limits and peripheries during regular patrols. "If the activity is found within forest limits, we detain the persons involved and hand them over to the PEW with the seized articles," said S. Selvaraj, forest range officer, Periyanaickenpalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-step-up-action-against-imfl-smuggling-illegal-brewing/article34802303.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident in Coimbatore||Three persons died after two scooters collided with a lorry at Masthigoundenpathi near K.G.Chavadi on Friday evening. The deceased were identified as K. Aishwarya (21) from Milekal at Kuniyamuthur, C. Ramakrishnan (19) alias Chandru, and P. Arunkumar (24) alias Lingesan from Kaliyapuram at K.G. Chavadi. The accident took place at Masthigoundenpathi on Othakalmandapam - Velanthavalam road. According to the police, Ramakrishnan and Aishwarya were travelling on a scooter on the stretch. Arunkumar and his friend P. Sutheeshkumar (20) from Thirumalayampalayam also happened to travel on the stretch on a scooter. Sutheeshkumar, a relative of Aishwarya, saw her riding pillion with Ramakrishnan. He asked Arunkumar to chase them, the police said. Seeing Arunkumar and Satheeshkumar chasing them, Ramakrishnan rode the scooter fast and collided with a lorry that came from Velanthavalam to Othakalmandapam. The lorry also hit the scooter rode by Arunkumar. While Aishwarya and Ramakrishnan died on the spot, Arunkumar died later. Sutheeshkumar escaped with injuries. The K.G.Chavadi police have booked the lorry driver Rashid of Malappuram district in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-coimbatore/article34802562.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||The Nilgiris ADSP placed under suspension||The Home Department has placed T. Charles, Additional Superintendent of Police (ADSP), Prohibition Enforcement Wing, the Nilgiris, under suspension on Friday as a follow up to an inquiry held against him while working in Erode district. Sources at the office of the Inspector General of Police (West Zone), said that S.K. Prabakar, Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Home, Prohibition and Excise Department, issued the order placing Mr. Charles under suspension. The order was served on the officer through the offices of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Coimbatore range, and the Superintendent of Police, the Nilgirs, on Friday. Sources said that an inquiry was initiated against Mr. Charles based on a complaint raised by a woman when he was posted in Erode around two years ago. However, sources claimed ignorance of the nature of the complaint against Mr. Charles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-nilgiris-adsp-placed-under-suspension/article34802565.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Weavers, small-scale units hit by supply chain disruptions||Due to the varied lockdown norms in textile manufacturing States, the textile supply chain has started facing problems, affecting small-scale weavers. Velusamy, a powerloom weaver at Palladam in Tiruppur district, says that the weavers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts supply cotton fabric to Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Delhi. When these States went into lockdown, the weavers here could not supply the fabric and stocked the goods produced. Now that the northern and western States had relaxed restrictions, the weaving units have resumed supply. However, with industries in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts not permitted to operate, the weavers are unable to produce goods. Similarly, supply of yarn has reduced as the small-scale textile mills are shut. “These will lead to price fluctuations. Further, business cycles are getting disrupted,” he said. The textile mills here supply part of the yarn produced to the weaving units in the State and the rest to Maharashtra, apart from supplies for exports and garment units. The textile mills, garment units, and weavers have resumed partial operations. The units are supplying the stocks now and will start production soon. Hence, supplies are expected to get streamlined. But cotton prices have increased steeply in the last two weeks. Further, the demand in Maharashtra has shot up. These factors are likely to result in a hike in yarn prices. While the larger mills that had resources have stocked cotton, the other mills, especially those in the small-scale sector will not be able buy cotton at high prices, said sources in the textile mills.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/weavers-small-scale-units-hit-by-supply-chain-disruptions/article34802246.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries seek clarification on operation of units||The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has appealed to the District Collector to clarify if the units producing essential goods should get permission letter from the district administration to operate during the lockdown period. In a memorandum to the District Collector, S. Nagarajan, the Federation said that industries making products in defence, agriculture, food, and export goods were permitted to operate. However, officials inspecting the units were asking for permission letter from the district administration. Since the administration had not provided any letter, the units were unable to furnish any such document and the officials were asking the units to shut down. The district administration should clarify if the industries in the essential sector should get a permission letter. If not, the Collector should instruct the officials to not ask for any document, the Federation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-seek-clarification-on-operation-of-units/article34802566.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Home for the abandoned inaugurated||Minister for Forests K. Ramachandran and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Saturday inaugurated a home for the homeless, physically challenged and abandoned persons. A release said the home will be maintained by a non-governmental organisation under the direct supervision of the District Collector, and will provide food, shelter and treatment to the aforementioned category of people in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/home-for-the-abandoned-inaugurated/article34802563.ece
13 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead||A female elephant was found dead within the limits of Pollachi forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) on Saturday. Field staff spotted the carcass in a decomposed state in a reserve forest area. Based on instructions from the Field Director and Deputy Field Director of ATR, a veterinarian autopsied the carcass. The veterinarian said the elephant, aged around 45, could have died of natural causes. The carcass was left in the wild for scavengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead/article34802564.ece
13 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rotary Club gesture||Rotary Club of Coimbatore East donated 35,000 masks and 5,000 face shields to around 5,000 contract conservancy workers of the Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday. The donation was done in the presence of president of the Rotary Club T.P. Swamy and project director Sanjeev Kumar, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rotary-club-gesture/article34802556.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Early detection, testing help in reducing cases: Corpn. commissioner||Early detection of fever cases through door-to-door surveillance, availability of test results within 12 hours and immediate isolation of COVID-19 patients helps in reducing the cases in the civic body limits, said Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan. First wave During the first wave last year, two-third of cases were reported in civic body limits while one-third of the cases were reported in the civic body limits in the second wave. To control the spread of virus, 1,400 staff were deployed and door-to-door surveillance was carried out in all the 60 wards in the past three weeks that helped in early detection of cases. Since it takes over 36 hours for declaration of swab results at the laboratory at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai, the corporation sought the help of district administration and arrangements were made to test the samples at a private lab in Coimbatore. “Test results were available within 12 hours and treatment was provided immediately to prevent spread of virus”, Mr. Elangovan told The Hindu . 3,100 samples He said that the corporation sends 3,100 samples everyday to the lab of which 270 test positive. “The number of positive cases had come down from over 450 a day to less than 300 a day in the past two weeks”, the Commissioner said and added that intensive door-to-door surveillance would continue in the coming days until nil cases were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/early-detection-testing-help-in-reducing-cases-corpn-commissioner/article34802308.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered against 811 motorists||The district police on Saturday registered cases against 811 motorists for plying without e-registration certificate and also without any valid reason. Since total lockdown is in force across the district, the police continue to register cases against motorists for various violations in the past 18 days. Barricades were erected at Kalaimadu Silai, Panneerselvam Park, GH Roundabout and Collectorate Junction and vehicles were checked. Vehicles were seized and kept in open grounds. Likewise, cases were registered against 278 persons for not wearing masks in public places and were imposed a fine of Rs. 200 each. A total of 24 cases were registered against the public for not ensuring physical distancing norm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-registered-against-811-motorists/article34802312.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Drone traces stored ID arrack||Drone surveillance by special teams of PEW along with Law and Order police helped in tracing 885 litres of illicit distilled (ID) arrack stored at 10 places in Gobichettipalayam on Saturday. Five special teams comprising 70 personnel were formed to check and prevent illicit arrack brewing in the district. The teams carried out surveillance in areas that come under Varapalayam police limits and traced ID arrack. Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said that villages are being monitored round-the-clock by a 10-member team led by the Inspector of Police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/drone-traces-stored-id-arrack/article34802309.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination to resume in Erode today||With 13,400 doses of vaccine arriving in the district, vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group and above 45 years are set to resume across the district here on Sunday. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that 1,200 doses of vaccines were distributed each to all the eight blocks in the district while 400 doses were distributed to Chennimalai block. Selected government schools in each block will serve as vaccination centres and people will be issued tokens on first-come first-serve basis. “Vaccination will begin at 9 a.m. or 9.30 a.m. at all the centres”, she added. Sources in the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicines said that another 2,000 stock of vaccine is available which will be used to vaccinate frontline workers and differently-abled persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-to-resume-in-erode-today/article34802310.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Excavation resumes at Kodumanal||Excavation at the Kodumanal village here that was halted for a month due to total lockdown resumed on Friday. A team led by Project Director J. Ranjith, and Archaeological Officer K. Suresh began excavations on February 26 and had so far dug 30 trenches. They unearthed iron smelting units and found furnaces and other processing materials. Removal of bushes and preparatory works were carried out on Friday and Saturday. Full-fledged excavation of megalithic burials and trenches will resume on June 14.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavation-resumes-at-kodumanal/article34802561.ece
13 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure children receive nutritious food during pandemic’||Since precautions need to be taken to protect children from COVID-19 third wave, Campaign Against Child Labour (CACL) – Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, has urged the State government to ensure children receive nutritious food along with boiled egg and spinach through the anganwadi centres in the State. A release from its State coordinator R. Karuppasamy said that due to COVID-19 pandemic, schools were closed for the past one-and-a-half years and children remained indoors causing stress. The pandemic has resulted in dropouts, particularly girls, and children were unable to get nutritious food which is a major concern, he added. A survey by CACL in 24 districts among 900 government school children revealed that 231 children were engaged in work before the pandemic that increased to 650 now. “The percentage of child workers has increased from 28 to 79 now”, he said and added that they were affected due to various reasons. Since no steps were taken to alleviate their poverty, abolition of child labour did not yield any results. Mr. Karuppasamy urged the government to conduct a rapid survey across the State to study the number of child labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ensure-children-receive-nutritious-food-during-pandemic/article34802307.ece
13 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Six held for murder||Krishnagiri police on Saturday arrested a woman and five others in connection with the murder of a businessman here on Friday. Police identified the deceased as Rajendran (55), a resident of Thenodai Nagar near Kaveripattinam. According to the police, Rajendran’s wife Muniyammal had an illicit relationship with Kumar, a brick trader. Rajendran had warned his wife against continuing the affair. Police said that Muniyammal and Kumar planned to murder Rajendran. Kumar and his accomplices murdered Rajendran on Friday. Six persons, including Muniyammal and Kumar, were arrested and search is on for two more persons. Kaveripattinam police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-held-for-murder/article34802557.ece
13 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea on special libraries closed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has closed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to set up eight special libraries in Tamil Nadu. The court was informed that except one, the other libraries were functioning. The Director of Public Libraries, in a counter affidavit, informed the court that the State had made an announcement in 2017-18 to set up the following eight libraries to disseminate information on a particular theme: Indus Valley Civilisation Special Library with gallery at Keeladi in Sivaganga district; Special Library on Tamil Music, Dance and Fine Arts in Thanjavur; Special Library on Tamil Medicine in Tirunelveli; Special Library on Folk Arts in Madurai; Special Library on Tribal Culture in the Nilgiris; Special Library on Mathematics and Science in Tiruchi; Special Library on Printing Art in Chennai; and Special Library on Astronomy and Innovative Inventions in Coimbatore. Except for Indus Valley Civilisation Special Library at Keeladi, the other seven libraries had been established. Construction work had been initiated for the library at Keeladi by the Archaeological Department, the affidavit said. Taking note of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices T. S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi closed the PIL petition filed by advocate R. Venkatesan of Madurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-plea-on-special-libraries-closed/article34802378.ece
13 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to restore monuments: Minister||The Chief Minister is taking efforts to restore monuments across the State, Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu said here on Saturday. The Minister was speaking to mediapersons along with Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and Collector S. Aneesh Aneesh after inspecting the Thirumalai Nayak Palace. The Minister said the government was restoring historical monuments to showcase the pride of Tamil culture to future generations. The palace, built by King Thirumalai Nayak, is one of the major attractions in Madurai. During former DMK leader M. Karunanidhi’s rule as a Chief Minister, Rs. 11 crore was allocated for restoration of the palace, said Mr. Thangam Thennarasu. At present, the State Archaeological department has earmarked Rs. 8 crore for restoration of the palace. Now, the natakasala , palace shrine and sculptural yard of the palace are being restored to their original glory. The restoration work would be carried out in phases. The first phase of the excavation would commence soon, the Minister said. The palace had many important inscriptions belonging to various periods. There were also vattezhuthu inscriptions in the palace. Similarly, stone sculptures belonging to different periods existed at the palace. It had been planned to set up a library on the premises, said Mr. Thangam Thennarasu. About the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor, the Minister said that for the past 10 years, the Special Purpose Vehicle set up for the project had not been functioning. “Our government will make sure that this Special Purpose Vehicle functions,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-restore-monuments-minister/article34802248.ece
13 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||23 Lankan nationals arrested in Madurai||Tamil Nadu police have arrested 23 Sri Lankan nationals from a godown in an industrial complex near Madurai after they illegally landed in Thoothukudi without any travel documents in April. The Sri Lankans were on their way to Canada. Acting on a tip-off, the Q Branch police arrested 23 persons on Thursday from a vehicle body building unit at SIDCO Industrial Estate, a police officer told The Hindu . The Sri Lankan nationals, aged between 20 and 44, were promised lucrative jobs in Canada. Most of them were residents of Mullaitheevu. A person identified as Mayuran alias Kannan of Sri Lanka had taken them in three fibre boats on April 27 and dropped them in a launch, mid-sea. They landed in Thoothukudi and were secretly brought to Madurai, the police source said. Initially, they were made to hide in a private place at Nesaneri near Kalligudi by two persons identified as Ashok Kumar and Kasiviswanathan. However, after local people started questioning them, they were shifted to the body building unit. “The men had paid huge sums of money through their relatives to Kannan after boarding the launch. However, they did not know that they would be dropped in Thoothukudi,” a police officer said. They had sought money from their relatives back in Sri Lanka for their food expenses in Madurai. The money was deposited in the bank accounts of two persons known to the watchman of the body building unit. However, when there was no sign of Kasiviswanathan and Ashok Kumar making arrangement for their travel to Canada, they conveyed this to their relatives in Sri Lanka, and this information was shared with the refugees in Mandapam camp.  Meanwhile, the Q Branch police in Ramanathapuram came to know about the presence of Sri Lankan nationals, following which they were apprehended. The police have arrested Ashok Kumar, Kasiviswanathan and the 23 Sri Lankan nationals. A case has been booked for human trafficking and under the provisions of Passports Act 1967 and Foreigners Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-sri-lankan-nationals-arrested-in-madurai/article34802222.ece
13 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||279 fresh cases in Madurai||Madurai recorded 279 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 69,880. A total of 1,420 persons were discharged and the number of active cases stands at 5,921. Six deaths were recorded, increasing the death toll to 1,022. Virudhunagar district on Saturday turned back to bad days and registered eight COVID deaths that took the death toll to 487. Three women and two men, including two men aged below 50 years, succumbed to the viral infection at different hospitals since June 9. Meanwhile, the district recorded the lowest fresh positive cases of 273 since May 17. After discharge of 444 patients, the number of active cases came down to 3,042.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/279-fresh-cases-in-madurai/article34802650.ece
13 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Intoxicant seized||A special team of Madurai rural police destroyed four litres of an illicit intoxicant at Chekkanoorani on Saturday. Police said that fruit juice mixed with yeast was being sold for Rs. 450 a litre. The police seized four litres of the intoxicant and arrested B. Kalaiselvi, 44, and R. Ravikumar, 50, of Karumathur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/intoxicant-seized/article34802637.ece
13 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 130.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 512 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 67.03 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 483 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,930 mcft. Periyar dam recorded a rainfall of 3.2 mm and Thekkadi 0.6 mm in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday. Tirunelveli The level in Papanasam dam stood at 131.35 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 580.44 cusecs and 1,204.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 84.38 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 133 cusecs and 600 cusecs of water was discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34802387.ece
13 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Fermented wash seized in Namakkal||Namakkal district police seized about 50 litres of rectified spirit and several litres of fermented wash near Kolli Hills here. Police are investigating. Based on a tip-off, they conducted inspections at Gudaninadu and found a group of persons engaged in making illicit spirit. Police arrested six persons, Jayakumar, Vimalraj, Chinnaiyan, Vellaiyan, Sevi and Rajkumar. Police destroyed 50 litres of rectified spirit and 200 litres of fermented wash. Vazhavanthinadu police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fermented-wash-seized-in-namakkal/article34802640.ece
13 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records 442 fresh COVID-19 cases, nine deaths||The Union Territory on Saturday registered nine COVID-19 deaths and 442 fresh cases. It has conducted 9,030 tests. Of the total deaths, 7 died in Puducherry region and two in Karaikal region. Puducherry recorded 321 new cases, followed by Karaikal (97), Yanam (10) and Mahe (14), data released by the Health Department said. With 844 patients posting recovery in 24 hours ending 10 a.m. on Sunday, the number of active cases stood at 5,745, including 4,861 under home isolation. The Union Territory has so far recorded 1,677 deaths and a total of 1,12,126 cases, data revealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-records-442-fresh-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths/article34802231.ece
13 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Speaker to be elected on June 16||The Speaker of the 15th Legislative Assembly of Puducherry will be elected on June 16. The Lieutenant Governor has convened the Assembly at 9.30 a.m. on June 16. Nominations will be received till noon on June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/speaker-to-be-elected-on-june-16/article34802229.ece
13 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Card holders to get additional five kg of rice in June and July||Taking into account the COVID-19 pandemic situation and the lockdown restrictions, an additional allocation of five kg rice per person for every cardholder has been announced, according to a government order. In a press release issued on Saturday, Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said that the cardholders under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY)- Priority Household (PHH), Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Non-Priority Household (NPHH) were entitled to get this additional rice. Cardholders are entitled for the additional rice free of cost for May and June. The additional five kg of rice will be distributed in June and July, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/card-holders-to-get-additional-five-kg-of-rice-in-june-and-july/article34802641.ece
13 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu will set a record in food production, says Stalin||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin raised the shutters of the Mettur dam to release water for Kuruvai cultivation in the Cauvery delta region on Saturday and said the State would soon set a record in food production. Mr. Stalin, along with Ministers Durai Murugan, K.N. Nehru, M. Mathiventhan, V. Senthil Balaji and Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, Chief Whip Govi Chezhiaan, MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin and DMK MPs, showered flowers and grains after raising the shutters. He told journalists that this was the 18th time water was being released for Kuruvai cultivation on June 12 and about 5.21 lakh acres would benefit. Officials said 3,000 cusecs was released initially and the quantum would be increased by the evening to 10,000 cusecs. This would be maintained until June-end. They said the discharge would be increased to 16,000 cusecs in July and 18,000 cusecs in August. The Chief Minister said that at the DMK conference held in Tiruchi ahead of the election, seven promises were made; the most important related to agriculture and water resources. The government’s target was to increase the amount of cultivable land from 60% to 75% in 10 years and the planning had started. Last year, the Kuruvai harvest was higher, and the government’s aim was to increase it further each year. Mr. Stalin said orders had been issued to desilt waterbodies and canals on a war footing and he inspected the works on Friday. He said 647 related works were being carried out in nine districts at a cost of Rs. 65.10 crore. The works would cover a distance of 4,061 kilometres. He said there was a sufficient stock of inputs. Government departments had been ordered to facilitate Kuruvai cultivation and the State would set a record in food production, he said. Mr. Stalin said the government had already written to Karnataka urging for sufficient water discharge till January. On the linking of the Cauvery and the Godavari, Mr. Durai Murugan said the government had asked for the details of the project and further action would be taken after discussions with the Chief Minister. Mr. Stalin said the DMK, while in Opposition, had demanded that the AIADMK government bring out a White Paper on kudimaramathu works under progress and completed. These details would be made public soon. On the COVID-19 containment measures, the Chief Minister said the situation was under control and steps were being taken to bring down the number of cases further. On Friday, the daily cases had fallen below 16,000. When he entered office, the daily cases in Chennai were about 7,000 and they came down to 1,000. In Coimbatore, the daily case count was 2,000 as against 5,000 earlier and in Salem, it came down to 900 from 2,000. Mr. Stalin said his government overcame the shortage of beds and oxygen. A control room, opened in Chennai, received 4,768 calls on May 20; it received only 200-300 calls at present. The Chief Minister said some restrictions were eased to protect the livelihood of people. As for the reopening of TASMAC outlets, Mr. Stalin said no relaxation in the lockdown had been allowed in the districts reporting a higher number of cases. In some districts, the spread of the contagion had come down; hence, the outlets were allowed to function there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-will-set-a-record-in-food-production-says-stalin/article34802245.ece
13 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rice bags distributed||Udhayanidhi Stalin, MLA, distributed relief assistance offered by the DMK under the Ondiranaivom Vaa scheme launched by the party. Mr. Stalin distributed rice bags to beneficiaries at Kanankuruchi and said that arrangements have been made to distribute them to beneficiaries’ homes. He requested the public to get vaccinated to contain COVID-19 disease. Mr. Stalin would be visiting all constituencies here and distributing the relief items on Saturday and Sunday. R. Rajendran, MLA, and Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rice-bags-distributed/article34802313.ece
13 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect facilities in Salem||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Tourism Minister M. Mathiventhan inspected facilities under their respective departments here on Saturday. Dr. Mathiventhan visited the Hotel Tamil Nadu and the tourism office at the District Collectorate. He told presspersons that a surprise visit was conducted at the hotel to check Amenities. He said measures would be taken to revive tourism sector. Minister Anbil Mahesh inspected the Kamalapuram Panchayat Union Primary School and a government school at Kanankuruchi. He advised officials on various safety measures to be taken before the reopening of schools. Chief Education Officer T. Ganesh Moorthy, DMK legislator R. Rajendran, MP S.R. Parthibhan were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-facilities-in-salem/article34802315.ece
13 June 2021||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Ministers inspect Keeladi excavation site||Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu, along with Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periyakaruppan, inspected the seventh phase of archaeological excavations at Keeladi near here on Saturday. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Thangam Thennarasu said that the findings at Keeladi showed the historicity of Tamil culture - that an ancient urban civilisation was thriving along the Vaigai. The inscriptions found at the site describe the life of the Vaigai civilisation. In the seventh phase of excavations, gold ornaments, an iron knife, and 13 types of text found on potsherds have been found. Till date, more than 700 items had been excavated, he added. Archaeological excavations are under way at Agaram, Konthagai, and Manalur. Similarly, excavations are taking place in Thoothukudi and other parts across the State. Mr. Thangam Thennarasu said that work was under way to establish a museum to display the artefacts unearthed at the Keeladi site so that students, teachers, scholars and the public would know the history of Tamil culture. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ministers-inspect-keeladi-excavation-site/article34802648.ece
13 June 2021||Staff ReporterMadurai,TAMIL NADU||Remove encroachments from temple lands: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the Archaeological Survey of India and Erumbeeswarar temple authorities to remove encroachments from the temple lands in Tiruchi district. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by D. Kesavan of Tiruchi, who sought a direction to the authorities to remove the encroachment from the temple lands and to renovate the damaged part of the temple. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi took note of the fact that there were two categories of encroachments. Encroachment of a property that was under ASI and encroachment of properties that were under the control of the temple. The court said ASI was empowered to evict the encroachments by following the procedures under the Public Premises Act. The temple authorities could initiate action under the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act. “If the temple car cannot be taken on a perambulation around the temple and along the car street, it is a very shameful situation caused by the unethical encroachers,” the judges said. The court observed that whenever eviction proceedings were initiated by temple authorities, the encroachers dragged on the matter for several decades and continued to squat on the temple property. This should not be allowed to happen in the present case. The court also directed the ASI to expedite the works on the renovation of the damaged parts of the temple. The PIL petition was disposed of.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/remove-encroachments-from-temple-lands-hc/article34802646.ece
13 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector visits patients in rural areas||Collector M. Govinda Rao called on the COVID-19 positive patients permitted to remain in home quarantine in the rural areas in the district and enquired about their health. According to an official release, the Collector on Saturday visited the persons isolated themselves at their houses in Aazhivaaikkal and Melaulooor in Orathanadu blocks and directed them to follow the conditions laid down by the officials to get themselves rid of the virus infection. Earlier, he received five oxygen concentrators donated by the International Association for Human Values of the Art of Living at the Collectorate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-visits-patients-in-rural-areas/article34802665.ece
13 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Donor to CMPRF gets assistance||A visually impaired person who had responded to the call given by Chief Minister M.K.Stalin to donate funds to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for taking up COVID-19 spreading prevention exercise received financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 on Saturday. Ravichandran (52) of Aazhivaaikkal near Thanjavur town suffering from partial visual impairment had on June 9 donated Rs. 6,000 after selling his two calves. Subsequently, Collector M.Govinda Rao released the money from the District Collector’s Public Relief Fund to Ravichandran to help him purchase milch animals as his family relies on monthly financial assistance of Rs. 1000 extended to him through the Social Security Scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donor-to-cmprf-gets-assistance/article34802662.ece
13 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman waiting at vaccination camp dies||A woman waiting to get the COVID-19 vaccine was reported to have swooned and died at a special camp in Kumbakonam on Saturday. The deceased woman had reportedly joined the queue at a vaccination camp site at around 7 a.m. and swooned well before the commencement of the camp. She was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital where the doctors declared her dead on arrival. Efforts to confirm the incident with the health and civic officials proved futile.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-waiting-at-vaccination-camp-dies/article34802663.ece
13 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||MLA reviews works||The progress of works implemented in Kumbakonam under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme sponsored by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs was reviewed by the Kumbakonam MLA G.Anbalagan on Saturday. Municipal officials led by the Commissioner, Lakshmi attended the meeting convened by the MLA at his office near the Mahamagam Tank and explained to him the progress of works on an outlay of Rs. 100 crore. They informed the MLA that the civic body had taken up the work of relaying of roads dug or cut to lay pipelines and expected to complete it at an additional expenditure of Rs. 25 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-reviews-works/article34802664.ece
13 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Comprehensive website launched||The district administration has launched a website to ensure transparency in its ongoing anti-COVID-19 activities by sharing with the public every development relating to the pandemic and steps being taken to contain the spread of the viral infection. The website,stopcoronatuti.in, which was launched recently by Collector K. Senthil Raj, shares all information about COVID-19, from the number of fresh cases to the district’s vaccine inventory. “This is an attempt to share whatever information we have about COVID-19 and the steps we take to contain it so as to keep the people informed which is essential for containing the spread of the viral infection,” says Dr. Senthil Raj. The following details are updated on the website every day: The number of fresh cases in Thoothukudi district on that particular day; the number of COVID-19 tests conducted; the number of patients discharged from hospitals after getting cured; the number of deaths; the number of imported and domestic cases; vacant bed status; the number of oxygen supported beds vacant in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and other government hospitals; details of vaccination centres; number of doses available in each vaccination centre; and fever camp venues. Details of containment zones and the number of patients in home quarantine are also available on the website. The website also has phone numbers to be contacted by the public for clearing their doubts pertaining to the viral infection and getting assistance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/comprehensive-website-launched/article34802649.ece
13 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||British national remanded in judicial custody||The police have seized two passports, two mobile phones and foreign currencies from Briton Jonathan Thorn, 47, of Little Hampton, who was arrested by the ‘Q’ Branch police near Vellaipatti near here on Thursday night. Even as Jonathan was attempting to hire a boat to illegally sail to Sri Lanka from Thoothukudi after reaching the coastal town from Goa via Bengaluru, he was picked up by the ‘Q’ Branch police following information from the locals. During interrogation, the police found that the British national had married a woman from Manipur in Goa and had been arrested by the Mumbai and Goa police in 2018 for allegedly possessing narcotic substances. On coming to Bengaluru from Goa, Jonathan reached Thoothukudi by road as he was planning to go to Sri Lanka by hiring an illegal boat through a tout. On being produced in a court in Thoothukudi, Jonathan was remanded in judicial custody on Saturday and was taken to the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/british-national-remanded-in-judicial-custody/article34802642.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1000 surgeries performed in Tiruchi GH during lockdown||The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here conducted over 1000 emergency surgeries and dialysis procedures for both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. It also aims to resume elective surgeries which had been put on hold during the lockdown. ‘The credit goes to the team of doctors and nurses at the GH. We have conducted over 1000 surgeries in the last three months alone. No treatment was denied to any patient who presented themselves to the hospital in an emergency condition,’ Dean K. Vanitha said. All surgeries, including for patients with abdominal ailments, cardiological ailments and tumours were performed. Of the total 662 surgeries conducted, excluding the surgeries conducted in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, several life-saving surgeries were performed on patients who were severely ill with COVID-19. ‘The doctors and nurses worked with the risk of infection and exposure to the virus,’ she said. She noted that not even one of the doctors or nurses tested positive for COVID-19. At the Department of Neo-natology, five surgeries each were performed on infants in April and May. Meanwhile, 544 deliveries, including 390 lower segment Caesarean sections, and 154 normal deliveries, were performed. She said that of the 544 babies, only three tested positive for COVID-19, despite several mothers testing positive for the infection. ‘All the babies have returned home safe and sound,’ she said. At the Department of Nephrology, 709 patients with kidney ailments received dialysis treatment in April and 452 in May. Meanwhile, 99 COVID-19 patients with pre-existing kidney ailments were also given dialysis. She said that soon the hospital would also resume elective surgeries. ‘We have had several requests from patients who are awaiting their turn,’ she said. They would wait for transport services in the district to resume and further relaxations in the lockdown to be allowed by the State government. Once the public are allowed to travel freely, we will begin the procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1000-surgeries-performed-in-tiruchi-gh-during-lockdown/article34802668.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to extend elevated corridor up to Panchapur||The State Highways department has proposed to extend the proposed elevated corridor planned in the city between Chinthamani and Railway Junction up to Panchapur where an integrated bus stand has been proposed. The move comes following a series of discussions with officials of various departments and field visits by Municipal Administration Minister K.N. Nehru. To discuss the plan of action, Collector S. Sivarasu held a meeting with the officials of the State Highways and Revenue recently. He said that there was a strong case for building an elevated corridor to ease traffic woes in the city. Hence, it had been proposed to connect Anna statue (Mela Chinthamani) to Panchapur by building an elevated corridor. Earlier this year, the State Government had sanctioned Rs. 2.80 crore for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) to build an elevated corridor between Chinthamani and Central bus stand. Since a proposal to build an integrated bus stand at Panchapur had reached a concrete stage, it had been decided to extend the proposed corridor from the Central bus stand to Panchapur. A fresh proposal would be sent to the Government to modify the scope of preparing the DPR so as to include the length from Central bus stand to Panchapur. Depending upon the plan and findings, an estimate would be arrived at for implementing the project. Enquiries reveal that the corridor would have a length of 15 to 18 km. It would have entry and exit ramps for vehicles at multiple locations. It would be useful for both those who travel outside the city and also within the city. It would not only reduce traffic congestion but also reduce travelling time by a great extent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plan-to-extend-elevated-corridor-up-to-panchapur/article34802666.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Artificially ripened mangoes seized, destroyed||Artificially ripened mangoes, weighing about 4,000 kilograms, were seized by officials of the Department of Food Safety and Drug Administration at the Gandhi Market in the city on Saturday. The mangoes were allegedly ripened by spraying chemicals over them. The officials, led by R.Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer for Food Safety and Drug Administration, Tiruchi, conducted surprise checks at about 10 mango storage godowns at the Gandhi Market in the city to check for artificial ripening of mangoes. Mangoes ripened using chemicals can pose a health hazard. The officials also seized some chemicals and equipment used to spray on them on the fruits during the checks in some of the godowns. About 4,000 kg of the fruits, allegedly ripened by spraying chemicals, were seized from four godowns, Dr.Ramesh Babu said in a press release. The seized mangoes were later destroyed at the Corportion garbage dump at Ariyamangalam in the presence of civic and police officials. Dr.Ramesh Babu also disclosed that samples of the mangoes have been collected from three places under the provisions of the Food Safety and Standards Act 2006 and sent for testing. He cautioned traders against using chemicals to ripen mangoes. Stern action would be initiated against the practice under the Act. Members of the public can lodge complaints, if any, to the following numbers: 9585959595 / 9944959595 or the State complaints number – 9444042322.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/artificially-ripened-mangoes-seized-destroyed/article34802673.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More stocks of fertilizers will be made available: Collector||Steps have been taken to ensure adequate supply of fertilizers to farmers for the kuruvai season in the district, Collector S.Sivarasu has said. Secretaries of all primary agricultural cooperative societies have been instructed to have adequate stocks of fertilizers. The daily stock and requirement report would be sent throught the TANFED, he said. There were 148 primary agricultural cooperative societies and 272 private fertilizer retail outlets in the district. Kuruvai paddy is expected to be raised on about 11,500 acres in Lalgudi, Andhanallur and Manikandam taluks. Providing details of the available stocks, Mr. Sivarasu said the district had 6,210 tonnes of urea stock against the estimated requirement of 3,070 tonnes for June. The district had 1,868 tonnes of DAP against the requirement of 1,360 tonnes and 6,689 tonnes of complex fertilizers against the requirement of 1,665 tonnes for the month. The agricultural extension centres in the district had about 680 kg of bio-fertilizers for paddy, 2,355 litres of liquid bio-fertilizers and 39,556 packets of bio-fertilizers. This apart, about 1300 tonnes of DAP and 1,300 tonnes of 20:20:1:13 complex fertilizers are expected to arrive in the district from Kakinada shortly. Another 2,650 tonnes of DAP is expected to arrive from the Krishnapet and Mangalore ports. The consignments would be shared among Tiruchi, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, Mr.Sivarasu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-stocks-of-fertilizers-will-be-made-available-collector/article34802671.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||2,205 fresh cases in central region||The central districts reported 2,205 fresh cases, maintaining a downward trend over the past few days in the region. The number of deaths reported also witnessed a slight dip with 43 patients succumbing to the viral infection in the region on Saturday. Nagapattinam district reported the highest number of deaths with 13 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Tiruchi reported 11, while Thanjavur reported five deaths. Both Perambalur and Karur districts reported four deaths each. Tiruvarur district reported three, Pudukottai reported two and Ariyalur reported one death. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 645 patients reporting positive. Tiruchi district came a close second with 420 patients testing positive on Saturday, while Nagapattinam recorded 419. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, reported a marked drop with 261 patients testing positive. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 11 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had only 16. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 95 and 74 beds, respectively. Pudukottai district reported 151 fresh cases, while Karur reported 127. Only eight ICU beds were available in Pudukottai district, while Karur had 39 beds. Ariyalur district recorded 98 fresh cases, while Perambalur reported 84. Perambalur had increased its bed capacity and reported that 31 ICU beds were available on Saturday. Ariyalur, meanwhile, had only two vacant ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2205-fresh-cases-in-central-region/article34802669.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 50 lakh donated to CMPRF||The Shrimati Indira Gandhi College and Saranathan College of Engineering have jointly contributed Rs. 50 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to battle COVID-19. The cheque was handed over to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin during his visit to Tiruchi on Friday, by K. Meena, Secretary, Shrimati Indira Gandhi College, and S. Ravindran, Secretary, Saranathan College of Engineering, a press release from the college said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-50-lakh-donated-to-cmprf/article34802674.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 97.76 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 742 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34802670.ece
13 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination resumes in districts||COVID-19 vaccination exercise, which was suspended for the past one week due to shortage of the doses, resumed on Saturday after Tirunelveli district received 7,800 doses of Covishield and 1,000 doses of Covaxin on Friday night. After inoculation of 1.54 lakh persons at 84 vaccination centres, the exercise was stopped due to depletion of stock, much to the consternation of people who stood waiting in long queues for the inoculation every day. There were heated arguments between the public and those manning the vaccination centres. With the arrival of vaccines, each vaccination centre received 100 doses each and the stock got exhausted within no time on Saturday. Expecting to have their second dose of Covishield, more than 300 persons came to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital vaccination centre while an equal number of people in the 18 to 44 age group came to receive their first jab. As the stock got exhausted soon, the waiting public got angered and some of them started shouting against the short supply of vaccines by the Union government. However, the police personnel deployed there pacified them. Similar scenes could be witnessed at most of the other vaccination centres also even as steps are being taken to vaccinate the liquor shop workers on a priority basis as the the Tasmac retail outlets are to be opened shortly. In an attempt to encourage vaccination, an individual from Gandhi Nagar in ward 50 of Tirunelveli Corporation gave six country chicken eggs to some of those who were inoculated on Saturday at a vaccination centre in his area. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi district received 4,800 doses of Covishield and 500 doses of Covaxin on Friday night. Of this, 700 doses each were given to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and the vaccination centres situated within the Corporation while Eral, Kayamozhi, Thenthirupperai and Pudukottai vaccination centres received 500 each. The stocks got exhausted within a few hours in these centres also. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari district was given 9,400 Covishield and 1,500 Covaxin doses. However, the officials struggled a lot to manage the huge crowd that thronged the vaccination centres on Saturday with the little quantity of vaccines received. “The entire fresh stock was utilised on Saturday itself,” said sources in the Department of Public Health.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-resumes-with-the-arrival-of-fresh-stock/article34802384.ece
13 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Active cases tally in Tiruppur district likely to be revised||With the active COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district not seeing a significant decline in the past two weeks despite a fall in the daily caseload, the Health Department might revise the data on active cases by taking into account patients who recovered but were not included in that list. After witnessing a surge in infections during the second half of May, the daily caseload began to decrease in the first two weeks of June – from 1,338 new cases on June 1 to 853 new cases on June 11 – according to data from the Health Department. The number of per-day recovered patients was mostly above the 1,000-mark between June 1 and 11 except for four days and was at its highest on June 10 with the reported recovery of 1,770 COVID-19 patients. However, the active cases in the district consistently remained above the 18,000-mark from May 30 (18,035 active cases) to June 9 (18,359 active cases). Although the tally went below the 18,000-mark on June 10 with 17,485 active cases, the decrease was not significant. Top sources in the district administration told The Hindu on Saturday that the Health Department had begun work on updating the number of recovered patients -- those who had been in home isolation and in some private hospitals. The active cases tally is expected to see a substantial decline after the revision, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-tally-in-tiruppur-district-likely-to-be-revised/article34802301.ece
13 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT entrance exam results declared||Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) declared the results of the VIT Engineering Entrance Examination (VITEEE) on Saturday. Applicants from all States and Union Territories and more than 15 countries participated in VITEEE, for admission to various B. Tech programmes. The exam was conducted online and was remote proctored. The results are available athttps://admissionresults. vit.ac.in/viteee. Applicants within one lakh ranks are eligible to participate in the counselling scheduled from June 21 to July 16 in four phases. Counselling for ranks 1 to 20,000 will be conducted on June 21 and 22; 20,001 to 45,000 from June 30 to July 1; 45,001 to 70,000 on July 8 and 9 2021 and 70,001 to 1,00,000 on July 15 and 16. Applicants who secured beyond one lakh ranks are eligible for admission in VIT-AP and VIT Bhopal only. The classes are likely to commence from August 2. Under the G.V.School Development Programme (GVSDP), Central and State Board exam toppers would be given a 100% fee waiver for all the four years. Candidates with ranks up to 50 would be given a 75% tuition fee waiver; those with ranks 51 to 100 would get a 50% tuition fee waiver and candidates in ranks 101 to 1,000 would be given a 25% tuition fee waiver. The district toppers (one boy and one girl) in all the districts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh who are studying in government schools in rural areas will be given a 100% fee waiver and exemption from hostel and mess fees under the STARS (Support The Advancement of Rural Students) scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vit-entrance-exam-results-declared/article34802226.ece
13 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Medical oxygen generator commissioned in hospital||The first medical oxygen generator in a Government Hospital in Tamil Nadu under PM Cares Fund was commissioned at Government Medical College Hospital here on Saturday. Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu inaugurated the facility which was installed at a cost of Rs. 94.97 lakh. Establishing oxygen generators was one of the several measures being taken by Chief Minister M.K. Stalinto to contain COVID-19 pandemic, said the Ministers. The State government had brought oxygen cylinders from foreign countries and also oxygen from other States. Uninterrupted oxygen supply would save the lives of critically infected patients, they said. The Ministers honoured six engineers who helped in early installation and commissioning of the generator. Dean J. Sangumani said that facility for automatic switchover of oxygen supply between oxygen generator and oxygen cylinders had been set up for continuous oxygen supply to 100 to 200 patients in the hospital. Collector R. Kannan, District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian and MLAs A.R.R. Seenivasan and A.R.R. Raghuraman were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-oxygen-generator-commissioned-in-hospital/article34802381.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to restore glory of old monuments: Minister||The Chief Minister is making efforts to restore the glory of historical monuments across the State, said Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu here on Saturday. Addressing mediapersons after inspecting the Thirumalai Nayak Palace, he said that the government was restoring age-old monuments to leave a legacy of the rich Tamil culture to the future generations. The palace, built by King Thirumalai Nayak, was one of the major attractions in Madurai. During the previous DMK rule, Rs. 11 crore was allocated for restoration of the palace. Currently, the State Archaeological department had earmarked Rs. 8 crore for the restoration of the palace. Now, natakasala, the palace shrine and sculptural yard of the palace, were being restored while taking care to maintain their originality. The restoration work would be taken up in phases. The first phase would start soon. The palace had many important inscriptions belonging to various periods. There were also vattezhuthu inscriptions. Similarly, stone sculptures belonging to different time periods were there. A library had been planned on the palace premises, he said. Industrial Corridor When asked about the Madurai - Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor, Mr. Thangam Thennarasu said that for the past 10 years, the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) set up for the project was not functioning. “Our government will resuscitate the SPV,” he added. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan and Collector Aneesh Sekhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/efforts-on-to-restore-glory-of-old-monuments-minister/article34802644.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caseload falls below 2,000 mark in Coimbatore district||The new cases of COVID-19 fell below the 2,000 in Coimbatore district on Saturday. A total of 1,982 persons from the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday and 2,283 persons recovered from the disease. The Health Department said that the district had 18,274 active cases of the disease on Saturday. The district’s death toll increased to 1,716 after 27 more persons died of the disease. Tiruppur district reported 844 new cases, taking the overall tally to 73,751. The Health Department reported six new deaths, the lowest since May 24, which took the overall toll to 631. The active cases in the district dropped to 16,567, which was the lowest tally since May 28, following the discharge of 1,777 patients on Saturday. Officials from Revenue Department sealed a knitwear export unit in Neruperichal that was allegedly functioning with more than the stipulated number of employees on Saturday. Officials from Revenue Department, Tiruppur Corporation and City Police were inspecting various units for compliance with the lockdown rules when they found the unit to be operating in violation of the rules, a press release said. Erode district reported 1,353 new cases, taking the tally to 74,969. While 1,982 persons were discharged, 11,892 continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the death toll to 489. After several days, the daily caseload reduced below 900 cases a day and 894 cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, 692 cases were indigenous and 162 cases were reported in Salem Corporation limits. As per bulletin, 30 deaths were reported in Salem, including nine women patients. In the Nilgiris, 415 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 25,136. The number of deaths increased from128 to 132 on Saturday while 3,700 persons are undergoing treatment. In Namakkal, 398 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous.  Four deaths were reported. In Krishnagiri, 266 indigenous cases were reported and 241 cases were reported in Dharmapuri. Three deaths were reported in Krishnagiri and three deaths were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/caseload-falls-below-2000-mark-in-coimbatore-district/article34802305.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||66 recruits attested into Madras Regiment||As many as 66 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment of the Indian Army at the attestation parade held at the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington on Saturday. The parade was held on the drill ground of Shrinagesh Barracks for the recruits who have completed year-long basic and advanced military training, a press release said. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant of the MRC, reviewed the parade, which was held with appropriate COVID-19 safety protocols. He awarded medals to recruits for their performance as part of the event. In his address, Brigadier Singh congratulated the recruits and commended the efforts of the instructors and staff members at the MRC, who trained the recruits for the Indian Army amid the COVID-19 pandemic. He also congratulated the parents of the recruits, who were not present in the audience to witness the parade due to the pandemic-induced restrictions, according to the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/66-recruits-attested-into-madras-regiment/article34802559.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||They are blossoming||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-are-blossoming/article34802634.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A sight to behold||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-sight-to-behold/article34802636.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TIRUPPUR||Confederation of Indian Industry: Inauguration of oxygen plant, Ministers M.P. Saminathan and N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj to participate, Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur/article34802555.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges want students vaccinated before classes resume||Amid fears that a potential third wave of COVID-19 will put children at risk, colleges and universities want students who are 18 years and above to be fully vaccinated before physical classes resume. With this in mind, many colleges have already started holding vaccination camps for eligible students and staff members. Others, such as Bangalore University (BU), are in the process of organising vaccination drives. “We have written to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) about this. As there is talk of a third wave of COVID-19, our students should take all the precautions possible. We want to get the academic calendar, which has been thrown out of gear at the moment, back on track” said K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of BU. Meghana V., a postgraduate student of Christ (Deemed to be university), said that earlier this week the university’s alumni association conducted a vaccination drive for students, staff, and alumni. While private colleges and universities are asking students to pay for the dose, State-run universities and government colleges are depending on either the BBMP or various NGOs to provide the vaccines for free or to sponsor the doses. NGOs chip in D.S. Prathima, principal, Government First Grade College, Malleswaram, said that last Saturday, various NGOs chipped in for a drive it conducted for college students residing in Malleswaram. “We are requesting the same organisations to come forward and vaccinate all our other students after the lockdown is lifted. If all students and staff are vaccinated, fear of coming to the college campus will reduce and attendance will improve. Although we are conducting lectures online, they are not as effective as physical classes,” she said. Some colleges are using this as an opportunity to spread awareness. T.D. Kemparaju, Vice-Chancellor of Bengaluru North University, said they had instructed lecturers to devote the first few minutes of their online class to raising awareness on the importance of getting vaccinated. “We not only want our students to be vaccinated, but also want their families to take the shots. Moreover, in rural areas, many of our students should be the torchbearers and encourage people to get vaccinated,” he said.  Students’ organisations such as the All-IndiaDemocratic Students’ Organisation have appealed to the State government to ensure that physical classes or examinations are conducted only after all the students are fully vaccinated. Students are also urging the government to take up a large-scale drive to vaccinate them on priority. Avinash S., a postgraduate student, said, “Earlier this month, the State government conducted a free vaccination camp for students who were travelling abroad. They should also prioritise people like us who are studying in universities and colleges in the State,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/colleges-want-students-vaccinated-before-classes-resume/article34802180.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court relief for daily wage workers||The actions of the State government in curtailing, through Government Orders and circulars, the benefits of Dearness Allowance (DA) and earned leave available to employees covered under the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Act, 2012, amount to “tail wagging the dog and not the dog wagging the tail”, said the High Court of Karnataka. The court declared that daily wage employees who are covered under the Act were entitled to DA at 100%, as is admissible to regular government employees, and to the earned leave benefit of 30 days annually, as per the Act. “The soul of the Act being the grant of a better wage and social security on cessation of long public service to a daily wage employee, cannot be reduced to a rope of sand,” the court observed. Justice M. Nagaprasanna delivered the verdict while disposing of petitions, filed on behalf of several daily wage employees, by the federation of all employees appointed under the provisions of the Karnataka Daily Wage Employees Welfare Act. On govt. actions The Act, which treats the employees covered under it “on a par with government employees” on benefits such as pay and leave, “cannot be rendered illusory by the subsequent actions of the government either in issuing Government Orders contrary to the Act or amending the rules...,” the court said. “It is trite that administrative instructions in the form of official memoranda/circular/Government Order cannot run counter to the Act or in effect control the Act. This, if permitted, would amount to tail wagging the dog and not the dog wagging the tail.” The court declared that the Government Order issued on January 10, 2020, restricting DA to 90% of the admissible DA, and the circular issued on July 12, 2017, discontinuing the earned leave of 30 days and relating to recovering the leave encashment allowed in the past to daily wage employees, stand obliterated of their value as they run counter to the Act. Also, the court held that daily wage employees were also entitled to payment of ex gratia in terms of the Act as determined by the government from time to time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/high-court-relief-for-daily-wage-workers/article34802195.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Work on Shivananda Circle steel flyover on track’||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Chief Commissioner Gaurav Gupta, after an inspection on Saturday, said that pending issues at the construction site of the steel flyover at Shivananda Circle had been resolved. The 493-metre-long overpass is supported by 16 pillars, of which 15 pillars have already been completed. However, a pillar work had not been completed due to a 700-mm water pipeline that needed to be shifted. Now, the pipeline has been replaced and the pillar work is in progress, said the BBMP in a press release. The service road under the flyover area where the construction work is completed must be opened to the public, said Mr. Gupta. “The road needs to be repaired on both sides of the flyover. After the road is repaired, it will be open to the public in a phased manner without causing any inconvenience to the people,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/work-on-shivananda-circle-steel-flyover-on-track/article34802182.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,470 students, others who want to go abroad get the jab||A total of 1,470 students enrolled in foreign universities as well as people travelling abroad for work were vaccinated in a special drive held by the government between June 1 and 11 at Bengaluru Central University (BCU). Though the drive concluded on Friday, many are demanding that it be extended as they are still in the process of getting visas. The drive received a good response, said BCU officials, with an average of 133 people receiving the shot every day. Only June 8 saw the least number of people, 50, queuing up for their dose. Lingaraja Gandhi, Vice-Chancellor of BCU, said they had put up a notice at the university where the drive was taking place and had stated that the drive would end on Friday. However, many people — as many as 30 — were unaware of this, and reported to the varsity campus on Saturday. A working professional and her husband who want to travel abroad expressed disappointment that the drive had ended. “We were waiting for our visa to get approved so that we could get our vaccine. My husband and I are travelling abroad in the last week of June and we got our visa only today and were banking on this drive to get our second dose,” she said on Saturday. Officials in the Higher Education Department said the drive would resume later this month for those due for the second shot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1470-students-others-who-want-to-go-abroad-get-the-jab/article34802170.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Tasdik’ to non-Hindu institutions makes up just 3% of total grants||While the State government last Wednesday announced the stopping of ‘tasdik’ grants to non-Hindu religious institutions from the Muzrai Department, apparently following protests by Hindu leaders, statistics reveal that such institutions and grants constitute less than 3% of the overall number anyway. Of Rs. 133.62 crore allocated in the Budget towards ‘tasdik’ grants for the financial year 2020-21 to 26,666 religious institutions under the government, non-Hindu institutions numbered only 764, or less than 3% of the total, receiving a grant of Rs. 3.67 crore. Similarly, of the annual financial assistance of Rs. 16.30 crore released to 3,808 religious institutions, 111 — or 3% — were non-Hindu institutions, which received about Rs. 53.28 lakh, government documents reveal. Sources in the Muzrai Department said that non-Hindu institutions will now get the same amount through other departments. “The money is a budgetary provision. Now the Wakf or Minority Department is likely to release the ‘tasdik’ for non-Hindu religious institutions,” said a source. In a statement released in Mangaluru earlier this week, Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary had said that the department has been directed not to release ‘tasdik’ grants to any institutions that are not Hindu. Government sources said that the State started ‘tasdik’ grants to compensate the religious institutions that had lost their Inam lands when land reforms were implemented in the State. They included temples, mosques, and churches. The Mysore (Religious and Charitable) Inams Abolition Act, 1955, and Rules of 1956 meant for Old Myore districts, and Karnataka Certain Inams Abolition Act, 1977, meant mostly for North Karnataka, allows ‘tasdik’ after the religious institutions lost their land during the land reforms. The grant comes from the Revenue Department, but is routed through the Muzrai Department. Misconceptions “The money accruing from collection or revenue of the temple was never given as ‘tasdik’ or given to non-Hindu religious institutions, as the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Act, 1997, does not allow it,” said an officer, clarifying on a popular misconception circulated on social media platforms. “’Tasdik’ to mosques cannot be stopped since they are under the government and need the grant for their maintenance,” said a senior government official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tasdik-to-non-hindu-institutions-makes-up-just-3-of-total-grants/article34802199.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CD case: SIT questions extortion-accused||Naresha Gowda and Shravan Kumar, accused of extortion in an alleged sex CD case involving former BJP Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Saturday appeared before the Special Investigation Team for questioning. The duo, who were given conditional bail four days ago, reportedly told the officials that the victim was introduced to them through a common friend and had sought their help. They denied having knowledge about the CD or the alleged extortion calls made to Mr. Jarkiholi. Statement recorded The police have recorded their statement and also taken their mobile phones for analysis to ascertain their locations and anyone they may they have contacted while they were on the run. The SIT officials let off the duo asking them to appear before them whenever they are summoned. It may be mentioned here that the woman victim in the case has moved the High Court of Karnataka challenging the legality of the constitution of the SIT probing the case. She has alleged that the probe is being ‘handheld and controlled by the political bosses of the SIT’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cd-case-sit-questions-extortion-accused/article34802185.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hawala racket busted; four foreign nationals among 10 arrested||Cybercrime officials with the Criminal Investigation Department on Saturday busted a Rs. 290 crore money-laundering scam linked to a hawala racket. Ten people — including two from China and two from Tibet — have been arrested. However, the kingpin and prime accused, Anas Ahmed, who hails from Kerala but resides in Bengaluru, has yet to be arrested. According to M.D. Sharath, Superintendent of Police (cybercrime), who led the probe, Ahmed offered several financial schemes online and on mobile apps promising clients high returns on investments. Initially, the investors were paid by the accused promptly, but this was temporary. “The accused would wind up the business after collecting huge amounts of money from investors,” said Mr. Sharath. Shell companies According to the police, the accused opened shell companies to route the funds. These were allegedly being managed by people from China who functioned as handlers. According to the CID, the accused convinced many people to open bank accounts but to give them access, they used these accounts as well for fraudulent financial dealings, said the CID. The scam came to light following a complaint from a well-known payment gateway company after it noticed that the accused were using its services by falsely claiming that they were running business in a range of categories from gaming to e-commerce.  “However, they defrauded the company by deviating from their original category of business in which they had registered. The accused started routing their transactions to collect payments via the gateway from an unregistered business, ‘Power Bank’, which has an app on Google Play Store,” said a police official. Through customer complaints, the complainant company got to know that public invested a certain amount in this ‘Power Bank’ app to earn some percentage of daily and weekly interest. “The accused, after accepting the invested amount, defaulted on payments and withheld the principal amount,” the official added. Once a substantial amount of money was collected, they would shut it down. The kingpin Based on the complaint, the cybercrime police arrested 10 persons, including two Chinese and two Tibetan nationals, and six persons from various parts of the country, including Delhi, Surat and Bengaluru. During the course of investigation, they found that Ahmed, a Kerala-based businessman was the main person. “He studied medicine in China and married a Chinese national. He also hosted an online rummy application. “After going through the assets and bank accounts of the accused, it was also noted during investigation that there was a huge spike in the opening of shell companies since November 2020. We have also observed that the Chinese handlers are in possession of a number of shell companies and bank accounts. The probe is ongoing,” said a police official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hawala-racket-busted-four-foreign-nationals-among-10-arrested/article34802191.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City reports 2,454 cases||Karnataka on Saturday reported 9,785 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,57,324. The number of cases in Bengaluru Urban, which had reduced to 1,154 on Friday, again rose to 2,454 on Saturday. With 144 deaths, the toll rose to 32,788. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 21,614 persons were discharged on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 25,32,719. The State now has 1,91,796 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 6.61%, the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.47%. As many as 1,48,027 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,21,028 RT-PCR tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-reports-2454-cases/article34802173.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GST compensation loan of Rs. 18,109 cr. approved||The 44th GST Council on Saturday approved a Goods and Services Tax compensation loan of Rs. 18,109 crore for 2021-22 to Karnataka. The State government welcomed the GST Council’s decisions to reduce the tax rates on specified items that are being used in COVID-19 relief and management till September 30, 2021. Minister for Home and Parliamentary Affairs Basavaraj Bommai participated in the Council meeting, held virtually, and sought a meeting to discuss GST compensation-related issues beyond 2022. He also thanked Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for approving the GST compensation loan and said the funds would help in the State’s efforts to fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gst-compensation-loan-of-rs-18109-cr-approved/article34802202.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMD issues orange alert for parts of State||An orange alert (warning of very heavy rainfall) has been issued to Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada districts from June 14 to 17 by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru. In South Interior Karnataka, Chikkamagaluru, Kodagu, Hassan, and Shivamogga have been issued the orange alert for two days (June 16 and 17). These districts have also been issued yellow alert for the preceding days. Most parts of North Interior Karnataka are expected to receive heavy rainfall from Monday and have been issued a yellow alert. C.S. Patil of India Meteorological Department said Bengaluru is also expected to receive rain over the next two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-parts-of-state/article34802203.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Liquor worth Rs. 1.25 lakh seized from duo driving to Tamil Nadu||The K.P. Agrahara police on Friday arrested two men for transporting 276 litres of alcohol worth around Rs. 1.25 lakh concealed among a load of vegetables. The accused — Velu Iyanar and Santosh — were arrested on Magadi Main Road during a routine vehicle check. According to the police, they were heading to Tamil Nadu where they were planning to sell the liquor for a higher price. “The accused had concealed the alcohol bottles inside crates filled with vegetables. They chose to transport the alcohol in a goods vehicles to avoid police scrutiny,” said a police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/liquor-worth-rs-125-lakh-seized-from-duo-driving-to-tamil-nadu/article34802183.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Software engineer arrested for selling black fungus drugs||The Central Crime Branch police on Friday arrested a 45-year-old software engineer allegedly while he was selling Posaconazole vials and tablets used for the treatment of black fungus. On receiving a tip, a team of officials raided the place he was operating out of, near ITI factory gate close to K.R. Puram railway station, and arrested Rammohan T., a resident of Kundalahalli. They seized 17 vials and 80 tablets from him. “The accused was offering to sell each vial for Rs. 18,000 while the MRP is Rs. 8,500,” said Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil. Inquiries revealed that the accused is presently unemployed and bought the medicine online from a city-based pharmaceutical company. “He then began circulating messages on WhatsApp offering to sell each vial for Rs. 18,000 per vial,” said the police officer. When the CCB team received an alert, they posed as buyers and contacted Rammohan who allegedly agreed to sell it to them at a pre-arranged location from where he was later arrested. The police have taken him into custody for further investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/software-engineer-arrested-for-selling-black-fungus-drugs/article34802187.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Last rites held at Kalagrama||The last rites of poet Siddalingaiah were held at Kalagrama, part of Jnana Bharathi campus of Bangalore University, on Saturday. Dalit Sangharsha Samiti Okkoota had made the demand for the last rites there and also sought a memorial to be built for the poet at the site. However, many opposed the last rites of the poet being held at Kalagrama, where funeral of writers G.S. Shivarudrappa and U.R. Ananthamurthy were also held earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/last-rites-held-at-kalagrama/article34802172.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Gunrunner, two others who supplied pistols to gangsters held||The organised crime wing of the CCB police on Saturday arrested a 38-year-old gunrunner and two of his associates in Hyderabad for allegedly supplying country-made pistols to gangsters operating out of Bengaluru. The police recovered three country-made pistols and 15 rounds of ammunition from them. The gang was busted following the arrest of history-sheeter K. Rohith and 10 of his associates near Muneshwara temple at Bagalagunte on April 8 while they were allegedly planning to attack Rohith’s rival Soma. The police had recovered a country-made pistol and ammunition from them. “A detailed inquiry with Rohith led to the arrest of gunrunner Sunkari Satish from his hideout at Saidabad in Hyderabad,” said a senior police officer. The other arrested accused have been identified as Shankar Krishnamurthy, 30, and Druva Kumar N., 32. Satish, from Kalaburagi. is involved in several criminal cases in Karnataka and Hyderabad. “He claimed that he was sourcing the pistols from his contacts in Madhya Pradesh and selling them in Bengaluru for anywhere between Rs. 80,000 and Rs. 2 lakh,” said a senior police officer.He met Rohith in Kalaburagi Central Prison and made a deal with him to sell a country-made pistol for Rs. 2 lakh. “Satish has sold country-made pistols and ammunition to many gangsters in the city and efforts are on to track them down,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gunrunner-two-others-who-supplied-pistols-to-gangsters-held/article34802186.ece
13 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Website to stop elder abuse set to be launched||To raise awareness and prevent elder abuse in the State, a website called www.stopelderabuse.in, an initiative of Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT), will be launched on the occasion of World Elder Abuse Awareness Day on June 15. Director-General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood will be the chief guest at the programme, which will be held at the office of the DG and IGP, Nrupatunga Road, at 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/website-to-stop-elder-abuse-set-to-be-launched/article34802193.ece
13 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Govt. to bring in geofencing||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, on Saturday, said the State government has decided to introduce geofencing to monitor the attendance of doctors in the government health institutions. This system will help to keep a tab on doctors who skip duty. The Minister, during his visit to the Shivamogg Institute of Medical Sciences, said the people, who chose this profession voluntarily, should not feel they had been forced to work. “Senior doctors and specialists have been getting salaries between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh a month. They also command respect in society. It is their duty to uphold the honour and dignity of the profession,” he said. Regarding the deaths of COVID-19 patients reported in Shivamogga district, he said 24% of deaths were reported within two days after admitting to the hospital. Terming it an alarming development, the Minister said an expert committee from Bengaluru will be sent to Shivamogga to analyse the cases. Further, he said the State government had decided to set up a 100-bed intensive care unit for children in all districts. The government would recruit staff to manage the intensive care units, if necessary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-to-bring-in-geofencing/article34802283.ece
13 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Assam elections, lockdown hit coffee plantations in State||Hundreds of plantation workers in the State, who had gone to Assam to vote in the Assembly elections held in March-April, have not returned, affecting the seasonal work in the estates. Restrictions on public transport as part of the lockdown over the COVID-19 pandemic have not allowed them to travel even though they wish to come back. Thousands of people from Assam and other States in the northeast work in the coffee estates of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Kodagu districts. They stay in the quarters provided by the planters and visit their native place once a year. Whenever elections are held, they take a break from work and travel to exercise their franchise. Mahesh C.S., former president of Hassan District Planters’ Association, says many planters have not been able to complete tree pruning and plant pruning, which is mandatory seasonal work ahead of the rains. “Normally we finish this work before June and keep the ground prepared with medicinal spray and manure. All the work is not done now,” he said. Planters have been forced to depend on local workers, who demand higher wages and work for fewer hours than the Assam workers do, he added. The wages for tree pruning, a skilled job, are Rs. 700 to Rs. 800 a day. For other works, a worker gets Rs. 300 to Rs. 350 in normal circumstances. Many issues B.S. Jairam, former president of Karnataka Growers’ Federation, who has an estate in Mudigere taluk, is worried that the present situation could affect the production of coffee later this year. “The planters are already facing too many problems because of the pandemic. Payments are stuck due to restrictions on shipment and many have not recovered from the losses suffered in the floods in previous years. Only those who could retain workers in their quarters with sufficient supply of ration have completed the seasonal work,” he said. Over the years, local workers have hardly stayed in the estate quarters. They reside in their villages and commute to the estates daily. But now they cannot do so as there are restrictions on vehicular movement “The police do not allow the ferrying of workers to the estates. Only those settled in nearby areas get to the estates by walking,” he said. Besides people from Assam, many from North Karnataka districts also work in the estates. They also returned to their native places during March-April. This year, they too could not return. Prasad Raxidi, a planter at Raxidi in Sakleshpur taluk, said the local workers were getting work and good pay these days. “Only those who have returned from bigger cities after losing their jobs in the lockdown are not getting jobs that suit them,” he said.  Normally we finish this work before June and keep the ground prepared with medicinal spray and manure. All the work is not done now Mahesh C.S.,former president of Hassan District Planters’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/assam-elections-lockdown-hit-coffee-plantations-in-state/article34802197.ece
13 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga airport will be operational by next June: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said the Shivamogga airport, coming up at Sogane village, will be operational by next June. Speaking to presspersons at Sogane in Shivamogga taluk after reviewing the progress, the CM said the State government will ensure the completion of the project despite the financial constraints of the State. “The airport will boost economic activities in the districts in the central part of the State. Youths will get jobs and these districts will get investment,” he said. Officers did a presentation on the airport coming up. The structure resembles a lotus, the symbol of the BJP. The contract of the project, taken up with an estimated cost of Rs. 384 crore, has been awarded in two packages. Under package 1, construction of the runway, embankment, approach road, internal roads, compound wall, and other works had been taken up. The construction of the 11,500m compound construction had been completed. The works under the second package, which include construction of passenger terminal, ATC tower, electrical substation, fire station, watchtower, pump house, water tanks, are yet to start. During the inspection, the CM was accompanied by Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj, MP B.Y. Raghavendra, and senior officers of the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-airport-will-be-operational-by-next-june-bsy/article34802289.ece
13 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seer ‘warns’ against removing CM||Bekkina Kal Mutt seer Mallikarjun Murugharajendra Swami has said that if B.S. Yediyurappa is removed from the Chief Minister’s post, the State will “face a calamity more severe than the COVID-19 pandemic.” He was speaking after felicitating Mr. Yediyurappa at Shivayogashrama at Kalenahalli in Shikaripur taluk on Saturday. “Mr. Yediyurappa has been handling the COVID-19 situation effectively in the State. He has been working hard to bring down the cases. People of the State too had accepted his leadership. He had occupied positions in politics after decades of struggle on the street. Leader of the BJP should respect his hard work and organisational skills,” the seer said. Further, he said this was not the time for changing the leadership of the government. “We would like to appeal and also warn that if he is removed from the post, the State will face a calamity more severe than the pandemic.” Murugharajendra Swami was representing a forum of seers – the Malenadu Mathadheeshara Parishat. A group of seers met the Chief Minister on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seer-warns-against-removing-cm/article34802260.ece
13 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||SUCI(C) slams power tariff rise||Opposing the decision of the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) permitting electricity supply companies to hike the power tariff by 30 paise per unit , members of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) and other Left organisations staged a protest in Dharwad on Saturday. The protesters strongly condemned the decision of KERC to allow the hike at a time when the people were badly hit by the lockdown. Leading the protest, district secretary of SUCI(C) Ramanjanappa Aldalli said that it was unfortunate that during the lockdown when people were finding it difficult make ends meet, KERC had permitted the tariff hike. He said that considering the problems being faced by the people during the pandemic, several States had put off collecting the power and water bills. However the BJP government in Karnataka had done the opposite, he said. “What is appalling is that KERC in its ruling has allowed the Escoms to collect the arrears from April 1 which is unfortunate,” he said. The protesters held placards condemning the power hike and also the Centre’s inability to check the spiralling fuel prices. They demanded the immediate withdrawal of the order on power tariff hike and said that people would be forced to launch massive agitation if it was not done so.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/sucic-slams-power-tariff-rise/article34802265.ece
13 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bear that strayed into Ballari city captured||A female sloth bear, aged about 6-7, that had strayed into Ballari city on Friday was captured around 2 p.m. on Saturday. As per the information provided by Sidram Chalkapure, Deputy Conservator of Forests, officers and staff from the Ballari forest division had to carry out a day-long rescue operation. “The operation was meticulously planned and executed to ensure that no harm was inflicted either to the animal or people. The people in the vicinity maintained calm and cooperated during the whole operation,” Mr. Chalkapure said after the operation. A veterinary doctor from the Atal Bihari Zoological Park examined the bear and the department is planning to release the animal into the wild again, Mr. Chalkapure added. Apart from the forest staff, personnel from Hampi Zoo, Police, Home Guards, and Red Cross and local wildlife experts and rescuers were also involved in the sensitive task of capturing a wild animal in a residential area. The team was led by Manjunath, Range Forest Officer Ballari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bear-that-strayed-into-ballari-city-captured/article34802276.ece
13 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Do not pressure parents to pay fees, says Rajendra||Asking school and college managements not to pressure parents for payment of fees and collection of books during the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said if there are any complaints in this regard then the district administration will take action against such managements under the Karnataka Education Act. In a press note, Dr. Rajendra said there were complaints against some schools and colleges that they were asking parents to pay fees for the new 2021-22 academic year in one installment. The educational institutions are denying online classes for students who have not paid fees. The institutions are asking parents to collect notebooks and text books for a particular bookstore. Those having complaints against schools can send email to Deputy Director of Public Instructions (Administration) on ddpi.edu.karmng@nic.in. Complaints concerning pre-university colleges can be emailed to ddss.pue@gmail.com. Complainants should provide their complete postal address in the complaint, said Dr. Rajendra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/do-not-pressure-parents-to-pay-fees-says-rajendra/article34802264.ece
13 June 2021||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘People going abroad can get first jab at PHCs’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra has said that people above 18 years waiting to go abroad and waiting for their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine, can get it at all government vaccination sites in Dakshina Kannada from June 14 [Monday] onwards on priority basis by producing the relevant documents. Dr. Rajendra said in a statement that such persons can produce their passport, visa, and flight tickets at such centres to get their jab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-going-abroad-can-get-first-jab-at-phcs/article34802261.ece
13 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||50-year-old ‘assaulted’ by Virajpet police dies||Eight policemen have been placed under suspension pending an inquiry into the death of a 50-year-old man in Virajpet, who was allegedly assaulted by the local police. Sources said the suspension was announced to ensure a free and fair investigation. The victim, Roy D’Souza, was said to be of unsound mind and was moving around the town with a sharp weapon, and hence was taken into custody by the beat police. Family members said D’Souza was released by the police the same night, but they suspect he was badly beaten up as his condition necessitated hospitalisation. However, he failed to respond to treatment and died on Saturday. The local Christian associations have condemned the incident and have demanded an inquiry into the circumstances that led to D’Souza’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/50-year-old-assaulted-by-virajpet-police-dies/article34802192.ece
13 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccination drive soon in Kodagu’s coffee estates||Coffee workers in Kodagu will soon get the jab against COVID-19 with the authorities planning to launch a vaccination drive in the plantations. Former Speaker and MLA K.G. Bopaiah has advised the owners of plantations not to immediately use workers returning from COVID-19 Care Centres after recovering from COVID-19. They must be placed in quarantine for at least a week before redeployment, he said. The growers have resolved not to bring workers from other places for work in Kodagu until June 21. It has been decided to make use of the locally available workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-drive-soon-in-kodagus-coffee-estates/article34802200.ece
13 June 2021||Staff Reporterbengaluru,KARNATAKA||Those who have taken Covaxin worried||Many students who have been vaccinated with Covaxin and are going abroad to pursue higher education are worried as the vaccine has not been approved by the World Health Organization. A student who is set to go to the U.S. for a master’s programme this year said the university he had enrolled in was insisting he take the Pfizer vaccine. He is now planning to go to the U.S. and get vaccinated there. However, he is unsure of the medical implications of taking multiple vaccine doses. “I am consulting with my doctor and hoping that it will be okay to get vaccinated again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/those-who-have-taken-covaxin-worried/article34802176.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Firms to get notice for not paying rent to Govt. Flying Training School||As private companies have not paid rental amount totalling more than Rs. 4 crore for utilising services and space at the Government Flying Training School (GFTS) aerodrome at Jakkur in the city, the government has decided to serve notices to them to recover the dues. A decision has also been taken to revise rentals based on the charges levied in other flying training school aerodromes in the country. Minister for Youth Empowerment, Sports and Planning K.C. Narayana Gowda, who reviewed the progress of various schemes of the department, took officials to task for not recovering the dues and instructed them to take legal action. The companies include National Aerospace Laboratories (Rs. 70,365), Jupiter Aviation (Rs. 31,73,215), Deccan Charters Ltd. (Rs. 2,87,72,298), and Agni Aerosports Adventure Academy Hangar-1 (Rs. 42,16,881) and Hangar-II (Rs. 42,16,881). The Minister told officials to recover dues with 18% rate of interest. The aerodrome is spread over 214 acres and the premises included facilities for flight training, and area leased to private parties for hangars, maintenance activities, and other common facilities such as airstrip and fuel station. The Minister conducted a review meeting three months ago and told the officials to collect the rents from private firms. As it was not done, he warned officials that he would take action against them if they failed discharge their duties.  Reopening in August The Minister said theGFTS remained closed for the past three years and asked officials to recruit faculty members for reopening the school in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/firms-to-get-notice-for-not-paying-rent-to-govt-flying-training-school/article34802171.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Recovery rate rises to 91.39% in State||Recovery rate is calculated by dividing total recoveries by total positive cases and multiplying it by 100. COVID-19 experts attribute the rising recovery rate to fall in new cases. V. Ravi, State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee member and nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, said it is natural for the recovery rate to be low during the surge period and high once the curve is on a downward trend. “When you are on the upper part of the curve there will be fewer recoveries. But the rising recovery rate should not make us complacent. District administrations should continue to strictly monitor the situation and follow the guidelines on graded unlock,” Dr. Ravi said. Post-COVID monitoring C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said those who have recovered should be monitored closely for at least two weeks. “While oxygen saturation and blood sugar levels should be monitored daily, vital markers such as D-dimer, Ferritin and LDH should be tested again, especially in those who had required ICU care. If these vital markers are high, they may have to be put on blood thinners to prevent heart attack or stroke,” he explained. Pointing out that several patients have been complaining of palpitation, breathlessness and sleeplessness even after discharge, Dr. Manjunath said: “Several patients have developed new onset of diabetes post discharge or the condition has worsened in those who had pre-existing diabetes.” “Those who required oxygen supplementation during their hospital stay should do the six-minute walk test at home and seek medical advice if the saturation drops by 4% after the walk,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovery-rate-rises-to-9139-in-state/article34802178.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Adi Shankara statue to be installed at Kedarnath||A 12 ft.-tall-statue of Adi Shankaracharya, being sculpted in Mysuru, will be installed at the samadhi of Adi Shankara, the exponent of Advaita Vedanta, at Kedarnath in Uttarakhand. The samadhi was destroyed in the 2013 flash flood that hit Kedarnath and is now being restored by the Jindal Group. A life-size statue of Adi Shankaracharya was also conceived as part of the restoration project and out of many sculptors from across the country who displayed their model, the authorities selected the model prepared by Mysuru-based sculptor Arun Yogiraj. The statue is receiving finishing touches and Mr. Yogiraj told The Hindu that it is made of Krishnashila stone. A fifth generation sculptor who has inherited the art and science of sculpting from his father, Arun Yogiraj is an MBA from the University of Mysore but decided to pursue the family tradition of sculpting. “I did not pursue any professional course in fine arts but learnt it as a hobby from my father,” he added. For this particular project Yogiraj procured about 120 tonnes of the stone as raw material and after completing the chiselling process it weighs about 35 tonnes. The work commenced in September 2020 and the sculpture displays Adi Shankaracharya in the sitting position. It will be airlifted. In recent times, Arun Yogiraj also sculpted the statue of Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar which was installed and the erstwhile Hardinge Circle was renamed after the late maharaja.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/adi-shankara-statue-to-be-installed-at-kedarnath/article34802189.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||People return to city in droves||“We have only brought in some relaxations in lockdown norms, not lifted it entirely. We need to continue to be careful to prevent the spread of the virus,” Mr. Bommai said. Gaurav Gupta, Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, said it was natural that people were returning to the city as the lockdown was being relaxed. Responding to demands for mandatory testing of returnees, Mr. Gupta said it was administratively not possible to test everyone coming into the city. “But we are taking measures to increase testing at bus stands, railway stations and at places where migrant labourers are working, including construction sites. We are conducting over 70,000 tests every day, highest for any city today,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-return-to-bengaluru-in-droves/article34802177.ece
13 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Thottappally residents up in arms||A protest is brewing against ‘mineral sand-mining’ at the Thottappally coast in Alappuzha. The indefinite relay satyagraha being staged under the aegis of the Karimanal Ghanana Virudha Ekopana Samiti entered its third day on Saturday. Suresh Kumar S., chairman of the samithi said, the indiscriminate mineral sand-mining could wipe out three grama panchayats — Purakkad, Thrikkunnapuzha, and Arattupuzha — from the map in the near future. “It is an ecologically fragile area. Mineral sand-mining should not be allowed in public, private or as joint ventures in fragile areas. While people are forced to remain home because of the lockdown, mining and transportation of mineral-rich sand continue unabated at Thottappally,” Mr. Kumar said. Sand transportation After a period of lull, removal and transportation of mineral-rich sand from Thottappally ‘pozhi’ (sandbar at sea mouth) was resumed last month. According to officials, the sand is removed to ensure smooth flow of floodwaters from Kuttanad into the sea. The sand is being transported to Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd. (KMML) and Indian Rare Earths Ltd. (IREL).  Not against dredging Mr. Kumar said the samiti was not against dredging of the channel and removal of sand from the pozhi in a limited way, which is an annual process. However, it was opposed to the transportation of mineral-rich sand to KMML and IREL’s units at Chavara. Local people, especially fishers, allege that the government is engaged in large-scale mineral sand-mining under the the guise of flood mitigation. The coastline is prone to severe coastal erosion. A large number of people in Thottappally and nearby areas were displaced when their houses were destroyed in sea erosion. Residents fear the sand-mining would prove detrimental to those living along the shorelines from Valiazheekal to Punnapra. 550 trees felled last year In 2020, around 550 trees on a plot in the possession of the Irrigation Department near the Thottappally pozhi were cut down by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. It was said the trees were felled to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi. The government further allowed the KMML to extract two lakh cubic metres of sand. “The KMML and IREL have so far transported 10 lakh cubic metres of sand from Thottappally. Apart from destroying the coast, indiscriminate removal of sand will result in the intrusion of saltwater into Kuttanad,” Mr. Kumar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thottappally-residents-up-in-arms/article34802371.ece
13 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Vegetable seedlings to be distributed||The Agriculture Department will distribute 15 lakh vegetable seedlings and four lakh vegetable seed kits as part of the ‘Onathinu Oru Muram Pachakkari’ project in Alappuzha. Principal Agricultural Officer Alini A. Antony said the project was aimed at cultivation of safe-to-eat and pesticide-free vegetables in every house. “The project will help expand vegetable farming in the district and make available safe-to-eat vegetables for Onam,” Ms. Antony said. The seedlings and seed kits will be distributed through Krishi Bhavans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vegetable-seedlings-to-be-distributed/article34802358.ece
13 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Why rosewood is sought-after||Its peculiar grain pattern, fancy price owing to low availability, restrictions on felling, and limited distribution have put rosewood ( Dalbergia latifolia ) in the cross hairs of the timber mafia. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) has included it on the Red List of Threatened Species in 1998. Dwindling “Overexploitation, low germination percentage of seeds in natural conditions, and slow growth rate have led to dwindling population of rosewood in forest areas,” says Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI) scientist P. Sujanapal “It takes long years for the tree to attain a commendable height,” says Dr. Sujanapal. According to a KFRI study, high demand, irrational felling, and extraction from its natural environs have turned rosewood into the most threatened species. Ten years As per the study, it takes ten years for a rosewood tree to reach a height of six metres and diameter of four to five cm. “In plantations, crop rotation is estimated at 100-150 years for the production of high-grade timber. It takes 240 years for a tree to attain a diameter of 220-250 cm and a height of 30-35 metres. Due to its slow growth, growing trees for timber is not an attractive option. Hence, the Kerala Restriction on Cutting and Destruction of Valuable Trees Rules, 1974 does not allow cutting of rosewood that has not attained a girth at breast height (GBH) of 2.5 metres,” says N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti, an environment protection group in Wayanad. Private land “Most of the rosewood trees in forest areas of the district were cut a few decades ago and the remaining patches are found only on private land,” he says. Though the Forest Department had made an attempt three years ago to fell rosewood trees on colonisation land (land assigned to ex-servicemen seven decades ago in Wayanad district) on the request of its owners, it was stopped on the intervention of media and environmental organisations. The owners had cited the threat posed by the dried up trees to their life and property in the request to the government. Of the 1,094 trees identified for felling, the Forst Department axed only about 100. The Forest Department had expected good revenue through auction as a cubic metre of rosewood could fetch about Rs. 2 to Rs. 5 lakh in the open market in 2018. Hiked Many teak and a few rosewood trees on the colonisation land were felled between 1995 and 2000. The compensation too was hiked to Rs. 10,000 a cubic metre in 2005.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/why-rosewood-is-sought-after/article34802413.ece
13 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Vaccination for those due for second dose from tomorrow||From Monday onwards, Ernakulam district will begin vaccination for those who are due to receive the second shot, without mandatory online slot booking. People who took the first Covishield dose 112 days ago or the first Covaxin dose 42 days ago will be able to take the second dose without having to book a slot online. Those over 60 years who have not yet taken the first dose and those who are scheduled to go abroad for work or study will also be able to take the shot similarly. They are advised to contact local health workers or the vaccination centre to check stock availability. The Kochi Corporation has taken steps to streamline the process for people who fall within the categories allowed to take the shot without prior slot booking. The division councillors are to be contacted. With 19 vaccination centres within the corporation limits, residents of one division are likely to get their turn once a week. A single vaccination centre will cater for people of five divisions to complete the priority vaccination drive. Stock of the two vaccines, both supplied by the State and Union governments, is dwindling. As of Saturday morning, the district had 24,770 doses of the two vaccines available at cold chain points. Going by CoWIN dashboard data at 6.30 p.m., 22,105 doses were administered in the district on Saturday. However, Dr. M.G. Sivadas, nodal officer for vaccination, said additional doses would be made available to the district on Sunday. Chellanam As part of a special vaccination drive for people over the age of 45 in Chellanam, around 7,500 doses were administered. The drive has concluded. Registrations through the CoWIN portal are under way for priority vaccination of differently-abled persons and bedridden patients. So far, 12,61,833 doses of the vaccines have been administered in Ernakulam. Out of 11,76,315 people over the age of 45 in the district, a total of 1,49,863 people (20%) have taken both doses, according to the Health Department vaccination bulletin. Of the 14,70,864 people in the 18 to 44 years category, 1,42,846 (9.71%) have taken the first shot. The vaccination drive has gradually been picking up steam, with over 25,000 doses being administered on Tuesday, and over 30,000 doses being administered on Thursday this past week. Health officials in the district hope to sustain a target of administering 30,000 doses each day. In the last week of May, less than 20,000 doses were being administered daily in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-for-those-due-for-second-dose-from-tomorrow/article34802395.ece
13 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU plans offline UG final exams from June 28||Mahatma Gandhi University is planning to hold its final semester undergraduate exams offline from June 28 onwards. The exams were earlier scheduled from June 15. The government decided to postpone all university exams after the lockdown was extended up to June 16. The offline exams are being planned from June 28 amidst hopes that the pandemic situation would improve in the next two weeks. A decision on whether to postpone the university exams again would be taken by the government based on the then COVID-19 scenario. “The university is also planning to hold the final year exams of the BSc Nursing students from June 21. The number of nursing students is less, and they have received vaccination,” said C.M. Sreejith, Controller of Examinations. For outstation students For the final semester undergraduate exams, the university is trying to offer four additional exam centres outside its geographical jurisdiction. The plan is to have one centre each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Wayanad. Students residing in these districts can opt for these centres instead of travelling all the way to their colleges. They could register online for writing the exams at these centres. The details of registration will be duly communicated to the students, according to the authorities.  College hostels However, the availability of this option to all outstation students will depend on the seating facilities at the exam centres based on the pandemic protocol. The university will also seek the permission of the government to reopen college hostels during the exam period. The affiliated institutions will have to ensure all COVID-19 protocols in such a scenario.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mgu-plans-offline-ug-final-exams-from-june-28/article34802360.ece
13 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||More jab centres sought||P.T. Thomas, MLA, has demanded that more vaccination centres be allotted for Thrikkakara in view of the rapid spread of COVID-19 in the municipal area and the fact that major establishments like Infopark are situated there. He said on Saturday that there were 1,379 active cases in the municipal area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-jab-centres-sought/article34802397.ece
13 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traders threaten strike||The Ernakulam Market Stall Owners’ Association has said that it will close down all shops and business establishments in the Ernakulam market area on June 14, Monday, demanding, among other things, permission to open all shops within time restrictions and following the COVID-19 protocol. All shops should be allowed to open for business by adhering to the protocol and time frame, said N.H. Shameed, an office-bearer of the association, on Saturday. He added that the market stall owners had suffered immensely because of the shutdown-like situation in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-threaten-strike/article34802398.ece
13 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Report on KSRTC station relocation by June-end||Steel Industries Kerala Limited (SILK), which has been engaged as consultant to ready a master plan for relocating the KSRTC’s Ernakulam bus depot to Karikkamuri and building a commercial complex after demolishing the existing structure, will submit a concept plan by June-end. The KSRTC will take a call on the recommendations, following which a detailed project report (DPR) will be readied, official sources said. According to the plan, the KSRTC will construct a bus station-cum-garage on 3.46 acres it owns at Karikkamuri. A commercial complex will be built in 4.77 acres which now houses the bus station and garage. Connectivity “We have conceived a supermarket, a sports complex like the one at the Regional Sports Centre at Kadavanthra, a hotel, restaurants, a She Lodge for women, a dormitory, and space to freshen oneself at hourly rates in the complex. The locational advantage would be that the proposed new bus station and the Ernakulam Junction railway station will be within walking distance, while the Maharaja’s College metro station will be a stone’s throw away from the new station, thus ushering in multi-modal connectivity,” the sources added. The project will also bring about direct road connectivity between the bus station and railway station, through which people will be able to walk safely. The Kochi Corporation is spearheading the construction of a ‘green corridor’ to link the Ernakulam Junction and Town railway stations in association with GIZ, a German agency which is helping implement the Integrated Sustainable Urban Transport Systems for Smart Cities (SMART-SUT) project, under the umbrella of the Green Urban Mobility Partnership between India and Germany. This will enable connectivity from the proposed bus station’s eastern side as well. “Circular bus services could be introduced linking the station with the adjacent railway and metro stations,” KSRTC officials said. Thevara depot During the construction phase, cleaning and repair of buses might be shifted to the KSRTC’s Thevara depot where the agency’s low-floor buses are based. These buses will in all probability continue to be parked there even after the new bus station is readied. They will be able to come to the station and pick up passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-on-ksrtc-station-relocation-by-june-end/article34802396.ece
13 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 1,592 new cases||Kollam reported 1,592 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,666 recoveries on Saturday. Of this, 1,585 patients contracted the virus through contact. The district at present has 34,203 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,86,495. While 3,326 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 2,58,763 primary and 16,721 secondary contacts of the cases. In Alappuzha Alappuzha district logged 916 new cases on Saturday. As many as 909 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of six others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for the disease. The test positivity for the day stood at 9.47%. Of the 916 cases, 90 were reported from Alappuzha, 37 from Kayamkulam, 34 from Aryad, 33 from Thrikkunnapuzha, 29 each from Cherthala South and Punnapra North, 26 each from Arookutty, Mararikulam South, and Thanneermukkom, and 25 from Mararikulam North. Meanwhile, 1,468 people recovered from the disease in the district. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 12,140. 560 in Kottayam As many as 560 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the new cases, 558 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of the district further declined to 9.64%. Vazhappally panchayat reported the highest number of 52 cases, followed by Kottayam municipality and Kootticka panchayat with 42 cases each. As many as 259 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the active cases in the district to 5,258. There are 31,548 people in quarantine with suspected symptoms of the disease. 441 in Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 441 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but one person contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of five cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 12.5%. With 35 cases, Konni reported the highest number of cases, followed by Aranmula and Kunnamthanam panchayats with 24 cases each. The disease claimed six more lives in the district. With 632 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta has 5,320 active cases now. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, and Kollam bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-reports-1592-new-cases/article34802363.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Revenue orders of State a breach of existing Acts||Suspicions have been raised about the role of vested interests behind several government orders that went against the Acts legislated in the Assembly in view of the illegal felling of rosewood trees in Wayanad. Top sources told The Hindu that these revenue orders were in contravention to the Kerala Land Assignment Rules, 1964; the Kerala Land Assignment Amendment Rules, 2017; the Kerala Preservation of Trees Act, 1986; and the Kerala Promotion of Tree Growth in Non-Forest Areas Act, 2005. The revenue orders for felling trees, a key government informant said, had been issued only to benefit timber traders rather than cultivators who had been granted ‘patta’ land by the government with a land revenue exemption. Incidentally, the orders were intended for a short period, only to facilitate corruption. Continuation The sources said the whole issue started after the government issued the order on October 24, 2020, which was actually a continuation of its previous order on March 11, 2020. As per the law, the full right of scheduled trees (teak, rosewood, ebony and sandalwood) vested with the government. But the order permitted all trees could be cut, except sandalwood, without any amendment in the rules, the sources said. Besides, they said, the Kerala Assignment Amendment Rules, 2017 had been effected from August 17, 2017, and had no retroactive provision. The amendment had not changed the status of the four scheduled trees. Besides, the seigniorage rate of timber and other forest produce was not for the scheduled trees. Sources said the Preservation of Trees Act, 1986 restricted the cutting of 10 trees including teak, rosewood and sandalwood. Similarly it banned the felling of these trees in notified areas. Further, felling of any trees in ‘patta’ land had been restricted according to Section 22 of the Preservation of Trees Act. This apart, restriction on felling had been in place in notified villages under Section 6 of the Kerala Promotion of Tree Growth in Non-Forest Areas Act. However, the land assigned to tribespeople and in the Cardamom Hill Reserve would not come under the definition of non-forest area clause, they said. Against felling Then again the law had specified against felling of teak, rosewood, Irul ( Xylia xylocarpa ), Thempavu ( Terminalia tomantosa ), Kampakam ( Hopea parviflora ), Vellakil ( Dysoxylum malabaricum ) , Chadachi ( Grewia tiliaefolia ), Chandanavempu ( Cedrela toona ) and ebony. Sources said the government could declare certain villages as notified areas where restriction was enforced. Thus mangrove areas, coffee plantations and cardamom plantations were treated in this category. But the revenue orders threw to the wind the prevailing Acts and Rules, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-orders-of-state-a-breach-of-existing-acts/article34802405.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||New campaign to fight drug abuse||Following the Vimukti campaign adopted by the Excise Department to fight drug abuse, the Department of Social Justice is gearing up to implement a new action plan under the Union government’s Nasha Mukt Bharat to free youngsters from substance abuse. Kozhikode is one of the 272 districts identified across the country to implement the Union government’s project. All the existing de-addiction schemes will be linked to the National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction. The latest order from the government says the new action plan will integrate the activities such as preventive education and awareness generation, capacity building, treatment, rehabilitation, special action plan for vulnerable areas, vocational and livelihood support. “In Kerala, six districts namely Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kollam, and Thiruvananthapuram will benefit from the special action plans under the Central scheme. In Malappuram, an Integrated Rehabilitation Centre for Addicts [IRCA] will also come up with Central aid for identification of addicts, motivational counselling, de-addiction support and after-care,” said an official with the Department of Social Justice. As additional support, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Idukki and Kollam districts would get Outreach and Drop-in Centres (ODIC) to give safe and secure drop-in places for drug addicts, he said. Resource team In Kozhikode district, a full-fledged resource team will be formed soon with the support of volunteers from Legal Services Society, National Service Scheme and Nehru Yuva Kendra to begin field-level activities. The resource team members will get in touch with students, teachers, elected representatives, anganwadi workers, residents’ association leaders, and Kudumbashree workers to spread awareness against drug abuse at the grassroots-level. The appointment of youths as peer educators for early drug abuse prevention among adolescents is one of the novel initiatives under the scheme. Selected youths will also be eligible for honorarium. A Sub Collector will be coordinating the project implementation in Kozhikode district. The first round of meetings with stakeholders has been completed and the next step will be the formation of resource teams. Considering the COVID-19 situation, the selected resource team members will be offered training through online sessions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-campaign-to-fight-drug-abuse/article34802392.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Kozhikode, TPR below 10% for third day||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) of COVID-19 dropped below 10% for the third consecutive day on Saturday in Kozhikode when only 927 of the 10,126 samples tested positive for the virus. According to the District Medical Officer, the daily TPR was 9.26%. On Thursday and Friday, it was 9.84% and 9.41%, respectively. Of the fresh cases, 901 were due to local transmission of the infection while the source of 22 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 224 locally acquired infections, Puthuppady 45, Atholi 33, and Maniyoor and Thooneri 31 each. As many as 1,348 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload in the district stands at 13,114. In Ernakulam A total of 1,539 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Saturday, and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 12.83% was recorded. As many as 11,992 samples were collected for testing. Of those who tested positive, seven were health workers. Payipra registered 70 new cases of the infection, Kumbalangi 58, Chellanam 56, Thrikkakara 54, Elamkunnapuzha 49, Sreemoolanagaram 48, Pallipuram 46, Fort Kochi 45, and Alangad 40. The source of infection could not be traced in 45 cases. While 2,718 people were considered to have recovered, the active caseload of the district stands at 16,734. A total of 127 people were admitted to treatment centres on Saturday, and 375 were discharged. Of those recovering, 11,497 remain at home, 1,219 persons are at private hospitals, 511 are at government hospitals, and 1,950 are at FLTCs, SLTCs, and domiciliary care centres. The number of people admitted in ICUs has fallen to 370. As many as 43,810 people remain in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/in-kozhikode-tpr-below-10-for-third-day/article34802393.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity exams may begin by month end||The University of Calicut is all set to start exams for graduate and undergraduate students by this month-end. It will materalise only if the authorities get help from the departments of Health and Local Self Government, and transportation of students is ensured in the event of the extension of the lockdown. Sources in the Syndicate said the university was unlikely to hold online exams as it would require amendment to the exam regulations. It is learnt that the priority now is to finish off final year exams so that the results could be announced by Augut mid-week. Though there are media reports that the university would try out ‘focus points’ similar to Plus Two exams, they could not be confirmed. It is likely to be discussed at a Syndicate meeting scheduled for June 19. According to sources, question papers and answer scripts have already been delivered to colleges. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj recently held an online meeting with college principals in Kozhikode, Malappuram, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts to seek their suggestions. However, it is still not clear when the State government will lift the lockdown or at least allow graded opening of public life as fresh COVID-19 cases and test positivity rate seem to have plateaued. The sources said if the current situation continued, a large number of students would find it difficult to travel to exam centres. Some colleges have been converted into first-line treatment centres and other COVID care facilities. Alternative arrangements will have to be made in these places. At the online meeting, it was proposed to utilise the services of nearby schools. There are still many college teachers who have not been vaccinated. It will be risky to depute them for exam duty. They will also have to get permission from the respective district collectors to travel within and outside their districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/calicut-varsity-exams-may-begin-by-month-end/article34802359.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Webinar on laws for differently abled||Parivar Kerala, an organisation of parents of differently abled persons, in association with St. Thomas College, Thrissur, is organising a webinar on Sunday (June 13) to create awareness about the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016. Minister for Higher Education R. Bindu will launch the webinar at 11 a.m. while Parivar Kerala president M.P. Karunakaran will preside. State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities S.H. Panchapakesan will introduce the topic. The webinar may be viewed through the linkhttp://youtube/kLChQ ChrDv4, says a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/webinar-on-laws-for-differently-abled/article34802399.ece
13 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Honour minority rights without hurting others: Muslim Jamat||The Kerala Muslim Jamat has requested the State government to initiate urgent steps for the development of backward minorities. “The development of backward minorities is essential if the land has to progress,” said Sayed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari, State general secretary of the Kerala Muslim Jamat. Inaugurating a virtual seminar on ‘Minority welfare scheme: court verdict and facts’ organised by the Kerala Muslim Jamat district committee on Saturday, Mr. Bukhari said the rights of the Muslim community should be honoured by ensuring the cooperation of other communities. He added that the constitutional rights of any group or community should not be allowed for creating embitterment in society. He warned people to maintain vigil against those trying to create a divide between communities. Jamat district president Koottambara Abdurahman Darimi presided. Sunni Yuvajana Sangham State general secretary A.P. Abdul Hakeem Azhari called upon the community to encourage the new generation to take up agriculture and other employments even while ensuring that they do not lose the reservation guaranteed by the Constitution. “One must instil confidence in the new generation to achieve progress through merit,” he said. Kurukkoli Moideen, MLA, said that the IUML would try to encompass all sections and interests of backward minorities. Congress representative Ifthikaruddin demanded that schemes introduced for backward Muslims be made available to them completely. Indian National League (INL) State president A.P. Abdul Wahab said neglect by those in power had played a major role for the backwardness of minorities. Husain Saqafi Chullikkode moderated the seminar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/honour-minority-rights-without-hurting-others-muslim-jamat/article34802416.ece
13 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Report sought on hiding of lover in room||The Kerala State Youth Commission (KSYC) has asked the District Police Chief (Palakkad) to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the incident in which a man at Ayiloor near Nenmara had hidden his lover in his tiny room for 11 years without letting anyone know about it. KSYC member T. Mahesh on Saturday visited Rahman and Sajita. “We have asked the District Police Chief to make a thorough investigation, particularly to find if there was any human rights violation,” said Mr. Mahesh. District Police Chief Viswanath R. will submit a report in a week. Mr. Mahesh said the Commission would forward the report to the government for further action. “We want to live together peacefully,” said Rahman and Sajita while answering questions from Mr. Mahesh. Rahman said he had hidden Sajita in his room because he feared his family’s opposition. He brought her to his house at Ayiloor and hid her in his room without giving any hint to his family. He used to lock the room whenever he went out. He took his food always into his room and shared it with Sajita. He converted his room’s window into a secret exit. Mr. Mahesh said he was still in disbelief. The State Women’s Commission too expressed concern at the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/report-sought-on-hiding-of-lover-in-room/article34802403.ece
13 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Cheating case filed against finance firm||Over six months after the Rs. 2,000-crore Popular Finance scam rocked Kerala, the functioning of yet another Non-Banking Financial Company (NBFC) has come under scanner with several depositors lodging cheating complaints against it. According to the police, three cases have been registered against the Pathanamthitta-based Tharayil Finance under Indian Penal Code Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) based on complaints from the depositors. Rs. 52 lakh to 3 customers “As per these complaints, the company has failed to return deposits worth Rs. 52 lakh to three of its customers. The owner is absconding along with his family,” said an official. Tharayil Finance, which began its operations in 1991, is owned by Saji Sam, a native of Omallur, near Pathanamthitta. District Police Chief R. Nishanthini, meanwhile, confirmed the receipt of a joint complaint by 34 depositors. “A probe is on to track down the firm’s owner. Efforts are also on to compile the complaints lodged across the various police stations. The actual amount of money involved in the case is yet to be ascertained,” the official said. No interest payment A preliminary assessment by the investigators suggested that the NBFC had a total net worth of around Rs. 100 crore. According to them, the company used to collect deposits from investors, especially the NRI community, by offering lucrative interest rates. It abruptly stopped paying interest on the deposits from February this year. Following this, the customers approached the firm’s offices directly, though to no avail. All its branch offices began closing down from May onwards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cheating-case-filed-against-finance-firm/article34802361.ece
13 June 2021||PATHANAMATHITTA,KERALA||Rs. 57 lakh for new operation theatre||In a major boost to the public sector health-care network in Pathanamathitta, the State Health Department has kick-started the proceedings to establish a state-of-the-art operation theatre complex at the Thiruvalla Taluk Headquarters Hospital. According to Health Minister Veena George, an administrative sanction of Rs. 57 lakh has been accorded to the project, which will house a modular operating theatre, a step-down ICU, an autoclave room and a medicine store, among others. The pre-construction formalities will be expedited to complete the project in a time-bound manner. The operation theatre complex, with a built-up area of 6,800 sq ft, will be set up in the new building of the taluk hospital. It will have two operating tables to carry out surgeries on two patients simultaneously while the step-down ICU will have four beds. The complex will also feature modern equipment including an air handling unit with a modern heppa filter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-57-lakh-for-new-operation-theatre/article34802364.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital in total lockdown mode||The State capital entered the two-day total lockdown declared by the government on Saturday in a bid to further rein in the COVID-19 spread. While Thiruvananthapuram district had witnessed a considerable fall in the number of new cases last week, its test positivity rate rose to 16.88% on Friday, a few days after it had dropped below 15%. Staring at the prospect of yet another wave, the district administration and the police have clamped down on public movement. The city remained largely deserted during the initial hours of the day with the police screening vehicles at 70 check-points designated across police station limits. Besides, the six entry points to the city have been barricaded to permit entry and exit for only those who require emergency medical attention or others exempted by the government from the purview of the restrictions. KSRTC suspends service The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which had commenced long-distance services some days ago, has suspended services for the weekend.  Special services The public utility will, however, conduct special services to hospitals and transport teachers to valuation camps for SSLC and Plus Two examinations in the district. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said people headed to the airport and railway stations would be allowed to travel if they produced tickets or other travel documents. Likewise, people would be permitted to go to vaccination centres. Self-declaration forms must be used only for essential activities, including medical purposes. ‘No’ to walks Medical stores and outlets selling milk, vegetables and food items can function on both days, but major commercial establishments, including supermarkets, will not be allowed to operate. Take-away services will not be permitted in eateries and only home delivery of parcels will be allowed. Curbs have also been placed on the early morning and evening walks. Patrol teams will be deployed to ensure that commercial outlets adhere to the permitted time of functioning. Cases will be booked against traders who fail to ensure physical distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-in-total-lockdown-mode/article34802373.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||100-day plan to create 77,350 jobs||Around 77,350 direct and indirect job opportunities will be created in 100 days under various departments through the government’s 100-day action plan to be implemented from June 11 to September 19. The 100-day action plan, chalked out to tide over the economic slowdown in the State caused by the second wave of COVID-19, is the first major initiative of the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front government. The break-up of job opportunities being created is: Department of Industries 10,000 jobs, Cooperation 10,000 jobs, Kudumbashree 2,000, Kerala Financial Corporation 2,000, Kerala State Women Development Corporation 2,500, Backward Development Corporation 2,500, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation 2,500 and IT sector 1,000. Local bodies The Local Self-Government Department will create 7,000 jobs. The plan includes projects worth Rs. 2,464.92 crore through the Public Works Department, Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI), and Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Jobs for the educated K-DISC will complete a project of providing employment to 20 lakh educated people. All local bodies will prepare a draft plan to create employment for five out of 1,000 people. Nine road projects worth Rs. 945.35 crore will be launch using RKI funds. In addition, the PWD will complete projects worth Rs. 1,519.57 crore. KIIFB-funded road-bridge projects worth Rs. 200.10 crore will be inaugurated within these 100 days.  The Agriculture Department will open 100 urban street markets, distribute 25 lakh fruit and vegetable saplings, set up 150 farmers’ producers associations and take steps to create 100 working days. The government also aims to distribute 12,000 land title deeds. Several IT initiatives will be launched for citizens to access government services. The LIFE Mission will build 10,000 more houses and 50,000 laptops will be distributed under the Vidyasree scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/100-day-plan-to-create-77350-jobs/article34802415.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||56 vehicle-charging stations this year||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) expects to commission 56 new electric-vehicle-charging stations this year. Thirty of the stations are being set up under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles-II (FAME India-II) scheme of the Union government, while administrative sanction has been accorded for 26 stations under the e-mobility promotion fund of the State government. In the long run, the State-run power utility plans to establish a network of 250 stations. “The work on the 56 stations has been slightly delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But we expect them to be ready by September end. The work has been awarded to empanelled firms,” said an official of the KSEB, the nodal agency for establishing electric-vehicle-charging infrastructure under the State’s e-vehicle policy. On KSEB land A majority of the new stations are coming up on KSEB land. Work is yet to start in some of the other locations due to land-related glitches. The government had been apprised of the problem, the official said. As part of creating an e-mobility culture in Kerala, the KSEB had opened six charging stations on its land in different districts in November 2020. The stations, set up at the electrical sections of Nemom and Olai, the Vydyuthi Bhavanam at Palarivattam, and sub-stations at Viyyur, Nallalam, and Chovva, permitted charging free of cost for the first four months. The Agency for Non-Conventional Energy and Rural Technology (Anert) under the State government also is establishing charging stations in the State. Anert has partnered the Union government’s joint venture Energy Efficiency Services Ltd. (EESL) for the initiative. In early May this year, the KSEB had come out with clear directions pertaining to the tariffs for different categories of electric- vehicle-charging points, including captive charging stations and those in private residences.  Work on the 56 stations has been slightly delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/56-vehicle-charging-stations-this-year/article34802414.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Community kitchens to be wrapped up||The city Corporation will discontinue community kitchens by Wednesday, with the expected easing of lockdown restrictions and reduction in demand. Though it was earlier decided to discontinue the kitchens from Monday, considering the relaxations in the tight controls after the weekend, the civic body authorities decided to extend it for two more days for the entire lockdown period. Ever since the Corporation opened community kitchens on May 15, following the clamping down of lockdown restrictions earlier that month, as many as 3.6-lakh meal packets have been distributed from such kitchens opened in 10 wards. Parallel to this, food was also being distributed at a nominal cost of Rs. 20 from the Janakeeya hotels set up by the Corporation and operated by the Kudumbashree. Nineteen Janakeeya hotels are being operated in the Corporation area currently. For the one month period from May 10, a total of 2.38-lakh meal packets were sold from the Janakeeya hotels with about 1.05 lakh of these being mid-day meal packets and the remaining almost equal numbers of breakfast and dinner packets. “We had implemented a Rs. 60 package consisting of breakfast, meals and dinner. In the days of high demand, before the opening of the community kitchens, as many as 6,000 such packages were sold per day. Additionally, we also provided this Rs. 60 package for free to poor people before the opening of the community kitchens. Around 80,000 such packages were provided,” says a Corporation official. Community kitches With the opening of the community kitchens, the daily demand for the Rs. 60 package came down to around 1,500 from 6,000. When the community kitchens close down, the demand for these packages is expected to go up. Individuals and organisations have been contributing cash and materials for the running of community kitchens in the city. The civic body had redeployed its employees including sanitation workers for the running of the community kitchens. While the food preparation, packing and cleaning of the kitchens were handled by them, the distribution was carried out by the volunteer force. Several of the Corporation’s activities including sanitation was affected due to the redeployment of staff for similar COVID-19-related activities. During the first wave of COVID-19 too, local bodies across the State including the city Corporation had operated several community kitchens for two months to ensure that no one goes hungry during the lockdown period, which has witnessed the earnings of many sections taking a hit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-kitchens-to-be-wrapped-up/article34802375.ece
13 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate falls to 12.72%||Kerala reported 13,832 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday when 1,08,734 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate showed a dip at 12.72%. The State’s active case pool is declining steadily and now has 1,29,488 patients with 18,172 patients reported to have recovered from the disease. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State has reached 10,975 with the State adding 171 deaths, which occurred over the past few days. COVID-related hospitalisations continue to show a dip and all hospitals have begun to breathe easy as the pressure for beds has eased. On Saturday, new COVID patients admitted in hospitals in the State were 2,132, a significant decrease from the previous day’s figure. Two weeks ago, an average of 3,500 patients used to be admitted to hospitals on a daily basis. The number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals now stands at 31,103. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID patients in the State in both public and private hospitals have also declined significantly over the past two weeks and the number came down to 3,115 on Saturday. Those requiring ventilator support among these patients also dipped to 1,210. The active caseload has come down in all districts and in all except six districts the active case pool has fewer than 10,000 patients. Malappuram has 16,143 patients, Ernakulam 16,702, Thiruvananthapuram 14,147, Kozhikode 13,399, Alappuzha 11,683 and Thrissur 11,277 patients in the active case pool. Thiruvananthapuram is the only district where new cases, active case pool and hospitalisations, have shown an increase over the past two days, while these figures have dipped in the rest of the State. Hospitalisations also have not gone down significantly in the district, which has 5,859 patients now Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 2,234, followed by Kollam 1,592, Ernakulam 1,539, Malappuram 1,444, Palakkad 1,365, Thrissur 1,319, Kozhikode 927, Alappuzha 916, Kottayam 560, Kasaragod 475, Kannur 442, Pathanamthitta 441, Idukki 312 and Wayanad 266. More doses arrive An additional consignment of 5.38 lakh doses of COVID-19 vaccines have arrived in the State .A statement issued by Health Minister Veena George said that of the 5.38 lakh doses currently at the State’s disposal, 1,88,820 doses of Covishield were directly purchased by the State, while 3.5 lakh doses of Covishield were provided by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-1272/article34802408.ece
13 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Do not deny TCs: Minister||General Education Minister V. Sivankutty has asked educational institutions not to deny students transfer certificates (TC). Students’ rights are clearly explained in the Right to Education (RTE) Act and these should not be violated on any account, said the Minister here on Saturday. Lack of TC for admission to classes I to VIII was not a hurdle. To ensure education of students in the schoolgoing age, the government had issued orders for continuing education of children in classes I to VIII as per the RTE Act, and for Classes IX and X in State schools. The Director of General Education had also issued orders that the UID (unique identification number) of students who had not received TCs be transferred to schools they wish to study in. Complaints had been raised that some unaided schools were denying students TCs. These should be compulsorily issued if asked for by students. There had also been complaints that during the pandemic, some schools were charging higher fee under various heads without any justification. There were many unaided schools in the State that were doing a good job, However, some managements were tarnishing the reputation of unaided schools. Their actions were putting students and their parents to hardship, he said. Extra fee Some schools were charging computer lab fee, library fee, and smart classroom fee like earlier. However, they were not taking into account that since the 2020-21 academic year, none of these facilities had been functioning. Complaints had been received from parents and students that fees were being sought for medical examination, badge, diary, progress report, PTA (parent-teacher association) fund and insurance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/do-not-deny-tcs-minister/article34802410.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in capital||The district administration has asked the public to remain alert as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put the district on yellow alert on June 13 and June 15 given the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in a 24-hour period). District Collector Navjot Khosa urged coastal communities to remain especially watchful due to the possibility of high waves lashing the coast. People residing in vulnerable locations in the district have been requested to cooperate with the authorities and relocate to safer places, if needed. Fishermen have been advised to ensure the safety of fishing equipment and boats kept on the beaches. COVID protocol The COVID-19 protocol should be observed in relief camps, the Collector said. Citing an IMD alert for fishing, the district administration has advised fishermen not to venture out into the sea till June 16 as strong winds with speeds touching 45-55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph are likely along the Kerala and Lakshadweep coasts and the Lakshadweep region. The southwest monsoon, which set in over the State on June 3, is showing signs of picking up after a slow start to the season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-capital/article34802368.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vaccination drive for IT professionals and kin||Kerala IT Parks and Technopark Employees Cooperative (TEC) Hospital, in collaboration with IT companies, has launched a COVID-19 vaccination drive for State’s IT professionals and their family members. The vaccination drive was inaugurated on Saturday by Kadakampally Surendran, MLA, at the facility set up by the H&R block in Technopark in the capital. This will be extended to the entire IT workforce at the Infopark in Kochi and the Cyberpark in Kozhikode. Separate camps will be set up in both places in the coming days. TEC Hospital has procured two lakh Covishield jabs exclusively for the IT community and is the first cooperative sector establishment in the State to procure vaccine directly from the manufacturer. “The vaccination drive will help to bring the workforce and normalcy back to the IT campuses. We hope this effort will bring the much-needed relief to the IT fraternity, their families, and IT companies ,” according to John M. Thomas, CEO at the Kerala State IT Parks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/vaccination-drive-for-it-professionals-and-kin/article34802406.ece
13 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sreejith to head SIT||The State government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) headed by Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith to investigate the illegal felling of protected rosewood trees from revenue land assigned to farmers in Wayanad. In his order on Saturday, Chief Secretary V.P. Joy said a dedicated Forest and Wildlife Department and Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau team would assist Mr. Sreejith. The "seriousness, impact and dimensions" of the illegal felling of rare and protected trees warranted a comprehensive inquiry. He ordered the heads of the departments concerned to depute "efficient officers with an excellent track record" to the SIT. An official said SIT would focus initially on the felling of rosewood from deeded revenue land in Muttil South village. The SIT would also focus on exposing the corruption that advantaged timber thieves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sreejith-to-head-sit/article34802409.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,234 more test positive in capital district||The COVID-19 test positivity rate stood at 15.79% in Thiruvananthapuram district on Saturday when 2,234 more people were diagnosed with the disease from among 14,143 people who were tested during the last 24 hours. While 2,167 people recovered from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 14,147. Fourteen healthcare workers were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death toll grew by 29 to reach 2,305 on the day. The recent deaths that have now been attributed to COVID-19 were reported between May 23 and June 11. The district administration placed 3,571 people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being supervised for COVID-19 symptoms to 54,193. A total of 4,588 people were permitted to conclude self-isolation after completing the mandated period without developing symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2234-more-test-positive-in-capital-district/article34802374.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to boost research in engg. colleges in State||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has set sights on boosting research in engineering colleges in the State. The board of governors (BoG) of the university on Friday decided to foster collaborations with the world’s leading universities and research institutes to spur academic and research activities. The panel approved in principle the move to establish linkages, including twinning programmes with national and international universities that figure among top global rankings. Besides collaborations in research pursuits, the move could open the door for students to complete part of their studies in foreign institutions. The BoG has entrusted Vice Chancellor M.S. Rajasree to submit a detailed outline for the proposed project to the academic committee. Action plans They also proposed drawing up action plans to address the digital divide in online learning, to make learning and teaching process more student-oriented, to ensure student well-being, and to provide industrial training to the students. The board also approved an amendment to the university rules to permit inter-university transfer of the staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-boost-research-in-engg-colleges-in-state/article34802411.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GST on vaccine against States’ interest: Balagopal||The decision of the Centre not to waive the 5% Goods and Services Tax (GST) on COVID vaccine is against the interest of States, Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal has said. The Centre’s stance was that it would buy 75% of the vaccines from manufacturers and would remit the GST on it. The revenue on that would be shared at 70% with the States, the Finance Minister said here after the online meeting of the GST Council on Saturday. “Still, we are of the view that the 5% GST for COVID vaccine should be avoided,” he said. Mr. Balagopal said the State was disappointed over the Centre’s stance of not avoiding GST for anti-coagulants such as Heparin and for not waiving the GST for portable hospital units. It was only after the pressure exerted by the States that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman agreed to extend the tax concessions announced by her from August to September. Technicalities The Finance Minister said Kerala had suggested waiving of tax for COVID vaccine and COVID supplies or 0.1 GST. Citing technicalities over input tax, he said the Centre rejected the demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gst-on-vaccine-against-states-interest-balagopal/article34802407.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CET student presents poster at University of Bristol event||Ananya Ayasi, a third year BTech student at the College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, earned the recognition of presenting a poster at the recent ‘Careers in Quantum’ conclave organised by the University of Bristol. Her poster on ‘Understanding quantum technology to formulate ethical legal frameworks around it’ was the sole selection from the country from among the 12 posters that were presented during the three-day virtual event. Ms. Ayasi, pursuing the Applied Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering stream, also delivered a talk on ‘Quantum technology and its impact on society’ at a global conference organised by WomenTech, a collective of women in technology few days ago. Both presentations focussed on the quantum-related innovations and the need to gauge the possible impact of quantum technology on society to formulate frameworks, both ethical and legal, to prevent possible harm, the engineering student said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cet-student-presents-poster-at-university-of-bristol-event/article34802367.ece
13 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||KFRI scientist to liaison with U.N. body||T.V. Sajeev, Senior Principal Scientist, Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), Peechi, has been nominated by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) as the national focal point for the Asia-Pacific Forest Invasive Species Network (APFISN). The APFISN is a network of 33 member countries in the Asia-Pacific Forestry Commission, which is a statutory body of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations. Dr. Sajeev currently coordinates the nodal centre for biological invasions at the KFRI. He had been active in developing management strategies against the invasion of the Giant African Snail and the Red-eared Slider Turtle, which came to India from Africa and Mexico respectively and caused both economic and ecological impacts. He is also the member of a committee constituted by the Madras High Court to evolve strategies to manage invasive alien plants in the Nilgiris. Recently, he had detected the Barnacle Wax Scale Insect, Ceroplastes cirripediformis, an invasive pest of horticultural crops, native to southern United States and the Caribbean Islands, which was established in Kerala recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kfri-scientist-to-liaison-with-un-body/article34802402.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lockdown in monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-in-monsoon/article34802630.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Some solace||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/some-solace/article34802632.ece
13 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five children left to the care of a lone woman||It is a double whammy of sorts for this joint family residing at MDO Colony in Madakasira town of Anantapur district. Even as the family has been waiting for close to a decade for compensation from the State government for the 8 acres of land acquired for the Special Economic Zone close to the town, three of its members have died in the last three weeks, two of them due to COVID-19. The strange quirk of fate has left five children under the care of a single woman, who stares at a definite financial crisis with no support coming forth from any quarter. B. Umamaheswar (38), employed at a petrol pump, had given his samples for testing on May 14 when the pandemic was at its peak as he developed symptoms of COVID-19. Even before the result of the Rt-PCR test was announced, he had succumbed to the virus the following day. The result on May 19 had revealed his COVID-19 status. B. Nagaraju, elder brother of Umamaheswar, had died of a heart-attack on May 16, unable to digest the death of his brother. Another crisis befell the family when Umamaheswar’s wife, Varalakshmi (32), too had tested positive for COVID-19, and was admitted to a private hospital in Anantapur on May 31. She did not respond to the treatment and breathed her last on June 6 due to clots in the brain. Parimala, a small-time beautician and wife of Nagaraju, is now shaken to the core. “If anything happens to me, there will be none to look after the five children,” Ms. Parimala fears. While Nagaraju is survived by his wife, two sons, and a daughter, Umamaheswar is survived by two sons. The eldest of the five children has joined a diploma course, while the youngest is 4 years old. Elusive land compensation The family’s guava farm was taken over by the government. For reasons unknown, the government has not fixed the compensation as yet. Farmers of the 1,600 acres acquired for the SEZ have been agitating from time to time seeking early settlement of compensation but to no avail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-children-left-to-the-care-of-a-lone-woman/article34802681.ece
13 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sonu Sood’s foundation begins doorstep delivery of oxygen||The Sood Charity Foundation, set up by actor Sonu Sood, began its service of delivering medical oxygen at the doorstep, first in the State, in Anantapur on Saturday. Anyone living within a radius of 80 km from the city can dial 7609999961 and get medical oxygen at their place, foundation representatives Ajay Pratap Singh and Amit Purohit said in a release. More centres would be set up in the State in a phased manner, they added. The programme, launched virtually by Sonu Sood, became functional from Friday night. The organisation has an Emergency Response Team that will respond to calls 24X7 and reach out to the needy within a maximum of 120 minutes with an oxygen cylinder either on a bike or four-wheeler. The foundation had saved many lives in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in the past two months on this model, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sonu-soods-charity-firm-begins-doorstep-delivery-of-oxygen/article34802102.ece
13 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let us jointly eradicate child labour: SP||Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu on Saturday unveiled the wallpapers and posters designed and produced by ChildLine and called for a concerted joint effort by all stakeholders to ensure a society free of child labour. Stringent legal action would be taken against those employing children in any form of labour, said Mr. Yesu Babu, and appealed to parents not to send them for work and ensure they got enough time for studies and spending time as a child. The Kadiri Praja Seva Samaj, which has been working for the eradication of child labour and protection of their rights on Saturday unveiled the posters related to the World Day Against Child Labour and appealed to people to dial 1098 or 100 if they come across children being employed for work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-us-jointly-eradicate-child-labour-sp/article34802691.ece
13 June 2021||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Egg prices on the boil amid rising demand||With eggs being one among the foods that boost the immune system to fight the dreaded coronavirus, a majority of citizens have made it a part of their daily diet. As egg contains nutrients like proteins and vitamins, its demand has shot up during the present pandemic situation. Owing to its growing demand and shortage in supply, the price of eggs has been going through the roof and an egg is being sold for prices ranging between Rs. 6 and Rs. 7 in the city market. Consumers are facing problems as some eggs are being spoilt due to excessive heat. A super market chain store at Marripalem in the city sold six eggs at Rs. 50 recently. The daily consumption of eggs in Visakhapatnam zone, which consists of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts, is estimated at 40 lakh. Nearly half of this quantity is consumed in Visakhapatnam city, according to poultry industries sources. Poultry feed The price at which an egg is sold at the dairy farm was around Rs. 6 a few days and the retail dealers sell the eggs normally at about Rs. 1 more than the farm price as they have to bear transportation and incidental costs, apart from keeping some profit margin.  The cost of poultry feed has registered a steep increase this year. Soya bean cakes, which were sold at Rs. 35 a kg, is being sold at Rs. 75 a kg and maize, which was Rs. 1,400 a kg last year has now increased to Rs. 1,750. The egg production normally declines by around 20% in summer as the fowls consume less feed due to the heat, says National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) executive member G. Ramakrishna Chowdari. “The ban on sale of chicken, mutton and fish during the last few Sundays has also resulted in a huge demand for eggs. The prices are dependent on demand and supply,” says Bharanikana Rama Rao, NECC executive member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/egg-prices-on-the-boil-amid-rising-demand/article34802711.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two FIRs against Kannada actor Chetan||The city police have registered two FIRs against Kannada actor Chetan Kumar for allegedly “hurting religious beliefs” and “imputations prejudicial to national integration”, for his recent remarks on Brahminism. The two cases have been booked based on complaints by Sachidananda Murthy, Chairman, Brahmin Development Board, and Vipra Yuva Vedike, a community organisation. The complaints were registered with the Ulsoor Gate and Basavanagudi police stations, respectively. In both FIRs, the police have booked the actor under Sections 153B and 295A of Indian Penal Code. Mr. Chetan had recently made a series of social media posts critical of Brahminism, arguing that it is negation of the spirit of liberty, equality, and fraternity. The controversy began with Kannada actor Upendra posting a video on social media and Mr. Chetan’s response to it. In the video, Mr. Upendra appealed to people not to talk of caste, as it would only perpetuate it further. Mr. Chetan responded with another video, in which he denounced Brahminism as the root of caste inequality in Indian society. In the same video, he clarified that he was not against Brahmins as a community but against ‘Brahminism’, which he said has today crept into all communities and even other religions. When contacted, the actor told The Hindu, “I have done no wrong and I am confident that what I have said does not constitute any offence. I have only quoted Dr. B. R. Ambedkar and Periyar. The Kannada world has a long tradition of several Brahmins fighting Brahminism. These FIRs are an intimidation tactic. I will fight these cases legally.” In another post on Saturday he said, “We have a Constitutional responsibility to oppose Brahminism and all inequality.” Following the FIRs, many have expressed support for Mr. Chetan. “If criticising Brahminism has now become a crime, then a lot of us starting from Basavanna and Babasaheb Ambedkar are culpable,” said senior writer S.G. Siddaramaiah. Former chairman of Karnataka Backward Classes Commission C.S. Dwarakanath said the actor’s comments do not constitute an offence under any section of law. “Mr. Chetan has not condemned a community, but an ideology and practice that has historically been discriminatory and appealed to society to fight against it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-firs-against-kannada-actor-chetan/article34802105.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Log onto Clubhouse and get a job||Listening to conversations on Clubhouse can fetch you a job! Five companies from Tamil Nadu, including start-ups, got onto the invite-only audio social networking app on Saturday for recruiting candidates. And in the first 15 minutes, over 100 people got into the room called Gig Hiring. Together these firms had over 100 jobs on offer. “TenderCuts, Agira Technologies, Mastero Technology Services, Draup and iSource Group, which runs BillingParadise and CaptioningStar, will be participating in the first round of hiring. We intend to do this more often, and many people are looking for jobs now,” said Sivakumar Sadayappan, CEO of iSource Group and curator of this forum. “We hit upon this idea last week; thereafter, we had a brainstorming session, and we are now ready to hire,” he told The Hindu . The pitch and the offer The founders of the companies, along with their human resource teams, got onto Clubhouse and made a pitch for the organisation and laid out the details of the jobs on offer. Then the audience were allowed to ask questions to clear their doubts. And once this was done, potential candidates were cherry-picked and mapped with the recruiters. Nishanth Chandran, founder and CEO of TenderCuts, an omni-channel meat and seafood brand, said that before COVID-19 broke out, the company participated in job fairs and went for campus recruitments. “But both options are not possible now with the lockdown and other restrictions. So we thought why not explore this new opportunity,” he said. He pointed out that those logging onto Clubhouse are aspirational youngsters, the company’s target audience. Aravind Subramanian of Mastero Technology said, “We are looking to hire digital marketing professionals and business analysts. Clubhouse will be a great platform to target Gen Z audience who are digital savvy.” Asked how successful or feasible this model would be, Mr. Sadayappan said this was the first round, and if this formula worked, it would happen every week. He said the group was open to accommodating more companies looking at this platform for hiring.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/log-onto-clubhouse-and-get-a-job/article34802254.ece
13 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Total lockdown in parts of Chittoor corporation||The authorities of Chittoor Municipal Corporation have mooted complete shutdown in some parts as the daily COVID cases have been on the rise. Of the 50 divisions, the areas of Doddipalle and Murakambattu were kept under complete lockdown, barring essential services. Deputy SP (Law and Order) N. Sudhakar Reddy said that though the corporation and the surroundings were under lockdown from 2 p.m. till 6 a.m. next day, some divisions had been put under intensified lockdown. The Murakambattu and Doddipalle localities were under surveillance owing to the presence of cottage industries and density of workforce and their hectic movement. Municipal Commissioner Viswanath announced that a five-day total lockdown would be in place in Doddipalle and Murakambattu from June 12. To sensitise residents about the prevailing COVID situation in the corporation, the official along with the field staff and police personnel took out a march-past there. Barricades were erected in some of the residential areas where the COVID cases were high. Meanwhile, Chittoor district recorded 1,199 positive cases on Saturday, including 101 in Chittoor Corporation. While hte maximum number of cases were reported from the western mandals, the eastern mandals showed some respite.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/total-lockdown-in-parts-of-chittoor-corporation/article34802696.ece
13 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 50 wild elephants on prowl in Palamaner range||Forest officials of Chittoor West division are on alert following the presence of three herds comprising more than 50 elephants in Palamaner range in the last couple of days. A 20-member herd returned to the forest fringe village of Kothigutta on Friday night, hours after the electrocution of a female elephant. To add to the woes of the forested hamlets of Palamaner range, the herd found its way once again on Saturday morning, forcing the elephant-trackers to drive it back into the forests. Two more herds are reported to be moving in the same range. Crowds create problems Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar told The Hindu that it had become very tough to manage the crowds close to the raging herds. He said a village youth had a miraculous escape from a charging jumbo at Kothigutta village on Friday night. A big group of villagers, mostly youth, had converged at the forest fringe area to have a look at the wild jumbos. Lucky escape A youth tried to venture close to the herd to take selfie, but had to run for his life after a jumbo went after him. Receiving moderate injuries after tripping on the ground, the youth was rushed to the area hospital and his condition is said to be out of danger. “At present, the concentration of the wild elephants in large numbers has led to fear among the farmers as they are currently engaged in hectic activity for the kharif season. Though there is sufficient fodder and water inside the forests, the pachyderms are getting attracted to the sugarcane, paddy and tomato crops. We have advised farmers to abandon night vigil and move in groups, besides avoiding wearing white-coloured clothes,” the DFO said. The efforts of the forest watchers and elephant trackers to drive the herds into the forests were getting delayed owing to the presence of calves. Mr. Ravi Shankar said close to a dozen calves were sighted in the herds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-50-elephants-roaming-near-hamlets-in-chittoor/article34802107.ece
13 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure NREGA works are farmer-friendly’||Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday directed officials to ensure that the NREGA works were farmer-friendly. The Minister said that for the year 2021-22, the Jagananna Pachha Thoranam scheme of planting 6-foot long saplings would be implemented along a distance of 26,000 km in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ensure-nrega-works-are-farmer-friendly/article34802145.ece
13 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vaccination drive at old age homes in Guntur launched||District Collector Vivek Yadav said that the district administration is geared up to face any exigency should there be a third wave and that they are ensuring everyone in the district gets the jab to minimise the impact of the wave. After launching a vaccination drive at Anurag Old Age home in Ravindranagar on Saturday, the Collector inspected the vaccination programme at the Pattabhi Seetharamaiah School in Brindavan Gardens where students and differently-abled were being vaccinated. The daily tally in the district has come down to about 500 cases, and about 10,000 tests were being conducted every day, said Mr. Vivek Yadav. “We will continue to vaccinate frontline workers, senior citizens, people aged above 45 and mothers of children below five years at the 155 permanent vaccine centres across the district. There are 43 old age homes in the district and we are sending teams to vaccinate 1,200 inmates. We have also started a designated vaccine centre for students wishing to go abroad to pursue studies, and so far, 1,047 students have been vaccinated,” said Mr. Vivek Yadav. The Collector said that over 50% of those aged above 45 and over 95% of frontline workers have been vaccinated. “We are hopeful that the third wave may not be a reality, but even if it comes, we are geared up to face any situation. We have set up paediatric wards in all hospitals, recruited paediatricians and stocked up drugs and medicines,” said the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vaccination-drive-at-old-age-homes-in-guntur-launched/article34802699.ece
13 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Deep well discovered at Kondaveedu Fort||A deep well, probably dating back to the 14th-16th century, has been found atop the Kondaveedu Fort. Known as Vapi in Sanskrit, it is different from the usual wells as it has stairs for people to get down and fetch water. Preliminary findings reveal that the well could have been dug by the Reddi kings or Nawabs of Golconda. “The well measures 100 feet in length with 25 feet width and four chambers. The first chamber is 15 feet wide and has a depth of 35 feet, the second chamber has a depth of 20 feet. The well is located close to the king’s palace which means that the water drawn from the well was used in the palace. It could also have been used to feed elephants and horses, which were in large number. Many wells have been found atop the fort and they are deep, the probable origin for the adage, ‘Kondaveeti Chentadu’ (indicating a very long rope used for drawing water from a well),’’ says Kalli Siva Reddy, convener of the Kondaveedu Fort Development Committee. It was also written in many books that the Reddi kings had dug many wells in many parts of the State. Such wells are found in East Godavari district. The 24-foot deep and 18-foot wide wells have water filled up to 12 feet. They are built with bricks. “We have unearthed some wells by using local workers and we feel that many more could be found if the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) takes up excavation works,’’ says Mr. Siva Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/deep-well-discovered-at-kondaveedu-fort/article34802684.ece
13 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIM flays statements against Sunil Kumar||Criticising the statement of Vinay Joshi, convener of Legal Rights Observatory, Mumbai, against Additional DG, CID PV Sunil Kumar that the latter was making hate speeches against Hinduism, Ambedkar India Mission members said Mr. Joshi’s allegations were motivated and influenced by the Opposition parties, who had targeted Mr. Kumar. The Legal Rights Observatory is based in Maharashtra, and its convener Vinay Joshi claims that he is a RSS pracharak but RSS had never confirmed his credentials, says AIM Srikakulam coordinator T. Srinu. A number of senior IAS officers have come in support of Additional DG, CID, PV Sunil Kumar. Secretary, Telangana Social Welfare Residential Welfare Society R.S. Praveen Kumar and former IAS officer Dasari Sreenivasulu condemned the action of Mr. Joshi in writing a letter to Home Secretary alleging that Mr Sunil Kumar had made hate speeches against Hinduism in public meetings organised by Ambedkar India Mission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aim-flays-statements-against-sunil-kumar/article34802697.ece
13 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Correction||In the report titled ‘Krishnapatnam Port to get Rs. 1,448 crore for development’,’ published on June 12, 2021, it was erroneously published that the State government has given administrative sanction for Rs. 1,448 crore to promote the development of Krishnapatnam Port in Nellore district. The Andhra Pradesh Industrial Investment Corporation and National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust have formed as a Special Purpose Vehicle with equity participation of Central and State Government of Andhra Pradesh to establish, promote and facilitate the development of Krishnapatnam Industrial Node under Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. The government has accorded administrative sanction for an amount of Rs. 1,448 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/correction/article34802682.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land purchaser, AgriGold scam accused are same: CID||A former police constable who purchased 150 acres of land in Mahabubnagar district belonging Agri-Gold company in an auction and the accused persons in Agri-Gold misappropriation of funds appeared to be one and the same. This was stated by Telangana Crime Investigation Department (CID) officials in an affidavit filed in Telangana High Court in an interim application filed in connection with a PIL petition relating to misappropriation of funds of Agri-Gold depositors. CID SP T. Srinivasa Rao, who filed the affidavit, requested the court to dismiss an interim application filed by former constable B. Narender Reddy seeking possession of the lands which he purchased in auction. The petitioner was one of the benamis to the accused, the SP stated in the affidavit. Mr. Reddy hailed form a middle class family and worked as police constable earlier. It was impossible for a person of his financial status to purchase 150 acres of land (which belonged to Agri-Gold and auctioned following High Court directions). He paid Rs. 15.18 crore to purchase the land through auction. Investigators were collecting details of the former policeman’s Income Tax returns to ascertain if he had the financial capacity to purchase by paying over Rs. 15 crore, the affidavit filed before a division bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud said. The CID officials maintained that the accused in the case and the petitioner allegedly tried to sell properties of Agri-Gold company though further transactions on those properties were prohibited. Andhra Pradesh Advocate General S. Sriram informed the division bench that doubts were being raised over the persons behind purchase of a shopping complex belonging to Agri-Gold company in Vijayawada. Only a single bidder participated in the auction of the property conducted by State Bank of India. Telangana Special Government Pleader Sanjeev Kumar said that a counter affidavit was filed by the government in connection with an interim application questioning the delay in handing over the 150 acres of land purchased in an auction. He cited the report of the CID authorities who stated that the petitioner and the accused in Agri-Gold scam were the same. The matter was posted for June 25.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/land-purchaser-agri-gold-scam-accused-are-same-cid/article34802614.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crowdfunding helps child get Rs. 16-crore drug||The generosity of nearly 65,000 people has helped a three-year-old boy here get a life saving drug, billed as the world’s costliest at Rs. 16 crore, for treating spinal muscular atrophy, a rare genetic disease. Zolgensma, labelled as the “world’s most expensive drug” and is a single dose intravenous injection, was imported from the U.S. and administered to Ayaansh Gupta on Wednesday at a private hospital here in Telangana. The treatment has given a new lease of life to the child, who was diagnosed with SMA when he was just one year old. “This is an extremely rare condition which causes muscle weakness...the child will be unable to move his hands or legs, sit, stand or even walk. In fact, eating food is also difficult,” said his father Yogesh Gupta, working in a private firm here. The condition is also life threatening and the doctors said “my child’s life expectancy was three to four years”, he told PTI. Child discharged At first, it seemed impossible for the parents to raise Rs. 16 crore for one dose. But then they decided to do it through appeals on social media. In February, they started the crowdfunding campaign. Many celebrities, including Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma, Anil Kapoor, Ajay Devgn came forward to help the couple. A family friend reached out to an MP, who raised the issue of cost of the medicine in Parliament, following which the Centre gave Rs. 6 crore tax exemption. The child has been discharged from the hospital. Mr. Gupta thanked all the donors who helped them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crowdfunding-helps-child-get-rs-16-crore-drug/article34802101.ece
13 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cycling track in Kakinada park soon||Kakinada Municipal Corporation Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar has said that a cycling track will be laid around the Vivekananda park in the city. Recently, the civic body had created the space required for the facility by constructing a fencing in the park spread over 25 acres in the heart of the city. On Saturday, Mr. Swapnil inspected the modernisation works in the park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cycling-track-in-kakinada-park-soon/article34802707.ece
13 June 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appeal for CBI probe into rosewood felling in Kerala||While the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees in Wayanad roils the Kerala Assembly, environmental organisations in the district have sought an investigation by the Vigilance wing of the police or the CBI under the supervision of the High Court. The State government has set up a Special Investigation Team to probe the incident. “The massive felling of ancient rosewood trees in Wayanad by misinterpreting a government order by the timber lobby, with the alleged support of a group of top brass at the Secretariat and the Forest Department, is not an isolated incident,” said N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti, in a memorandum submitted to Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Since the involvement of officials of the Revenue and Forest departments and top leaders of political parties was suspected, an investigation by lower rank officials would make the probe farcical, he added. The government order issued by the Revenue Secretary on October 24, 2020, for felling rosewood trees on revenue land assigned for farmers was illegal, said Mr. Badusha. The silence of the senior officials in the Forest Department, despite getting a copy of the order the very next day, was inexplicable, he added. The District Public Prosecutor had advised the Wayanad District Collector and South Wayanad Divisional Forest Officer on January 12 that the felling was illegal. However, no steps were taken to prevent the loot, said Mr. Badusha. Though the tree felling was stopped later, the accused, including Anto Augustine, Roji Augustine, and Josekutty Augustine, were yet to be arrested. Instead, officials filed a police complaint against 68 farmers three days ago, when the issue came to light, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appeal-for-cbi-probe-into-rosewood-felling-in-kerala/article34802118.ece
13 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Islanders may observe Monday as ‘black day’||The Save Lakshadweep Forum, a collective of all political formations in the Union Territory which was formed to fight the reforms being pushed by Administrator Praful Khoda Patel, may observe a ‘black day’ on June 14, the day Mr. Patel is slated to arrive at Kavaratti for a week-long visit. A suggestion that came up at a meeting of the forum recently was that everyone should wear black masks and badge and protest in front of their homes on the day of Mr. Patel’s arrival. The meeting resolved to support filmmaker and Lakshadweep native Aisha Sultana, who has been charged with sedition for a television comment. The sole Bharatiya Janata Party member in the forum’s core committee did not support the decision. A press release issued by the forum said that none of its members should deviate from its core agenda which was to see the back of Mr. Patel, besides a roll back of the unwieldy, ecologically damaging draft reforms. Whether the BJP, which filed the complaint against Sultana and was against the clamour for the recall of Mr. Patel, should be retained in the forum was discussed and the party was given the option of leaving the forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/islanders-may-observe-monday-as-black-day/article34802111.ece
13 June 2021||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kozhikode warms to ‘Gadget Challenge’||The ‘Gadget Challenge’ launched by the Kozhikode district administration in Kerala on June 9 to help underprivileged students access online education is proving to be a big hit with the participation of welfare associations, local bodies, youth clubs and charity movements. Though the target is to reach out to around 5,000 students in the first phase, more needy students are likely to be covered. Following the district-level appeal and social media campaign, local bodies have started ward-level activities in support of the cause. Alumni association functionaries of private, aided, and government schools are in touch with school authorities to reach out to the maximum number of needy students. Representatives of the All Kerala Mobile Phone Technicians Associations said they had already handed over a new gadget to the St. Vincent School authorities. Teachers also requested their old classmates to help out. “Two students at a Government LP School in Thiruvambady panchayat, got gadgets sponsored by their teachers’ friends,” said a local body member. Some people also put forth a proposal that small sums could be collected from the public to buy gadgets. “Such a move will enable a lot more people to contribute to the cause,” said a resident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kozhikode-warms-to-gadget-challenge/article34802109.ece
13 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two kg gold jewellery seized at inter-State border||Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) on Saturday came across a large consignment of gold ornaments valued at Rs. 1.08 crore at Panchalingala check-post that was being transported from Hyderabad to Kurnool without proper documents. When the team was checking vehicles, 30-year-old K.G. Satyanarayana of Kurnool was found with two large bags containing 1.818 kg of gold in a hired vehicle allegedly without any proper documents. Kurnool DSP K.V. Mahesh said the Income Tax, GST, and Customs officials had been informed about the catch and it was in their purview to find out if all taxes were paid and if the source of gold was smuggled from foreign countries. While none has been arrested, the gold ornaments have been seized and would be released to the real owners based on clearance given by the three agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-kg-gold-jewellery-seized-at-inter-state-border/article34802693.ece
13 June 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeds and fertilizer shops raided, 23 persons arrested||Personnel of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Special Branch and the local police conducted raids on 98 fertilizer, pesticide and seed shops, godowns and distributors in the district on Saturday. Police seized the stock and sale registers and the bill books and other documents from many shops and were verifying them, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. “We will collect samples of the stocks from some shops and send them to the laboratory to check for spurious seeds and fertilizers. Stern action will be taken against the traders who cheat farmers,” the SP warned. Raids were conducted on shops in Gudivada, Nandigama, Avanigadda, Nuzvid, Machilipatnam and other places, Mr. Babu said. Police also conducted raids on prohibited gutkha and seized different brands of products, worth about Rs. 10.50 lakh. They booked 22 cases and arrested 23 persons, said SEB ASP Vakul Jindal. The SEB police booked 10 cases against illegal sale and smuggling of Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL). They seized 327 bottles of liquor and booked ten cases against the smugglers, Mr. Jindal said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeds-and-fertilizer-shops-raided-23-persons-arrested/article34802701.ece
13 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stop public hearing during COVID times’||The Human Right Forum (HRF) took strong objection to the manner in which environmental public hearings were held without meaningful participation by the public at a time of partial curfew. All the public hearings held so far should be conducted afresh and those to be held should be postponed to a later date, the HRF said. When COVID-19 was raging, the AP Pollution Control Board went ahead with public hearing in, among other places, Ballikurava, near Addanki in Prakasam district allegedly in violation of norms that were to be adhered to during the partial curfew and made the process a ‘farce’. The PCB is slated to organize six more public hearings in the districts of Prakasam and Nellore up to June 26. The Ministry of Environment and Forest and Climate Change (MOEF&CC) on September 14 last year had stated that public hearings with not more than 100 persons could be conducted when the first wave of coronavirus was petering out. “To invoke it now, during a deadly second wave when the virus is clearly more virulent and positive cases and fatalities are very high, is irresponsible and totally unacceptable,” HRF State General Secretary K.Sudha said. A public hearing is no wedding event where one can cap the number of people allowed to attend and participate, HRF State President U.G. Srinivasulu quipped.Public hearings under these circumstances were not just against environmental norms and the law, but also violative of people’s right to Life, he opined.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stop-public-hearing-during-covid-times/article34802700.ece
13 June 2021||Palakkad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haj pilgrimage from India cancelled||There will be no Haj pilgrimage from India this year too. State Haj Committee chairman C. Mohammed Faizy said on Saturday that Saudi Arabia decided not to permit any pilgrims from other countries in view of the COVID-19 spread. Although Saudi Arabia restricted this year’s Haj to 60,000 pilgrims, there was hope among Indians that at least 5,000 pilgrims would be allowed from India. There were 6,506 applicants for this year’s Haj from Kerala. More than 2,000 of them have accepted two doses of vaccine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/haj-pilgrimage-from-india-cancelled/article34802113.ece
13 June 2021||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete renovation of schools: MLA||Rajanagaram MLA Jakkampudi Raja on Saturday directed the officials concerned to complete the modernisation and beautification works of government schools in Rajanagaram, Korukonda and Seetanagaram mandals in East Godavari district. The Education Department officials said that the works were completed in 16 of the 31 selected schools with funding from the Sarva Siksha Abhiyan (SSA) in the Rajanagaram Assembly constituency. In Korukonda mandal, works were completed in the 23 schools under the ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-renovation-of-schools-mla/article34802706.ece
13 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Let her face law here: IS recruit’s mother||The Centre’s disinclination to permit the return of four Kerala women who had joined the Islamic State in Khorasan Province (ISKP), has shattered the confidence of Bindu Sampath, the mother of Nimisha, alias Fathima Isa, one of those languishing in an Afghanistan prison. Nevertheless, the Thiruvananthapuram native has resolved to continue her five-year-long battle to bring her daughter and granddaughter to India. Nimisha is said to have surrendered after her husband was killed in an attack in Afghanistan. “How can the government abandon us at a time of crisis? We never expected them to break our trust when my daughter could have been brought to her motherland after so many years,” Ms. Sampath asks from her home at Attukal, near Thiruvananthapuram. Appeals in vain The news reported by The Hindu came as a blow for Ms. Sampath who has been repeatedly petitioning leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar. “I have been knocking on all doors in New Delhi for many years. Sadly, none of our leaders has responded to my pleas. My son, an Army Major, and I have always served the country. Ironically, the Afghanistan authorities had responded to a mail seeking details of her well-being,” Ms. Sampath, a trustee of the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple, says. She urged the Centre to extradite Nimisha and her daughter to the country and face trial for the crimes she has committed. “I have full faith in our rule of law and the justice system. I have no qualms in letting my daughter face punishment for her mistakes. We only hope that it happens in our country and not in a foreign land.” Ms. Sampath says those who had “brainwashed” her daughter walk scot-free, despite her seeking action against them. “Five people, including Nimisha, who studied together in a private dental college in Kasaragod had left the country to join the extremist organisation. Besides, my daughter had revealed her room-mate’s role in convincing her to convert to Islam. No agency has bothered to investigate their roles,” she alleges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/let-her-face-law-here-is-recruits-mother/article34802115.ece
13 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 registration counters opened at Tirumala||Further simplifying the allotment of cottages and guest houses, the TTD on Saturday opened 11 new registration counters at six locations in Tirumala. Pilgrims can register their names at the counters and secure accommodation of their choice. Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the initiative would extend hassle-free service to the pilgrims. While one counter was set up at GNC toll gate, two each were opened at Rambagaicha and Kowsthubham rest houses, MBC, CRO and Balaji central bus station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-registration-counters-opened-at-tirumala/article34802685.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally breaches 18 lakh||The State’s COVID tally crossed 18 lakh with 6,952 new infections reported in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the same period 58 deaths, the lowest daily tally in two months, was reported. The cumulative infection tally reached 18,03,074  and the toll increased to  11,882. The last one lakh infections were reported in 11 days. Nearly half of the total infections were reported in 354 days during the first wave (March 2020- Feb 2021), while the other half were reported in the second wave in just 104 days. The recovery rate increased to 94.27% as the number of active cases came down to  91,417. The total recoveries stand at 16,99,775 including the 11,577 recoveries in the past day. The daily positivity rate of the 1,08,616 samples tested in the past day was 6.40%, the lowest in the past nine weeks. The daily positivity rate has been coming down gradually. During the past week, 6.4 lakh samples were tested with a positivity rate of 8.39%, while it was 12.53% for the 6.1 lakh samples tested the previous week. The overall positivity rate of 2.03 crore samples remains at 8.86%. Toll chart Prakasam district reported 11 deaths while Chittoor reported nine and East Godavari reported six new deaths. Anantapur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported five new deaths each while Srikakulam and West Godavari reported four new deaths each. Kurnool reported three deaths and Guntur and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. Kadapa and Nellore reported only one new death each. Chittoor and East Godavari reported more than one thousand new cases at 1,199 and 1,167 respectively. They were followed by West Godavari (663), Prakasam (552), Anantapur (550), Kadapa (456), Visakhapatnam (436), Guntur (426), Krishna (392), Srikakulam (383), Kurnool (251), Vizianagaram (249) and Nellore (228). The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,46,648), Chittoor (2,07,150), Guntur (1,56,808), West Godavari (1,50,893), Anantapur (1,49,227), Visakhapatna (1,44,733), Nellore (1,23,063), Kurnool (1,19,206), Prakasam (1,14,548), Srikakulam (1,13,978), Kadapa (1,01,142), Krishna (95,203) and Vizianagaram (77,580).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-breaches-18-lakh/article34802679.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up to handle third wave effectively: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Saturday urged the government to gear up and put a fool-proof system in place to effectively fight the possible third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Participating in a webinar on ‘Ways to Ensure Overall Well-being of Society’, organised as part of the ‘#Wemusttalk’ initiative of the NTR Memorial Trust, Mr. Naidu expressed serious concern over the extent of suffering and devastation caused by the first and second waves of the coronavirus to the lives of the people cutting across all sections of society. He said voluntary organisations and individual COVID warriors should contribute their mite, strengthening the hands of the government machinery. Actor and philanthropist Sonu Sood also participated in the discussions focussing on COVID-19 challenges and their solutions. Naidu lauds actor Lauding the actor’s help to the stranded migrant labourers during the first wave of the pandemic and for continuing the good work in the second wave, he said Mr. Sood had been reaching out to people in need of help and cited the example of the actor buying a tractor for a poor farmer in Madanapalle. He said such champions of humanitarian works should share their experiences to inspire others to work for the cause. Speaking about the services being extended by the NTR Memorial Trust, Mr. Naidu said besides tele-medicine services, it was supplying food to the COVID-hit persons. Over six oxygen generation plants had been set up and the trust had also written letters to frontline warriors, acknowledging their valuable services. He said to effectively battle the third wave, the government should leave no stone unturned and underscored the need to administer the vaccine to all. Pointing that COVID-19 cases were gradually subsiding, he said, however, this should not become a reason for complacency. Mr. Sonu Sood said every individual could become a part of the service activities to mitigate the woes of the COVID-affected people. “COVID-19 has taught this world empathy, humanity and humility. The enduring challenge will be to ensure sustainable livelihoods for the countless workers who had lost their everything to the first wave of the pandemic,” he said. The actor lauded Mr. Naidu’s contribution in developing the united Andhra Pradesh. “Hyderabad looks very beautiful and well-maintained and the city witnessed a rapid progress, thanks to Mr. Naidu’s efforts to strengthen the IT sector,” he said.  The enduring challenge will be to ensure sustainable livelihoods for the countless workers who had lost their everything to the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sonu Sood Actor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gear-up-to-handle-third-wave-effectively-naidu/article34802687.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four MNC steel manufacturers keen on investing Rs. 96,000 crore in State||Four multinational steel manufacturers – Hyundai Steels, POSCO, Tsingshan Holdings and JSW Steel – are among 49 big corporates that have evinced interest in setting up their units in the State. The aggregate investment likely to be made by them is about Rs. 1,25,572 crore. The investment of the four private sector steel giants having a global footprint is of the order of Rs. 96,000 crore. Hyundai Steels and POSCO are likely to invest Rs. 42,000 crore and Rs. 30,000 crore respectively, and the other two Rs. 12,000 crore each, according to the Industries Department officials. Panasonic, Phillips Carbon, Aditya Birla Group, Voltas, Patanjali Ayurved, TATA Coffee, Mondelez, Haier and IFB are some of the other large / mega companies that have shown interest in tapping the potential in the State. High EoDB ranking The government is in active discussions with them and is expecting that the reforms, which have earned it high Ease-of-Doing Business ranking, will clinch a good number of the deals. In the last two years, 65 large and mega industries have invested nearly Rs. 29,790 crore and generated employment for over 45,000 people, the official say. Besides, the State attracted Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) aggregating to nearly Rs. 2,115 crore between October 2019 and March 2021. Under the Industrial Development Policy 2020-23, the government is providing tailor-made incentives, including fiscal, for projects generating employment for more than 2,000 people. The land allotment policy has been revamped in order to reduce the upfront cost and curb hoarding. Land is now being allotted on lease-plus-buy model. Another significant thing is establishment of YSR APOne, a dedicated cell with a digital interface for the much-needed business facilitation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-mnc-steel-makers-plan-to-set-up-shop-in-ap/article34802116.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KLU receives Green Champion award||Koneru Lakshmaiah University (KLU) has been awarded ‘One District One Green Champion’ award by the Government of India. The award is presented to educational institutes for the outstanding contribution to Swachh Bharat initiative taken up by Mahatma Gandhi National Council of Rural Education, Department of Higher Education, Government of India. The parameters for winning the award include hygiene, cleanliness, usage of green & renewable energy, waste management, the green campus drive, besides observing post COVID-19 precautions, said KLU president Koneru Satyanarayana on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/klu-receives-green-champion-award/article34802150.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bringing eye care within reach of the poor||To prevent avoidable blindness and offer free treatment to the patients for chronic eye conditions such as corneal transplant, glaucoma, squint, retina and other surgeries within the State, APOnline, a division of APTOnline Limited, has collaborated with L.V. Prasad Eye Institute for effective implementation of the Andhra Pradesh Eye Health Programme. The partnership, which is in its second year, has set a target to perform 500 surgeries and provide free comprehensive eye care to over 10,000 patients from the economically backward sections every year. The patients receive treatment at the LVPEI’s Kode Venkatadri Chowdary campus at Tadigadapa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bringing-eye-care-within-reach-of-the-poor/article34802147.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects Pinnamaneni medical college||District Collector J. Nivas has asked the officials concerned to enhance medical infrastructure at the Dr. Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Institute of Medical Sciences & Research Foundation to treat more COVID and black fungus patients in the future. Mr. Nivas, along with other officials, inspected the teaching hospital with 500-beds for COVID treatment, including 250 oxygen beds and 20 ICU beds. He asked the principal P.S.N. Murthy to increase the number of beds and other facilities. He said that the government would provide medicines required to treat black fungus if the hospital started treatment for the same. Mr. Nivas said so far black fungus treatment was available only at GGH in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-pinnamaneni-medical-college/article34802690.ece
13 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII-Young Indians organise COVID vaccination drive||The Confederation of Indian Industry -Young Indians (CII-Yi) Amaravati chapter, and VM Bakery Pvt. Ltd. jointly organised a COVID vaccination programme at Auto Nagar here on Saturday. Vaccines were administered to 200 persons. CII-Yi Amaravati chapter chairperson Leena Chowdary said vaccination was the only effective way to fight against the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-young-indians-organise-covid-vaccination-drive/article34802148.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Travel and tourism sector reeling under negative growth||Despite contributing close to 10% to the GDP, the travel and tourism is among the worst-hit sectors ever since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The sector is estimated to be seeing a negative growth for the past 17 months, starting even before the pandemic had struck India, without a ray of hope in the near future. In the State, the sector had seen a negative growth of about 83% from April to December 2020, during the first wave which worsened during the second wave, despite the government announcing some proactive steps, according to industry captains. “As per a McKinsey report, the recovery of the sector to the 2019 level may kick-start as late as 2024,” said K. Vijay Mohan, president, Tours and Travel Associations of Andhra. The sector is looking at bankruptcies, closure of businesses and mass unemployment. On the verge of closure In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the association pointed out that with no income and lack of proper support both from State and Central governments, banks were not giving loans and there was no fund to maintain offices and pay salaries. “It is estimated that about 50% of the travel agents have almost become bankrupt and are on the verge of closing down their businesses, and if the situation continues 90% of them will go out of trade by year-end,” opined Mr. Vijay Mohan. According to him, the travel agents in the State employed close to 6,000 persons and 95% of the jobs were under threat. The association members urged the Chief Minister to come out with some stimulus package to bail out the travel sector. Other concessions sought include waiver of power bills, deferment of property tax for the years 2020 and 21, exemption from inter-State road taxes and intra-city tax for tourist buses and notifying tourism as a priority for vaccination. Hoping that the second wave would subside soon, the association members demanded that the government give industry status to travel sector, declare 2022 as the year of visit to Andhra Pradesh, open up beaches with a shack policy and private zones for foreigners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/travel-and-tourism-sector-reeling-under-negative-growth/article34802689.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw decision to revise property tax method: BJP||Former Visakhapatnam MLA and BJP leader P. Vishnu Kumar Raju demanded that the State government immediately withdraw the decision to revise the method of fixing property tax which he said would impose a severe burden on people. He said that it was very unfortunate that the government took the decision when people were facing problems due to the pandemic. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he strongly condemned the proposal to levy property tax based on the market value of the property. He said that before taking such a decision, the government should have taken the public opinion into consideration. Party MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that in the name of implementing welfare schemes, the YSRCP government has made the State cash-strapped. Mr. Raju and Mr. Madhav criticised the YSRCP for allegedly trying to lease several government properties in the district. The BJP would take up programmes in the name ‘Vizag not for sale’ against the decision and would also go legally, they added. BJP urban president M. Raveendra and senior leaders Suhasini Anand also spoke||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/withdraw-decision-to-revise-property-tax-method-bjp/article34802717.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees five deaths, 436 new COVID cases||A total of 436 new COVID-19 infections were reported in the last 24 hours ending Saturday morning taking the cumulative tally to 1,45,245 in the Visakhapatnam district. The district also saw recovery of 920 persons from the coronavirus. According to the bulletin released by the Health Department, the death toll increased to 981 as five more persons succumbed to the virus. The number of recoveries steadily increased in the past two weeks and now stands at 1,37,770. Meanwhile, the number of active case has declined to 6,494.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-five-deaths-436-new-covid-cases/article34802713.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pandemic exacerbating gender-based violence’||COVID-19 is exposing women to greater health risks, threatening livelihoods, exacerbating gender-based violence and pushing women and children into extreme poverty, particularly those living in the most marginalised communities, said Columbia University Medical Centre Public Psychiatry Education Director Stephanie M.Le Melle on Saturday. She was delivering the keynote address in a meet on ‘Stress Coping: Strategies to De-stress’ organised by GITAM University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-exacerbating-gender-based-violence/article34802714.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested, juvenile taken into custody in 7 cases||The city police on Saturday arrested two persons and also took a juvenile into their custody for allegedly being involved in seven crimes in the city. In one case, Kancharapalem (Crime) police arrested S. Pardhasaradhy (30), a resident of Arilova, for allegedly committing theft of four auto-rickshaws at four places, one each at One Town and Pendurthy, and two at Kancharapalem areas. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that the accused was earlier involved in motorcycle thefts at various police stations and had gone to jail. He also has a suspect sheet in Arilova police station. The stolen auto-rickshaws were recovered from the accused. Booty recovered In another case, the city police teams arrested 24-year-old Balaga Kishore alias Gutkha Paandu from Jagadamba region and took a juvenile into their custody, for allegedly being involved in three house break-ins at various areas. The police have recovered 52.82 grams of gold ornaments, eight tolas of silver ornaments and a few other valuables, all worth Rs. 1.35 lakh. Police said that the accused was earlier involved in 12 cases.Both the accused were sent in remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-arrested-juvenile-taken-into-custody-in-7-cases/article34802716.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All lands encroached by TDP leaders will be taken back’||YSR Congress Party(YSRCP) city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas Yadav has refuted the allegations made by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) members that the YSRCP has been involved in encroaching lands in Visakhapatnam district. Addressing the media here on Saturday, he said that the State government was taking back all the lands which were encroached by the TDP leaders. Mr. Vamsi Krishna alleged that the TDP leaders were not able to digest the development being done by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy in the district and were making baseless allegations to divert attention of people. He said that TDP Supremo N. Chandrababu Naidu and his son Nara Lokesh should stop working through social media handles and verify facts before making allegations. Mr. Vamsi Krishna alleged that TDP leaders, including Ganta Srinivasa Rao, Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, Palla Srinivasa Rao and others, have encroached government lands at Bheemili, Pendurthy, Gajuwaka, Anandapuram and many other places during their ruling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-lands-encroached-by-tdp-leaders-will-be-taken-back/article34802715.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed on COVID pregnant woman||Doctors from King George Hospital (KGH) have performed a delicate surgery on a nine-month-old pregnant woman, who was a COVID-19 patient and was also being treated on ventilator, and successfully delivered baby. According to the officials, a pregnant woman from Daba Gardens area, Jayalakshmi, was admitted to KGH after being infected with COVID-19. Due to lung infection, she was being given treatment on ventilator. A team of doctors, including gynaecologist Kavitha, Murali Krishna, Padma Leela, Neeraja, Amritha, Tripathi and Bharathi, have performed the surgery. According to the doctors, the new born has tested COVID-19 negative. However, despite the best efforts by the doctors, the mother did not survive and she died on Saturday night. Congratulating the doctors for successful delivery of the baby, Heath Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas said that the government would take care of the family of Jayalakshmi. Meanwhile the team of doctors were seen visibly upset and had become emotional while conveying the bad news to the officials and family members of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/delicate-surgery-performed-on-covid-pregnant-woman/article34802718.ece
13 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet on June 16 to find solution to temple land issue||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said that all issues relating to Simhachalam devasthanam, including the ‘panchagramalu’ issue, will be sorted out soon. He visited the temple on Saturday on the occasion of his birthday and spoke to the reporters after having a darshan of the presiding deity. He said that a meeting will be conducted at the Collectorate on June 16, to find a solution to the land problems in the five villages of Simhachalam. He said that the meeting will be attended by Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas and MP V. Vijay Sai Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/meet-on-june-16-to-find-solution-to-temple-land-issue/article34802719.ece
13 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary club builds crematorium||Kailash Bhoomi constructed by the Rotary Club Central here will ensure a decent final journey for the citizens, said the club members. A philanthropist and former Councillor Meka Kasi Visweswarudu and his wife M. Ananta Lakshmi’s initiative, it is expected to serve a good cause as final rites are not being performed properly for COVID-19 victims and others due to a lack of basic infrastructure at the four crematoriums here. The couple’s initial donation of Rs. 25 lakh prompted other Rotary Club members and donors to pool Rs. 2 crore for the construction of the crematorium at Thotapalem in four acres given by the municipal corporation two years ago. At a media conference here on Saturday, Kailash Bhoomi president and past president of the club Gudisha Shivakumar and the club’s district governor-elect (3020) Madipilli Ramarao said that four platforms, continuous water supply, bathrooms, lockers, firewood storage facility and gallery were available in the landscaped crematorium. Kailash Bhoomi secretary and the club president Poosarla Sunitha said that many members had worked hard to make the crematorium ready to ensure decent final rites as per traditions and customs for COVID-19 victims and others. Club secretary Ajay Mohta, past president P. Jayakrishna, members K.R.K. Raju and R. Sankar Reddy were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rotary-club-builds-crematorium/article34802709.ece
13 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops warned against employing child labour||Parvatipuram Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Subhash on Saturday warned that stern action would be taken against the traders and others who employed children to work in their shops and premises. Speaking at a programme organised by Integrated Rural People Welfare Association on World Day Against Child Labour, he urged people to inform police and labour departments if they found child labour in hotels, shops and other places. IRPWA director P.K. Prakasha Rao said they were striving to provide education for child workers free of cost, by convincing parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shops-warned-against-employing-child-labour/article34802705.ece
13 June 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CJI to visit Yadadri temple||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana would visit the Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple for darshan and offer special prayers on Monday, Minister G. Jagadish Reddy informed media persons on Saturday. In the evening, along with Collector Anita Ramachandran, Mr. Reddy had a look at the trial run of temple lighting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cji-to-visit-yadadri-temple/article34802591.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala focusses on capital to reduce spread||As State capital Thiruvananthapuram entered a two-day total lockdown on Saturday, Kerala reported 13,832 new cases from 1,08,734 samples. The test positivity rate (TPR) showed a dip at 12.72%. Active cases stood at 1,29,488 and the State added 171 recent deaths to its official list of COVID mortality on Saturday. New patients admitted in hospitals at 2,132 represented a significant decrease from the previous day. Two weeks ago, an average of 3,500 patients were admitted on a daily basis. The cumulative case burden stood at 27,16,655 cases. The active case load dropped in all districts and in all except six districts, it was less than 10,000 patients. Thiruvananthapuram was the only district where new cases, active cases and hospitalisations showed a rise over the past two days. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest of new cases at 2,234, Kollam 1,592, Ernakulam 1,539, Malappuram 1,444, Palakkad 1,365, Thrissur 1,319, Kozhikode 927, Alappuzha 916, Kottayam 560, Kasaragod 475, Kannur 442, Pathanamthitta 441, Idukki 312 and Wayanad 266 cases. While Thiruvananthapuram district saw a big fall in new cases last week, its TPR rose to 16.88% on Friday. To avert yet another wave, the administration clamped down on public movement. The city remained largely deserted during the initial hours with the police screening vehicles at 70 check-points and permitting only those needing emergency medical attention or others specifically exempted. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation suspended long distance services for the weekend. Special services to hospitals and to transport teachers for SSLC and Plus Two examinations in the district would be run. Those going to the airport and railway stations would be allowed with tickets or travel documents. Medical stores and shops selling milk, vegetables and food items could function. Only home delivery of food parcels would be allowed. The curbs cover early morning and evening walks. 144 deaths in Karnataka Karnataka on Saturday reported 9,785 new cases, 2,454 of them from Bengaluru Urban. With 144 deaths, the toll rose to 32,788. The State had 1,91,796 active cases. While the TPR for the day touched 6.61%, the Case Fatality Rate was 1.47%. Andhra Pradesh’s tally crossed 18 lakh with 6,952 new infections on Saturday and 58 more deaths were reported, the lowest in two months. The daily TPR of 1,08,616 samples was 6.40%. Prakasam district reported 11 deaths, Chittoor nine and East Godavari six. Anantapur, Krishna and Visakhapatnam reported five new deaths each, Srikakulam and West Godavari four each, Kurnool three and Guntur and Vizianagaram two each. Kadapa and Nellore reported one new death each. Chittoor and East Godavari reported 1,199 and 1,167 fresh cases respectively. The daily TPR in Telangana rose to 1.47% on Saturday from 1.38% on Friday as 1,771 new cases and 13 deaths were reported. There were 21,983 active cases in the State.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-focuses-on-capital-to-reduce-spread/article34802120.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Choicest varieties||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/choicest-varieties/article34802703.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agonising wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/agonising-wait/article34802721.ece
13 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Water filters distributed||To help Adivasis living in the far-flung tribal pockets of the Bhadrachalam Agency to protect themselves from water-borne and vector-borne diseases this monsoon season, the police distributed water filters and mosquito nets to tribal people of remote villages in Charla mandal on Saturday. As part of the outreach initiative, the police embarked on distribution of water filters and mosquito nets in interior tribal habitations in the Agency mandals under the supervision of SP Sunil Dutt, sources said. The Charla police led by Officer on Special Duty V Tirupati and Bhadrachalam ASP G Vineeth handed over water filters, mosquito nets and television sets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-filters-distributed/article34802624.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spiralling prices of veggies and edible oil sting common man||With the rise in diesel cost, prices of vegetables and other provisions are set to skyrocket further, serving the common man’s platter a double blow during the pandemic. Already, edible oil and vegetables have become dearer in the past one year since the lockdown was imposed during first wave of COVID-19. Prices of edible oils have nearly doubled since last year, reportedly due to international price rise and heavy dependence on imports. “Before the first lockdown last year, I remember buying sunflower oil for Rs. 95 per litre. Even two months ago, I bought it for about Rs. 120. Now, the price has gone up to Rs. 178 in the supermarket. The rise has been rather steep,” says K. Mamatha, a homemaker. Pickle season Similar is the price rise of groundnut oil and rice bran oil, while gingelly oil has spiralled to anywhere between Rs. 275 and Rs. 330 based on the brand due to pickle season. With vegetable prices also showing an upward trend of late, the pockets of poor men have begun to shudder. In Rythu Bazaars across the city, prices of veggies have gone up by 60% to 100% in the past one month, which are sure to make a big dent in the common man’s wallets. At Mehdipatnam Rythu Bazaar, for example, the price of carrot per kg has gone up from Rs. 25 a month ago to Rs. 40 now; field beans from Rs. 28 to Rs. 60 per kg; okra (or lady’s fingers) from Rs. 18 to Rs. 35; green chilli from Rs. 23 to Rs. 40; bitter gourd from Rs. 21 to Rs. 35 and so on. Outside the Rythu Bazaars, the prices are spiralling out of control. Lady’s finger, for example, is being sold at Rs. 75 a kilo, and brinjal at Rs. 60 a kg. “Since we are wary of exposing ourselves to the crowds at Rythu Bazaars, we are forced to buy from vending carts and paying a lot more. Taking advantage of the situation, they are charging more,” says Suneetha, a buyer. However, the vendors differ. “We are not getting anything for less than Rs. 50-60 per kg at the wholesale markets,” says Anjamma, a vendor from Kothapet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spiralling-prices-of-veggies-and-edible-oil-sting-common-man/article34802607.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pace of COVID infection slowing down||The number of days taken to record one set of 50,000 COVID-19 cases in Telangana has been increasing, indicating a decline in the rate of infection. The State breached the 6 lakh-mark on Friday. After the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, it took the State 144 days to reach the first set of 50,000 cases. The first infection in the State was recorded on March 2 and the 50,000-mark was reached on July 23 last year. That was the longest period taken to clock the milestone. The shortest time taken to detect close to 50,000 cases was this year, during the peak of second wave — 49,007 cases logged between April 26 and May 1. Thereafter, the number of days taken to record another set of 49,000-50,000 cases has been increasing gradually. It took 20 days to record the last set of almost 50,000 cases and touch the 6 lakh-mark. The number of tests, too, have increased simultaneously. The second wave of COVID-19 pandemic in Telangana set in during the second week of March 2021 and after causing much emotional and financial devastation, it is on the decline now. However, officials have urged people to continue maintaining COVID-appropriate behaviour and get vaccinated at the earliest to prevent severity of infection, if one were to contract it somehow. Arrangements to manage a possible third wave of the pandemic are under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pace-of-covid-infection-slowing-down/article34802605.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eggs vanish from the poor’s platter||Egg, the poor man’s protein, is now hardly available for the poor, thanks to the mad rush created by the COVID-19 pandemic. Its price has reached never-before proportions, with a dozen eggs costing close to Rs. 75 across shops. This is probably the first time that the price of an egg has crossed Rs. 6. The protein food, which needed constant egging previously, is now the most sought-after source of nourishment. Since the onset of COVID-19, doctors have been advising a diet rich in proteins, especially eggs, in order to fight the infection effectively. Higher consumption While the demand for eggs has decidedly risen among the infected groups, those fearing the infection have also begun to consume them more. “I hardly ate more than 12 eggs per month before coronavirus. Now, I make sure that I eat two eggs per day to boost my immunity,” says Sudhakar Reddy, a consumer. Production Poultry industrialists attribute the price rise to the losses incurred the previous year during the COVID lockdown. “During last year’s lockdown, rotation of the layer chicks had been stalled temporarily because there was no inter-state trade. The entire production of Telangana was locked up within the state, due to which the prices had fallen up to Rs. 2 per egg. Later, it took some time for production to bootstrap, due to which the prices now have been rising,” says P. Vidyasagar, a poultry businessman. He adds the unusual demand for eggs has created scarcity, contributing to a price rise. “Communities which traditionally avoid eggs have started consuming them now, due to the fear of pandemic,” he says. Sanjeev Chintawar, business manager of National Egg Coordination Committee, attributes the high price to increase in the cost of poultry feed. “Prices of soyabean cakes and maize have increased phenomenally, and production cost has risen by 40% for the poultry farmer. Production has come down, as many farmers have shut business due to high costs. For 3.7 crore production in Telangana, now only 3 crore eggs are being produced. Nationally, the production has come down from 30 crore to 24 crore, while the consumption has been on the rise due to the pandemic,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eggs-vanish-from-the-poors-platter/article34802609.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Petrol price set to breach the Rs. 100-mark in Hyderabad in ‘a day or two’||Petrol prices have gone beyond the Rs. 100-mark in places such as Adilabad, and a similar trend is expected in Hyderabad soon. At the moment, the price of petrol in Hyderabad is Rs. 99.90 per litre. According to industry experts, with the daily price revision, the price per litre is expected to cross the Rs. 100 mark in a day or two. Rajiv Amaram, joint secretary of Consortium of Petroleum Dealers, who has been tracking fuel prices since 1995, said the price per litre of diesel and petrol in Hyderabad on June 1 was Rs. 93.08 and Rs. 98.20 respectively. The price per litre gradually climbed up to Rs. 94.82 and Rs. 99.90, respectively. This means that from June 1 to June 12, the price per litre of diesel and petrol increase by around Rs. 1.70 each. From May 12 to June 12, the difference in price per litre for diesel and petrol has been Rs. 4.76 and Rs. 4.23 respectively. While the base price of petrol on June 4 was approximately Rs. 35.70 per litre, the consumer ended up paying much more by way of charges and taxes, which include freight, excise duty, value added tax levied by the State, charges of oil companies and dealer commission. “There has been an increase in the petrol prices since 1995 by nearly 250%. The prices are not uniform in all districts. This is dependent on transport charges from refinery to depots of oil companies,” he said. Telangana Petroleum Dealers Association president Amarender Reddy said with the daily revision in fuel prices, it is only a matter of time that petrol prices will touch Rs. 100 in Hyderabad. “As on today (June 12), price of petrol per litre in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits has not crossed Rs. 100. But we can say that it will reach the number in a day or two,” he said. It has been a long-standing demand of trade unions such as the Telangana Road Transport Corporation Employees Union and the Telangana Mazdoor Union that the losses on account of frequent price increase of fuel be ameliorated by bringing diesel under the Goods and Service Tax. The Telangana Lorry Owners Association, an affiliate of All India Motor Transport Congress and South India Motor Transport Association, opined that the Telangana government should take measure to mitigate losses which transporters have incurred. “We have been saying that diesel should be brought under GST. This would bring about uniformity. The only thing we could do is ask that the government waive off Motor Vehicle Tax which is paid quarterly, and in advance,” association president G. Durga Prasad said. Khursheed Ali from the Hyderabad Secunderabad Bus Owners Association also said that the organisation has sought tax exemptions. “We are private bus owners and depend on tours and marriages, etc. There is no business at all because of the lockdown. Diesel prices will affect us when we run buses. We are hoping to get tax exemptions,” he said. According to Hindustan Petroleum Corporation website, petrol in Adilabad cost Rs. 101.98 per litre while diesel costs Rs. 96.76 per litre on Saturday. In Khammam, the prices were Rs. 100 and Rs. 95 per litre, respectively.  We want diesel to be brought under GST for uniformity. We ask that the government waive off Motor Vehicle Tax which is paid quarterly, and in advance. G. Durga Prasad, President, Telangana Lorry Owners Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/petrol-price-set-to-breach-the-rs-100-mark-in-hyderabad-in-a-day-or-two/article34802610.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Focus on repeat offenders of spurious seed: Minister||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy has asked task force teams comprising police and agriculture officials to focus on repeat/habitual offenders of spurious seed and not to register cases on “mistakes” which could be rectified. At a virtual meeting held on Saturday with district-level teams of the task force along with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Agriculture Secretary M. Raghunandan Rao, Inspector General of Police Y. Nagi Reddy, Managing Director of Seed Development Corporation K. Keshavulu, the Minister said recent efforts of the task force had created fear among spurious seed producers and sellers. He suggested that task force teams not register cases for reasons such as receipts of seed sold not having signature/stamp of the seller. Lack of signature on the receipt would not mean that the seed sold was spurious and cases of cheating should not be booked, the Minister said and direct the sellers to sign the receipts.  Seed seized Khammam Special Correspondent writes: Less than a week after busting a spurious chilli seed racket, the Enkoor police arrested four members of a gang involved in sale of spurious chilli seed. Seed packets worth about Rs. 1.43 crore were seized from the arrested accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/focus-on-repeat-offenders-of-spurious-seed-minister/article34802616.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||TS urges Centre to increase borrowing to 5% of GSDP||The cash-strapped Telangana government has once again raised the demand for increase in its borrowing limit from 4% to 5% of the GSDP under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management to give a push to its borrowing capacity. The demand was made by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao at the 44th GST Council meeting held virtually under the chairmanship of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Mr. Rao had made the same plea at the last GST Council meeting to tackle the impact on State’s finances due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown and slowdown in the economic activity. But, the Centre was unmoved. Mr. Rao observed at Saturday’s meeting that increase in the FRBM borrowing limits would spur the State and country’s economic activity and would improve employment generation. He explained that Telangana had suffered a revenue loss of about Rs. 4,100 crore due to lockdown in May alone. ‘Rough weather’ He brought to the notice of the GST Council that Telangana’s finances were sailing through the rough weather due to the lockdown for over a month now and slowdown in the economic activity due to the COVID-19 impact. The Minister’s office stated that the Union Minister had responded to the State’s request and assured to examine it. Mr. Harish Rao further appealed to the GST Council to take up free vaccination to all sections (age groups) of people at the earliest to save lives and also to contain the impact of COVID-19 on the economic activity. He suggested import of COVID vaccine from overseas to take up planned and speedy vaccination on a massive scale. Speeding up massive vaccination exercise was the dire necessity as the public health experts and scientists were forecasting/warning the inevitability of third wave of novel coronavirus spread in the country. The first two waves of the infectious virus spread had battered the country’s economy badly and it was only through massive vaccination it could be brought on the rails again. The Finance Minister supported the proposal of Group of Ministers led by Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma to reduce the tax on COVID-19 essentials such as medical oxygen, and other medical equipment. Mr. Harish Rao attended the virtual meeting from B.R.K.R. Bhavan, the makeshift Secretariat of Telangana, along with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and senior officials from Finance, Revenue, Medical and Health and other departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-urges-centre-to-increase-borrowing-to-5-of-gsdp/article34802619.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spl. task forces constituted at zonal level||Special task forces (STFs) have been constituted at zonal level of GHMC as per the TS-bPASS rules. They will be headed by the respective zonal commissioners and constitute the superintendent engineer and deputy commissioner of police (Law & Order) as members, besides the Joint/Deputy Commissioner as nodal officer. The task forces were constituted through orders by the GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar recently, which also specified the powers and functions of the force. The STFs will have required number of enforcement teams functioning under them, for taking up action against unlawful buildings. With respect to complaints against unauthorised structures, the teams should be allotted on random basis for verification and initiation of action. Site inspection should be carried out within three days of receiving the complaint. The enforcement teams would be provided enough number of manpower, vehicles and equipment for demolition of unauthorised structures, including cameras, and tablets. It is also the duty of the STF to inform the Registration authorities about illegal properties, for their inclusion in the prohibitory register, and also the Electricity, and Water Supply Departments to refrain from giving connections. Enforcement teams should also make random inspections, and submit Action Taken Report to the STF, and the work should be reviewed by STF at least once a fortnight. The STF is also authorised to levy a penalty up to 25% of the value of the land in case the owner/occupier obstructs their job, or slap criminal cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spl-task-forces-constituted-at-zonal-level/article34802592.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Passing out parade at MCEME||Twenty eight young Gentlemen Cadets (GCs) of the 37th course of the Technical Entry Scheme passed out from the portals of Cadets Training Wing (CTW) of the Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME) in Secunderabad at a passing out parade organised at Cariappa Drill Square here on Saturday. The parade was presided by Lieutenant General TSA Narayanan, Commandant, MCEME. GC Ashish Kumar was awarded the prestigious GOC-in-C, ARTRAC gold medal for standing first in the overall order of merit, while Shivaji Platoon was awarded the coveted GOC-in-C, ARTRAC Banner for winning the Inter Platoon Championship for Spring Term-2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/passing-out-parade-at-mceme/article34802599.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No lands for 2BHK houses, but plenty for selling: BJP leader||Former MLA and BJP leader N.V.S.S. Prabhakar has questioned the sincerity of the government in declaring that it was not finding lands for construction of double bedroom houses and implementing three-acre land policy to Dalits but finding the same government lands for selling. At a press conference here, he said the Telangana agitation itself was to save precious lands of Telangana from encroachment or sale by rulers. Mr. Prabhakar also alleged that friends of Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao were involved in land dealings. Terming the Transfer of Development Right certificates as a huge scam to legalise the occupation of Lakeshore lands and lake lands as well, he demanded that all the 807 certificates issued be cancelled, and an inquiry be launched. The alignment of roads was being changed to appreciate the value of TRS leaders who bought lands near the roads. Mr. Prabhakar alleged that not even seven persons were punished in the last 7 years of TRS rule for selling spurious seeds and it continued unabateddespite farmers losing their crops and lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-lands-for-2bhk-houses-but-plenty-for-selling-bjp-leader/article34802622.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Daily positivity rate marginally up||The daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infection in Telangana increased to 1.47% on Saturday from 1.38% on Friday as 1,771 new cases and 13 deaths were reported in the State during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Saturday. The cumulative total of cases and deaths has gone up to 6,02,089 and 3,569, respectively. A total of 2,384 infected persons were declared recovered from the infection during the day, taking their total to 5,76,487. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, the number of active cases stood at 21,983 as of Saturday evening with 9,342 undergoing treatment in various hospitals and the remaining in institutional and home isolation. The samples tested for coronavirus infection on Saturday were 1,20,525 and reports of 1,380 persons were awaited. The positive cases reported in the State during the day were above 100 in five districts — Hyderabad (171), Nalgonda (157), Khammam (149), Bhadradri-Kothagudem (107) and Medchal-Malkajigiri (104). In 23 other districts, they were in double digits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/daily-positivity-rate-marginally-up/article34802602.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Govt. moves to check child marriage||The State government is taking up a pilot project for preventing child marriage in Mahabubabad district as part of the larger objective to make Telangana child marriage-free in the coming years. At a virtual meet held on the issue from Hyderabad on Saturday, Minister for Child Welfare, Women Development and Tribal Welfare Sathyavathi Rathod said the focus should be on preventing child marriage rather than stopping the marriage at the eleventh hour – at the marriage ceremony. She suggested that the officials take up massive awareness drive to educate parents against child marriage including educating village elders, religious leaders and priests. She also stressed the need to educate village-level officials to prevent the child marriage by bringing the issue to the notice of the higher authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-moves-to-check-child-marriage/article34802617.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ask defector-MLAs to quit: Ponnam to KCR||TPCC working president and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar has demanded that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ask for the resignation of Congress MLAs who defected to the ruling party after being elected on the Congress ticket. In a statement here, he said since Eatala Rajender had resigned as MLA on moral grounds before joining the BJP, Chief Minister too should ask such Congress MLAs to resign and seek fresh mandate. He said KCR had failed on all fronts and had left people to their fate in the COVID times. However, he was more interested in politics than serving people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ask-defector-mlas-to-quit-ponnam-to-kcr/article34802621.ece
13 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Expedite desilting of nalas: Minister||Minister for Animal Husbandry, Fisheries and Cinematography T. Srinivas Yadav has instructed the GHMC officials to expedite the desilting of the city nalas, as the monsoons have already entered the State. He asked them to inspect the progress of the works regularly on the field. During a review meeting with officials, he asked them to conduct a survey on encroachments along the nalas and lakes, so that the poor people can be evacuated and rehabilitated in the double bedroom housing projects. He also advised them to prepare a plan and estimates for permanent solution to prevent flooding, instead of repetitive temporary measures. Use latest machinery in desilting works wherever possible to minimise deployment of manpower keeping in view the safety of workers, he said. Zonal commissioners, Chief Engineers, Enforcement officials, Engineering and other higher officials attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/expedite-desilting-of-nalas-minister/article34802593.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dodla Dairy to open Rs. 520-crore IPO||Integrated dairy company Dodla Dairy has fixed a price band of Rs. 421-Rs. 428 per equity share for its Initial Public Offer (IPO), to raise Rs. 520 crore, which opens on June 16. The IPO comprises a fresh issue aggregating up to Rs. 50 crore and and offer for sale of up to 10,985,444 equity shares.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dodla-dairy-to-open-rs-520-crore-ipo/article34802597.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Secretariat complex goes green||The Secretariat complex under construction has been registered with the Indian Green Building Council of Confederation of Indian Industry. Minister Vemula Prashant Reddy said the complex is being constructed with minimum impact on environment resulting in energy savings of at least 30 to 50%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secretariat-complex-goes-green/article34802598.ece
13 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam calls on Chief Justice||TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy paid a courtesy call on N.V. Ramana, Chief Justice of India, in Raj Bhavan on Saturday. He conveyed his appreciation to the CJI for increasing the strength of Telangana High Court to 42 judges and also his announcement of social and regional justice in appointment of HC judges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uttam-calls-on-chief-justice/article34802601.ece
13 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drive to vaccinate 29K Singareni staff, family members||The management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has decided to launch a mega 10-day vaccination drive for staff from June 13. At a virtual meet held on Friday, CMD N. Sridhar asked the officials to make arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/drive-to-vaccinate-29k-singareni-staff-family-members/article34802613.ece
13 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Minister inaugurates police station||Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali said Telangana police tops the country in maintenance of law and order. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday after inaugurating the newly constructed police station at a cost of Rs. 1.1 crore in Sangareddy One Town limits along with Legislative Council Pro-tem speaker V. Bhoopal Reddy, the Minister said that the government is according top priority for the welfare of policemen. “As part of maintenance of law and order, we have established CC cameras across the State -- and about 70% of such cameras in the country are in Telangana. SHE teams were established in the State for the protection of women and Bharosa Centres were established for this purpose,” said Mr. Ali adding that about 80,000 vacancies in the police department were filled in two phases and another 20,000 posts will be filled shortly. Police Housing Corporation chairman Damodar Rao, IGP Stephen Ravindra, Nizamabad Range IG Shiva Shankar Reddy, Superintendent of Police S Chandrasekhar Reddy and others participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/minister-inaugurates-police-station/article34802595.ece
13 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Doctor ends life||A young doctor committed suicide by jumping into a tank at Husnabad on Friday and the body was retrieved on Saturday, ACP Mahender said. On Friday, Rajesh wrote to his mother that he was tahking his life and no one was responsible. His footwear and dress were found at Ellamma tank. The Husnabad police registered a case.    (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: 4060202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/doctor-ends-life/article34802623.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Ardha Shathabdham’ movie review: Interesting ideas and an incoherent narration mar this Karthik Rathnam and Naveen Chandra film||Ardha Shathabdham joins the string of recent Telugu films where the story unfolds in a less-explored interior region of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh and mirrors the native milieu. Director Rawindra Pulle takes us into a hamlet in Telangana (filmed in Nirmal and adjacent areas of Nizamabad) in the early 2000s, where the fault lines of caste still run deep. He questions why archaic norms are adhered to even at the turn of the new millennium. It’s a relevant premise. When divisive forces are at work, a seemingly random incident is enough to stoke deep-rooted hatred and spark violence, as shown in the film. Rawindra tries to ask why humanity cannot rise above caste divisions to uphold the tenets of the Indian Constitution. The film looks at the social fabric issues through its myriad characters — a former Naxal, a youngster in the throes of a romance and seeking job prospects in Dubai, a police officer who is frustrated at having to carry out encounter killings, a politician who doesn’t flinch before doing something unjust, and the villagers who are caught up in their own ideas of caste-based social norms. All this might have seemed interesting on paper, but doesn’t translate to a cohesive and absorbing narrative. The opening sequence gives a glimpse of the fissures in the village, with a chieftain declaring that people of a certain caste should continue the work they have been doing over generations, and cannot dream of soaring higher. Oblivious to all this is the love-struck Krishna (Karthik Rathnam) who has been holding a candle for childhood sweetheart Pushpa (newcomer Krishnapriya). The first hour or so belongs to Karthik and the music composer Nawfal Raja Asi. The dreamy one-sided romance is deliberately languid in its pacing and the music composer accentuates it with tunes that vary from the folksy to the filmi melodies. Though the music, the picturisation, and the lead pair are enjoyable to watch, little else happens. After an innocuous incident leads to mayhem in the village, the narrative begins to meander. Some of the scenes showing the violence in the village look amateurish. And too much happens without synergy. For the most part, the acting remains earnest and that’s the saving grace. Krishnapriya has a striking screen presence. What the film lacks is a narrative with a beating heart that could have made us root for the characters.  (For the longer review, check www.thehindu.com)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ardha-shathabdham-movie-review-interesting-ideas-and-an-incoherent-narration-mar-this-karthik-rathnam-and-naveen-chandra-film/article34802612.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Tales of horror||It was mayhem everywhere. Bodies wrapped in white were being brought in — in hands and on wheels. Siren of ambulances is all that was heard the entire day. The only sight day in and day out was that of burning pyres, recalled Hemant Kumar Sharma, priest of Seemapuri cremation ground. Mr. Kumar (29) — clad in a white kurta pyjama — sat in the courtyard of the cremation ground, his mask below his chin, in the company of another priest. There is one pyre burning on the premises with 26 platforms, and another body is due to come. There are hens roaming around…their clucking is now audible. “It’s relaxed now. There’s probably one COVID-19 body coming in once in 3-4 days. We have time to breathe, eat, sleep, drink water,” he said. Looking back, he said he had never imagined that he would have to witness such a sight. He wished never to see it ever again. New platforms  Walking through the cremation ground, he pointed at an empty space and said they had built nine platforms apart from the 26 allotted platforms. At another space,they had prepared five platforms. Now, what remains of the extra space are huge black spots and a few bricks lying here and there. Mr. Kumar then walked a few steps and showed an empty field adjacent to the cremation premises. “This is where children are buried. But when deaths were peaking, we had converted it into a cremation space and built 72 platforms. We had to break a wall to make way for wood,” he recalled. For more than 10 days in April, over 20 workers here, including priests, sanitation workers and helpers, worked for 24 hours a day and cremated bodies at night as well, against the Hindu beliefs for cremation rites. “People used to leave bodies outside here without even informing us. There have been so many families who used to leave asking us to send the video of cremation on WhatsApp. We used to cremate those bodies at night,” he said. Chant mantras in sleep  Talking about the impact this period had on him, Mr. Kumar said, “During that time, my mother used to forcefully ask me to come home for a few hours of sleep. My family says that I used to chant mantras in my sleep also.” I am able to sleep now, he added. Mr. Kumar, who has a six-month-old daughter, didn’t hold her for a month-and-a-half out of fear. Back at home, he used to eat and sleep in a corner, trying to stay away from the other family members as much as possible. “Here we didn’t use PPE kits because it used to be so hot. It was impossible to breathe...we used only masks and gloves,” he said. However, they were all a little at ease because the staffers at the crematorium were fully vaccinated. Mr. Kumar said when the vaccination began, they received a call from government officials and were asked to get vaccinated because they were to deal with COVID-19 bodies. “Sapne main bhi nahi socha tha aisa manzar dekhenge. Dil se rona aata tha. Ek 6 mahine ke bacche ka antim sanskar kiya tha humne. Uske papa itna ro rahe they. Vo ankhon ke samne se jaata nahin. [Didn’t imagine in my dreams that I’ll see something like this. We performed last rites of a six-month-old boy [who died of COVID-19]. His father was crying inconsolably. I can never forget that],” he said. Signs of new life  At Punjabi Bagh cremation ground, plants in the premises had died because pyres were set up right next to them when the number of deaths increased. The plants have now been cut and there’s a semblance of life as new leaves have started to appear. “I had become used to it since last year, so it didn’t affect me much,” said Pankaj Sharma (40), one of the priests here. But he insisted the situation wasn’t as bad here as it was at other cremation grounds. “Yes, people had to wait here as well but not for as much time as in other cremation grounds.” Now, there are only one or two COVID-19 bodies coming daily and most of the ground remains empty. But for the inexperienced priests and staffers, seeing the sight of innumerable bodies had an impact, unlike for Mr. Sharma. “There were days when we didn’t get time to have meals or even drink water. We would start our day at 6.30 a.m. and assist people with the mortal remains. The family members of the victims were seen crying and scared themselves, wondering what to do, where to go. We would only get free around 9 p.m. or 10 p.m.,” said 23-year-old Deepanshu, for whom the images of the pyres are still haunting. Vaccination woes  At this crematorium, none of the staffers has been vaccinated. While some of the senior ones are hesitant to get the jab, most staffers are disappointed that no vaccination camp has been set up for them despite their details being listed. “We received calls from government officials who took our details when the vaccination drive started and they asked us to go to a nearby hospital for the same. When we went there, we filled a form and they told us that our names were not on the list,” said a sanitation worker who didn’t wished to be named. “We were around COVID-19 bodies and COVID positive patients. We deserved it,” said Deepanshu. At Lok Nayak Hospital, the area outside the emergency ward now stands deserted and the two white tents installed as waiting area, a few weeks ago, are empty. There are no people waiting outside with oxygen cylinders. No queue of ambulances and no relatives crying and pleading to admit their loved ones. It’s all gone and everyone’s breathing a sigh of relief. A civil defence volunteer, Abhay, on duty outside the hospital, recalled his duty at the mortuary “during those days” and all he saw was bodies being wheeled in. “I don’t want to remember it at all.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/tales-of-horror/article34802581.ece
13 June 2021||Aurangabad,||‘Maharashtra to ink MOUs worth Rs. 20,000 cr.’||Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Maharashtra has managed to convince industries to invest in various sectors and is targeting to sign deals worth at least Rs. 20,000 crore, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation chief executive P. Anbalagan said on Saturday. “Maharashtra is pursuing leads of investment proposals worth over Rs. 40,000 crore but we are confident that half of these proposals would fructify into concrete MoUs,” Mr. Anbalagan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-to-ink-mous-worth-rs-20000-cr/article34802355.ece
13 June 2021||Mumbai,||Powai lake overflows due to heavy rains||With heavy rains lashing Mumbai, Powai lake started overflowing on Saturday afternoon, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Water from the lake, which has a capacity of 545 crore litres, is used for industrial purposes and it flows into Mithi river. The lake had last overflowed on July 5, 2020. When the lake is full, the water area is around 2.23 sq km, while the catchment area is 6.61 sq km. Mumbai has been receiving heavy rainfall and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for the city on Sunday and an orange alert for Monday. The BMC issued a “high alert” to all agencies considering “very heavy rainfall” in the next two days. Seven reservoirs — Bhatsa, Upper Vaitarna, Middle Vaitarna, Tansa, Modak Sagar, Vihar, and Tulsi — supply 385 crore litres of water to the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/powai-lake-overflows-due-to-heavy-rains/article34802352.ece
13 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||A year on, over 17,000 treated at Navi Mumbai’s COVID centre||A total of 17,023 COVID-19 patients have so far received treatment at the COVID Care Centre (CCC) set up by the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) at the CIDCO Exhibition Centre in Vashi. The CCC was set up in a record time of 20 days after work commenced on May 20, 2020. The facility became operational on June 11 when 61 patients were admitted to the 1,150-bed facility. On July 11, the first phase of providing oxygen support to 500 beds was completed and by August, all beds had oxygen support. When the second wave struck the city, 75 more ICU beds were added with 40% ventilator capacity. While the CCC has an X-ray machine, a high-resolution CT scanner is expected to start operations soon. Plans are afoot to build an oxygen plant exclusively for the facility ahead of a possible third wave. Of the 17,023 patients who were admitted to the facility, 14,516 recovered, of whom 5,192 recovered after receiving oxygen support, while 60 succumbed to the virus. The rest were referred to other hospitals. The centre has also treated 341 paediatric patients, all of whom have fully recovered. “Children from the age of one have been admitted here along with their mothers,” Dr. Vasant Mane, who has been in-charge of the facility since the start of operations, said. Yoga sessions, library Dr. Mane said regular yoga sessions were conducted for the patients and a library was added to the facility recently. He said the facility admitted patients both from poor families, who could not afford treatment at private hospitals, and affluent families during both waves of the pandemic. Dr. Mane said, “An IAS officer’s sister and her husband did not find beds at a private hospital and were provided admission at our facility. A few days into treatment, they found beds at a private hospital, but were so happy being at the centre that they refused to seek treatment elsewhere.” ‘Boon to the city’ According to NMMC Commissioner Abhijit Bangar, the jumbo facility has been a boon to the city. “Going forward, we will be adding more beds, equipment, and an oxygen plant to make the centre more capable of handling the third wave,” Mr. Bangar said.  Children from the age of one have been admitted here along with their mothersDr. Vasant ManeOfficial in-charge of the facility||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/a-year-on-over-17000-treated-at-navi-mumbais-covid-centre/article34802354.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Facing nature’s fury||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/facing-natures-fury/article34802586.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||PLA campaign highlights LAC actions||China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has begun a domestic campaign ahead of the ruling Communist Party’s July 1 centenary in which it is highlighting last year’s actions of its border defence troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), specifically in Pangong Lake, as part of a broader push to underline the military’s firm support to President Xi Jinping. Under the campaign, two groups of eight “youth role models”, a mix of military and students, are visiting colleges and universities across China. The group is being organised by the Central Military Commission’s Political Work Department and the Party’s Youth League. The group includes “elite and skilled” PLA soldiers, including some stationed in units along the LAC, along with “anti-epidemic pioneers, elite female coastguards and scientists dedicated to polar region research”, the military said. As part of the campaign, the soldiers are presenting China’s national flag “once raised on Pangong Lake”, a key site of tensions in 2020, at various military units and educational institutions as they tour the country. Two-fold message The aim is “to learn and internalise the spirit of President Xi’s important speech delivered during his recent visit to Tsinghua University and to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China,” the PLA said. Mr. Xi had, in his speech, “encouraged young people to rise up to the mission of national rejuvenation”. The campaign appears aimed at delivering a two-fold message targeted more at a domestic audience than abroad: to declare the military’s unequivocal support to Mr. Xi, and to also send a message of patriotism ahead of the July 1 anniversary. The PLA is unique among militaries in serving, first and foremost, a political party and not a state, and political education is a key part of military training in China. The PLA’s actions during the LAC tensions of 2020 appear to be figuring prominently in the campaign. Four service members of “the border defence troops in the Karakoram went to visit several military or civilian units to share their stories of guarding the border and defending the motherland,” PLA spokesperson and Senior Colonel Tan Kefei said at his monthly briefing last month, announcing the campaign. An “emphasis of combat readiness” was part of the message. “One group of the role models went to the coastal regions in southeast China, and the other group went to the Gobi Desert in northwest China, where they boarded fighting vehicles and warships, visited squads and border sentry posts,” he said. “They went to combat positions and training grounds, where they joined the service members in training and guard duty, providing professional knowledge counselling and skill training to soldiers. The Karakoram border defence troops presented the Chinese national flag once raised on the Pangong Lake to the National Flag Guards, a way of conveying their enthusiasm for defending the motherland.” The PLA spokesperson referred to the campaign highlighting a message to promote what he called the “Karakoram spirit”, that was “characterised by devotion to border defence, hard work, selfless dedication and tenacity”. The LAC tensions, which began in late April and early May 2020, culminated in a clash on June 15, 2020 in the Galwan Valley, which marked the worst violence along the border since 1967. Both sides have since disengaged in Galwan Valley and on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake, but talks have remained stalled in other areas, including Depsang, Demchok, Gogra and Hot Springs. Indian officials have said the disengagement process remains partially completed and the de-induction process of troops still deployed in forward areas near the LAC, a key measure to restore normalcy, is yet to take place more than a year after the tensions began.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pla-campaign-highlights-lac-actions/article34802026.ece
13 June 2021||Carbis Bay,||G7 leaders take on China, plan to stop new pandemics||The G7 on Saturday unveiled U.S.-led plans to counter China in infrastructure funding for poorer nations, and a new accord to prevent future pandemics, as the elite group sought to showcase Western unity at its first in-person summit since 2019. Promising to “collectively catalyse” hundreds of billions of infrastructure investment for low- and middle-income countries, the G7 leaders said they would offer a “values-driven, high-standard and transparent” partnership. Their “Build Back Better World” (B3W) project is aimed at competing with China’s trillion-dollar Belt and Road infrastructure (BRI) initiative, which has been widely criticised for saddling countries with unmanageable debt but has included even G7 member Italy since launching in 2013. The White House said President Joe Biden and fellow leaders addressed “strategic competition” with Beijing on the second day of their three-day summit in Carbis Bay, southwest England. Meanwhile, Britain hailed G7 agreement on the “Carbis Bay Declaration”— a series of commitments to curb future pandemics after COVID-19 wrecked economies and killed millions around the world. The collective steps include slashing the time taken to develop and license vaccines, treatments and diagnostics for any future disease to under 100 days, while reinforcing global surveillance networks. The G7 — Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the U.S. — will formally publish the pact on Sunday. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called it an “important initiative”. “We can’t sit back and say that China will do it but it’s the G7’s ambition to have a positive agenda for a number of countries in the world which are still lagging behind... I welcome it,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/g7-leaders-take-on-china-plan-to-stop-new-pandemics/article34802032.ece
13 June 2021||Beijing,||China, U.S. diplomats clash over human rights, pandemic origin||Top U.S. and Chinese diplomats appear to have had another sharply worded exchange, with Beijing saying it told the U.S. to cease interfering in its internal affairs. Senior Chinese foreign policy adviser Yang Jiechi and Secretary of State Antony Blinken held a phone call on Friday that revealed wide divisions in a number of contentious areas, including the curtailing of freedoms in Hong Kong and the mass detention of Muslims in the Xinjiang region. The State Department said Mr. Blinken “stressed the importance of cooperation” regarding the origin of the virus, including the need for (World Health Organization) Phase 2 expert-led studies in China.” China is sensitive about calls for investigation into the origin of the SARS-CoV-2 because of suggestions that it might have have escaped from a laboratory in Wuhan, where cases were first discovered.  China “firmly opposes any despicable acts that use the epidemic as an excuse to slander China and to shift blames,” Mr. Yang was quoted as saying by the official Xinhua News Agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us-diplomats-clash-over-human-rights-pandemic-origin/article34802028.ece
13 June 2021||Kabul,||Security of airports, embassies Afghan responsibility: Taliban||Foreign forces should hold ‘no hope’ of keeping a military presence in Afghanistan after the U.S. and NATO withdraw troops, the Taliban said on Saturday, warning the security of embassies and airports would be the responsibility of Afghans. It comes as western diplomats and military officials scramble to work out how to provide security for any future civilian presence they keep in the country. Turkey has reportedly said it is prepared to keep troops in Afghanistan to protect Kabul airport, the main exit route for western diplomats and humanitarian workers. “Every inch of Afghan soil, its airports and security of foreign embassies and diplomatic offices is the responsibility of the Afghans, consequently no one should hold out hope of keeping military or security presence in our country,” a statement issued by the Taliban on Saturday said. “If anyone does make such a mistake, the Afghan people and the Islamic Emirate shall view them as occupiers and shall take a stance against them,” it added. The United States is in the final stages of completing a military drawdown, alongside NATO forces, by September 11 — twenty years after they invaded Afghanistan and toppled the Taliban. The decision to end America’s longest war has raised fears that an emboldened Taliban could topple the Western-backed government in Kabul. The possibility of keeping troops in Afghanistan is expected to be discussed during a meeting of NATO leaders in Brussels on Monday. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said last month the alliance would provide funding to help run Kabul airport and train Afghanistan’s special forces after it had left. Turkish media later reported that Ankara was willing to maintain a presence in the country, including at the country’s main gateway, if NATO provided financial support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/security-of-airports-embassies-afghan-responsibility-taliban/article34802036.ece
13 June 2021||Carbis bay,||British PM warns EU over post-Brexit trade in N. Ireland||U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday warned Europe he would suspend a deal for post-Brexit trading arrangements in Northern Ireland unless a solution could be found to a row over border checks. Brussels has been angered by London’s failure to introduce checks on goods heading across the Irish Sea from the mainland U.K. — England, Scotland and Wales — to the province of Northern Ireland. European leaders delivered an ultimatum to Mr. Johnson on the sidelines of G7 summit, urging him to keep his word and implement the Northern Ireland “protocol”, which was signed separately from a trade deal between them. But Mr. Johnson defiantly restated his calls for the EU to compromise, urging a more pragmatic approach after talks on the issue broke down earlier this week. He said he was not prepared to endanger the territorial integrity of the U.K., and would “not hesitate to invoke Article 16” of the protocol, suspending its application. “We need to sort it out,” he told Sky News.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/british-pm-warns-eu-over-post-brexit-trade-in-n-ireland/article34802033.ece
13 June 2021||Washington,||Putin hopes Biden is not impulsive like Trump||Russian President Vladimir Putin voiced hope on Friday that U.S. President Joe Biden will be less impulsive than his predecessor Donald Trump, ahead of his first summit with the U.S. leader. Mr. Putin described Mr. Biden as a “career man”, who has spent his life in politics. Though he described relations with the U.S. as having “deteriorated to its lowest point in recent years,” Mr. Putin said he expects he can work with Mr. Biden. “It is my great hope that, yes, there are some advantages, some disadvantages, but there will not be any impulse-based movements on behalf of the sitting U.S. President,” he said, adding that, “I believe that former U.S. President Trump is an extraordinary individual, talented individual.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-hopes-biden-is-not-impulsive-like-trump/article34802027.ece
13 June 2021||Beijing,||China’s roaming jumbos are on the move again||China’s famed wandering elephants are on the move again, heading southwest while a male who broke from the herd is still keeping his distance. The group left a wildlife reserve in the southwest of Yunnan province more than a year ago and has trekked 500 km north to the outskirts of the provincial capital of Kunming. As of Saturday, they were spotted in Shijie township in the city of Yuxi, more than 8 km southwest of the Kunming suburb they had arrived at last week, according to state media reports.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinas-roaming-jumbos-are-on-the-move-again/article34802030.ece
13 June 2021||Colombo,||Sri Lanka seeks $40 mn in damages over ship fire||Sri Lanka is seeking $40 million in damages from the operator of a ship that left massive pollution when it caught fire off the country’s west coast, officials said on Saturday. Ports and Shipping Minister Rohitha Abeygunawardena said an interim claim had been lodged with X-Press Feeders, which controls the Singapore-registered MV X-Press Pearl . The vessel has been submerged in seas off Colombo since June 2 after burning for almost two weeks and releasing tonnes of plastic raw materials. Environmentalists have called it the “worst marine disaster” in the country’s history. “In addition to this (claim), we will also seek reimbursement of the cost of putting out the fire,” Mr. Abeygunawardena said, adding that the full damage to the environment was still being assessed. Sri Lanka has sought help from Australia in studying the impact on the local marine economy, which has been hit by a fishing ban imposed since the disaster. Fisheries Minister Kanchana Wijesekera said the ban along an 80 km stretch of coastline was lifted on Saturday except for in the vicinity of the wreckage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-seeks-40-mn-in-damages-over-ship-fire/article34802035.ece
13 June 2021||Riyadh,||Riyadh limits Hajj to 60,000 vaccinated||Saudi Arabia announced Saturday it will allow 60,000 residents vaccinated against COVID-19 to perform this year’s hajj, but Muslims from abroad will be barred for a second straight year. The hajj — a must for able-bodied Muslims at least once in their lives — typically packs millions of pilgrims into congested religious sites and could be a major source of contagion amid the coronavirus pandemic. This year it would be “open for nationals and residents of the Kingdom, limited to 60,000 pilgrims”, the hajj ministry said, quoted by the official Saudi Press Agency. The pilgrimage, scheduled to be held in July, would be limited to those who have been vaccinated and are aged 18-65 with no chronic illnesses, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/riyadh-limits-hajj-to-60000-vaccinated/article34802034.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Revised subsidies to spur EV demand’||Electric two-wheeler makers on Saturday termed as “a phenomenal move” the government’s decision to increase subsidy for such vehicles by 50% under the FAME II scheme saying it would be a game changer in the adoption of eco-friendly vehicles. The Centre had on Friday made a partial modification of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India Phase II , including increasing the demand incentive for electric two-wheelers to Rs. 15,000 per KWh from an earlier uniform subsidy of Rs. 10,000 per KWh for all EVs, including plug-in hybrids and strong hybrids except buses. In the latest modification, the department of heavy industries also capped incentives for electric two-wheelers at 40% of the cost of vehicle, up from 20% earlier. “The revision in the FAME (II) policy, increasing the subsidy by 50% per KWh, is a phenomenal move,” Ather Energy CEO and Co-founder Tarun Mehta said in a statement. “Sales of electric two-wheelers have grown despite the pandemic and with this additional subsidy, we expect electric two-wheeler sales to disrupt the market, and clock 6 million-plus units by 2025,” he added. The government’s continued support to drive adoption of EVs, with a keen focus on locally built electric two-wheelers will make India the manufacturing hub of EVs, Mr. Mehta added. Lower sticker price Society of Manufacturers of Electric Vehicles (SMEV) Director General Sohinder Gill said, “It’s an important and an admirable decision taken by the government, a move that will bring down the prices of electric two-wheelers nearer to the IC (internal combustion engine) vehicles and remove one of the biggest blocks, of the high sticker price of electric two-wheelers.” A ‘city speed electric scooter’ with a range of 100 km/charge will now cost less than Rs. 60,000 and a high-speed scooter with a range of 80 km will come nearer to the price tag of Rs. 1 lakh, he added. “Together with the other important factors like extremely low running cost, low maintenance and zero emission, such price levels will surely spur a substantial demand for electric two-wheelers,” Mr. Gill said. “We believe the time has come for mass adoption of electric two-wheelers and such initiatives coupled with a mass awareness campaign by the government and easy terms financing by public sector banks will bring us closer to the target of 30% of the two-wheeler market becoming electric in five years,” the SMEV DG added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/revised-subsidies-to-spur-ev-demand/article34802006.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Helicopter approach helped Roca post growth during pandemic’||While most companies have lost business on account of the pandemic, Roca Bathroom Products has managed to increase its market share at the national level by 1% and is confident of a 25% growth in revenue in 2021. The company is also planning a new greenfield project either in Tamil Nadu or Gujarat by 2024, says MD K.E. Ranganathan. Edited excerpts.  How did you manage to post growth during the pandemic year? We laid greater focus on meeting customer needs and this helped the company to gain market share at the national level by 1% to 35% among the organised sector players. In Tamil Nadu, our market share among organised players is 65% and 45% in the South. We phased the year 2020 in terms of January-March quarter as high growth, April-June as survival, July-September as revival and October-December as back-to-growth. How has been the business in 2021? We designed and executed a ‘Helicopter’ (vertical) take off during January-March 2021 quarter. We planned higher production, launch of new products, rural market thrust, loyalty programme focus and huge market pull actions. All these resulted in the business doing a ‘vertical take-off’ in terms of revenue. We recorded a robust revenue growth of more than 30% during January-March 2021. April 2021 continued the dream run with a record revenue of Rs. 120 crore for the company against a total washout in April 2020. May 2021 began with the shock of COVID 2.0 hitting the country in a big way, leading to lockdowns across many cities. In spite of this, the company delivered encouraging results compared with May 2020 with 40% growth. How do you see the rest of the year 2021? As we speak today, COVID 2.0 is losing steam. The caseloads across the country have started coming down. I guess from July 2021 we can expect to go back to February/March 2021 conditions. As a company, Roca Parryware, is ready for the second helicopter take-off during June/July 2021. Tell us about your order book position On the institutional front, we see good traction as many construction sites are allowed to continue work even during lockdown. We have more than 18 months’ revenue order book in the institutions segment. Any expansion plans? Given this momentum and expected surge in demand post-COVID curbs easing, we are taking action to expand our faucets and plastics manufacturing capacities in India. We are planning to set up a new factory either in Gujarat or Tamil Nadu by 2024-25. Overall, we have planned for Rs. 50 crore capex investments in 2021 and actions are already under way. Has the spiralling input material prices affected your revenue? In the last three to four months, all input material costs have gone up by 40-50%. Though, we lost few points on our profitability so far, we have not considered to pass on the inflation to market. But given the worsening situation, it looks inevitable in the near future. What is the targeted revenue for 2021? We have done pretty well so far from January to May 2021 and assuming the lockdowns get lifted soon, we are confident of recording a 25% growth in revenue over 2020 to about Rs. 1,600 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/helicopter-approach-helped-roca-post-growth-during-pandemic/article34802004.ece
13 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘Second wave impacts luxury home purchases’||The second wave appears to have impacted purchases of luxury homes by high net worth and ultra high net worth individuals, who were seen buying new homes last year to move to safer and sprawling locations. “Right after the first wave, people wanted to upgrade their homes with larger spaces, more amenities and open areas,” said Amit Goyal, CEO, India Sotheby’s International Realty. “They made quick decisions. Our average transaction closure time reduced from 4-6 months to less than 90 days,” he added. But during the second wave “demand has quietened,” Mr. Goyal said. “We expect demand to return as the country reopens and people are vaccinated.” In Delhi, purchases of luxury properties priced over Rs. 13-14 crore for high rise apartments, to more than Rs. 70-80 crore for bungalows were mainly by lawyers, doctors and architects. Industrialists and actors had led the demand in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/second-wave-impacts-luxury-home-purchases/article34802002.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||CAIT urges CCI probe against Amazon, Flipkart||A day after the Karnataka High Court dismissed the plea by Amazon and Flipkart on the investigation ordered by CCI against them for alleged violation of provisions of competition laws, traders body CAIT on Saturday urged Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal to direct CCI to immediately initiate the proceedings. In a communication to the Minister, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) also asked for immediate issuance of a fresh press note of the FDI policy for e-commerce sector with a monitoring mechanism to ensure that law of the land prevails and no one violates it. Every company indulging in any e-commerce activity through any type of electronic mode has to take a registration number from the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade. CAIT Secretary General Praveen Khandelwal said that traders across the country would observe June 14-21 as ‘e-commerce purification week’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cait-urges-cci-probe-against-amazon-flipkart/article34802009.ece
13 June 2021||CHENNAI,||FAME II to spur new tech, says Venu||TVS Motor Company Limited’s Joint Managing Director Sudarshan Venu on Saturday welcomed the revision of FAME II subsidies for electric two-wheelers, and said the move would give a fillip to both increased adoption and technology development. “Sustainable mobility solutions are very important for the future and TVS is investing significantly behind this,” Mr. Venu said in a statement. “The improved incentives for electric two-wheelers will increase penetration. Such policy direction should lead to the indigenous development of future technology,” the TVS Motor Co. JMD added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fame-ii-to-spur-new-tech-says-venu/article34802007.ece
13 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘I’m a guy who thrives on confidence’||The Indian contingent for the limited-overs tour of Sri Lanka may be short on star power, but the series presents a great opportunity for newcomers and old war horses to stake claim for a long-term spot in the national team. For the likes of Karnataka all-rounder K. Gowtham, who earned his maiden international call-up, a few exceptional showings could tempt the selectors to pick him for the ICC Men's T20 World Cup later this year. Consistent performer Gowtham, a consistent performer in his decade-long domestic career for Karnataka, is thrilled to make the step up to the international arena. “When I started playing club cricket, the goal was to represent the State. From then on, the ultimate dream was to represent the country. Although the team has many fresh faces, it is loaded with talent. “I’m hoping to don the India cap and join the wonderful league of Karnataka cricketers who have represented the country,” Gowtham said here on Saturday. Lending balance Gowtham, with his tight off-spin and destructive lower-order batting, lends balance to any team. Gowtham and Krunal Pandya are the two spinning all-rounders in the India squad, while Yuzvendra Chahal, Rahul Chahar, Kuldeep Yadav and Varun Chakravarthy feature as specialist tweakers. It remains to be seen how the team management uses this bloated set of slow bowlers in the three ODIs and three T20Is. Gowtham, signed for Rs. 9.25 crore by Chennai Super Kings (CSK) in the 2021 auction, did not get a game in the IPL. The 32-year-old, however, is confident that he will get match-fit in due course. Learning experience “I didn’t get any IPL games, but being part of a prestigious franchise like CSK and working closely with the iconic M.S. Dhoni was a great learning experience. “Like many others, I haven’t played any competitive cricket owing to the second wave, but I’ve kept myself tuned in. Before the Sri Lanka tour, I will get some practice with the team. “I’m a guy who thrives on confidence, and that will be my driving force in international cricket too,” Gowtham said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/im-a-guy-who-thrives-on-confidence/article34802159.ece
13 June 2021||KOCHI,||NCAA silver for Shankar||High jumper Tejaswin Shankar took silver at the American NCAA athletics championships with 2.23m at Eugene, Oregon, on Friday. Opening at 2.10m, the 22-year-old from Delhi cleared all the heights till 2.20 in his first attempt and 2.23 with his second but he could not manage the next height of 2.26m. Shankar, who was representing Kansas State University in the meet, is currently 55th in the Road to Olympics rankings and his NCAA performance is likely to improve his position by only three rungs since it is a category ‘C’ meet in the World Athletics list. The National inter-State championship, which begins in Patiala on June 25, is a category ‘B’ event and offers more points. Shankar, the Indian record holder with 2.29m, will automatically qualify if he clears 2.33m, the entry standard for next month’s Olympics. Sixteen jumpers have already achieved that height. There are 32 spots in the high jump in Tokyo and the rest of the places will be decided through the Tokyo rankings. The qualification doors close on June 29. American JuVaughn Harrison, the 22-year-old who is currently No. 2 in the long jump world list with 8.44m, retained the NCAA title comfortably with 2.33m. Harrison, who has a personal best of 2.36m, went for 2.39m next but failed in all his three attempts. He finished with a double, having won the long jump title earlier with 8.27m.m||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ncaa-silver-for-shankar/article34802155.ece
13 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Denmark’s Eriksen taken to hospital after collapsing||Denmark midfielder Christian Eriksen was taken to a hospital on Saturday after collapsing on the field during a match at the European Championship. The governing body of European soccer said Eriksen has been stabilised and the Danish soccer federation said he was awake. “Christian Eriksen is awake and is undergoing further examinations at Rigshospitalet,” the Danish federation wrote on Twitter.  The Euro 2020 match between Denmark and Finland was suspended after Eriksen was given urgent medical attention on the field near the end of the first half. He was treated for about 10 minutes after collapsing. He was then carried off on a stretcher. UEFA then announced the game had been suspended “due to a medical emergency.” Restart Danish soccer federation later said the game would resume at 8:30 p.m. local time (midnight IST). A stadium announcer asked fans to stay in their seats and stay calm. Eriksen had just played a short pass when he fell face-forward onto the ground. His teammates immediately gestured for help and medics rushed onto the field. Eriksen was given chest compressions as his Denmark teammates stood around him in a shielding wall for privacy. The Finland players huddled by their bench and eventually walked off the field while Eriksen was still getting treatment, as did the referees. Eriksen was eventually carried off to a loud ovation, with his teammates walking next to the stretcher. Eriksen is one of Denmark’s biggest stars and the incident brought an instant sense of shock to the Parken Stadium, where about 15,000 fans fell into hushed silence. Some supporters could be seen crying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/denmarks-eriksen-taken-to-hospital-after-collapsing/article34802133.ece
13 June 2021||Paris,||Krejcikova, the new queen in town||Barbora Krejcikova won her maiden Grand Slam singles title on Saturday, beating Russia’s Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova to become the first Czech woman in 40 years to conquer Roland- Garros before dedicating her victory to former Wimbledon champion Jana Novotna, who died four years ago. Krejcikova, ranked 33 in the world and playing just her fifth Grand Slam singles main draw, triumphed 6-1, 2-6, 6-4. The 25-year-old emulates compatriot Hana Mandlikova, who claimed the trophy in Paris in 1981. Emotional tribute The 25-year-old Krejcikova paid an emotional tribute to her mentor Novotna, who died of cancer at the age of 49 in 2017. “It’s hard to put into words. I cannot believe I have just won a Grand Slam,” said Krejcikova, who was still outside the top 100 when the 2020 French Open took place last October. “I spent a lot of time with Jana before she died. Her last words to me were ‘enjoy tennis and try and win a Grand Slam’. “I know she’s looking after me. All this is pretty much because she is looking after me. It was amazing that I got the chance to meet her. She was such an inspiration. I miss her and I hope she’s really happy,” added Krejcikova, who had to save a match-point in her semifinal to defeat Maria Sakkari. Krejcikova was presented with the trophy by Czech-born Martina Navratilova, who won two French Opens in 1982 and 1984, but as an American citizen. Up and down In a nervy start to the final, Krejcikova was broken in the first game, serving up two double faults. However, the Russian was unable to capitalise and dropped the next six games as her Czech opponent grabbed three breaks and raced way with the opener inside half an hour. Krejcikova was rewarded for her bold attacking, hitting 13 winners to the Russian’s seven. Pavlyuchenkova, who made her Slam debut back in 2007, was the more composed player in the second set, stretching out to 5-1. A medical timeout at 5-2 merely delayed the Russian levelling the final. In the decider, the players exchanged breaks in the third and fourth games, before the Czech broke to love for 4-3 on the back of a 10-shot rally. Pavlyuchenkova saved two championship points in the ninth game and a third in the 10th but Krejcikova became champion on the fourth when the Russian hit long.  Krejcikova is the sixth first-time Grand Slam champion to be crowned in the last six editions of the French Open. She is also the 13th first-time singles winner in the last 22 Majors The 25-year-old is the third unseeded winner in Paris in the last five years after Ostapenko (2017) and Swiatek (2020) Krejcikova is the 18th active women’s singles Slam champion and the second from the Czech Republic after Kvitova Before the 2020 French Open, Krejcikova was yet to break into the top-100. Come Monday, she will rise up to 15th in the world Before this, Krejcikova was already a two-time doubles and three-time mixed doubles Grand Slam champion. On Sunday, she can add a third in doubles||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krejcikova-the-new-queen-in-town/article34802126.ece
13 June 2021||Sao Paulo,||Brazil favoured to defend title on its home turf||Brazil’s international players were reluctant to play in the Copa America on home soil. Now that they’re committed, they’re favoured to win it. Argentina still looms as a threat to Brazil’s title defence. Being away from home takes some pressure off Lionel Messi and his Argentina team. The Copa America will kick off Sunday with defending champion Brazil against Venezuela in Brasilia. The final will be on July 10 in Rio de Janeiro. No spectators will be allowed to attend any Copa America matches because of restrictions in place for the pandemic, which has already delayed the tournament by a year. With the likes of Neymar on board, coach Tite expects not only to defend the title lifted in 2019, but also use the next 30 days to prepare for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. Argentina placed third in the 2019 Copa America, but the team has improved under coach Lionel Scaloni. Defender Cristian Romero, and midfielders Leandro Paredes and Giovani Lo Celso are now trusted to break the opponents’ lines. Up front, Lautaro Martinez and Sergio Aguero bring the same respect. And that means Messi, who turns 34 later this month, doesn’t need to be part of every play for Argentina to win. Colombia has improved since the return of coach Reinaldo Rueda. Copa America could further enhance the team, which will not have midfielder James Rodriguez because of fitness problems. Uruguay has struggled despite counting on Luis Suarez and Edison Cavani. Uruguay hasn’t won any of its three latest matches on the road to Qatar. The tournament will be divided into two groups of five. Group A includes Argentina, Bolivia, Uruguay, Chile and Paraguay. Brazil is in Group B with Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador and Peru. The four best of each group advance to the knockout stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/brazil-favoured-to-defend-title-on-its-home-turf/article34802018.ece
13 June 2021||Paris,||Djokovic ends Nadal’s reign with ‘greatest’ win in Paris||Novak Djokovic handed 13-time champion Rafael Nadal only his third defeat in 16 years and 108 matches at the French Open on Friday to reach a sixth Roland Garros final after an epic showdown which even forced the organisers to relax Paris’ COVID-19 curfew. In their 58th career clash, Djokovic, the 2016 French Open champion, triumphed 3-6, 6-3, 7-6(4), 6-2. Nadal, 35, remains tied on 20 Majors with Roger Federer. Salute “It was a privilege to face Rafa in such an incredible match,” said Djokovic after four hours and 11 minutes of intense action. “Tonight, it was my greatest ever match in Paris.” He now leads Nadal 30-28 in their career rivalry. It was Djokovic's second win in eight meetings in Paris with Nadal, a sequence which also included three losses in finals. “Definitely one of the top three matches that I ever played in my entire career,” said Djokovic. It was Nadal's first defeat in 14 semifinals in the French capital. “Probably it was not my best day today, even if I fought,” said Nadal. “Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. I had a big chance, a set point in the third set, and made a double fault and missed a volley in the tie-break. There were some crazy points, but fatigue was also there.” Djokovic had two break-points in the opening game of the first set which stretched to 10 minutes but was unable to convert. They exchanged breaks in the second and third games of a big-hitting second set but it was Djokovic who repeated the feat for a 4-2 lead before levelling the match. Twice in the third set Djokovic edged ahead, only to be reeled back in by Nadal who broke back in the 10th game as the World No. 1 served for the set. A 92-minute third set ended with Djokovic taking the tie-break. Djokovic finished off the match on a second match-point. On Saturday, speaking to the Spanish press, Nadal said that he wouldn’t play at the grass tune-up Mallorca Championships (starting June 20) and decide about Wimbledon soon. “After two intense months on clay the body usually suffers a slump. Wimbledon this year is in two weeks. It’s different from when I was 25. I am now 35,” said Nadal.  Each time you step on the court with him, you know you have to kind of climb Mount Everest to win— Djokovic   I am sad to have lost in the most important tournament for me, but life goes on. It is nothing more than a defeat on a tennis court— Nadal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-ends-nadals-reign-with-greatest-win-in-paris/article34802124.ece
13 June 2021||Rome,||Italy zips off the starting blocks||Italy got its Euro 2020 campaign off the mark with an impressive 3-0 win over Turkey in the curtain-raiser for the postponed continental tournament in front of home fans here on Friday. Playing its first major tournament in five years after failing to qualify for the 2018 World Cup, all the goals came in the second half in front of a Stadio Olimpico that had a quarter of its capacity. Merih Demiral’s own goal put Italy ahead before Ciro Immobile and Lorenzo Insigne netted for Roberto Mancini’s side in the Group A opener. There was a party atmosphere, with a spectacular sound and light show and firework display before kick-off for the opening of the month-long 24-team event, which will be played across 11 countries. On the pitch, Italy dominated early on with a three-man attack led by Immobile. The 31-year-old had several near misses in the first half, coming up against a solid Turkey defence. Turkey could also thank goalkeeper Ugurcan Cakir for pulling off a big save on 23 minutes. Italy finally got on the scoreboard eight minutes after the break when the unfortunate Demiral found himself in the path of a Federico Berardi cross for Immobile, the Juventus defender bundling the ball into his own net. Immobile finally got his goal, his 14th for Italy, and first in a major tournament, in the 66th minute, scoring from a rebound after Cakir had saved from Spinazzola. And Insigne curled in the third with 11 minutes to go. A header from the towering Kieffer Moore allowed Wales to come from behind and draw 1-1 with Switzerland in their opening Group A game in Baku on Saturday. Moore headed home in the 74th minute to cancel out Breel Embolo’s headed opener at the other end, which had come just after half-time.  The results: Group A: Italy 3 (Demiral 53-og, Immobile 66, Insigne 79) bt Turkey 0; Wales 1 (Moore 74) drew with Switzerland 1 (Embolo 49).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-zips-off-the-starting-blocks/article34802130.ece
13 June 2021||Chennai,||MRF Pace Foundation on a fast lane||These are busy days at the MRF Pace Foundation with several promising pacemen emerging from its stable. A few have played for India, others have been selected in the National team and some have found a place as net bowlers. MRF Pace Foundation head coach M. Senthilnathan analysed them with The Hindu .  Chetan Sakariya: Liked the look of him. Lean and mean. Saw him first in 2017, had the left-armer’s ball shaping away across the right-hander. We worked on his fitness, in bringing the ball into the right-hander and on yorkers and pace variations. Has good control.  Prasidh Krishna: Has already played for the country. Tall, high-arm action and extra bounce. Consistently over 140-kmph. A telling yorker-short ball combine.  Avesh Khan: Sends down a ‘heavy’ ball. A strong, tall lad with good lift. Can move the ball both ways. Excellent bowler in the slog overs with variations.  Sandeep Warrier: Strength is new ball and outswing. Deceptively sharp. Consistent with his line and length over long spells. Has experience.  Arshdeep Singh: A tall left-arm bowler with an excellent wide yorker in the end overs. A calm head in stressful situations. Has been working on his slower ball.  Arzan Nagwaswalla: Tremendous performance in domestic circuit. A sharp, nippy left-armer with good control. He can bring the ball into the right-hander and can surprise him with pace. Has a compelling yorker.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mrf-pace-foundation-on-a-fast-lane/article34802013.ece
13 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Mirabai lone Indian weightlifter to book a spot at Tokyo||India has sent the lone entry of Mirabai Chanu for the Tokyo Olympics after the former World champion placed second in the women’s 49kg Absolute Ranking released by the International Weightlifting Federation (IWF). Mirabai gathered 4133, 6172 Robi points to come second behind Chinese Hou Zhihui (4926, 4422) in the rankings published on Friday. The Indian Weightlifting Federation (IWLF) sent Mirabai’s entry after the confirmation of her place from the ‘world’ quota. Mirabai — who lifted a total of 205kg, including a world record of 119kg in clean and jerk, to secure a bronze medal in the Asian championships in April — is considered a strong medal prospect in the Olympics. She is training in USA at present. Jeremy Lalrinnunga, slotted 12th in the overall rankings in men’s 67kg, could not make the cut as the ‘continental’ quota was bagged by 11th placed Han Myeongmok of South Korea. Qualifying criteria The top eight in each weight category will make it to the Olympics through the ‘world’ quota, while the next five will go through the ‘continental’ quota. One place will go to either the host country or the tripartite invitation. According to IWLF secretary Sahdev Yadav, Jeremy, a Youth Olympics champion, still has a chance as the period of reallocation of quota places is not over. “We have to wait until July 5 to know whether Jeremy qualifies for the Olympics,” said Yadav. Different countries, including the host, need to confirm their allocated quota places to the IWF by prescribed deadlines. The IWF has also said that the Absolute Ranking cannot be considered final until the relevant anti-doping results management processes are concluded. Jeremy’s ranking will stand him in good stead if the IWF reallocates quota places in the men’s 67kg category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mirabai-lone-indian-weightlifter-to-book-a-spot-at-tokyo/article34802015.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manish and Kheerthi take honours||In a dramatic finish, Odisha’s Manish Kumar topped a three-way tie to win the National under-18 online rapid chess title on Saturday. Off the lead by half-a-point after the penultimate round, Manish, Aronyak Ghosh (Bengal) and Ayush Sharma (Madhya Pradesh) won the final rounds to tie at nine points from 11 rounds. In the final round, Manish and Ayush accounted for the two 10th round leaders — M. Pranesh (Tamil Nadu) and Sankalp Gupta (Maharashtra) — while Aronyak defeated Raja Rithvik (Telangana). The girls’ title went to Telangana’s G. Kheerthi who scored nine points from 11 rounds. Uttar Pradesh’s Riya Mishra and Tamil Nadu’s V. Rindhiya tied for the second spot with 8.5 points. Meanwhile, in a major development, a five-member Fairplay Committee comprising Grandmasters Tejas Bakre, M.R. Lalith Babu, N. Srinath and International Masters Rakesh Kulkarnni and Akshat Khamparia found two girls guilty of resorting to unfair means during the matches. Based on video evidence, these girls were asked to leave the competition early on Saturday. “We have a zero-tolerance approach to cheating,” maintained the All India Chess Federation secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan. Appeal He continued saying, “I appeal to all participants of the ongoing National age-group championships to stay away from the lure of using unfair means. Our alert arbiters and Fair play mechanism are firmly in place and guilty will not be spared” The National under-16 event commences on Sunday.  Leading standings: Open: 1-3. Manish Kumar, Aronyak Ghosh, Ayush Sharma (9 each), 4-7. Sankalp Gupta, M. Pranesh, Aditya Samanth and Chetan Arhan (8.5 each). Girls: 1. G. Kheerthi (9 points), 2-3. Riya Mishra, V. Rindhiya (8.5 each), 4-9. Bristy Mukherjee, Dhyana Patel, Chandraereja Prachiti, Poorna Sri, B. Akashya Mounika and R. Sanjana (8 each) .   Manish wins after topping a three-way tie with Aronyak and Ayush National under-16 event gets underway today||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-kheerthi-win/article34802157.ece
13 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Staying calm will be the key, says Navneet Kaur||The Indian women hockey players have the skill to compete against the world’s best but will need to stay calm and take right decisions in crunch situations to be able to do well at the Olympics, feels forward Navneet Kaur. “We all have the skills and talent to take on the best in the world. However, making key decisions on the pitch is a crucial factor for any side. Therefore, it will be very important for us to stay calm during crunch situations,” said Navneet. “Even one wrong pass could hurt us deeply, therefore, we have to ensure that we are thinking clearly and not making too many unforced errors,” said Kaur. The 25-year-old said the team management is ensuring that all players are clear about their roles. “There should be no confusion amongst the players on game day. The coaches and captain have been ensuring that everyone knows about their roles and how they can execute their plans so that we coordinate well on the pitch during matches.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/staying-calm-will-be-the-key-says-navneet-kaur/article34802207.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Pragg wins five in a row, shares lead||Staging a stunning comeback, R. Praggnanandhaa won all five rounds on Friday to share the lead after 10 rounds of the Gelfand Challenge online rapid chess tournament. Overnight in the tied fifth spot, the 15-year-old seemed to have pushed the reboot button by stunning his second-seeded compatriot Nihal Sarin. He went on to account for Zhu Jiner (China), teammate Leon Mendonca, Vincent Keymer (Germany) and Jonas Buhl Bjerre (Denmark) for a share of the lead with top seeded Uzbek Nodirbek Abdusattarov at eight points. D. Gukesh also recovered from the first-day blues and the loss in the sixth round, scoring four straight wins. He now shares the third spot with Keymer and first-day leader Awonder Liang, who lost three successive games. However, Nihal and Mendonca could add only two points each.  The results (involving Indians): 10th round: R. Praggnanandhaa bt Jonas Buhl Bjerre (Den); Sarasadat Khademalsharieh (Iri) lost to D. Gukesh; Nihal Sarin drew with Polina Shuvalova (Rus); Leon Mendonca drew with Lei Tingjie (Chn).   Ninth round: Praggnanandhaa bt Vincent Keymer (Ger); Gukesh bt Awonder Liang (USA); Bjerre drew with Mendonca; Zhansaya Abdumalik (Kaz) lost to Nihal.   Eighth round: Mendonca lost to Praggnanandhaa; Nurgyul Salimova (Bul) lost to Gukesh; Nihal lost to Lei Tingjie.   Seventh round: Praggnanandhaa bt Zhu Jiner (Chn); Gukesh bt Olga Badelka (Blr); Bjerre drew with Nihal; Mendonca lost to Keymer.   Sixth round: Nihal lost to Praggnanandhaa; Keymer lost to Gukesh; Zhu Jiner lost to Mendonca.   Leading standings (including Indians, after 10 rounds): 1-2. Nodirbek Abdusattarov (Uzb), R. Praggnanandhaa (8 points each); 3-5. Vincent Keymer (Ger), D. Gukesh, Awonder Liang (USA) (7 each). 11. Nihal Sarin (5), 14. Leon Mendonca (4.5) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pragg-wins-five-in-a-row-shares-lead/article34802010.ece
13 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Embiid helps Sixers roll over Hawks||Joel Embiid finished with 27 points, nine rebounds and eight assists as Philadelphia 76ers snapped Atlanta Hawks’ 13-game winning streak at home with a 127-111 win in game three of their NBA Eastern Conference playoff series. The teams split the first two games in Philadelphia, but the Sixers dominated on Friday to grab a 2-1 series lead. Good support Tobias Harris scored 22 points and Ben Simmons tallied 18 points and seven assists. Embiid had a couple of hard falls during the contest but nothing serious. Game four is on Monday night in Atlanta. The Sixers once again contained Hawks’ rising star Trae Young, who finished with 28 points in 37 minutes of playing time. John Collins scored 23 points and Clint Capela had eight points and 16 rebounds in the loss. Booker, Paul shine In Denver, Devin Booker scored 28 points and Chris Paul added 27 and eight assists as Phoenix Suns seized a commanding 3-0 lead over the Nuggets with a 116-102 victory. Nuggets’ Nikola Jokic, who received his MVP award before the game, had 32 points. , 20 rebounds and 10 assists for the Nuggets, but didn’t get a lot of help from his supporting cast.  The results (semifinals): EC: Philadelphia 76ers 127 bt Atlanta Hawks 111 (Sixers lead series 2-1).   WC: Denver Nuggets 102 lost to Phoenix Suns 116 (Suns lead series 3-0).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/embiid-helps-sixers-roll-over-hawks/article34802153.ece
13 June 2021||Birmingham,||Kiwis eye series win||Matt Henry took three top-order wickets to leave New Zealand on the brink of a series-clinching win as England's batsmen failed miserably in the second and final Test at Edgbaston on Saturday. England, on a good batting pitch, was 122 for nine in its second innings at stumps on the third day — just 37 runs ahead of New Zealand with one wicket standing and two days left to play. Even so, that still represented a recovery from an even more embarrassing 76 for seven.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-eye-series-win/article34802123.ece
13 June 2021||Nottingham,||Ankita & Wachaczyk lose semifinals||Ankita Raina and Julia Wachaczyk of Germany lost 6-4, 7-6(3) to second seeds Caroline Dolehide and Storm Sanders in the doubles semifinals of the $235,238 WTA tennis tournament on grass here on Saturday. In the ITF men’s tournament in Tunisia, Siddhant Banthia won the doubles title in partnership with Park Uisung of Korea. The Indo-Korean pair got a walkover from Jeremy Beale and Ajeet Rai in the final.  Other results: $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Semifinals: Park Uisung & Siddhant Banthia bt Matias Franco Descotte (Arg) & Filip Peliwo (Can) 2-6, 6-4, [10-7] .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-wachaczyk-lose/article34802208.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Humpy stunned in opening round||Bibisara Assaubayeva of Kazakhstan stunned Koneru Humpy 14.5-7.5 in the opening match of the Women's Speed Chess championship on Saturday. The seventh-seeded Indian lost and thus was knocked out of the 16-player online event organised by FIDE and Chess.com. Humpy got off to a bad start, losing the first game. The Kazakhstan player went on to take a 4-3 lead at the end of the segment played in the 5+1 time control. She increased the lead to 6.5-4.5 after the 3+1 games and then dominated the 1+1 segment. Now that Humpy is out, India's hopes rest on Dronavalli Harika and R. Vaishali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/humpy-stunned-in-opening-round/article34802121.ece
13 June 2021||Gros-Islet (St. Lucia),||Rabada bowls South Africa to innings win||South Africa fast bowler Kagiso Rabada took five wickets as the tourists cruised to victory over West Indies by an innings and 63 runs before lunch on day three of the first Test on Saturday. West Indies followed its paltry first innings score of 97 by being bowled out for 162 in reply to South Africa’s 322, as the tourists’ seamers took advantage of a helpful wicket that had both variable bounce and plenty of seam movement. Roston Chase, batting in an unfamiliar No. 4 position, top-scored for the home side with 62 before he was bowled by left-arm spinner Keshav Maharaj (2-23). No other batsman else managed more than 14 in the innings. Rabada returned figures of five for 34 in West Indies’ second innings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rabada-bowls-south-africa-to-innings-win/article34802122.ece
13 June 2021||London,||England seeks elusive opening match win||There’s an indicator of why England has never won the European Championship. In nine attempts, it’s never won an opening match at the tournament. England opens another continental campaign at its national stadium against the team that prevented Gareth Southgate’s side reaching the World Cup final three years ago. Croatia on Sunday will face a team refreshed since losing 2-1 and denied a shot at adding to its only major title at the 1966 World Cup. Led by 2018 World Cup Golden Boot winner Harry Kane, only nine members of that squad made the cut for the expanded 26-man group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-seeks-elusive-opening-match-win/article34802131.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 08:44 IST,||Sudoku — June 13, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-13-2021/article34802773.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Getting real with Chinmayi||“People who have not met me think that I am an angry woman,” says Chinmayi, in a telephonic interview, “Twitter Spaces changed that perception and it was therapeutic for me personally; it reset what I felt about myself. Spaces helped put some focus on my art because I thought: Have people forgotten that I am a singer? ” If you drop by Chinmayi’s residence in Chennai, you will probably see her playing with her dogs and humming a tune. It might be a raga or alaap , or a tune from one of her superhits. It is this side of the singer that fans have lately been introduced to in her recent packed, Twitter Spaces outings, one of which spilled over to the wee hours of the following day. However, the ones that won the most hearts were her concert with composer Govind Vasantha and her rendition of ‘80s hits, a tribute to Ilaiyaraaja who turned 78 recently. In some of her Spaces, Chinmayi showcased her vocal prowess, thus leading to comments among Twitterati, many of whom said the music “healed them in tough times”. She also takes on impromptu requests, to the delight of her fans. “I had a great time performing,” she says. Also trending on social media in recent times was the hashtag #WeWantChinmayiBack, indicating that listeners wanted to hear more of her in films. “That was absolutely touching, but how much of this will have a change in ground reality is to be seen,” says the singer, who mentions that Govind Vasantha and Nivas Prasanna are among her closest friends in the music industry. Chinmayi, however, is not much of a music listener herself. “I don’t listen to music for relaxation or fun. For me, music is an all-consuming exercise; I cannot relax when it plays in the background. That’s why when I drive, I do not have music playing,” says the musician, whose playback singing career kickstarted with the hit ‘Oru Deivam’ song in Mani Ratnam’s Kannathil Muthamittal (2002). Since then, she has sung over 1,000 songs in various languages. She states that her film offers have dried up since her involvement with the #MeToo movement, which began in 2018, but there are still a few tracks on the cards. “I sang a solo Malayalam song for A.R. Rahman for the Prithviraj project ( Aadujeevitham ) four years ago. I am not sure of its status now. I have sung a few upcoming tracks in Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam but nothing in Tamil.” So, what’s next? At the moment, Chinmayi is making sure she is heard on social media. She has been a part of two Clubhouse events discussing cinema. Also on the cards is a Twitter Spaces dedicated exclusively to ghazals , which she is planning to schedule in the next few days. “I speak about issues that need to be flagged, but people think I am into full-time activism,” she says, discussing the surge of support from listeners on Twitter Spaces. She adds. “These recent conversations helped changed that notion.”  For me, music is an all-consuming exercise. I cannot relax when it plays||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/getting-real-with-chinmayi/article34802317.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Star war||Actor Aamir Khan is an ardent chess lover. When he meets grandmaster and former world champion, Vishwanathan Anand, what is likely to happen? Find out on June 13 at 5 p.m., when Aamir Khan plays an exhibition match, virtually, against Vishwanathan Anand, which will be live streamed on Chesscom India’s YouTube channel. All for a good cause. The match, held by Chesscom India is in association with The Akshaya Patra Foundation. This particular edition will feature Bollywood celebrities and corporate leaders from across the country, the proceeds of which will be directed towards serving individuals and families from vulnerable communities affected by the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/star-war/article34802318.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||From the story down||Physical classes, making new friends and spending time at the playground during recess have been replaced by screens ever since the pandemic began. But even before March 2020, parents and educators had been turning to online resources for easy learning. Karadi Tales’ Karadi Path is one such resource for language learning, which was ideated and launched 10 years back. Now, the platform has been recognised as the winner by the 50th London Book Fair, in its International Excellence Awards category in educational learning resources — the only firm in India to receive the award this year. It began when schools started considering Karadi Tales’ audio books as a possible language resource. “We had Naseeruddin Shah, Nandita Das and so on giving voice to the characters,” recalls C.P. Viswanath, co-founder of Karadi Path. “Children loved the way the story was told, even when they did not know the language itself,” he adds, recalling an incident in Dharavi (Mumbai), where the crew realised that the children could speak three languages simultaneously. “In India, we are so effortlessly multilingual. But at the same time, we see children learning a language in theory for many years, without knowing how to speak or the meaning of the words,” he says. These observations together formed the cornerstone of a 10-year research process at Karadi Tales which led to Karadi Path. “After the research, we came to the conclusion that we should never teach a single word or a single meaning or even a single rule of grammar, if we want to teach a language. A language must be learned through prediction and discovery,” says Viswanath. This framework is what Karadi Path brings into classrooms. This approach of “don’t teach from the word up but teach from the story down” did not have many takers in the beginning. However, this methodology has had an amplified impact especially for students from rural India who are introduced to a language different from their mother tongue only through textbooks. “Here, they discover the language through stories, music, the use of body, action, theatre…,” explains Viswanath. One of the key aspects that the annual London Book Fair pointed out is Karadi Path’s access to disadvantaged sections and remote locations. Their app connects the school, students and their parents together. To minimise the digital divide during COVID-19, teachers in remote villages who own smartphones, were encouraged to teach small groups. “In parts of Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, they were taught in streets and temple courtyards. We have also had teachers connecting their car speakers to the phones to make the content accessible,” adds Viswanath. Moving forward, apart from language resources, the platform hopes to concentrate on holistic learning for kindergarten and pre-kindergarten kids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/from-the-story-down/article34802319.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Neighbours from the coast||Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS) has released a field guide on Chennai’s coastal fauna, which marks the completed segment of an ongoing documentation project on iNaturalist. At 51MB, the field guide slips easily into digital pockets and can be downloaded free from MNS’ website (blackbuck.org.in). It lists 128 species that frequent the beaches, but remain largely unnoticed, let alone admired. The exercise comes midstep through an ambitious project to document Tamil Nadu’s coastal biodiversity and its irritants. Marine creatures featured in the guide were found at Pulicat lagoon, Adyar estuary, Kovalam-Muttukadu backwaters, Odiyur-Mudhaliyarkuppam lagoon, and Kaliveli Lake-Yedaiyanthittu estuary, hotspots in what MNS has demarcated as Zone I. For a taste of the guide, have a squint at two creatures that adorn its covers: the blue button and the ghost crab. Naturalist M. Yuvan describes the ghost crab’s regular day at work. “Ghost crabs are public health officers on our beaches, because a carcass — of a fish, an eel or any other creature — can stay rotting for weeks, as beach sand has close to zero microbial activity. Ghost crabs make quick work of these carcasses, keeping the sands clean.” Yuvan continues: “The blue button has a calcium disc on top, which serves as its float. It lives floating on the surface of the ocean. With its tentacles below, it catches planktons and other very small crustaceans. When there is a strong wind, blue buttons get beached; the North-East monsoon is a good time to spot them on our beaches. This little creature can be up to 20 to 30 years old.” Vikas Madhav Nagarajan points out how the making of the guide led the team to appreciate how these life forms figure in fisherfolk’s workaday lives. Vikas explains: “During one trip, at Valmiki Nagar, we found 12 sea snakes. The fisherfolk were very nice and asked us if we would want to release a snake back in the waters. Though their bites are deadly, sea snakes are docile. Caught by its tail, a sea snake would just hang calmly, waiting for you to drop it.” Besides Yuvan and Vikas, Anooja A., Aswathi Asokan, Nanditha Ram Satagopan and Rohith Srinivasan carried out the field study.  When there is a strong wind, blue buttons get beached; the north-east monsoon is a good time to spot them on our beaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/neighbours-from-the-coast/article34802316.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||An Adi’s identity||It was a humid April afternoon. The sun had been beating down on us relentlessly for three days and it seemed as if we went from winter to summer in a flash, skipping a balmy spring. I was inside the office of the Arunachal Pradesh Christian Revival Church Council in Itanagar where its president, Tai Ete, half stood up to greet me with a ‘praise the lord’. Bespectacled and wearing a taango (the traditional sleeveless shirt of the Galo tribe), he was surrounded by members of his church’s organisation. Ete said that he became a Christian in 1993, leaving behind his ancestral animist faith now referred to as Donyi-Poloism. When I asked how old he was when he converted, he replied: “I was mature enough.” Like most indigenous people of Arunachal Pradesh, Ete was not raised Christian and only converted later in life. Unlike in the States of Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Nagaland in the Northeast, where Christianity has been around for well over a hundred years, the religion was introduced only fairly recently in Arunachal Pradesh. Toko Teki, the president of the Arunachal Christian Forum, said the first church in the State was established in Rayang village in present-day East Siang district in 1957. But people from indigenous tribes had already begun converting as early as 1920 when two men, Dugyon Lego, an Adi, and Tamik Dabi, a Galo, were baptised in Jorhat in Assam. Teki is from the Nyishi tribe and a ‘born Christian’. His father was converted in 1962 by church leaders of the John Firth Christian English High School in Assam’s Lakhimpur, which lies on the foothills of Arunachal Pradesh’s Papum Pare district. Numbers game From humble beginnings, the number of Christians of various denominations in Arunachal Pradesh increased to 30.26%, according to the 2011 Census. This was followed by 29.04% Hindus, and 26.2% ‘Other Religions’. A sizeable population (11.77%) of the 13.84 lakh people said they were Buddhist. These figures are, however, data points, and do not always represent actual numbers and certainly do not carry with them the perceived fears among the tribal population of the State. Since October last year, Arunachal Pradesh has been embroiled in a religious controversy. Christian organisations have claimed that the administration in Tawang district was obstructing the construction of a building only because it was a church and not a Buddhist monastery. In Tawang and the adjacent West Kameng district, a majority of the indigenous Monpa people are adherents of various sects of Tibetan Buddhism. While the State has witnessed a sizeable population of indigenous communities converting to Christianity, the region, referred to as ‘Mon’, remains a Buddhist bastion. The issue came to light when the administration issued an order to stop the construction of a church in the district headquarters. What followed were a series of allegations thrown around between the Arunachal Christian Forum, the Arunachal Christian Revival Church Council, and the Indigenous Faith and Cultural Society of Arunachal Pradesh (IFCSAP), which has been spearheading the revival of ancient tribal belief and faith systems. The IFCSAP alleged that the church in question flouted building regulatory norms, while the Christian organisations denied it and claimed they were being unfairly targeted. The IFCSAP argued that since the people of Tawang are mostly Buddhist, there was no need to build another church when three already existed. Christian bodies, on the other hand, said that the church was to serve the spiritual needs of Christians from other parts of the State working in the district. Ete argued that by the same token why should there be Buddhist monasteries in Itanagar, a predominately a Nyishi-populated area that has never been Buddhist. Last November, Christians from across Arunachal congregated to voice their opposition to the Tawang district administration’s move. Later that month, the BJP State government formed a three-member committee of MLAs to investigate the matter and submit its report. Tribal motifs During the height of the debate, Teki told reporters that the Christian bodies will not hold any protests until the committee’s report is published. “We believe that the committee will work honestly but in case we feel the report is biased, we will decide on further action,” he had said that balmy April afternoon. Ete and others of his congregation are waiting to find out what the report has to say. Around the time the debate began last year, various State units of the Janajati Suraksha Manch (or Tribal Protection Forum) began coaxing administrative heads to write letters to the Centre to remove the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status of people who had become Christians. But Ete, wearing his off-white taango with blue tribal motifs, questioned the motive of those seeking the removal of the ST status of converted tribal people. People of the Galo tribe, like Ete, trace their genealogical origin to Abotani. Other tribes that fall under the broad Tani classification, including the Adi, Apatani, Nyishi, and Tagin, and the Mishings in Assam, also trace their mythical origins to the same Abotani. In October last year in the town of Pasighat, a State government official of the Adi tribe told me that he is an Adi because he comes from Abotani’s lineage. “Now, if an Adi has become a Christian and starts referring to Jesus Christ as ‘father,’ how can he still be an Adi,” he asked. The contention being that the word ‘abo’ literally means father and ‘tani’ means man, and that if Christians say ‘abo Jesu,’ they are not tribals any more, and must not avail the scheduled tribal status. Ete and Teki were quick to dismiss such claims. “My identity as a Galo person cannot be taken away,” Ete said, as those around him nodded in agreement. He said that as a Galo he draws his lineage from Abotani but that his creator is someone else. “I am born a tribal and will stay that way,” said Teki, adding that Abotani is not a religious leader but rather a ‘biological forefather’. “Our culture lies in our clothes, the language we speak, how we welcome our guests. Ours is a culture of love. The Tani tribes were never under the rule of any king. We are a free-spirited and martial race. It’s what gives us our identity,” he said, adding: “I may be a Christian but I will always be identified as a member of my Toko clan.” Conflicting views An oft-repeated argument against Christian conversion in the State is that some of the religion’s core beliefs go against traditional tribal cultural rituals, such as animal sacrifice carried out to please the various animist spirits that many tribes believe inhabit the world around them. In the Christian world view, Jesus died on the cross to suffer for all of humanity’s sins and no further sacrifices are required. Teki is the first to admit that some of the Christian beliefs do go against his traditional Nyishi customs, especially where ritualistic sacrifices to appease spirits are essential. He, Ete, and many others of the Christian faith do not take part in such rituals. But as leaders of Christian organisations, they publicly say that they do not discourage anyone from participating in tribal festivals where the sacrifice of a mithun (a bovine animal) is essential. Even though they may say so, over the years there has been a watering down of traditional festivals. In 2017, at a major celebration of the Nyokum festival of the Nyishi tribe, many took exception to the fact that a mithun was not sacrificed and instead other animals were sacrificed at the sacred bamboo altar. Three years later, at another Nyokum celebration, concerns were expressed at a celebration where no animals were sacrificed at all. Such changes to ancient rituals are often met with distaste among the proponents of the animist faiths, who repeat the line that “loss of culture is loss of identity.” It’s a dictum often echoed by members of organisations that have a direct or indirect support of right-wing Hindu organisations such as the RSS and the VHP or other State-specific surrogate organisations that portray Hinduism as the true religion of even a State like Arunachal Pradesh, which always consisted of independent villages, chieftains, and councils, and was never truly under the hold of any outside power. Space for all While religious conversion may lead to changes in certain practices, it is not always seen as a bad thing. Veteran politician James Lowangcha Wanglat, a Catholic from the Nocte tribe (classified by the Indian Constitution as a Naga tribe), said that headhunting among the Naga tribes “used to be their heart and soul” but is a practice that has since waned. “With headhunting, the young man graduated to adulthood and became eligible to marry a high-status woman. It was a customary ritual. Even the women were not shy of taking up arms and joining the men in battles to protect their tribe’s honour. Practices such as headhunting ended after the Naga areas came under the Indian administration and much before Christian missionaries first entered Tirap district in 1979 — as did tattooing, headhunting dances, sacrifices, the worship of the dead, and many other indigenous faith practices,” he pointed out. Cultures and cultural practices often change with time. “(Earlier) our tradition and culture advocated kill or be killed. Today, it is about compassion, kindness, love, and doing business. So indigenous religious beliefs have transformed. I believe that a static culture is a dead culture. A great culture is always dynamic,” he said. As the number of Christian adherents continues to grow and there is a resurgence among indigenous tribal faith believers, Christian leaders think there is space for both groups. Teki admits that the State will never be 100% Christian and that neither will it be 100% indigenous faith. “Whatever the followers of the indigenous faith are doing, they should continue doing it peacefully,” he said. Wanglat was “optimistic that Arunachal Pradesh will sail along in religious harmony”. The four-time legislator said, “Religious leaders must respect and give space for all to grow.”  (This article is supported by a grant from the Pulitzer Center as part of its ‘Finding an Old Religion in a New India series’.)  The writer is an Itanagar-based journalist and blogger writing about the Northeast.  An oft-repeated argument against Christian conversion in the State is that some of the religion’s core beliefs go against traditional tribal cultural rituals, such as animal sacrifice||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-adis-identity/article34801949.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The virus orphans||On June 7, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) presented the Supreme Court with a series of grim numbers. Between April 1, 2020 and June 5, 2021, 30,071 children in India were registered as being in distress due to the pandemic, of whom 3,621 had lost both parents, 26,176 had lost one parent, and 274 had been abandoned. Based on information uploaded by States and Union Territories to the NCPCR’s Bal Swaraj portal, these figures gave an official tally to the reports that have poured in of late, of children left with no one to care for them as the second wave of the pandemic decimated entire families. Meanwhile, illegal messages about orphaned children have been doing the rounds on social media, with numbers to contact in case people want to “adopt” them. Last year, during the lockdown, children’s helpline Childline (1098), reported 92,000 SOS calls asking for protection from abuse and violence in just 11 days, along with hundreds more calls about health, child labour, and missing and homeless children. Some States have seen a spike in the number of child marriages prevented over the past year. News stories have reported about children, sometimes infants, left alone in homes with no food, or found lying next to the bodies of their parents, and young people in distress and suicidal after losing their parents to COVID-19. Nationwide database What is needed now, says Bharti Ali, co-founder, HAQ: Centre for Child Rights, a Delhi-based NGO, is a nationwide database of all children orphaned or in need of protection, and an assessment of their needs. “The database needs to take into account the fact that many parents may have died at home too, not just in hospitals. Hundreds of children could be at risk of child labour, child marriage, or other forms of abuse and exploitation if left with no caregivers,” she says. Ali argues for a systematic kinship/ foster care system with government sponsorship to be put in place urgently for children orphaned by the pandemic. Adoption should, ideally, be the last option, she says. “The first option should always be to place the child with extended family or community, kinship care, with safeguards. Children who are already traumatised by the loss of parents need to be in a familiar environment, with people they know. And even if there is no extended family, we have often seen — after natural disasters like the tusnami and cyclones for instance — that members of the local community may be willing to care for the child.” When after inquiries it is established that there is no one to care for a child, the child is declared legally free for adoption. Adoption is regulated by the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA). As the pandemic rages, CARA could help by finding foster families for children who are otherwise eligible for adoption, says Ali. “Adoption is about permanency, and this cannot be rushed into, both for the parents’ and the child’s sakes. But children who have no one will need immediate care. Why shouldn’t they be fostered, until an adoption goes through,” she asks. In a public notice issued mid-May, the Ministry of Women and Child Development detailed the legal procedure for children who have lost their parents to COVID-19. The concerned Child Welfare Committee is to ascertain the immediate need of the child and either restore the child to caregivers or place her/ him in institutional or non-institutional care, on a case-to-case basis. It also said efforts would be made to sustain the children in their family and community environment as far as possible, while ensuring their safety. Over the past week, the Supreme Court gave a number of orders with regard to safeguarding children, action against those attempting illegal adoption and financial assistance for children. Financial schemes On May 29, the Centre announced a special ‘PM Cares for Children’ scheme for COVID-19 orphans, with a corpus of Rs. 10 lakh for each child when he or she reaches 18. The government will also assist such children with school education, and PM CARES will pay the premium for a Rs. 5 lakh health insurance cover under Ayushman Bharat until they turn 18. However, details of this scheme are still not in the public domain, and the Centre on June 7 asked the Supreme Court for more time to work out the “modalities”. Several States, too, have announced financial schemes for orphaned children, as well as education policies. Ali welcomes these steps, but says the government must ensure that the budgets for orphaned children are adequate and the families who take them in get the support they need. Generally, she says, budgets for institutional care are larger than for non-institutional care, and this needs to change. “Non-institutional care, in a family setting, is far better for children. If a child’s expenses are taken care of by the government in the form of monthly payments, far more families familiar with the children can take them in,” she says. However, some issues remain that need to be addressed on a priority basis. “Who will be the custodian of the children’s property until they attain majority,” asks Ali. Also, most children don’t have bank accounts, Aadhaar cards, or other documents, and there needs to be a mechanism in place to ensure that children get the financial and other aid they are entitled to, with government departments working together for this, she says. Safeguarding the systems that monitor children in any form of care — institutional and non-institutional — is another vital requirement. Currently, there are child welfare committees at the district level, and child protection committees at the district, block and village level , but while some of these are effective and involved, others are not. “Unfortunately,” says Ali, “there are no budgets at the village level. Where they do exist, they have been formed with outside support. This needs to change urgently. Committees need support and resources to monitor children in care.” Finally, psycho-social counselling is an important aid for children who have lost one or both parents. The NCPCR has launched a tele-counselling service on a toll-free helpline, 1800-121-2830. Far more awareness is needed about all schemes meant for children, says Ali. “There should be advertisements in print and on television, and all schools must be told to inform children about the helplines.” With families often scattered in different cities and States, and restrictions on travel in many parts of the country still in place, it is vital that government child protection services step in immediately to safeguard vulnerable children. “Child protection should not be charity,” says Ali. “It is every child’s right to be protected.”  ‘Children who have no one will need immediate care. Why shouldn’t they be fostered, until an adoption goes through,’ asks Bharti Ali, co-founder, HAQ: Centre for Child Rights||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-virus-orphans/article34801988.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||I was called a ‘ behenji’ and ‘shameless’ in the same breath||Like much of Neena Gupta’s recent onscreen work, her memoir Sach Kahun Toh (which roughly translates to ‘Truth Be Told’) is rich in sociological detail. There are several chapters and passages dedicated to her Delhi childhood, with a keen eye for the bigger picture. In one chapter, she talks about her time as an undergraduate at Delhi’s Janki Devi Memorial College, which, as Gupta points out, was seen as a ‘ behenji ’ college. “I don’t understand how this word came to be associated with women who don’t speak English as their first language. Who dress only in Indian clothes like a salwar kameez or sari, read only Hindi literature, and are traditional and don’t subscribe to modern ideologies.” She writes about how people struggled to put her into these clear-cut boxes. “I know it’s contradictory to be called a ‘ behenji ’ and ‘shameless’ in the same breath but these two words have been most descriptive of my life. I was a Sanskrit-loving girl who wore tops with spaghetti straps and that confused people.” Defying stereotypes Gupta’s career, like her life, has defied stereotypes at every turn. Across just about every medium (theatre, film, television, web), her projects have been ahead of their time. During a telephonic interview, she recalled working on her very first film Aadharshila (1982), directed and produced by Ashok Ahuja and starring actors from the NSD (National School of Drama) circuit that Gupta was familiar with. “It was a very small, self-sufficient project,” Gupta said. “I wore my own clothes, there was no make-up. Most of the actors knew each other: Naseeruddin Shah, Anita Kanwar, Annu Kapoor, Raghubir Yadav. There was no money to pay the actors since the director (Ahuja) was using his own funds to make the film. Not many people saw the movie because it wasn’t released properly.” Melodious address Gupta speaks of her time at NSD with great fondness. “When B.V. Karanth was in charge, we did a lot of musicals. Also, classics such as Shahjahan and Sakharam Binder and Aadhe Adhure . We also performed an open-air Badal Sircar play on campus.” Theatre training was tough, says the actor in her book. The long hours and relentless rehearsals felt like punishment at times. Gupta narrates an instance when she had to perform on stage with a sore throat. The whole experience was ultimately very fruitful, she says. Recently, while shooting for commercials at her Mukteshwar residence in Uttarakhand, Gupta says she tapped into her innermost reserves to make the best use of all the lessons from those early days — camerawork, lighting, sound, make-up and so on. “I am a firm believer that learning never goes to waste. What I learned in those days came in handy while shooting during the lockdown. Otherwise, I would have found it very difficult to work in isolation like this,” she said. Distinctive geniality Like any self-respecting artist, Gupta learned early on to incorporate and adapt details from her life into her work. For instance, the story behind the National Award-winning documentary Bazaar Sitaram (1993), which Gupta produced, directed and acted in, is a charming one. Sometime in the early 90s, her father took her to his old family house in Delhi. “He took me on a tour in a cycle rickshaw — the roads were too narrow for cars — and we finally reached his house in Takhat Wali Galli, Mohalla Imli, Bazaar Sitaram. What a melodious address it was!” The experience made Gupta think about an assignment from her NSD days, wherein students were asked to create something representative of the cities and States they came from. Gupta realised that what she had was a rare piece of Delhi that wasn’t derivative of other cultures, something that was uniquely and undeniably its very own. As she writes in the book, “A light bulb went on in my head and I realized I had to capture it in my work somehow.” While Gupta’s formative years form the first half of Sach Kahun Toh , the latter part is all about her films and TV career. We read about her auditioning for and winning a part in Richard Attenborough’s Gandhi , a kind of turning point, after which Gupta moved to Mumbai to pursue a movie career in earnest. Whether about her work or love life, Gupta is nothing if not blunt. And yet, there is an unmissable compassion, a distinctive geniality that runs through the book. There are also anecdotes about eccentric directors and cheating men, as well as more recent hijinks on newer projects close to her heart — like the Netflix show Masaba Masaba , where she is cast alongside her daughter, designer Masaba Gupta. Then there’s the Amazon Prime Video show Panchayat , where Gupta plays a reluctant panchayat head. Set in a remote Uttar Pradesh village, the show focuses on governance issues at the grassroots level and turned out to be an unexpected hit. “What happened here was that OTT platforms emerged at a time when television in India was on the decline. These platforms experimented with new ideas, and found that a lot of people liked these new ideas, they were interested in stories from small towns and villages, they wanted to challenge themselves as viewers. And so, due to this positive response, many more actors and directors and producers wanted to bring these stories onscreen.” Gupta herself is likely to be at the forefront of such stories in the near future, it’s safe to say. Sach Kahun Toh is a fascinating window into the sensibilities and influences of one of our finest actors. The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.     Like any artist, Gupta learned early on to incorporate and adapt details from her life into her work||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-was-called-a-behenji-and-shameless-in-the-same-breath/article34801914.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Soft, pink and light like a flower||I always make it a point to visit the synagogue on the Jewish new year or Rosh-Hashanna, when the shofar , a ram’s horn, is blown: it resounds with a sound as ancient as time. To mark the occasion, we eat apples dipped in honey along with a sweet called chik-cha halwa, which is the essence of Bene Israel Jewish cuisine. This halwa, made with coconut milk, wheat extract and sugar, has a smooth and silky texture, a jelly-like consistency. Its subtle sweetness increases with each bite.  2,000 years ago Last year, on Rosh-Hashanna, as I prepared to leave the synagogue in the evening, before curfew was imposed, my friend Julie slipped a small cardboard box into my bag. When I opened it at home, I was touched to see a few pieces of chik-cha halwa, which she had made for her family and kept aside some for me. Chik-cha halwa is rarely made now, since preparing it needs time, patience and expertise. Whenever the shofar is blown in the synagogue, we, the Bene Israel Jews, remember our history. Some 2,000 years ago, we arrived from Israel in a ship, fleeing from the sword of the Greek warlord Antioch, who had established supremacy over King Solomon’s second Temple. Some survived, some didn’t. The latter were buried at a graveyard in Alibaug near Mumbai. We also lost our Books in the shipwreck. But our ancestors retained their oral memory of Hebrew prayers, some rituals, and the dietary law, ‘Thou shalt not cook the young lamb in its mother’s milk.’ With this as background, they tried to preserve their Jewish heritage in India. According to the dietary law, they could not mix dairy products with meat dishes. So our matriarchs decided to use coconut milk in their cuisine, creating a variety of curries. Whenever I cook a Jewish dish, I feel the presence of the matriarchs around me. Infectious laughter My earliest memory of the Jewish new year is associated with grandmother Shebabeth and the chik-cha halwa she made for the family. She employed young women of different communities who lived around the family house as her kitchen assistants. Affectionately known as Maa, grandmother was small, petite and plump. When she laughed, her eyes filled with tears and her pink cheeks resembled chik-cha halwa. Her laughter was so infectious that her assistants laughed along, for no reason at all. Making the halwa was a ritual. First, Maa would hold a coconut to her ear like a conch shell and listen to the sound of sweet water in its belly. She would then break it on the floor and her maids would grate it, sitting on a morli , a short stool with a crescent-shaped metal scythe fitted to it. The grated coconut was ground with water in a stone mortar and strained twice through a muslin cloth to extract the milk; the first press was kept apart from the second. Meanwhile, a wheat extract was prepared by soaking wheat grains for three consequent nights, then pounded in a stone mortar, and drying the grains in the sun on a soft muslin cloth until they turned into granules. Called chik,  this is now available in some speciality shops in Mumbai. Maa would take a big, heavy-bottomed vessel, fill it with coconut milk mixed with sugar and a pinch of salt, and set it on the stove. She dissolved the chik in a bowl of water, added it to the coconut milk and brought it to a rolling boil while adding the second press of coconut milk, stirring continuously. Four hours later, Maa would dissolve edible rose-pink colour in a bowl of coconut milk and pour it in the bubbling mixture. Right consistency The halwa, blushing like her flushed cheeks, was almost ready. She would smile triumphantly as the aroma of the halwa filled the house. She would stand over it, majestically sprinkling it with cardamom powder, chopped pistachio and almonds. Her eyes never left the halwa, which had to be of the right consistency. Once the vessel was taken off the fire, her assistants poured the halwa into greased thalis . Maa always said, “Halwa has to be soft, pink and light like a flower.” On new year nights, we ate halwa till we burst at the seams. Although I make Jewish dishes, I cannot make halwa. But while researching for one of my novels, I met Julie Joseph Pingle at the Magen Abraham Synagogue in Ahmedabad. She is an expert at making halwa, which is similar to my grandmother’s. Thus I regained a whole tradition of Jewish food. On new year’s eve, we cover platters of offerings and chik-cha halwa with silken ceremonial textiles embroidered with Hebrew words, which are symbolic of joy, happiness and a new beginning. The Sahitya Akademi-winner’s latest book isBene Appétit: The Cuisine of Indian Jews, published by HarperCollins India.     According to the dietary law, they could not mix dairy products with meat dishes. So our matriarchs decided to use coconut milk in their cuisine, creating a variety of curries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/soft-pink-and-light-like-a-flower/article34801916.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||In exile, rooted to Palestine||Every child that dies due to wars in West Asia disappears from the world without knowing that the shell that hit the roof came with a long history — the contest over a territory, the problem of imagined communities, colonial chicanery, and above all, the chasm of religious faith among several other threads. In such times, what does it mean to read Timothy Brennan’s intellectual biography of Arab-Christian-Palestine Professor of English literature Edward Said, who was an advocate of Palestine’s rights? Being in the place If Said’s life can be read as a novel, as his friend Dominique Edde formulates in her Italian biography, translated into English as Edward Said: His Thought as a Novel (2019), two themes dominate the story of the professor — a sense of place and the politics of representation. Dislocation of human beings from places and dispossession of land that belongs to a people not only animate his writings but also they are the source of his larger intellectual concerns. Brennan’s biography tries to capture this theme by making a distinction between places of mind and the place he lived. According to Brennan, Said was a man rooted “imaginatively in Palestine and actually in New York”. Said’s memoir, Out of Place (1999), which came out of the intensity of facing imminent death when diagnosed with leukemia, was an attempt on his part to come to terms with his troubled identity, being an Arab-Palestinian in the western world. The mapping of territories in the memoir — Jerusalem, Cairo, Beirut, Lebanon, Egypt and even the U.S. — articulates his longing for Arab culture in the most exalted sense. Like Timothy Brennan, yet another student of Said, H. Aram Veeser wrote a critical biography, Edward Said: The Charisma of Criticism, in 2010 . Building on earlier life narratives, what Brennan has attempted in the biography of his teacher is something ambitious — as he obliquely mentions in the Preface — he is trying “to paint a full picture of Said’s Arab and American selves as they come together and to account for the ways that Said’s writings on Palestine, music, public intellectuals, literature, and the media intertwine”. Intellectual journey The use of carefully selected details of Said’s life and the tracing of the beginnings of his intellectual journey set Brennan’s account apart. There are little known facts that Said’s fans might look forward to: Said, a movie buff, who watched a porn flick Deep Throat along with Hollywood action thrillers; his romantic liaisons; his effort to bring peace and harmony between Israel and Palestine through a music association and performances, and the friends and foes he made in its wake; and his love for fountain pens and Rolex watches, among others. Besides crisp accounts of the contexts in which Said’s writings took shape, in Places of Mind, it is interesting to come across certain facts that arouse our curiosity. For example, at some point of time Said wanted to collaborate with Noam Chomsky on a book that would deal with spurious portrayals of West Asia, but Chomsky could not due to other commitments. Then, Said went alone and O rientalism was the result. Finally, what Brennan has achieved in his thick description of Said and his times is an account of how Said arrived at the pinnacle of his academic work — what it took for Said to become what he became. Accordingly, Places of Mind reveals Said’s struggle with his early book, Beginnings (1975), and how it paved the way for his bestsellers Orientalism (1978) and Culture and Imperialism (1993) . We come to know that Said tried different ideas and authors, abandoning some and negotiating with some others. His project of working on intellectuals and a book on Swift never saw the light of day. His mentors at Princeton and Harvard groomed him in formative years, and he was shaped as much by diverse intellectual traditions and disciplines from German philosophy to Auerbach’s Philology, from French textuality and discourse theories of Roland Barthes, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida to Gorge Lukacs, Raymond Williams and Adorno’s musings on music. While a fair amount of space is devoted to Said’s life with music, his constant struggle for the Palestine cause lurks in most chapters. Levels of representation Though Brennan does not indulge in long interpretations of Said’s work, he does give explanations of them, clarifying certain mis-readings. For example, to the critics who thought that Said was wrong in reading Orientalists, Brennan clarifies that ‘rather than gauging the accuracy or inaccuracy of the Orientalists’ account of Arab and Islamic life, Said meant to dwell on the echoing inner chambers of representation itself, on the degree to which representation is part of reality, not just its rendering in words’. Said was one of the most mis-represented intellectuals of his time. In 2000, the media misreported Said’s symbolic gesture of stone-throwing at the Lebanese border as hurling stones at Israeli soldiers, and in fact in 1989, he was allegedly titled Professor of Terror. Brennan’s astonishing research and deep understanding of Said, the man and his works, have enabled him to bend the narrative, breaking the linearity and giving different vignettes of not only Said, but also his interlocutors, allies and adversaries. The rich archival material and interviews with 96 people have lent Brennan’s study a documentary depth that captures the spirit of an epoch — its people and places.  The writer teaches English Literature at Tumkur University, Karnataka.  Places of Mind: A Life of Edward Said Timothy Brennan Bloomsbury  Rs. 385 (Kindle edition)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/in-exile-rooted-to-palestine/article34801970.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Secret liaisons and class tensions||“Doing something great is overrated. Because then people expect that from you all the time. What they don’t realize is you’re just as screwed up as they are.” These lines are spoken by Kate Winslet’s titular character Mare Sheehan in the recent HBO miniseries Mare of Easttown (streaming on Hotstar in India). A detective drama set in a small town in Pennsylvania, Mare of Easttown is yet another easy win for HBO. The story follows Mare Sheehan (Winslet), an Easttown police detective going through several personal crises, as she investigates the murder of a local teenager. Winslet is in career-best form and the rest of the cast are every bit as good — especially Julianne Nicholson and Jean Smart, who play Mare’s best friend Lori and her mother Helen, respectively. The pioneer Notably, Mare of Easttown remains faithful to what has proven to be a winning template for 21st century television, namely, ‘a troubled sleuth investigates a small town’. In the past few years, we’ve seen several variations on this formula: HBO alone has rolled out Sharp Objects , True Detective, and The Outsider . BBC has also notched up a few notable wins: Broadchurch and Top of the Lake come to mind immediately. The subgenre’s pioneer in the modern era was, of course, David Lynch and Mark Frost’s series Twin Peaks , which returned for a third season in 2017, 25 years after it was first aired. There are certain obvious areas of interest when you have a narrative set-up like this one. Firstly, the town’s close-knit nature leads to a great many secrets being unearthed piecemeal through the course of the story. Secret liaisons, internecine rivalries, class tensions; these fractures emerge as our troubled sleuth probes further. Secondly, because these towns are generally at a self-enforced distance from the trappings of metro culture, there are generally some characters (typically, senior citizens) who exist at the fringes of society and, on occasion, impart their “special knowledge” to our sleuth-protagonist. A classic example is the character of Margaret Lanterman, “the lady with the log”, from Twin Peaks . Finally — and this becomes especially important towards the concluding episodes — the sleuth’s personal demons begin to converge with the town’s fault lines. She knows everyone This last bit is particularly well done in Mare of Easttown , not least because Mare is and always has been a bit of a local hero; she starred in a famous victory for the local high school’s basketball team over two decades ago. She knows everybody and vice-versa. In fact, at one point, her fellow detective Colin Zabel (Evan Peters) asks her in faux-exasperation, “Is there anybody in this town who you are not related to?” Mare being an ex-highschool sports star is an element also seen quite a bit in postwar American literature: think of Seymour Levov in Philip Roth’s novel American Pastoral , or the protagonist Rabbit Angstrom from John Updike’s Rabbit, Run and its sequels. In these stories, the decay of ‘Old America’ (manufacturing-led, marked by high income levels and relative prosperity) starts to mirror the personal crises and breakdowns of the protagonist. Of course, Old America fights back every now and then, for these stories are often apologetic paeans to the pastoral existence, the simple life as it were. Another common trope, therefore, is the city slicker being rude to the people of the small town. Or even if the outsider isn’t rude, there is some friction caused by their very presence. When Detective Colin Zabel first teams up with Mare in Mare of Easttown , he is very much given the silent treatment. Mare and everybody else views Zabel with suspicion not because there’s something immediately untrustworthy about him, but because that’s how things often are in a tightly-knit community. In a famous scene from Twin Peaks , the sleuth-protagonist, FBI agent Dale Cooper (Kyle Maclachlan), rebukes his colleague for being rude to the local sheriff. The dialogue still holds up after all these years, and encapsulates the philosophy of these ‘small-town procedurals’. “I have only been in Twin Peaks a short time. But in that time I have seen decency, honour and dignity. Murder is not a faceless event here, it is not a statistic to be tallied at the end of the day. Laura Palmer’s death has affected every man, woman and child. That’s a way of living I thought had vanished, but it hasn’t.”  Old America fights back every now and then, for these stories are often apologetic paeans to the pastoral existence, the simple life as it were||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/secret-liaisons-and-class-tensions/article34801984.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Living off borrowed words||Social media has kicked off a new, high-growth ancillary industry — quotations. Incessantly through day and night, my mobile blinks as decorated Generals advise me on how to battle the problems of life, respected industrialists reveal the secret sauce of their success and former cricketers prop up morale by telling me that the match is not lost till the last ball is bowled. I doubt if this 24x7 exposure to great sayings has improved me as a person but it has convinced me of the persuasive power of quotation marks. The quotation mark is a cut above run-of-the-mill punctuations. In its previous life, I am sure it was just a comma — one of scores strewn across the text. But inverted, elevated and paired with its twin, it confers gravitas to content. Epigrams become wittier because you know they are by Oscar Wilde, observations acquire depth and heft as they now have Einstein’s name appended to them, and when someone like Mother Teresa tells you how to turn compassion into action, who are you to argue? To be honest, not all the things you read within those parenthetical commas are of particularly high voltage. As you sometimes react when you see perplexing examples of modern art, you feel you could have come up with similar stuff yourself. Alas, in the status-conscious, nomenclature-enamoured world we live in, what is said matters less than who said it. So unless your name happens to be Ralph Waldo Emerson, Rabindranath Tagore or equivalent, your compositions are going to find few takers. Brand image But look at the bright side — the population explosion of “authorities” gives you a larger arsenal to choose from when you are heatedly arguing a point and looking to deploy heavy artillery. Apart from helping you score points off friend, family or foe, quotations can work wonders for your brand. Imagine you are trying to uplift everyone’s mood in these uncertain times. Instead of the usual “ hum honge kamyab ”, you bring in Tagore: “Faith is the bird that feels the light when the dawn is still dark.” Your brand value will shoot through the ceiling. Modern technology has made the quest for quotes easy — just key in the appropriate word, and the genii of search engines will do the rest. If luck favours you, you will locate a line that speaks your mind in memorable fashion. If that doesn’t work, you will need to make your own luck. In other words, necessity will make you the mother not just of invention but a quotation. Don’t be overly bothered about the scruples of putting your own spin on history. Social media is brimming with what could be called the illegitimate offspring of intellectuals. You have Voltaire on your side — “What is history,” the French thinker had said, “except a fable that’s agreed upon!” For the record, this quotation itself is a matter of dispute. Was it by Voltaire, Napoleon, Fontenelle or Emerson? Nobody is sure, and frankly not many are bothered. All it proves is that what really matters is neither the creator nor the content but the quotation mark. jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/living-off-borrowed-words/article34801943.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Anthem for doomed youth||In poetry, lines are repeated for emphasis. It is even given the status of a poetic device — a refrain. In prose, the impulse is different. When, in the International Booker Prize-winning novel, At Night All Blood Is Black, translated from French, words and phrases repeat themselves — “God’s truth”, “I know, I understand” — it gives the sense of a swirling, hypnotic world, which is slowly losing its grip not just on conventional narrative but also on everyday reality, flirting with the absurd, and then becoming it. Savage pride Fighting for France in World War 1, the narrator Alfa Ndiaye and his best friend Mademba Diop are both Senegalese tirailleurs — foot soldiers employed to charge ahead of the main columns. The book begins in the tone of a confession — Ndiaye has just witnessed Diop’s body being hurled inside out, his intestines lying on the floor. When Diop asks Ndiaye to slit his throat and kill him for the pain is unbearable, Ndiaye refuses, citing humanity, citing hope that he will survive, citing morals that “arrived fully formed, too well dressed to be honest”, citing a world that celebrates life sacrificed, not life succumbed. Diop dies, and over the course of the slim novel, Ndiaye slowly disintegrates into violence and madness, slaughtering men with a savage pride, collecting their amputated arms like souvenirs. The beauty, and perhaps brutality, of this is that as a narrator he has an almost pedantic clarity about what is happening and what people are thinking of him. If we think of madness as, among other things, an inability to see how others see us, Ndiaye falsifies this notion. War and madness As the novel progresses, we are taken back to the friends’ lives in the village, and the friendship that morphed into brotherhood — getting circumcised on the same day, falling in love with the same girl, propping each other’s losses with love. It is the kind of storytelling that reads like an elegy, and it is an elegy, so that the faults in the character eulogised blur. In the barracks, Ndiaye is now considered a “dëmm, a devourer of souls”, and is ostracised, furthering his lather-grip on reality. His own captain chastises his savagery: “You will content yourself with killing them, not mutilating them. The civilities of war forbid it.” The question of limits comes up — when does murder become mutilation? In between there are meditations on war and madness, and madness in war: “Temporary madness makes it possible to forget the truth about bullets. Temporary madness, in war, is bravery’s sister.” Ndiaye contrasts how, for war-mongers, madness is a cloak while for someone like him, the cloak has become a skin and is now bruised forever. Black blood There is a sense of barbaric medieval futility in the realisation that two kinds of people, not unlike each other, are deciding the limits of geography, which country belongs to whom, by selecting its healthiest men and throwing them together in a pool of blood. There is also the accompanying sense of emptiness of modern life, aspirations, war medals, the thumps on the back for pumping bullets — described evocatively as “metallic seeds of war that produce no harvest” — into bodies, in the hacked off hands of young men who, in another world, would have had another life ahead of them. Alfa Ndiaye is himself just 20. (The women in the novel are peripheral, recalled with the watery indistinctness of memory.) The title of the book is not so much a fact as an impression. When the narrator slits the throat of a “blue-eyed” enemy, the blood is black. When Diop’s body is bloodletting, the colour is black. Both these incidents happen at night, with the moon as witness. Later, it is peripherally noted that it’s the reflection of the granite sky that makes the blood look black. Which tells us that what is important is not how the world is, but how it is perceived to be. It is this outright rejection of the objective world that sometimes struck me as confusing. Given that there is no one narrative thread, I often felt at sea, just taking in the words, not sure how they connect, if they connect at all. Sometimes, David Diop completes the narrative circuit with a shocking finality, and sometimes, he lets it fester, untouched, unresolved, like war, any war, all wars. The writer is a critic with a weekly newsletter, prathyush.substack.com  At Night All Blood is Black David Diop, trs Anna Moschovakis Pushkin Press  Rs. 284 (Kindle price)    The question of limits comes up — when does murder become mutilation?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/anthem-for-doomed-youth/article34801952.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The poster girl from Dhanbad||Translation, said Günter Grass, is that which transforms everything so that nothing changes. While we encounter enough examples of the first part of the comment, rarely do we come across a translation that transforms the original in such a way that nothing changes. Most translations end up taking away the essence of the original, producing an emaciated clone. Sangeetha Sreenivasan’s translation of Budhini , the latest novel from Malayalam writer Sarah Joseph, is a happy exception. It is a translation that dutifully sticks to the original in its tone, tenor and texture, but is also able to stand on its own as a novel in English. Joseph is not an easy writer to translate. Her prose is complex, courtesy the curious variant of mid-Kerala Malayalam she employs in most of her works, especially in novels such as Aalahayude Penmakkal, Maattaathi and Othappu.  Portrait of modern India History meets mystery in Budhini. This is the story of a Santhal teenager who became the poster girl of modernising India in the 1960s. Budhini Mejhan was banished by her community for ‘marrying’ Jawaharlal Nehru, whom she welcomed with a garland when he went to Dhanbad to inaugurate the Panchet dam across Damodar river. Joseph travels with Rupi Murmu, a journalist, to record Budhini’s story, and paints an enchantingly enigmatic portrait of modern India in the process. This India is a study in contrasts, where myriad social realities clash. In that sense, Budhini is a pan-Indian novel, one that could have been written in English in the first place. Another original Sreenivasan, a bilingual writer of repute, and Joseph’s daughter, told me in a recent interview that since she accompanied her mother in her research sojourns for the novel, she was able to get the feel of the story even while it was being written. This evidently helped her with the translation. In Budhini , the translation, while being an honest reflection of the original, is another original. It is a parallel universe. We can say that with Budhini , Malayalam translation has finally come of age. The reviewer is the editor ofNumber13.in.  Budhini Sarah Joseph, trs Sangeetha Sreenivasan Hamish Hamilton India  Rs. 599    Budhiniis a pan-Indian novel, one that could have been written in English in the first place||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-poster-girl-from-dhanbad/article34801957.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Books unbound||Imagine there’s an idea germinating in your head, and it demands a prominent place on bookshelves, complete with a pretty cover and reviews in the papers. How do you get it there? Whom do you approach and how? Or, how do you get into editing as a career? What’s involved in commissioning, editing, designing, marketing and printing a book? A new report titled ‘Demystifying Indian Publishing’, freely available on the web, sheds light on the often opaque publishing industry, with an overview of some of these basics, while also answering questions like what kind of books are successful in the market, and how the pandemic has impacted the industry. Mentorship and editing The research was conducted as part of a project by Bound, a Mumbai-based company founded in 2018, which works with authors and provides services including mentorship and editing. The team consists entirely of young women, including editor and founder Tara Khandelwal, managing editor Michelle D’Costa, and head of content Aishwarya Javalgekar. Khandelwal, 30, an alumna of Columbia University’s publishing course, has worked at companies including Penguin and HarperCollins. While doing internships, she realised that there was “very little support or infrastructure” to help budding writers, she says over a Zoom call. “And that’s where the idea of Bound began. We started off with a writers’ retreat in Goa, and that went really well. We got established authors to come in and mentor the writers-to-be. Then we expanded to online classes — on screenwriting, poetry, fiction and graphic novels. And we were really interested in podcasts, so we decided to start our own author interview podcast.” The podcast titled Books and Beyond has featured authors such as Manu S. Pillai, Arshia Sattar and Avni Doshi. It’s hosted by Khandelwal and D’Costa, a 29-year-old writer and editor from Mumbai who founded literary magazine Kaani in 2018, and formerly edited fiction for Jaggery , a South Asian literary journal based in Chicago. Speaking of Bound’s research, she says, “We wanted to let people know that there is a chance of looking at publishing, editing, writing as a career.” The chats in Books and Beyond were the source of several insights in the report. So was another podcast, The Book People , a recently concluded 13-episode series hosted by Javalgekar. This featured industry analysis by publishing professionals such as commissioning editors and publicists. Busting preconceptions, it highlighted aspects such as what publishers look for in a manuscript and possible career paths in the industry. You certainly don’t need a literature degree for it, for instance. Javalgekar, 26, incidentally does have a master’s in English, as well as a certificate in book publishing. She’s a poet and researcher and also runs a feminist zine, ang(st) . She saw a chance to expand her own knowledge as well as to inform others through the podcast — and do it all in an unpretentious way. “A lot of these literary conversations in India, at literature festivals and such, can sometimes be ‘literary’, for lack of a better word,” she says. “Intimidating,” offers D’Costa. Passionate about stories What’s been their experience as women in publishing? “Honestly speaking, most of the publishing houses in India are dominated by women today. We’ve always had great experiences in this industry,” says Khandelwal. D’Costa compares it to her former career in HR with a construction company, which was “just men, all over”. “Coming here to Bound, I felt so nice and welcome, because it feels so natural. Women are passionate about stories and they’ve managed to get jobs in the publishing industry, which is great.” Javalgekar emphasises that there are barriers to access, but they’re not necessarily about gender — “You have to have a very good education, very strong English language skills. You need to have a certain background even to try to get into publishing.” The research for the report also made use of an online survey of Bound’s community of writers and readers, various conversations with authors, and secondary sources like news reports and market surveys by Nielsen — including one published in 2020 on the impact of COVID-19 on the Indian book consumer. Some key takeaways include a rising trend in book-to-screen deals; a rise in ebook sales early in the pandemic that later declined, with readers citing screen fatigue and returning to print; a fast-blooming audiobook industry; bookstores being forced to adapt to the digital environment; and a digital-first emphasis in marketing, which acknowledges phenomena like Bookstagram. But one finding surprised the team: many people still rely on traditional book reviews in newspapers.  You have to have a very good education, very strong English language skills. You need to have a certain background even to try to get into publishing||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/books-unbound/article34801959.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Sweeping changes in labour laws and their impact on rights||Following the outbreak of COVID-19 and the imposition of the nationwide lockdown last year, even as workers grappled with job losses and unpaid wages, and the nation witnessed the unprecedented exodus of migrant workers, the governments of several States extended the hours of work for factory workers. They increased the threshold numbers for the application of the Factories Act and the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act. A few States went further and took steps to exempt certain factories from the application of labour laws altogether. The passage of the Industrial Relations Code, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, and the Social Security Code by Parliament amid an Opposition walkout dealt a further blow to labour rights in 2020. A number of industrial accidents too took place last year adding to the woes of workers. Adding to woes Between April and December 2020, renowned labour economist, Prof. K.R. Shyam Sundar wrote a series of articles on the impact of COVID-19 and the ensuing lockdown on workers in the country as well as the sweeping changes effected to the labour laws, that were published in the print and electronic media. His writings and interviews have been published in a recent book, Impact of COVID-19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights in India. Insecure livelihood The book is divided into four parts. The chapters in Part I discuss the impact of COVID-19 and the lockdown on workers in the organised as well as unorganised sectors. They review and analyse the advisories issued by the Central and State governments to protect the livelihood and wages of workers and the labour-related components of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package. Shyam Sundar also takes a look at other labour-related policy initiatives of the State governments in the unlock phases. The changes made by various State governments to the labour laws in the name of kick-starting the economy too are discussed in Part I. The chapters in Part II of the book analyse the provisions of the Code on Wages, the Industrial Relations Code, the Occupational Safety and Health and Working Conditions Code and the Social Security Code and the draft rules framed under the Codes. They highlight the shortcomings in the Codes and the draft rules. The chapters in Part III highlight the flaws in the labour law reform process, the lackadaisical enforcement of labour laws and the gaps in the collection of labour statistics by the Labour Bureau. The author underscores the importance of comprehensive, reliable and accessible data. The chapters in Part IV discuss the labour rights issues brought to the fore in the wake of the pandemic and the demands of the central trade union organisations. Lack of dialogue In several chapters, the author rues the absence of effective consultations with trade unions on issues concerning workers and the economy. According to him, the rising trend of ‘neo-unilateralism’ has led to ill-conceived, poorly drafted laws characterized by mediocrity. He repeatedly emphasises the need for effective social dialogue while designing legal and policy responses in respect of issues concerning workers. He advocates for the revival of the tripartite Indian Labour Conference. The essays compiled in the book are rich in detail and contain relevant statistics. They analyse the changes in the labour laws in the light of the international labour standards of the ILO. The book is the first of its kind and would be a valuable read for anyone interested in labour rights issues.  The reviewer is an advocate in the Madras High Court.  Impact of COVID-19, Reforms and Poor Governance on Labour Rights in India K.R. Shyam Sundar Synergy Books India  Rs. 1,695||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sweeping-changes-in-labour-laws-and-their-impact-on-rights/article34801972.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 Born on June 13, 1897, Paavo Nurmi was a runner who in 1923 held the world records in the mile, 5,000 metres and 10,000 metres at the same time. At the 1924 Olympics, he won five gold medals in six days, some within hours of each other. When he toured the U.S. doing running exhibitions, the American media gave him an alliterative nickname because of his speed and nationality. What did they call this athlete who passed away in Helsinki in 1973? 2 The 2008 Beijing Olympic women’s 100m sprint winners were unique in two aspects. First, they were all from Jamaica. Shelly-Ann Fraser took the gold with her time of 10.78 seconds. Her colleagues Sherone Simpson and Kerron Stewart followed her. What was the other unique aspect of the result that has not happened again in Olympic athletics? 3 The Axel jump is named after Norwegian Axel Paulsen, who in 1882 became the first person in the sport to perform it. The triple Axel jump is considered to be the most technically difficult jump. Rena Inoue and John Baldwin, Jr. of the U.S. became the first pair to perform a triple Axel in competition in 2006, and repeated the feat at the 2006 Winter Olympics. In which sport does the Axel jump feature? 4 At the 1968 Mexico Summer Olympics, African-American sprinter Jim Hines won the 100m final. The light beam reading at the finish line showed his time to be 9.89 seconds, but was later followed by the official Polaroid film-based timing of 9.95 seconds. Later in the day, his team went on to win the 4x100m, in which he ran his 100m in just 8.2 seconds. What significant ‘first’ did Jim Hines achieve in the field of athletics? 5 This event is a long-distance discipline typically covering 20km and 50km at the Olympics. Usually held on the road, it originated from the British sport of pedestrianism, a type of long-distance competitive walking. The main rule is that one foot must appear to be in contact with the ground at all times, which leads to the peculiar but taxing gait that athletes have during this event. What is the name of this event? 6 Florence Griffith Joyner was a full-time bank teller and part time-beautician who competed in the 1984 and 1988 Olympics. During the trials for the 100m in 1988, she set a world record that still stands today, and her timing in the final was better than all the men in the decathlon. She broke the 200m world record twice in the same day. Known for her flamboyant outfits and coloured nails, what animals did she chase as a kid that helped her run so fast? 7 At the 1968 Mexico Olympics, Bob Beamon made his run-up and executed his first attempt in the final of his event. After about 15 minutes of the judges having to use their tape measure, the announcer called out the distance. The athlete, who wasn’t familiar with metric measurements, didn’t realise what he’d just done, but his coach told him he had broken the world record by an incredible margin of 55cm. Until then, the record had changed almost every year, but Beamon’s record would stand for 23 years. In which event did this iconic record happen? 8 This athletic event is known as retro running and has championships dedicated to it. This type of running is not energy-efficient but has been known to reduce knee pain. It also requires more coordination and, therefore, develops both brain and muscle power. Some of its most frequent practitioners are referees in football and rugby, who are thus able to continuously observe an area of play without interfering. How do we better know retro running? 9 This country has been participating in the Olympics since 1956. They have won 54 medals overall — 22 gold, 11 silver and 21 bronze — and in the process set one world record and seven Olympic records. Interestingly, every single medal won by this country has been in long-distance events such as the marathon, 10,000m, 5,000m, 3,000m steeplechase and the 1,500m. Which country is this that is located in the horn of Africa? 10 Jonathan Edwards made headlines at the 1995 World Championships held in Sweden. On his first attempt, he became the first man to pass the 18-metre barrier with a result of 18.16m. This was a world record, but it stood for hardly 20 minutes, as Edwards achieved 18.29m in his second attempt. This made him the first ever to get to 60 feet, a record that still stands as of 2021. What event is this that requires athletes to hop, bound and jump? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article34801991.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||An epic retold||Flash back to 1988, the era of epic television. Families are huddled around their drawing room staring into the flickering cathode-ray tube, as Harish Bhimani’s deep baritone booms out: “Main samay hoon.” Cut to the present, and the searching finger on the smartphone screen settles on a vista of bright red flowers deep in a forest. Tap on episode 1, and I drop into a discussion about a story that, the host promises, betters by far a contemporary viewing obsession, Game of Thrones . It has an even more magical mix of passion, intrigue, convoluted romance and grand power struggles spanning generations and bending every assumption you’ve held about family, friendship, loyalty, and truth. And lots of deep lessons about life, the universe and everything unfolding in the middle of the bloodiest of all battles. It’s a no-brainer. The Mahabharata has for centuries been a generative work, the twists and turns of its plotlines the stuff of grandmothers’ stories and Bollywood adaptions, with B.R. Chopra’s 1988 television series turning it into a popular media phenomenon. Arti Dhand’s The Mahabharata Podcast reaches back into the classical text and turns it into a tale for our times, channeling it through contemporary language and making all sorts of edgy connections with current politics and culture. Dhand, who teaches in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of Toronto in Canada, started the podcast to fill the vacuum created by the pandemic-induced halt to the animated discussions in her classroom. Tsunami of stories “We have this great work, but outside of South Asian culture it’s largely unknown...it’s foreign, it seems inaccessible to the wider world. And even for South Asians themselves, it is so immersed in religious tones, that it’s quite a challenge to see it in any other way,” explains Dhand when we chat over Zoom. So she set out to tell the story through 15-20-minute episodes that follow the text of this “frothing tsunami of stories” and explore “all its wild digressions”. “As I started this new exercise, I was much more interested in trying to recover the emotional context...the text glosses over the emotional lives of the characters — what Kunti or Gandhari is feeling, for instance,” says Dhand. “And as you read the text, you come upon ...horrifying acts of injustice...we have a moral imperative to recognise and grapple with it in some way.” I was pointed to the podcast last year by a friend who added that he had thought “he’d never listen to another Mahabharata podcast” (there are at least a hundred floating around) until he found this one. Dhand’s podcast is refreshing in its treatment of the story, her humour (“cheeky” she calls it), and her critical yet affectionate look at all the imperfections and contradictions of the central characters. The podcast seemed to her a natural extension of her teaching practice. The research and writing come naturally to her as an academic, but recording the episodes was a completely new experience. “It almost feels like one is an actor, and I’m not trained for that part! There’s always the worry that you might fall flat on your face — but then, you either go ahead with it or you do nothing.” Now, 44 episodes in, she seems to have got the hang of it. At this point, we are poised to find out what happens when Yudhishthira and Shakuni face off in — and here, a nod to that other great contemporary epic — ‘A Game for Thrones’.  ‘I was much more interested in trying to recover the emotional context... the text glosses over the emotional lives of the characters — what Kunti or Gandhari is feeling, for instance,’ says Arti Dhand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/an-epic-retold/article34802000.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The science of a rhythm||Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman was yet to be born when C.V. Raman’s famed theory on light won the Nobel Prize in 1930. A decade earlier, the music-inclined scientist had begun researching mridangam acoustics. Raman’s love for Carnatic music obsessed him also with the dynamics of its chief percussion instrument, and he presented 20 papers on the subject. A century later, world-class percussionist, U.K. Sivaraman, or UKS as he is popularly known, accompanied by scientists T. Ramaswami and M.D. Naresh, presents a well-studied book on the subject, titled Musical Excellence of Mridangam . Give and take The arts and sciences are not watertight compartments, so the book is an exercise in give and take. A highlight of the monograph is its establishing the mridangam’s capability to produce 14 harmonics — those vibration-induced overtones accompanying the fundamental sound. This total is double what earlier works predicted. What’s more, there is “convincing experimental proof” that the instrument’s tonic note is rishabham . Thus, the second swara in the Carnatic scale sets the hierarchical reference for the others. This point, UKS says, is “most soul-satisfying”. In the book, UKS says that naadam or musical timbre is a metaphysical concept. Ramaswami, when asked about this in an interview that comes after the one with UKS, is respectful of the artiste’s experiential opinion, but not necessarily in concurrence. Whether modern devices can simulate subjective sensations is “not clear at this stage,” he responds diplomatically. Likening naadam to the immeasurability of the sense of wellbeing, the former secretary in the ministry of Science and Technology says that “more talented and informed” professionals should be able to gauge naadam at a later date. From jackfruit wood The book, in seven segments, describes the instrument, partly adapting from Raman’s seminal paper in 1935. Jackfruit is the wood of traditional choice, which guarantees the right density, hardness and sound radiation. The parchments from goat and cow skin help support the tension between the membrane assemblies, while the minerals-mixed black patches facilitate the metallic tone fundamental to harmonics. Of course, perfect fingering is key to tonal beauty. How to get it is the crux of the fifth chapter. Next is on the R&D of the conventional 12kg mridangam. It explains new-age fabrications of the instrument that could standardise construction by using alternative materials, if needed. For travelling performers, the instrument must also be compliant to certain countries’ phytosanitary laws,where mandatory fumigation affects the mridangam’s black patch. Old versus new A concluding 19-page article by K. Varadarajan speaks about the IITian’s spectral studies that confirm the tonal similarity that his self-developed synthetic mridangam has with the traditional one in terms of harmonics. The new instrument is lightweight, long-lasting and has replaceable drumheads. This could render irrelevant certain age-old qualities attributed to Cauvery sand and Bengal goat that haunt the instrument. And also end the lamentation that “not many scientists followed Raman’s line of thinking” on the mridangam. For the average music buff, the opening conversation with UKS can be the best part of the book, which has a foreword by top chemist C.N.R. Rao and a commendation by Music Academy president N. Murali.  The Kerala-based writer is a keen follower of performing arts and culture.  Musical Excellence of Mridangam  Umayalpuram K. Sivaraman, T. Ramaswami & M.D. Naresh  Academic Foundation  Rs. 1,995||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-science-of-a-rhythm/article34801974.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Fearsome foursome||Dear Agony Aunty,  I am an Indian middle-class teen boy with typical Indian middle-class conservative family issues. Forced to study stuff I’ve no interest in. My numerous other real passions count for nought in my family’s eyes. And yeah, no points for guessing what they want me to do. Engineering. Reinforcing the Tamil Nadu stereotype. All due to fear of what those naalu per (four people) will say. Reminds me of the ‘Rakita’ lyrics. Give me some solution?    — Nihilistic Unlucky Miserable Boy       Dear NUMB,  Oho naughty boy. You are calling me aunty? Doesn’t matter. I am very broad-minded that way. Many children in my building society are calling me aunty. I give them gentle pat on head and I don’t give them any chocolate when my sister comes from America but otherwise why to say anything. Of course all the men in building society, young and old, they are simply not letting me graduate to aunty stage! Can you believe? Jokers only they are, haha. What do you have against engineering I say. You can build bridges and malls and whatnot. But wait, maybe you are doing computer engineering? You can go to America and write code and earn in dollars? Why not? It is famous escape route being taken by many young men from Tamil Nadu. Up until IIT, they are wearing veshti and singing ‘Bhaja Govindam’, then off they go to Wyoming or Arkansas and the next thing you know Swaminathan has become Sammy and they are saying ‘gimme a break buddy’ in American twang but still unable to pronounce colloquial. But maybe you are having creative interests? You want to sing and become new Hariharan? Or become cinestar like Rajinikanth? You should have written in detail about what and all are these “passions” that are “counting for nought”. (Incidentally, nobody has written letter in correct English to me using words like “nought”. For one moment I sat there looking at screen and my eyes filled with tears, but never mind, just fleeting feeling.) Whatever you do, those naalu per, ‘four people’, are going to play big supporting actor role in your life. Mostly, they will win Oscar and you will get nothing. That is life. If you want to become actor, four people will think otherwise. If you want to eat ice-cream at midnight or drink beer with your pals, those same four people will have an opinion. One day you must ask your parents to arrange meeting between you and four people. Call me also. I have long wanted to make their acquaintance because, believe it or not, those same four people used to haunt my youth as well. My father was under their spell but my mother was made of sterner stuff. So only I managed to defy four people and remain single. Otherwise today I won’t be sitting here giving valuable advice to helpless boys like you. Instead I will be making vengaya sambhar and potato podimas for fully able-bodied husband and same four people. Now I make only for myself. However, some passions are not only allowed but encouraged by ‘four people’. Notably, chess and mridangam. You can try taking these up. But immediately you have to be so good as to convert these passions into monetary value. Only then passion will get pass marks. But what is this ‘Rakita’ you mention, dear boy? Perhaps it is new OTT series? Or a new energy drink? Maybe it is girlfriend? Whatever or whoever it is, if ‘Rakita’ is the way to unnought your noughted passions, go for it. It seems unlikely that engineering can do that for you.  — AA    agony.akka@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fearsome-foursome/article34801990.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||From Partition to pandemic||At 81, whenever my grandfather recalls his childhood years back in the 1940s, he will be revived with fresh energy and fun. Sharing memories of his heyday back then with his grandchildren is so much relaxing for him. Born in present-day Pakistan, my grandfather still remembers the days of Partition. At just seven, he left with his parents and his six siblings for India. The journey on the train was scary. The chaos made them panic the whole way. After the train and bus journey, they reached Ambala. Since his parents had no acquaintance in the new city, they took refuge in a large empty house, left vacant by a rich Muslim family which might have left India for Pakistan. For a seven-year-old boy, finding a meaning and sense for Partition was impossible. He thought it was a trip to a new city and therefore he went out to explore nearby gardens, temple and mosques. During his stay in Pakistan, he had learned a little Urdu, but after the shift to India, Hindi became a new challenge for him. He was admitted to a school at the age of eight, where he made a lot of friends. India became his new home with a new environment all around. After finishing his 10th standard, he started to work in his early teenage years. He used to sell clothes with his elder brother in the weekly fair in the nearby villages and town. What he learned from selling these clothes served as a practical experience for him to deal with clients and learn to manage work and study simultaneously. The menial jobs he did during his childhood benefited him in his entire career. Life was not so fancy and status-oriented in those days. Life was so real and peaceful. After the COVID-19 pandemic struck, my grandfather is locked inside home. Now he calls up his friends and video chats with relatives. When he sees the children around our house and nearby apartments, he finds that most of them are not allowed to play outside with their friends. They are made to attend online classes, with even children aged three or four busy watching YouTube videos. Childhood has changed so much in these past 80 years. Earlier there were just children, but now there are smart kids. Unfortunately, these smart kids are far from the life children of the 1940s enjoyed. Life is so hasty now and has become more troublesome after the deadly COVID-19.  kirtidimple3007@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/from-partition-to-pandemic/article34801938.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Unblock?||Today’s deal is from a team competition, where overtricks are of little value. The meaning of North’s three-spade bid was not clear to East-West. Many experts play that bid as a Michael’s Cue Bid, showing a two-suited hand with hearts and an unknown minor. They inquired and were told, correctly, that the bid asked South to bid three no trump with a spade stopper. This gave East-West a clear picture, before the opening lead, that dummy would probably have a long, running suit and South would have a stopper in spades. South rose with dummy’s ace of hearts on the opening lead in the hope of blocking the heart suit. This would have worked, except that East unblocked his king of hearts under the ace! South led dummy’s king of clubs to West’s ace, but West was only able to cash two heart tricks and the ace of spades. It looked like the defence had gotten off to a good start. What went wrong? Unblocking the king of hearts seemed like the right play, but it was wrong on this deal. East should have seen that his partner had to hold both black aces for the defence to have a chance. He should have held onto his king of hearts. Had he done so the defence would have prevailed even if West continued with a high heart after winning the ace of clubs. East would win and shift to the queen of spades, defeating the contract that way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/unblock/article34801994.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Pride and no prejudice||Madras High Court issued a slew of directions to protect the LGBTQIA+ community in a case that involved a lesbian couple reported missing by their parents. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said he had undergone psychoeducation sessions to overcome his own prejudices. He ordered the police not to harass consenting LGBTQIA+ couples, directed the Centre to publish a list of NGOs who can provide support, and called for a ban on conversion therapy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/pride-and-no-prejudice/article34801920.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Booked for bribery||The Kerala BJP’s State President, K. Surendran, was booked for allegedly bribing a rival candidate, the BSP’s K. Sundara, to withdraw from the Assembly election and join the BJP. Surendran also faces allegations of paying Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party’s C.K. Janu to join the NDA. BJP leaders in Kerala are also being investigated in the Kodakara money heist case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/booked-for-bribery/article34801922.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Vaccine U-turn||Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a U-turn in India’s vaccine procurement policy. The Centre will procure 75% of vaccines and inoculate over-18s for free from June 21. It placed an order for 44 crore doses. The private sector will procure 25% of vaccines, but the prices hospitals can charge were fixed at Rs. 1,410, Rs. 780 and Rs. 1,145 for Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/vaccine-u-turn/article34801924.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Life for Mladić||Judges at the U.N. International Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals upheld the 2017 convictions of Bosnian Serb military chief Ratko Mladić for genocide during Bosnia’s 1992-95 war, and confirmed his life sentence. The Bosnian War left over 100,000 dead and millions homeless. Known as the “Butcher of Bosnia,” Mladić oversaw the massacre of 8,000 Bosnian Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica in 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/life-for-mladi/article34801926.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||FBI’s app||A global sting operation, involving 9,000 law enforcement officials from 17 countries over three years, led a massive bust of criminal organisations, including drug syndicates, contract killers and weapons dealers. The targets were duped into using smartphones loaded with Anom, a messaging app controlled by the FBI. Officials revealed they had arrested more than 800 people and seized drugs, guns and cash, with more to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fbis-app/article34801928.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||CO2 soars again||After a dip during global lockdowns, carbon dioxide in earth’s atmosphere reached the highest levels since measurements began 63 years ago. Scientists from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the U.S. found that the levels of the gas, the biggest driver of global warming, averaged 419 parts per million in May.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/co2-soars-again/article34801930.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Filmmaker Buddhadeb no more||Celebrated Bengali filmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta, 77, died of age-related complications. A leader of the parallel cinema movement in the 80s and 90s, he was known for films such asBagh Bahadur,Tahader Katha,Charachar, andUttara. He won the National Award for Best Feature Film five times and was also a noted poet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/filmmaker-buddhadeb-no-more/article34801932.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Advance moves||Jitin Prasada, a former UPA minister, quit the Congress and was inducted into the BJP. Prasada, 47, was a young face considered close to Rahul Gandhi before becoming one of the dissenting G-23. This comes as the BJP tries to consolidate support among the Brahmin community in Uttar Pradesh, to which Prasada belongs, ahead of next year’s Assembly election.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/advance-moves/article34801934.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Top unis||For five successive years, India’s place in the world’s top 200 universities hasn’t changed, with IIT-Bombay, IIT-Delhi and IISc (Bengaluru) again being the only ones to make the cut in the QS World University Rankings. Jawaharlal Nehru University and Pondicherry University made their debut among 22 Indian universities in the top 1,000. Globally, MIT kept the top spot for the 10th consecutive year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/top-unis/article34801936.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Caul Baby||Morgan Jerkins  Harper Rs. 1,155 (Kindle price) The Melancons are an old Harlem family known for their caul, a layer of skin that gives them healing power. Amara’s baby, born with a caul, is delivered to the Melancons to raise as one of their own. Growing up, Hallow feels that something is missing. Who is her mother? Where is home?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/caul-baby/article34801954.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Beyond Here and Other Poems||Bishnupada Sethi  Har-Anand Publications Pvt. Ltd. Rs. 695 The poems represent the author’s responses to situations and events of his life. They express emotions like joy, love, fear, sadness, pain, gratitude, devotion and so on. Feelings combine with the memory of lived events to create poems that are amorphous and lyrical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/beyond-here-and-other-poems/article34801961.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Adulting||Liz Talley  Montlake Romance Rs. 1,596 Self-destructive actress Chase London lives with her demons. Life coach Olivia Han does boot camp therapy to avoid building a life of her own. To escape the pressures of tinseltown, the two women head to a cabin in the wilds of north California.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/adulting/article34801963.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Dial A For Aunties||Jesse Sutanto  HQ Rs. 699 When Meddy Chan accidentally kills her blind date, she turns to her aunties for help. Their meddling set her up on the date so they kind of owe her. Of course, things don’t go according to plan. Can Meddy finally find love and make her overbearing family happy?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/dial-a-for-aunties/article34801965.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||India: A Story through 100 Objects||Vidya Dehejia  Rupa Rs. 2,495 An illustrated book written by a professor of Indian and South Asian Art at Columbia University focuses on 100 objects to tell the story of India. The objects shed light on differing strands of achievement that arose over time to create a rich multi-cultural society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/india-a-story-through-100-objects/article34801967.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Super Fly: The Unexpected Lives of the World’s Most Successful Insects||Jonathan Balcombe  Penguin Random House Rs. 960 (Kindle price) For many, flies are annoying and the usual reaction is to try to kill them. A biologist shows the order Diptera in all of its diversity, illustrating the essential role that flies play in every ecosystem in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/super-fly-the-unexpected-lives-of-the-worlds-most-successful-insects/article34801976.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Book of Indian Ghosts||Riksundar Banerjee  Aleph Rs. 599 From the north Indian ‘chudails’, who are said to prowl neighbourhoods in search of their victims, the ‘mechho bhoots’ from West Bengal that love fish to the fearsome ghosts from Tamil Nadu called ‘muni pei’ —this book chronicles India’s ghosts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-book-of-indian-ghosts/article34801978.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||The Ungovernable Society: A Genealogy of Authoritarian Liberalism||Gregoire Chamayou  Polity Press Rs. 2,103 (Kindle price) The upheavals of the 1960s and 1970s spread through all sectors of social and economic life. This crisis was the birthplace of authoritarian liberalism which continues to cast its shadow across the world, argues Chamayou.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-ungovernable-society-a-genealogy-of-authoritarian-liberalism/article34801980.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Sunday REcipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article34801918.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Will 25% vaccines for private hospitals aggravate inequity?||On June 7, when India announced a reversal of vaccine procurement to a system of centralised procurement with free vaccines to be provided for the 18–44 age group, it allowed 25% of vaccine procurement exclusively by the private sector. In an email to The Hindu, Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore, and Dr. Chandrakant Lahariya, physician-epidemiologist and a vaccine and health systems expert, discuss the ethical and structural challenges of setting aside 25% of vaccines for private hospitals.  Is it prudent to allocate 25% of vaccine supplies to private hospitals when there is shortage of vaccines? Does selling vaccines, and that too at a far higher price, go against the grain of the universal free vaccination programme that is needed during the pandemic?  Gagandeep Kang: The universal vaccination programme should provide for free vaccines to all. The goal of the immunisation programme should be clearly defined, whether it is prevention of severe disease or deaths, or restoration of the economy, or a calibrated mix of the two primary aims. When there is a shortage of supply, groups of individuals that need to receive vaccines first should be clearly delineated in the prioritisation policy. Sometimes it is not possible to identify or address all priority groups in an initial listing. In India, we have always followed a two-tiered structure for immunisation. The bulk of immunisation is provided by the public sector which reaches the length and breadth of the country. A smaller proportion of immunisation is provided by the private sector, on payment basis; a much wider range of vaccines are available for those who can afford to pay for them. If it is decided, as it has been by the government, the private sector purchase of vaccines is justified then clearly selling vaccines follows prior practice. The difference is the shortage in supply, and the need to ensure the coverage required for the target population. It would have been useful to have some guidance on the expected coverage that needed to be achieved before opening up to the private sector. With regard to the pricing, the private sector has always charged a higher price for immunisation both for the purchase of the vaccine, which is determined by vaccine companies, and for the clinics and hospitals that deliver the vaccination.  Chandrakant Lahariya: The private sector has around 3–4% of total COVID-19 vaccination sites. Even if we factor in ‘on the campus vaccination drives’, which are being carried out by the private sector, the total vaccine requirement of the private sector is not more than 10% of the current availability. Therefore, allocation of 25% of available vaccines to the private sector is essentially cutting down the vaccine supply to the public sector facilities. Moreover, allocating one-fourth of vaccination at an average 7–8-fold higher price (even if we factor in share of various vaccines); essentially means the total cost which people have to pay for vaccines would be around 1.75-2-fold higher than what the government would spend for three-fourths of the vaccine supply. At the vaccine sharing formula, of the total COVID-19 vaccine cost in India, two-thirds will be paid by the people. Then it becomes predominantly a paid programme, rather than a free vaccination programme, as the government is calling it. Will private hospitals being predominantly found in urban areas lead to vaccine inequity in rural areas?  GK: Vaccine inequity is a critical area of concern. However, immunisation in rural areas is not usually undertaken by large private hospitals. Private hospitals are located in and serve the populations of urban areas. Even before the private provision of vaccination started, inequity was a concern, both because of the digital divide as well as the delivery of vaccines in rural areas. We also need to think about the communication and vaccination messages and processes that need to be in place for rural areas, and the potential private partners to deliver these vaccines in rural or hard to reach areas, to reduce vaccine inequity.  CL: This is actually the key concern. Vaccination from private facilities would remain mostly for urban settings. This essentially means the rich and urban population has higher availability and easier access to the vaccines. This further aggravates vaccine inequity as even the government vaccination sites are far and few in rural areas. We have already seen that with technology-driven solutions to get registered the gap widens and puts poor, vulnerable, rural and marginalised — who actually need the vaccine most — at the end of vaccine access. There is reportedly higher vaccine hesitancy in the rural population. All of this understanding should be used to develop special strategies by the government to proactively address vaccine hesitancy. Despite claims that allowing private hospitals will lead to exponential increase in vaccination coverage, only about 10% of vaccines were administered by private hospitals early on when there was a cap on price. Will we see an encore of this with a cap on vaccine administration charges?  CL: In the four-decade old universal immunisation programme (UIP) of India, the private sector share of total vaccines is around 15%. It is the government facility which delivers around 85% of UIP vaccines. Thus, there is no reason to believe that the private sector would have any big role in COVID-19 vaccination. Moreover, the market price of currently licensed COVID-19 vaccines is far too high and is affordable to only the rich. The service charge is a fraction of the vaccination cost. The core issue is the vaccine price. Should vaccine procurement not be 100% centralised and private hospitals provided free vaccines by the government?  GK: I think that vaccine procurement should be 100% by the government. This should be provided through both public and private vaccination facilities until we reach at least 70% coverage of the above 45 years age group and the high-risk categories in the younger ages. After that, the government could consider the allocation of a proportion of vaccines through the private sector and let the free market operate. Of course, once it comes to children needing vaccination, we will need to reconsider based on supply and strategy.  CL: The Central government should pay and procure 100% of vaccines at a single price. For people, vaccines should be completely free, no matter whether they go to a government or a private facility. At a private facility, the service charge should be paid by the government, on behalf of people. It is a public health emergency and not normal times. Serum is supposed to increase capacity to 100 million doses per month by July. Covaxin production too is supposed to increase to 60–70 million per month by July–August. But the government is set to procure only 250 million Covishield doses and 190 million doses of Covaxin between August and December. This translates to procurement of just 50 million doses of Covishield and 38 million doses of Covaxin per month during this period by the government. Will that mean that private hospitals will get more than 25% of vaccines produced?  GK: I think the orders currently placed by the government are not the entirety of the vaccine doses that will be needed or procured given the policy announced by the government. Therefore, the figures currently available for the gap between the production and the availability of future doses within the public immunisation programme, are unlikely to be directed entirely to the private sector. I think we should wait for the government to place additional orders with existing manufacturers.  CK : I believe the manufacturers would use some of this to fulfil their bilateral sales/purchase commitment and global commitment such as COVAX, which in my opinion is a fair deal.    Will allocation of vaccines based on a few parameters including wastage lead to fudging of data or denial of vaccines in some cases to ensure reduced wastage? With several States under-reporting cases, will allotment based on disease burden negatively impact virus spread?  GK: It is a truism in public health that we need to accurately measure what matters in order to decide what action needs to be taken. If measurement is inaccurate or deliberately misreported then we have a problem of allocation becoming inappropriate. There are several alternative ways of deciding on allocation, and perhaps the simplest is to do it on the basis of the eligible population. I think we need to be aware that the most important thing is to be vaccinating as quickly as possible. Allotment based on disease burden would require an approach that could saturate the most affected areas with vaccines to prevent further spread.   We also need to think about the communication and vaccination messages and processes that need to be in place for rural areas, and the potential private partners to deliver these vaccines in rural or hard to reach areas, to reduce vaccine inequity. Gagandeep Kang||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/will-25-vaccines-for-private-hospitals-aggravate-inequity/article34802100.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||A molecular view of SARS-CoV-2, the novel coronavirus||Our happy memories of school often include chemistry practicals – test tubes and Bunsen burners. Chemistry is the study of the properties of molecules. Everything is made of molecules. The simple chemicals that were learnt in school, such as hydrochloric acid (which has two atoms, one hydrogen; one chlorine), are dwarfed by the complexities of biological chemistry. A protein molecule can have thousands of atoms. Simulating molecules With increasing knowledge of chemical principles, it has been possible to move from the ‘test tube’ to theoretical studies of molecules, their structure and their interactions. Just as there are games that let you simulate the landing of an aircraft on your computer screen, one can simulate the interactions between complex biological molecules with reasonable accuracy. Whether in simulating flight, or a molecule, mathematical methods are being linked to fundamental laws of physics. After all a protein is only a linear chain of linked amino acids (of which there are 20, each made up of between 10 and 27 atoms), neatly folded into a unique shape. Amino acids vary in their charge (positive, negative, neutral) or stickiness. Some regions of the chain of amino acids are buried in the core of the molecule. Others are on the surface. Surface amino acids determine interactions between proteins - important for assembling a structure, for binding to receptors, to antibodies and so on. Back in the real world, many of us have anxiously followed the progress of the covid-19 pandemic, looking for signs of it slowing down. We have learnt new jargon, got accustomed to scary images of a ball-like virus particle studded with “spikes”. Now, we are confronted with new and worrying variants, each of which is described either with a geographical moniker, or with a WHO classification (Greek alphabets alpha, beta, etc.) or more accurately, with a code such as E484K, D614G. The numbers take us back to our linear chain of amino acids in a protein, which in this case is the spike protein on the surface of the virus. The spike protein initiates infection – it is attracted to and binds to a receptor molecule that lies on the surface of cells in your lung and other tissues. This protein molecule is a chain of 1,273 amino acids, and three individual molecules lock together to form the familiar ‘spike’ shape. The 484 is the position in the chain. It lies within the crucial motif that binds to the host receptor E is shorthand for Glutamate, an amino acid with a negative charge, which is now mutated to K (Lysine) – an amino acid with a positive charge. This mutation is found in the Beta and Gamma variants. Effect of mutations Notice that the mutation has replaced a negatively charged Glutamate with a positively charged Lysine. Will this bode well for us humans? Available data from the field suggest that infectivity of this particular variant of the virus seems to be enhanced. It also appears to make this variant less recognisable to some antibodies generated against the virus. The Delta variant, much in the news, has a E484Q mutation, Q standing for Glutamine – which is not very different from Glutamate (E), but is neutral in charge and polar. The second mutation is L452R, which also lies within the receptor-binding motif of spike. L is Leucine, an uncharged, ’sticky’ amino acid and R the positively charged Arginine. An important point to be made here is that the numerous variants of concern do not just have the one or two amino acid changes in the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein described above. The Alpha variant first seen in the U.K. has a total of 23 mutations. Nine of these are in other parts of the spike protein, some more are in other constituents of the virus, and are not well understood. It is apparent that changes of this sort – a replacement or two in a macromolecule - can be modeled in a computational environment quite efficiently and with reasonable confidence. Such modelling would give us quick approximations of what to expect whenever a new variant of a viral protein arises. Going further, modelling could help design and refine drug molecules that would bind tightly to a target protein. For example, the coronavirus has an enzyme, a protease that trims the spike protein to its correct size before a new virus particle is assembled. A drug molecule that would bind tightly to this enzyme would inhibit the trimming action and curtail the growth of the virus. Molecular modelling allows you to try out thousands of potential candidates for narrowing down to a few best-fit candidates that could then be tested in real laboratory experiments.  (This article has been co-authored by Sushil Chandani who is an independent consultant in computer modelling of complex molecules.)  dbala@lvpei.org  Modelling gives us approximations of what to expect whenever a new variant of a viral protein arises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-molecular-view-of-sars-cov-2-the-novel-coronavirus/article34802099.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Meet Bharitalasuchus tapani, a carnivorous reptile that lived 240 million years ago||In the mid 20th century, researchers from the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, carried out extensive studies on rocks of the Yerrapalli Formation in what is now Telangana, uncovering several fossils. By studying some of these specimens stored at the Institute, an international team has now thrown light on a carnivorous reptile that lived 240 million years ago. This reptile belongs to a genus and species previously unknown to science. They named it Bharitalasuchus tapani. In the Telugu language, Bhari means huge, Tala means head, and Suchus is the name of the Egyptian crocodile-headed deity. The species is named after paleontologist Tapan Roy Chowdhury in honour of his contribution to Indian vertebrate paleontology and especially his extensive work on the Yerrapalli Formation tetrapod fauna. Further studies revealed that the reptile belonged to a family of extinct reptiles named Erythrosuchidae. “A precise identification had not been possible earlier because the family was not known from other examples in India. It was neglected because the fossil specimen was not as complete as those of other erythrosuchids from other countries. Also, because the few palaeontologists with expertise in the family had not examined the fossil or carried out the detailed comparative work needed,” explains David Gower from the Natural History Museum London, in an email to The Hindu. He is one of the authors of the paper recently published in Ameghiniana.  The team notes that Bharitalasuchus tapani were robust animals with big heads and large teeth, and these probably predated other smaller reptiles. They were approximately the size of an adult male lion and might have been the largest predators in their ecosystems. “The first Erythrosuchidae remains were discovered in South Africa in 1905 and more were found in China and Russia. The South African one is about 245 million years old, while the ones from China and Russia are around 240 million years old. So the Indian one is one of the youngest fossil records we have of an erythrosuchid,” explains the first author Martin D. Ezcurra from the Argentinian Museum of Natural Sciences in Buenos Aires. Biological interaction He adds: “It was surprising to find tooth marks in the first trunk vertebra of Bharitalasuchus, indicating that a smaller animal took a bite probably after the death of the specimen. This is a nice example of evidence of biological interaction that occurred 240 million years ago.” One of the authors Saswati Bandyopadhyay from the Indian Statistical Institute adds: “Apart from this erythrosuchid reptile, the fossil assemblage of the Yerrapalli Formation includes many other extinct creatures such as ceratodontid lungfish, rhynchosaur and allokotosaurian.” She adds that future exploration and excavation in this unit are important in findingnew fossils. “Unfortunately, deforestation, mining, agricultural expansion, urbanisation are gradually destroying the fossiliferous localities of India, and the Yerrapalli Formation of the Pranhita-Godavari Basin is not an exception,” she concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/meet-bharitalasuchus-tapani-a-carnivorous-reptile-that-lived-240-million-years-ago/article34802091.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Hardy, vigorous corals||Why do some corals withstand climate change better than others? In 2014 and 2015, the brown rice coral in Hawaii was completely bleached, but the blue rice coral recovered quickly after bleaching, and blue coral was unaffected by the elevated ocean temperatures. Researchers from the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, U.S., have now decoded the reason for this resilience. Hawaiian blue rice corals have a deep blue pigment derived from algae called zooxanthellae that live inside the coral tissue. The researchers found that these algae produce sunscreen for the coral. This pigment has a protein named chromoprotein which filters out harmful UV radiation The findings of this study were published this week in Scientific Reports.  After the 2014 and 2015 Hawaii bleaching events, the blue rice coral was found to have exceptional reproductive vigour at 90% motility. But the brown coral's motility was only half this. A key factor in the blue rice coral's ability to reproduce successfully might be its sunscreen pigment, which the coral may retain even if it bleaches. Lead author Mike Henley, explains in a release that by studying blue rice corals' reproductive successes, we can better understand how other corals weather climate change and ocean warming.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/hardy-vigorous-corals/article34802094.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Yet another lockdown birthday?||Celebrations are hard this year, hollowed by loss. Battered by the second wave of COVID-19, it is difficult to drum up enthusiasm for locked down birthdays, anniversary dinners and Zoom parties. Yet, now more than ever, it is important to reach out. To celebrate milestones, despite the seemingly endless physical isolation of lockdown. Last year, when the pandemic began, Instagram was bright with home made meals, fuelled by energy and optimism. This year, we lean on the hospitality industry again, as they find ways to pack fuel and comfort into lunchboxes. When you don’t have the energy to orchestrate yet another virtual party, or bake a cake, here’s one more option: send a festive meal. To make it easier, popular restaurants — also fighting to keep their doors open and staff employed — have been tweaking menus every month to continue to serve customers though an unpredictable year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yet-another-lockdown-birthday/article34802320.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Changes in vaccine policy for COVID-19||The story so far: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 7 reversed the Central government’s decentralised policy for procurement of COVID-19 vaccines, declaring that from June 21, vaccines for everyone above the age of 18 years would be procured by the Central government and distributed free to the States. This ended the month-old controversial system of States being asked to procure vaccines for the 18-44 years age group at prices announced by domestic manufacturers and import vaccines through open tenders. Why was the policy reversed? The Centre’s announcement came after the Supreme Court on May 31 held that the Union government’s policy of not providing free vaccines to those in the 18-44 years age bracket was prima facie “arbitrary and irrational”. “The policy of the Central Government for conducting free vaccination themselves for groups under the first 2 phases, and replacing it with paid vaccination by the State/UT Governments and private hospitals for the persons between 18-44 years is,prima facie, arbitrary and irrational,” the court said in its order. Under the latest policy, the Centre said it will procure up to 75% of the doses of vaccines from manufacturers and will provide them free of cost to the State governments. Private institutions can procure the remaining 25% of doses. What is the state of vaccine availability? Data on availability from individual manufacturers and supplies to each State have not been published uniformly by the Centre. Amid reports of severe shortages in many States and the vaccination drive being suspended for the 18-44 years age group in a number of places, the Centre said on June 9 that thus far, over 25 crore (25,06,41,440) vaccine doses had been provided to the States and Union Territories through the free distribution channel and direct procurement category. Of these, 23,74,21,808 doses had been consumed, including wastage, and 1,33,68,727 remained to be administered. Some data is available from the Centre’s arguments in the Supreme Court on the three available vaccines at present. The court recorded the position on May 31 as follows: the production at the Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes Covishield, is being raised from 5 crore doses a month to 6.5 crore doses by July 2021; Bharat Biotech, the maker of Covaxin, will raise capacity from 90 lakh to 2 crore doses per month, touching 5.5 crore doses per month by July; availability of Sputnik V will go up from 30 lakh doses to 1.2 crore doses a month by July. In a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, sent at the end of May, SII said it would be able to provide 10 crore doses in June. Moreover, the Union Health Ministry said the production capacity of Covaxin, which was 1 crore doses in April this year, was expected to touch 10 crore doses a month by September. The Centre said it was in talks with other manufacturers, such as Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, for procurement, but the negotiations were reportedly bogged down by demands from the companies for indemnity against any compensation claims. Soon after the reversal of the Centre’s vaccination policy, it was announced that fresh orders for 44 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin had been placed by the Union government, which would be available from August-December this year. In addition, it also placed an order for 30 crore doses of a protein sub-unit vaccine produced by Hyderabad-based Biological E. The Supreme Court has directed the Centre to provide specific details of its vaccination initiative, including procurement, percentage of population covered, and plan for coverage. What is the outlook for June supply? The Centre has said that a total of 12 crore doses will be available for June this year. Of this, 6.09 crore doses will be available to the States and UTs for the priority groups — healthcare workers, frontline workers and people aged 45 years and above — as free supply from the government. Besides this, around 5.86 crore doses will be available for direct procurement by the States, UTs and private hospitals. This statement was issued at May-end, and the court ordered the Centre to outline its plan and the official policy for the future. Greater clarity will come from the court submissions on how the available doses will be used, including the quantum for private hospitals. Meanwhile, regulatory requirements for approved imported vaccines have been relaxed and they can be used almost immediately upon receipt, as the government has waived the requirements of bridging trials and testing of each batch at the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli. Small quantities of doses were supplied to State governments in the first week of June as immunisation rates dropped sharply. How has the pricing of vaccines changed? Pricing of COVID-19 vaccines, both for government procurement and for beneficiaries, has shifted since the first round of sponsored vaccinations in January for healthcare and frontline workers. For vaccination of these priority sectors, the two vaccines were initially sold to the Centre at special prices — Rs. 200 a dose for Covishield up to 100 million doses, and Rs. 295 per dose for Covaxin, with free doses of it provided to the Centre effectively reducing the price to Rs. 206.50 each. When the second phase of vaccination was launched on March 1, the Centre capped the price for Covishield and Covaxin at private hospitals at Rs. 250 per dose. Under the decentralised distribution of vaccines from May 1, this cap was removed and manufacturers announced differential pricing for State governments and private hospitals. However, these developments were soon rendered moot by a widespread shortage of vaccines, and governments largely provided vaccines only to the 60-plus and targeted 45-plus categories. Now, having taken over the responsibility of free vaccination for all age groups from June 21, the Central government has announced new prices for private hospitals. They can charge a maximum of Rs. 150 per dose as service charge and a GST of 5%, and with these, the maximum price for a dose of Covishield would be Rs. 780, for Covaxin it will be Rs. 1,410 per dose, and Sputnik V would be available at Rs. 1,145 a shot. What is the situation in the States? According to data compiled byThe Hindu, as of June 12, 14.9% of the population had got at least one dose of a vaccine, and 3.4% had got both doses. Many big States had fully vaccinated only a small segment of the population as of that date: 51.2 lakh in Maharashtra, 45.1 lakh in Gujarat, 29.8 lakh in Karnataka, 22.2 lakh in Kerala, and 26.1 lakh in Andhra Pradesh. Single-dose coverage in these States varied between 88.7 lakh (in Kerala) and 2 crore (in Maharashtra). The shortage of doses prompted many States to announce a partial suspension of vaccinations, particularly for the 18-44 years age group, and in some cases, for first doses. The Hindu’sData Team, based on official data up to May 24 — after which they were not published — estimated that utilisation in the largest States ranged from 86.6% in Uttar Pradesh, 84.7% in Tamil Nadu, 97.9% in Maharashtra and 92.8% in Bihar; the figure was 95.4% for Delhi. In the second wave of infections, the demand for vaccines shot up. For instance, in the past few weeks, Tamil Nadu’s utilisation rate has increased sharply, and as of June 6, the State had utilised over 95% of vaccines it received from the Centre and through its own channels. Most States drew a blank with their efforts to directly procure vaccines at the global level, since pharma companies preferred to deal only with national governments. The Delhi government has complained that the Centre issued a gag order to States and UTs against publishing information on vaccine supply and availability, as the world’s “largest immunisation programme” came under intense scrutiny.  The Centre has said that a total of 12 crore doses will be available for June this year. Of this, 6.09 crore doses will be available to the States and Union Territories for the priority groups||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/changes-in-vaccine-policy-for-covid-19/article34802024.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||CM launches 22 oxygen plants at nine hospitals||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday inaugurated 22 oxygen plants at nine Delhi government hospitals. The Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants have a total production capacity of 17.3 metric tonnes. Seventeen more oxygen plants are scheduled to become operational by July. Mr. Kejriwal said the people of Delhi as well as doctors, nurses, paramedic staff and sanitation workers fought with discipline and hard work to control the latest surge. “I know of many doctors who did not go back to their homes for days. I want to thank them on behalf of the people of Delhi. The latest wave was very fatal,” he added. Mr. Kejriwal said the intensity of the latest surge was “very severe” with people falling “dangerously sick” resulting in loss of many loved ones so much so that virtually no home was left untouched. The Delhi government is preparing to tackle a possible “third wave” and is setting up necessary infrastructure to ensure sufficient oxygen supply, he said. “We are now at risk of a third wave. We are receiving indications that the U.K. has already started experiencing the third wave and the cases are rising rapidly even though 45% of the people are already vaccinated there. So, we also have to be fully prepared for the same. Your government is committed to preparing with full conviction,” the CM added. “I want to thank the industries for their support during this pandemic, especially Roshni Nadar Malhotra, chairperson of HCL Technologies,, who agreed to provide 6,000 cylinders at my single phone call,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The latest surge in Delhi saw a huge shortage of oxygen, Mr. Kejriwal said, adding the city is not an industrial State and therefore does not have its own source of oxygen production. The requirement of oxygen had increased manifold to 700 MT during the crisis. Delhi did not have the means of production or even tankers to procure oxygen from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the directions of the Centre, but now we have to be fully prepared, he said. “We cannot do away with our responsibilities of managing the third wave. Your government is working on war footing. A few days ago, I inaugurated oxygen storage tanks, because even if we procure oxygen from outside Delhi, we do not have the capacity to store the oxygen,” he said. “I am very happy to be inaugurating the 22 oxygen plants. This is a huge development. A total of 27 PSA plants have been started in Delhi,” he further said. More supply The CM added that six oxygen plants had already been started by the Centre and seven plants were going to begin soon. “The pandemic cannot be fought alone and I thank the Central government for supporting the Delhi government,” he said. Another 17 plants will be installed by July, the CM said, adding that the government was also procuring oxygen tankers to mitigate the impact of the third wave. Earlier in the day, Delhi Legislative Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel inaugurated three PSA oxygen plants at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital.  Another 17 plants will be installed by July... the govern-ment is also procuring oxygen tankers Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cm-launches-22-oxygen-plants-at-nine-hospitals/article34802342.ece
13 June 2021||CHANDIGARH/NEW DELHI,||‘Sisodia’s accusation on Punjab school education atrocious’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday described as “atrocious” the Aam Aadmi Party’s accusation that he has a “secret” friendship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Chief Minister was reacting to AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s statement after Punjab was ranked number one in the Performance Grading Index 2019-2020 for school education by the Centre. In a hard-hitting reply to the allegation, Capt.Singh said the AAP leadership is so “obsessed” with electoral politics that it saw poll conspiracies even in something as basic as school education. The fact is that AAP, which “failed” to make a dent in Punjab’s political arena over the past over four years, can see the rout which it is facing in the 2022 Assembly elections, he said in a statement. “Come to Punjab and I will show you around our schools,” Capt. Singh said, adding that the revamp of the State's schools was an exercise undertaken by his government as top priority and the ranking released by the Union Education Minister recently reflected the success of those efforts. ‘Jugalbandi’ invite “If you are really interested in improving the education system of Delhi, may be you should do a ‘jugalbandi’ with me and I will teach you how to manage things better,” the Chief Minister replied to Mr. Sisodia’s charge. Punjab Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla also hit out at his Delhi counterpart saying: “The desperation of Manish Sisodia was quite visible and understandable as paid clamour about the rosy picture of Delhi schools in media by the AAP government had comprehensibly been exposed. While Punjab got the top rank, Delhi has not been placed in top five....It has been placed on sixth position.” Mr. Singla said the teachers and other staff of the Education department have worked hard to bring the State on the top position. “Punjab has emerged as a leading State in rejuvenating school education by being a pioneer in bringing in infrastructural development, qualitative improvement and complying with RTE norms in government schools,” he added. Mr. Sisodia on Saturday raised strong questions against the report released by the Central government. “Crediting Punjab government with the best government schools in the country at a time when the State has seen the closure of more than 800 schools, and several schools found to be functioning as alcohol factories, is a farce. It is crystal clear that Captain Singh has the blessings of Modiji,” he said. The Delhi Education Minister went on to say that quality education and learning has become a “joke” in Punjab government schools. “Modiji has released this report to hide the inadequacies in quality education of Punjab. Many children had to bear the brunt and parents had to transfer their children to private schools,” he said.  BJP flays AAP Reacting to Mr. Sisodia’s allegations, the BJP said that the problem with the AAP leadership is that they are Delhi’s local leaders but wish to speak on every State’s politics, including that of Punjab, whose people have repeatedly rejected the party in every election after 2017. “When a Central government report favours Delhi government, they claim credit for their work. Why then they try to discredit the Centre’s report which goes against them? Why did the Delhi government during the last six years push out 15 lakh weak students from Class IX and XI, forcing them to opt for NOIS schooling instead of helping them improve,” BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana asked.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sisodias-accusation-on-punjab-school-education-atrocious/article34802347.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||New guidelines on Remdesivir, steroids||The story so far: The Union Health Ministry has revised its guidelines for the treatment of COVID-19 patients, particularly for the use of steroids, with doctors reporting a worrying rise in medical complications, such as mucormycosis, due to the abuse of drugs and therapies during treatment. The new protocol advises doctors to drop from usage medicines such as ivermectin, doxycycline and hydroxychloroquine to treat mild COVID-19 cases. The revised guidelines, issued on May 27, recommend the use of antipyretics for fever and antitussives for cold in asymptomatic and mild cases. What are the complications being reported? Mucormycosis causes black lesions on the nasal bridge or the upper inside of the mouth, which can quickly become more severe, leading to blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties, and coughing of blood. COVID-19 patients with diabetes and a weakened immune system are particularly prone to this fungal attack. Doctors point out that it is clear that the virus affects not just the respiratory system but other organs as well, including the liver and kidneys. “Long COVID-19 is also seen among recovered patients well into three months and beyond. People with co-morbidities are more vulnerable and irrational use of drugs can have extreme adverse effects on the outcome with COVID-19,” they say. Which drugs have been dropped from the list? For patients with mild symptoms, the Ministry dropped from its recommendations several drugs that were being used widely for treatment until now. For example, the Ministry has removed hydroxychloroquine, ivermectin, azithromycin, doxycycline, zinc and favipiravir from its list of recommended drugs for treating patients with mild infection. Plasma therapy, which was previously used extensively, has also been dropped from the list. The Ministry also dissuaded medical practitioners from prescribing unnecessary tests, such as CT scans. For asymptomatic cases, the guidelines said no medication is required, while medications for other co-morbid conditions should be continued. The new protocol calls for a healthy balanced diet with proper hydration, while advising patients and their families to stay connected and engage in positive talks through phone, video calls, etc. In mild cases, the guidelines recommended self-monitoring for fever, breathlessness, oxygen saturation or worsening of any symptoms. People may take antipyretics or antitussives for symptomatic relief, and may inhale budesonide at a dose of 800 mcg twice a day for five days for cough, the guidelines said. “No other COVID-19-specific medication required. Patients may have to be investigated further if symptoms persist or deteriorate,” the document states. What do the guidelines specify on medicines? The Ministry has also revised its policy on Remdesivir, stating that it can be given only to “select moderate/severe hospitalised COVID-19 patients” on supplemental oxygen. The Ministry noted that this is a reserve drug approved under Emergency Use Authorisation based only on limited scientific evidence globally. It further stated that the drug is not to be prescribed for patients with mild symptoms who are under home care or at COVID Care Centres, and that doctors are advised to exercise extreme caution in using this reserve/experimental/Emergency Use Authorisation drug. The Ministry said the advisory and revised guidelines are aimed at stopping the misuse of drugs and therapies which cost a lot and have limited availability, along with the potential to cause harm. In the case of Remdesivir, particularly, the government said that the drug should be taken on advice by senior faculty members or specialists directly involved in a patient’s care. “It should be procured and provided by the hospitals only; the patient’s attendants/relatives should not be asked to procure Remdesivir from the retail market,” the Ministry said. On Tocilizumab, the guidelines said that it is an immunosuppressant drug and that it has been approved for use as an off-label drug only in severe and critically ill patients. The document notes that steroids are harmful in asymptomatic and mild cases of COVID-19. It points out that steroids are to be prescribed only in patients who are hospitalised with moderately severe and critical symptoms and are to be administered at the “right time, in the right dose and for the right duration”. What do the guidelines say for asymptomatic patients? For asymptomatic and mild cases, the guidelines suggest a six-minute walk test. Patients should walk for six minutes with a pulse oximeter attached to a finger. If oxygen saturation falls below 94% or if the reading varies from three to five percentage points, or if the patient feels unwell (lightheaded, short of breath), admission to a hospital for observation may be required. Has anything been suggested for children with COVID-19? The government has issued comprehensive guidelines for the management of COVID-19 among children under 18 years of age, in which Remdesivir has not been recommended and rational use of HRCT (high-resolution computed tomography) imaging has been suggested. Also, the guidelines note that steroids are harmful in asymptomatic and mild cases of infection. Mask is not recommended for children below five years of age. However, children aged between six and 11 years may wear a mask, but only under the supervision of parents and the consulting doctor, the guidelines said. For asymptomatic infection among children, the guidelines recommend no specific medication and advise following appropriate measures (wearing a mask, following strict hand hygiene, physical distancing) and a nutritious diet. The guidelines say that for mild infection, paracetamol at 10-15mg/kg/dose may be given every four to six hours for fever; throat-soothing agents and warm saline gargles in older children and adolescents have been recommended for cough. Doctors have noted that a high percentage of children who got infected and were hospitalised during the second wave of infections had either co-morbidities or low immunity. They added that healthy children with mild illness recovered without the need for hospitalisation.  The Ministry said the advisory and revised guidelines are aimed at stopping the misuse of drugs and therapies which cost a lot and have limited availability, along with the potential to cause harm||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/new-guidelines-on-remdesivir-steroids/article34802022.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||2041 draft plan envisions Capital as a ‘24-hour city’||Apart from promoting the concept of a ‘24-hour city’ and fostering night-time economy, the draft Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) - 2041 also proposes to encourage public transporters such as the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) to operate low frequency night-time services along earmarked routes across the national Capital. In its bid to develop and strengthen economic centres, the plan proposes to foster night-time economy. “Nodes, precincts or circuits shall be identified for continuing work, cultural activity and entertainment at night to attract tourists and locals. This will improve economic yield by extending utilisation of work spaces and safety by promoting a vibrant night life,” read the draft plan. Public transport The draft MPD-2041 states that one of the primary objectives is to build on the Capital’s extensive public and shared transport infrastructure to reduce dependence on private vehicles. As a part of special services, the draft MPD - 2041 states: “The plan targets night-time economies to promote higher economic productivity as well as increasing availability of vibrant and safe public spaces at night. The DMRC and the DTC will be encouraged to operate low frequency night-time services along earmarked routes or for special events or festivals.” The plan also suggests fare rationalisation to improve utilisation of public transport for short and medium distances, frequent intra-city trips and increased ridership in high-density areas. Congestion charges To disincentivise private transport and increase reliance on public or shared modes of transport, the draft plan also proposes congestion pricing and restricting availability of public parking in markets, cultural hubs and work centres. “Road-owning agencies in consultation with traffic police shall notify specific areas in the city as congestion pricing zones. Parking charges to be used as a tool for disincentivising private transport usage. Dynamic pricing for peak and off-peak periods, on and off-street parking to be utilised to decongest areas with high vehicular footfall,” the plan reads. According to the draft MPD-2041, concerned agencies will also be required to identify specific areas with heavy footfall such as tourist hotspots and markets as “pedestrian only” zones. “Tactical urbanism measures to convert streets into fully pedestrian zones for specific time durations to be encouraged, so that overall traffic flow is not hampered,” the draft plan stated. The draft plan was recently put in the public domain by the Delhi Development Authority and stakeholders were invited to put forth objections and suggestions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2041-draft-plan-envisions-capital-as-a-24-hour-city/article34802338.ece
13 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Take corrective steps in housing scheme’||After coming across large scale irregularities in the implementation of the Prime Minister Awas Yojana – Grameen in Odisha, the Centre has asked the State government to take corrective measures. A Central team led by Gaya Prasad, Deputy Director General of Department of Rural Development, had visited the State on February 9 and 11 to conduct an inquiry after a complaint from former Union Tribal Affairs Minister and Sundargarh MP Jual Oram. “The Central team observed several cases of irregularities relating to absence of PMAY-G logo on houses, lack of quality construction and houses being shown as completed on AwaasSoft, but found incomplete during inspection,” Union Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar wrote to Mr. Oram. ‘Recover funds’ Some of the prominent irregularities flagged by the team include allotment of PMAY-G houses to both father and son and construction of PMAY-G houses on government land. The Rural Development Department had directed the State Chief Secretary to recover funds from ineligible beneficiaries of the flagship housing scheme. At one place, beneficiaries were found constructing houses on government land. “The State government may consider regularising allotment of land to beneficiaries and allow them to proceed. If it is not agreeable to the State government, then the funds released to them should be recovered,” the team recommended. The department also asked the State government to take stern action against people involved in irregularities and file police cases against erring officials. “The quality of construction noticed during inspections is very poor. The State is requested to take measures to improve the quality of the houses that have been inspected during inquiry and bring them to liveable condition,” Nagendra Nath Sinha, Rural Development Secretary, said in a letter to Odisha CS. The State must improve the system of quality monitoring and administrative supervision to bring significant improvements in the quality of houses under construction and those inspected, Mr. Sinha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/take-corrective-steps-in-housing-scheme/article34802344.ece
13 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan announces package for COVID-19 orphans, widows||The Rajasthan government on Saturday announced a financial relief package for the children who lost their parents to the COVID-19 infection and the women whose husband died of the disease during the pandemic. The orphans and widows will get an ex gratia of Rs. 1 lakh each, followed by a financial assistance every month. As part of the Chief Minister’s Corona Baal Kalyan Yojana, the children who lost their parents will get Rs. 2,500 a month till they attain 18 years of age. The orphans will be provided an assistance of Rs. 5 lakh on the completion of 18 years as well as free senior secondary education and other benefits under the scheme. Amount for each child The women whose husband succumbed to the infection will be given an ex gratia of Rs. 1 lakh and a pension of Rs. 1,500 a month, irrespective of their age and financial status. They will also get Rs. 1,000 a month for raising their children and Rs. 2,000 per year for their school books and uniform. The amount will be calculated for each child separately. The State government has formulated the package following the instructions of CM Ashok Gehlot, who was concerned about the future of orphans and widows following the death of the earning head of the family. Official sources said here that the girl students of these families studying in the college would be given preference in the admissions to the hostels run by the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment. The youths affected by the tragedy in the family will also get priority in the sanctioning and payment of unemployment allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rajasthan-announces-package-for-covid-19-orphans-widows/article34802349.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Major fire breaks out at Delhi market||A major fire broke out at Lajpat Nagar’s Central Market on Saturday. No injuries were reported, the police said, adding that a case has been registered. Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said that a call was received at 10.30 a.m. regarding a fire in a showroom after which 33 fire tenders were pressed into service in the next four hours till the fire was doused. Cause not ascertained Cooling-off operation continued till late evening, Mr. Garg said. The Fire department said that the blaze first started from four showrooms and later spread to the fifth shop. Mr. Garg said that the cause of fire is yet to ascertained. He also added that it was due to the firemen and timely response that the blaze didn’t spread to residential areas behind the showrooms. “There were 100 firefighters on the spot,” he said. The police said that senior officers from the force and fire department reached the spot and BSES and IGL were also asked to cut supply immediately. “The crime team and forensic team were also called to inspect the spot. A case under Section 285 [for negligent act endangering human life] of the Indian Penal Code has been registered and investigation will be done accordingly,” said a senior officer. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “I am constantly monitoring the situation and in constant touch with the fire department officials”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/major-fire-breaks-out-at-lajpat-nagar-central-market/article34802334.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Over 4.5 lakh have received ration: Delhi govt.||More than 4.5 lakh residents have been provided free ration by the Delhi government so far and efforts are under way to iron out issues related to the supply of ration at a few sites over the last few days. According to the Delhi government, as much as 5,000 MT of dry ration has been provided at centres in the form of combined entitlement consisting of 5 kg of foodgrains, including 4 kg of wheat and 1 kg of rice, per beneficiary so far. The Delhi government is distributing dry ration at such sites, which include 280 schools, and 5,000 MT will become available at such centres within a week. The distribution is carried out by the staffers of the Directorate of Education, municipal corporations and other departments in coordination with the area District Magistrate between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. on all working days except gazetted holidays and Sundays. The scheme does not involve the beneficiaries to do any pre-registration and is a walk-in process on the basis of beneficiary details such as name, parentage, mobile number, Aadhaar which are utilised to generate atoken number via SMS. According to the government, those in need of dry ration, who do not possess ration cards, are eligible to receive relief under the initiative. Helped many Amrita, a resident of Khichdipur village said, “A lot of people have lost their jobs, and are finding it difficult to feed their families being the sole breadwinners. The scheme has aided such people and many others who were facing adversities during this pandemic.” Delhi Food and Civil Supplies Minister Imran Hussain said, “A large number of people turned up at several centres in excess of what was expected. But people should not be concerned. We have placed orders with the FCI for more foodgrains, which will arrive soon.” Mr. Hussain added that the government had taken note of all kinds of grievances reported and sought to issue an assurance that the process will be further streamlined in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/over-45-lakh-have-received-ration-delhi-govt/article34802335.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Bitcoin push||The story so far: On June 9, El Salvador became the first sovereign nation to make a cryptocurrency legal tender. The law pushed by its 39-year-old President, Nayib Bukele, passed with 62 out of 84 votes. It mandates that Bitcoin should now be accepted as a valid payment by all establishments, except those that do not have the technical wherewithal to do so. This puts the digital currency that does not answer to any government monetary policies on the same footing as the country’s primary currency, the United States dollar.  Why is the U.S. dollar the currency in El Salvador? El Salvador fully ‘dollarised’ its economy in 2001. Countries adopt the U.S. dollar as their official currency for several reasons, such as when their local currencies fail (for example, Zimbabwe, which saw inflation in multimillion percentages), or to take advantage of the stability that it offers and attract investments. One of the downsides is that the economies of ‘dollarised’ countries get linked to the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve in Washington. The U.S. central bank could set rates that may benefit the U.S. economy but end up hurting economies that use the same currency.  What is the rationale for using Bitcoin? The Bill that Mr. Bukele proposed said that “Central banks are increasingly taking actions that may cause harm to the economic stability of El Salvador” and that Bitcoin was being adopted “in order to mitigate the negative impact from central banks”. The country’s economy is also heavily reliant on remittances from El Salvadoreans working abroad. According to World Bank data, remittances made up almost $6 billion in 2019, which was about 20% of the country’s GDP — one of the highest ratios in the world. By enabling the transfer of money via Bitcoins, Mr. Bukele says El Salvadoreans will save on transaction fees of banks and agencies. Politically, the current government in El Salvador and the Joe Biden administration in the United States are at odds. Recently, some of President Bukele’s right-hand men found mention in a U.S. State Department list of corrupt officials in central America. The United States’s international aid agency is also moving money away from the Bukele government after it voted to remove all members of the Supreme Court.  How does Bitcoin work? Bitcoin is the first and biggest of decentralised cryptocurrencies, which are online payment systems that are increasingly becoming mainstream. Etherium, Tether, and Binance Coin are some of the many others that have emerged after Bitcoin. Cryptocurrencies are built on the back of blockchain technology, a system of distributed, cryptographically-secured account keeping. In this system, the users keep a tab on every digital ‘coin’ and transaction rather than a banking system with a governing body at its centre.  Why are governments wary? Due to their core nature that shuns centralised control, governments globally have been wary of cryptocurrencies. A report from the U.S. Library of Congress notes that most countries have warned their citizens against investing in cryptocurrencies, let alone allowing transactions in them. Some have tried to use the technology to create government-sanctioned digital currencies. China, a hub of cryptocurrency activity, has issued a digital Yuan on blockchain while it cracks down on other cryptocurrencies. The Bank of England has also proposed a digital Sterling. However, many countries, including India, have allowed the treatment of cryptocurrencies as commodities, resulting in a rising tide of investment in them. After its introduction in 2009, Bitcoin saw its biggest gain in value last year, having started 2020 at $7,200 per coin and touching $65,000 in April of 2021, before falling to $30,000 in May. Cryptocurrencies as commodities are highly volatile, a recent example being the massive swings in the values of Bitcoin and Dogecoin, based merely on the tweets of cryptocurrency ‘evangelist’ Elon Musk. Another problem is the increasing energy use associated with cryptocurrencies. The ‘mining’ of Bitcoin, where individuals or companies set up powerful systems to support the blockchain network, for which they are rewarded in the currency, consumes “about the same amount of energy annually as the Netherlands did in 2019”, says aReutersreport citing data from the University of Cambridge and the International Energy Agency. “Bitcoin production is estimated to generate between 22 and 22.9 million metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions a year, or between the levels produced by Jordan and Sri Lanka,” says the report.  How is El Salvador mitigating the risks? According to Mr. Bukele, the government will protect citizens from the volatility of Bitcoin prices by guaranteeing quick convertibility to dollars. If a shopkeeper does not want to hold the Bitcoin which they now have to accept from customers, the government will purchase it through a $150-million trust created at the country’s development bank. As for the carbon footprint, Mr. Bukele says he has asked the State-owned geothermal electric company, LaGeo, to connect renewable energy from the country’s volcanoes to bitcoin mining facilities.  Cryptocurrencies as commodities are highly volatile, a recent example being the massive swings in the values of Bitcoin and Dogecoin. Another problem is the increasing energy use associated with cryptocurrencies||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bitcoin-push/article34802020.ece
13 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Trust party cadre, says Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Saturday asked her supporters and workers to trust her party cadres, but not party leaders as she said some of them did not hesitate before hurting the interests of the party for selfish gains and often got sold out. Ms. Mayawati’s warning, at a meeting held here in preparation for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, comes days after she sacked two senior party MLAs Ram Achal Rajbhar and Lalji Verma on charges of indiscipline. Members of the OBC community, the two leaders were some of the few remaining fragments of the BSP’s old-guard, still associated with the party in the post-Kanshiram era. Following their expulsion, the leaders had hinted that a dispute with a BSP coordinator from Ambedkar Nagar district had led to a misunderstanding between them and the chief. Ms. Mayawati urged her ‘party people’ to trust the BSP’s cadre more than the leaders who, despite taking the names of B.R. Ambedkar and Kanshiram, give importance to their personal greed. “They don’t hesitate from hurting the interests of the party and the movement and get sold out.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trust-party-cadre-says-mayawati/article34802348.ece
13 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||2 policemen assaulted at Singhu border||Two Delhi Police assistant sub-inspectors were allegedly assaulted by a group of people at the Singhu border where farmers have been protesting against the new agriculture laws. A senior officer said that two policemen, posted with the Special Branch, were on duty in civil clothes. The incident happened on June 10 when they were deployed at the Singhu border. Protesting farmers said that the officers were assaulted when they were found taking photographs at the protest site. Sustained injuries A senior officer said that one of the policemen suffered a fracture in his hand and another sustained injuries in his leg. They were rushed to a hospital and were discharged after treatment. The officers were “beaten up by people present at the protest site and an investigation is being conducted to ascertain the identity of those involved”. Talking about why the officers were in civil dress, the officer stated that policemen from Special Branch are regularly sent to the protest site to gather Intelligence for any possible action that needs to be taken by security agencies. A case has been registered on charges of assaulting a public servant while on duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/2-policemen-assaulted-at-singhu-border/article34802339.ece
13 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s daily cases drop below 5,000||Odisha reported less than 5,000 daily COVD-19 cases for the first time in 53 days, with the State reporting 4,852 cases on June 12. The State last reported less than 5,000 cases at 4,851 on April 21. Odisha’s total case load stands at 8,47,313. Its active cases stand at 62,515, which had once crossed the one lakh mark. Highest number of cases — 649 — were reported from Khordha district, followed by 500 in Cuttack. Jajpur and Balasore are two other districts where more than 300 new cases were found. The State has been steadily reporting a decline in the daily spike in the cases since the fourth week of May. Test Positivity Rate (TPR), an indication of prevalence of infection, is 7.22% compared to 7.87% on June 11. Of the 67,122 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, 4,852 persons were found infected. The TPR was once hovering around 23% in the State, while in some districts it had soared to above 55%. The highest daily spike of 12,852 was reported on May 23. Forty-seven persons were reported dead in the last 24 hours taking the total death toll to 3,257, the highest ever single-day death toll. As death audits have picked up at the district level, the number of deaths has been gradually rising. Out of 30 districts in Odisha, nine currently have more than 2,500 actives cases, which put them in the red category. Another nine districts have active cases between 1,000 and 1,500, for which they have been marked yellow. The remaining 12 districts are green as the total active cases are under 1,000. Since the beginning of June, the number of patients recovering daily has exceeded the number of fresh cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odishas-daily-cases-drop-below-5000/article34802343.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 213 new cases, 28 deaths||The downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in Delhi with 213 new cases reported over the past 24 hours, taking the total to 14,30,884 on Saturday. Twenty-eight more deaths pushed the toll to 24,800. A total of 71,513 tests were conducted in a single day and the test positivity rate was 0.3%. There are 3,610 active cases in the city. During the latest surge, the positivity rate had touched 36% on April 22. Vaccination picks up Earlier in the day, Aam Aadmi Party leader Atishi said the 18-44 age group is coming out in large numbers to get the jab. “One lakh doses of vaccines are available for the youth, including 33,000 doses of Covaxin, which is being used to give the second dose, and 67,000 doses of Covishield. Covaxin stock for the youth will last three days and Covishield for two days. We hope that the Centre maintains a regular supply of vaccines for the youth.” Meanwhile, Delhi Finance Minister Manish Sisodia said that during a GST Council meeting on Saturday, he had urged the council to make many items related to COVID-19 tax-free, but the Central government opposed it. “Masks, sanitisers, oximeters and thermometers have become part of daily expenditure. The Centre should make them tax-free,” Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-reports-213-new-cases-28-deaths/article34802583.ece
13 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP attacks AAP govt. over ration scheme||The Delhi BJP on Saturday staged a demonstration over the Delhi government’s alleged failure to implement the ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme. The protest was staged at the Shahdara chowk taxi stand and led by Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. North-East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, State general secretary Harsh Malhotra and MLA Jitender Mahajan also participated in the agitation. “When 34 States and Union Territories have already started this scheme, what is Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s compulsion not to do so in Delhi? The Delhi government is in the grips of the ration mafia and hence wants to start ‘Ghar Ghar Ration Scheme’. It is a scam and not a scheme,” said Mr. Gupta. “Mr. Kejriwal wants to distribute ration under the PM Gareeb Kalyan Yojna as his own scheme, which smacks of corruption. When this ration reaches the needy and poor it will include cost of packaging and delivery, making it costlier,” Mr. Bidhuri claimed. Mr. Tiwari alleged that the Delhi government’s decision to deprive residents of the Central government’s ration benefits by not implementing the ‘one nation one ration card’ scheme was “cheap politics”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-attacks-aap-govt-over-ration-scheme/article34802336.ece
13 June 2021||Pratapgarh (U.P.),||‘Corona mata’ temple built, demolished||The residents at Juhi Shukulpur village here built a ‘corona mata’ temple, seeking divine grace to stay clear of the infection. However, the temple built on June 7 was demolished on Friday night. The villagers alleged that it was demolished by the police, which denied the charge, saying it was constructed on a disputed site and one of the parties involved in the dispute razed it. The villagers said the temple was constructed five days ago with donations from local residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/corona-mata-temple-built-demolished/article34802350.ece
13 June 2021||Shimla,||Police warn against fake news on Virbhadra’s health||The Himachal Pradesh Police on Saturday warned people against spreading rumours regarding former Chief Minister Virbhadra Singh’s health on social media. The move came a day after former Minister and Solan BJP leader Mohinder Nath Sofat and some others posted on Facebook regarding Mr. Virbhadra’s ‘death’, just hours after the ex-CM tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College Hospital here for treatment. Hospital Senior Medical Superintendent Janak Raj told PTI that his condition is stable. The former CM on his Facebook account said he is healthy and being looked after by the doctors. After realising his mistake, Mr. Sofat deleted his post and expressed regret for it. The police said strict legal action will be taken against those spreading such rumours. “These acts are in blatant violation of the Disaster Management and Information Technology Acts. The police advise such elements to stop it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-warn-against-fake-news-on-virbhadras-health/article34802351.ece
13 June 2021||new delhi,||Five injured during clash in Bhajanpura||Five persons suffered injuries after a fight broke out between two groups in north-east Delhi’s Bhajanpura, police said on Saturday, adding there was no communal angle to the incident. The fight broke out allegedly over opening of a colony gate. Police said legal action has been initiated against both the parties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/five-injured-during-clash-in-bhajanpura/article34802582.ece
13 June 2021||June 13 2021 00:00 IST,||Yet another lockdown birthday?||Celebrations are hard this year, hollowed by loss. Battered by the second wave of COVID-19, it is difficult to drum up enthusiasm for locked down birthdays, anniversary dinners and Zoom parties. Yet, now more than ever, it is important to reach out. To celebrate milestones, despite the seemingly endless physical isolation of lockdown. Last year, when the pandemic began, Instagram was bright with home made meals, fuelled by energy and optimism. This year, we lean on the hospitality industry again, as they find ways to pack fuel and comfort into lunchboxes. When you don’t have the energy to orchestrate yet another virtual party, or bake a cake, here’s one more option: send a festive meal. To make it easier, popular restaurants — also fighting to keep their doors open and staff employed — have been tweaking menus every month to continue to serve customers though an unpredictable year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/yet-another-lockdown-birthday/article34802652.ece
