14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fight against authoritarianism, extremism, says PM at G7 meet||India is a “natural ally” to work with the world’s richest G7 countries to fight against threats of authoritarianism, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking at a special outreach session for guest countries on “Open Societies and Open Economies” at the G7 summit that ended in Corbis Bay, U.K., on Sunday. Marking out the need for a “free, open and inclusive” Indo-Pacific, officials also said the government will study U.S. President Joseph Biden’s proposal for a “Build Back Better World” (B3W) initiative, seen as a counter to China’s trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative, that was endorsed by the G7, keeping in mind the principles of “transparency and inclusion”. However, in a departure from the main 25-page G7 communique, which was issued by U.S., U.K., Germany, France, Canada, Italy and Japan, and contained negative references to China on the issue of its aggression in the East and South China Sea, and human rights issues in Xinjiang, MEA officials said Chinese aggression “was not raised” at the outreach meetings with guest countries Australia, South Korea and South Africa, and that there are “other forums” where it is being discussed. The communique also made a strong call for a “timely, transparent, expert-led, and science-based WHO-convened Phase 2 COVID-19 Origins study including, as recommended by the experts’ report, in China,” that India had also called for in a statement during the World Health Assembly last month. “As the world’s largest democracy, India is a natural ally for the G7 and Guest Countries to defend shared values from authoritarianism, terrorism and violent extremism, disinformation and infodemics and economic coercion,” said MEA Secretary (Economic Relations) P. Harish, describing Mr. Modi’s virtual intervention at the summit, where Mr. Modi was the only leader not to be physically present, owing to the COVID-19 second wave in India. Mr. Modi also called on “tech companies and social media platforms” to ensure a “safe cyber environment” for all, a statement significant given the government’s recent regulatory issues with Facebook, Twitter and other tech companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fight-against-authoritarianism-extremism-says-pm-at-g7-meet/article34808020.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||A year after Galwan clash, China strengthening base along the LAC||A year since the clash between the Armies of India and China in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has built additional accommodation in the depth areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on its side and is preparing for the long haul, according to official sources. “PLA has built additional accommodations, both permanent and temporary, in Rudok, Kangxiwar, Gyantse and Golmud areas. Construction of field hospitals and procurement of additional snow mobility vehicles by the PLA also indicate that they are preparing for the long haul and permanent winter occupation of these posts,” a source said. Regiments replaced According to intelligence inputs, the Chinese troops in the Pangong Tso (lake) area have all been rotated. China’s 4th and 6th Divisions were withdrawn from both the banks of Pangong Lake to Rutog County for repairs in February, and returned to Xinjiang for repairs in the past three weeks. They were replaced by the 8th and 11th Divisions. Each division has two mobile infantry regiments, an armoured regiment, an artillery regiment and an air defence regiment. “China is also intensifying construction work behind the main confrontation points in Aksai Chin,” the source said, citing intelligence inputs. The PLA has also conducted exercises in Tibet and opposite Arunachal Pradesh. For instance, in the first week of this month, the PLA conducted a small arms training at Shigatse in Tibet. The PLA soldiers were trained in anti-tank rocket launchers, grenade launchers, anti-aircraft machine guns and other weapons, according to inputs. In early May, Chinese state media Global Times reported that a unit of the PLA in the Xinjiang Military District under the Western Theatre Command had deployed new long-range heavy rocket artillery in the border region at an altitude of 5,200 metres. Training was also recently conducted at a location opposite Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh at an altitude of 5,130 metres by a regiment from the Shannan Army Division, the official stated. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat recently said all Armies carried out training activities during peacetime, and the conduct of exercises was one such event to maintain operational preparedness. He added that China as well as India had carried out turnover of troops, and the best way to familiarise new troops was to carry out exercises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-year-after-galwan-clash-china-strengthening-base-along-the-lac/article34808016.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad toll shows massive undercount||The number of “excess deaths” registered in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) ever since COVID-19 hit (from April 2020 to May 2021), is over 10 times the officially recorded figure of 3,275 deaths for the corresponding period in the entire State of Telangana. There were an estimated 32,752 “excess deaths” — 18,420 between April and December 2020 and 14,332 between January and May 2021. Excess deaths in the GHMC were calculated based on the number of death certificates issued. The month-wise number for the last two years was accessed by The Hindu and compared with data for 2016 to 2019 that were obtained via an RTI. The 2021 figures were analysed till May 31. For the first five months of 2021, the 14,332 excess deaths in the city corporation limits were 8.2 times more than the official COVID-19 death toll of 1,740 for the entire State. These “excess deaths” were calculated as the difference between the 36,041 certified deaths in 2021 and the average number of certified deaths in the same period in the pre-pandemic years between 2016 and 2019 (21,709).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hyderabad-toll-shows-massive-undercount/article34808018.ece
14 June 2021||Pune,||Sena to hold CM’s post for full term: Raut||Stating that the question of the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s post remaining with the Shiv Sena was “not negotiable”, Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Maharashtra’s top job would remain with his party till the current tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by Uddhav Thackeray completed its full five- year term. Mr. Raut, who is on a party-building tour in north Maharashtra, was speaking in Nashik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sena-to-hold-cms-post-for-full-term-raut/article34808483.ece
14 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Touched by love from Arunachal: YouTuber||YouTuber Paras Singh, who was granted bail by a court in Arunachal Pradesh capital Itanagar on June 11, said he was touched by the love and care from the people of the State he had derided in one of his videos. The social media influencer also told the local media that he was going back home enlightened about the State and the Northeast. “I realised I made a great mistake and hurt the sentiments of the people of Arunachal Pradesh,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/touched-by-love-from-arunachal-youtuber/article34808401.ece
14 June 2021||Guwahati,||Navy divers in Meghalaya to assist mine rescue||An Indian Navy team on Sunday began assessing the coal mine in Meghalaya where five miners have been trapped since May 30. Frequent rain and underground water seeping in from inter-connected mines had affected the search and rescue operations in the East Jaintia Hills district for almost a fortnight. The operation has been virtually a rerun of the December 2018 mine disaster at Ksan in the same district, in which 17 miners died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/navy-divers-in-meghalaya-to-assist-mine-rescue/article34808149.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,||There is no plan to replace Yogi, says Pralhad Joshi||The BJP has no plans to bring in any change in leadership in Uttar Pradesh, Union Minister Pralhad Joshi told journalists in Hubballi on Sunday. “Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is a competent leader. He has been doing very good work. His COVID-19 management is commendable. He will not be replaced. It is wrong to deduce that the meeting he had had with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other leaders in Delhi is a sign of the party’s move to replace him,’’ Mr. Joshi said. He refused to talk about reports of Union Cabinet expansion as he had “no idea” about it. Mr. Modi will take a decision about it after consulting senior leaders, including J.P. Nadda and Amit Shah, he said. He asked Congress leaders not to criticise the Union government’s efforts to battle COVID-19. “They are playing politics over bodies. They should stop it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/there-is-no-plan-to-replace-yogi-says-pralhad-joshi/article34808130.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Hydrocarbon project against T.N. law: Stalin||No new hydrocarbon project should be taken up in the Cauvery basin and neighbouring districts in the interest of protecting farmers’ livelihoods and the fragile agro-ecology of the region, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Any new proposal for hydrocarbon extraction is in violation of the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020, he pointed out. Mr. Stalin urged the Prime Minister to immediately intervene and instruct the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas to cancel the bidding process for the development of oil and gas fields at Vadatheru in Pudukottai district in the Cauvery basin. “I also request you to instruct the Ministry to consult the State government ab initio before bringing any area in Tamil Nadu for any auction in future for hydrocarbon exploration and extraction,” he said. He pointed out that the area identified for the auction fell under the Cauvery basin and the Protected Agricultural Zone declared by the State government, where any new exploration, drilling or extraction of oil and natural gas and other hydrocarbons was prohibited. “It is unfortunate that the sentiments of the people, the probable ecological impact and the legal enactments by the Government of Tamil Nadu have not been taken into account by the relevant authorities,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Stalin said the calling of bids by the Government of India had already ignited agitations in Pudukottai and neighbouring districts due to apprehensions over the adverse consequences of hydrocarbon extraction in the agrarian region. “The Cauvery basin, as you are well aware, is the bedrock of Tamil Nadu’s food security and agro-based economy since time immemorial. This ecologically fragile zone supports the livelihoods of millions of farmers and farm workers. In this context, projects to extract hydrocarbons from the Cauvery basin have faced unanimous, strident opposition from all stakeholders,” he said. The Chief Minister said the State government had consistently opposed hydrocarbon exploration and extraction projects in the Cauvery basin and neighbouring districts, given the pivotal role played by the region in the agrarian economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hydrocarbon-project-against-tn-law-stalin/article34808085.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,||49 acres of govt. land reclaimed in Vizag in a day||The Visakhapatnam district administration has reclaimed 430.81 acres of encroached government land as part of a special drive in the last one year. The value of the lands situated in and around the port city was approximately Rs. 4,292 crore, according to an official press release here. Criminal cases had been booked against those who had occupied the lands and steps were initiated to take back more lands on which various illegal structures sprang up. On Sunday, 49.05 acres of government land (in addition to the 430.81 acres) was reclaimed by the authorities which had a market value of roughly Rs. 792 crore, the release said. The district officials were pressing ahead with the land reclamation drive duly assisted by the Revenue Department and the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation. A majority of the lands being wrested back from encroachers were in Visakhapatnam Rural, Anandapuram, Gajuwaka and Sabbavaram mandals. The total value of all the lands was around Rs. 5,080 crore, as per the survey number-wise details disclosed by the officials concerned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/49-acres-reclaimed-in-vizag-in-a-day/article34807974.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Curbs ease in some districts from today||Over a month after the lockdown was imposed, parts of the State will cautiously reopen on Monday even as restrictions continue in 11 districts that have reported a higher positivity rate. The return of people to Bengaluru ahead of the partial lifting of lockdown, however, has left the administration apprehensive. “I will speak to officials about increasing testing in Bengaluru and will do whatever needs to be done,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told reporters in response to a question on people returning to the city in big numbers and without testing. On Sunday evening, the government also clarified that except for industrial establishments, no other establishments/offices are permitted to open. “From now on, it will be managing the numbers. Future unlocking, allowing non-essential businesses to open, will depend on how the next week passes by,” the sources said, adding that the key would be to watch how people also adhered to COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. “There is desperation in the business community since business for two months has been lost. There could be attempts by non-essential retailers to open. If the numbers go up, the government might have to intervene again,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/curbs-ease-in-some-districts-from-today/article34808052.ece
14 June 2021||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases drop below 4,000 in West Bengal||The number of new COVID-19 infections in West Bengal on Sunday dropped below 4,000 with the State recording 3,984 cases in the past 24 hours. This is the first time in the past few weeks since the second spike that the number of active cases has dropped below 4,000. The State recorded 84 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 16,896. The test positive ratio remains at 6.63% and the active cases at 16,896. However, State CPI(M) secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra took to social media raising questions about the numbers. “According to the official bulletin, if 98,592 people were in home isolation on June 9, by what magic could it come down to only 6,267 people the very next day? Will the Chief Minister take appropriate action against those involved in these serious irresponsible acts in the public interest?@Mamataofficial,” he tweeted. “When the second wave is said to have passed the peak based on miscalculation [if not due to deliberate manipulation] aren’t you inviting a disastrous third wave almost without any preparation?” he asked. The State has appointed 10 nodal officers to help in crisis management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-drop-below-4000-in-west-bengal/article34808148.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi lifts more curbs, eateries to reopen with 50% capacity||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said all shops and markets, restaurants at 50% capacity, and religious places will be allowed to open from June 14 under the phased unlock plan for the city. Authorities will observe the situation at the markets and restaurants for a week. If people follow COVID-19 protocols and cases do not increase in the next week, they will be allowed to remain open, he said. “The pandemic situation is coming under control in Delhi. Cases have reduced significantly... now the concern is to bring the economy back on track. In case a third wave comes, preparations for that are in full swing,” the CM said. Last week, shops were allowed to open only on an odd-even basis, now they can open on all days from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Beauty parlours and barber shops can open along with one weekly market per zone per day. Educational institutions; gatherings and congregations for social, political, sports, entertainment and festivals; cinema halls, auditoriums, banquet halls, spas, gyms, yoga institutes, public parks and gardens will remain closed. Marriages can be held only at home or in court with a maximum of 20 people in attendance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-lifts-more-curbs-eateries-to-reopen-with-50-capacity/article34808404.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Over 63L ryots to get Rs. 7,509 cr. support||The Telangana government is all set to credit investment support (grant) of about Rs. 7,509 crore at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre directly into the bank accounts of 63,25,695 pattadar farmers in the State with a total landholding of 150.18 lakh acres for taking up cultivation of crops this kharif (vanakalam) season. The process would begin on June 15 and is expected to be completed in 10 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-63l-ryots-to-get-rs-7509-cr-support/article34808423.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Warangal jail to house hospital||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered construction of a 24-storied green building for the multi-super speciality hospital to be constructed in place of the central jail at Warangal. It should have a helipad on the terrace for landing of helicopters bringing patients for emergency care. To be built on the lines of the multi-storied Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre in Canada, the hospital should have cross-ventilation for free flow of air and light, authorities were told.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/warangal-jail-to-house-hospital/article34808424.ece
14 June 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||COVID-19 cases outweigh recoveries in Maharashtra||Just 7,504 patients were discharged across Maharashtra on Sunday while the State reported 10,442 new Covid-19 cases as the see-saw trend of low recoveries and higher case spikes continued. The active case tally stood at 1,55,588. The death toll continued to rise, though, with more than 2,700 deaths being added to the State’s progressive death toll, of which 284 occurred during the last 48 hours and a further 199 occurred during the past week. As many as 2,288 fatalities have been added in the ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process, as per the State Health Department. The State’s total death toll has climbed to 1,11,104 with the State’s case fatality rate rising to 1.81%. “Of a total 3,80,46,590 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,08,992 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.53%) have returned positive with over 2.12 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported more than 1,200 new cases taking its total cases to 10,35,743. Mumbai reported 695 new cases to take its total case tally to 7,15,660.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-outweigh-recoveries-in-maharashtra/article34808486.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Actor ‘Sanchari’ Vijay critical after accident||Kannada actor ‘Sanchari’ Vijay suffered severe head injuries in an accident on Saturday night and is critical. He underwent brain surgery on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/actor-sanchari-vijay-critical-after-accident/article34808053.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Probe reveals mass trafficking of women||The investigation into the gang rape of a Bangladeshi woman in Bengaluru unearthed another prostitution racket. Rescued women said that hundreds of others had been brought illegally from Bangladesh into India by traffickers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-reveals-mass-trafficking-of-women/article34808054.ece
14 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Patriarch of ‘world’s largest family’ dead||Zion-a Chana, patriarch of a Christian cult who held the world record for being the head of the “world’s largest family”, passed away at a private hospital at Aizawl in Mizoram on Sunday. He was 76. His family said he had been suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure and had been unable to eat since June 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/patriarch-of-worlds-largest-family-dead/article34808151.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital sees 255 fresh COVID cases, 23 deaths||The Capital recorded 255 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday along with 23 deaths and 376 recoveries. A total of 72,751 tests were conducted in a single day with a test positivity rate of 0.35%. There are 3,466 active cases in the city, out of which 1,037 are under home isolation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-sees-255-fresh-covid-cases-23-deaths/article34808403.ece
14 June 2021||Mumbai,||Nearby||Today (Monday) marks the first death anniversary of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Soon after he was found dead at his Bandra apartment, political parties started trying to gain mileage from the incident, leading to investigations. But none of the agencies have brought out a concrete report on Sushant’s death.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article34808485.ece
14 June 2021||Chennai,||Active cases fall below 1.5 lakh in State||Fresh COVID-19 cases fell to 14,061 on Sunday, taking the State’s active cases to 1,49,927. The State’s case tally touched 23,53,721. As many as 25,895 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 21,74,247. The State’s toll rose to 29,547, with 267 more deaths being recorded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/active-cases-fall-below-15-lakh-in-state/article34808084.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Decision on Class XII marks to be put off||After ten days of gathering inputs and deliberating on how to assign marks for Class XII students from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), an expert panel is largely in favour of using a combination of final exam scores from Class X and XI, and internal marks from Class XII. Officials say the panel may take a few more days for a final decision, although it was scheduled to submit its recommendation on Monday. Class XII board examinations, scheduled to be held in May, were cancelled because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Announcing the decision on June 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi added that “CBSE will take steps to compile the results of Class XII students as per a well-defined objective criteria in a time-bound manner.” Subsequently, on June 4, CBSE announced a 12-member panel of stakeholders to decide that criteria within ten days. Although that deadline ends on Monday, two members of the panel told The Hindu that it was likely to be extended by a few days. The panel has consulted with CBSE principals, as well as with the centrally-run Kendriya Vidyalaya and Navodaya Vidyalaya schools to get their feedback. With all Delhi State government schools affiliated to the CBSE, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank on Friday as well. His suggestion is to give 30% weightage to Class XII internal pre-board exams, and 20% weightage each to Class X board exams and Class IX internal final exams. This would add up to the 70% score given for theory exams, leaving the remaining 30% to Class XII practical exam marks. “Most stakeholders are in favour of something similar to the Delhi government proposal, but we have not reached a final consensus yet,” one member of the panel told The Hindu . “It was felt that this is the best option to judge a consistent student. Class X marks would be considered reliable as they were board exams. And we will also enforce the school moderation method to ensure that internal marks are not inflated beyond the school’s usual mark distribution in previous years.” Another option would be to use the internal marks from pre-board exams, unit tests and project work in Class XII only. “Most stakeholders were not in favour of this as it was felt that not all students may have been able to attend exams this year because of COVID,” said the panel member, adding that there was a higher possibility of schools inflating marks using this option. The panel is not likely to recommend that only grades be assigned, rather than specific marks, said the member. “Yes, the Central universities may use a common entrance test for admissions and not use Class XII marks at all. But most State universities and smaller universities are dependent on Class XII marks for admission. We cannot assign grades alone,” added the member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/decision-on-class-xii-marks-to-be-put-off/article34807934.ece
14 June 2021||Srinagar,||‘Centre curbed militancy in J&K’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishen Reddy, who laid the foundation stone of a Balaji temple of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in Jammu on Sunday, said the Centre had managed to curb infiltration and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir in the past two years. “Barring a couple of incidents of violence reported in J&K, the situation has changed across India and J&K in the past two years. The government has managed to curb infiltration, and militancy stands controlled in J&K,” he said. Mr. Reddy said the COVID-19 pandemic hindered the Centre’s plan to push development initiatives in Jammu and Kashmir. “COVID-19 did play a spoilsport and hit the development projects. Once the pandemic ends, we will take J&K to new heights of development,” he said. Earlier in the day, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha, Mr. Reddy and Union Minister of State Jitendra Singh participated in the ‘Bhoomi Pujan’ of the Balaji temple of the TTD. “Pilgrims from south India will also start visiting Jammu and will pay obeisance both at the Balaji Temple as well as the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine. This will result in development of the area and also help in integration,” Mr. Reddy said. The Jammu & Kashmir government has transferred 496 kanal (62 acres) and 17 Marla of land to the temple, the first such instance since the Centre in 2019 ended J&K’s special constitutional position. Meanwhile, Mr. Reddy will also chair a meeting of security top brass to review the security of Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-curbed-militancy-in-jk/article34807949.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||No greater risk to children from anticipated third wave: report||There is no evidence so far to conclude that children face a greater risk of infection or are at greater danger from a COVID-19 infection from an anticipated third wave, according to a report from The Lancet COVID-19 Commission India Task Force. The group consists of paediatric experts from across the country comprising clinicians from top government medical colleges and large private or charitable hospitals. They were tasked with examining the evidence and recommending practical clinical tools and strategies for providers, and guidance for policymakers and the public to effectively address COVID-19 in children. Though data from India were limited, the mortality rate amongst hospitalised COVID-19 positive children below the age of 10 (excluding neonates) was 2.4%. About 40% of the children who had died had co-morbidities and 9% of all hospitalised COVID-positive children presented with severe illness, all under 10 years of age. These observations were similar during the two surges of COVID-19 infections in India. As of May 2021, of all COVID-positive cases in children globally, 0.1-1.9% resulted in hospitalisation. Children comprised 1.3-3.2 % of the total reported hospital admissions. Mortality was also “significantly low” at 0.1% of the total 0.47 million deaths. The mortality rate has also remained the same in both years, at 0.05% of the total annual COVID-19 deaths. The existing evidence says that while children have milder disease, better prognosis and low mortality in comparison to adults, those with underlying illness could be at higher risk. For children with a mild infection, the experts recommend management in home isolation, if feasible, and symptomatic treatment with paracetamol. A concern with COVID-19 and children were reports around multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). The manifestation of the condition mimics viral, bacterial and rickettsial infections. The early signs of MIS-C included “atypical Kawasaki disease” (KD)-like presentations in younger children and gastrointestinal manifestations with abdominal pain mimicking appendicitis, diarrhoea and features resembling toxic shock syndrome, rather than acute pneumonia with respiratory symptoms, in older children. However, most published data suggested mild to moderate predisposition in most cases and low mortality linked with MIS-C, they note. Psychological impact The experts also highlight the psychological impact of the pandemic. In a recent meta-analysis of 15 studies across 10 countries, describing 22,996 children/adolescents, it was reported that the behaviour/psychological state of a total of 79.4% of the children was affected negatively by the pandemic and quarantine; at least 22.5% of the children had a significant fear of COVID-19, 35.2% complained of boredom and 21.3% had sleep disturbances. Schools ought to be reopened cautiously with options for online access as needed. “It is imperative to recognise as a society that in our well-meaning attempt to protect our young ones from disease and keep them physically safe, we do not inadvertently impair their minds by curtailing access of expression for their inherent curiosity, creativity, and joy,” the authors underline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-greater-risk-to-children-from-anticipated-third-wave-report/article34807961.ece
14 June 2021||Mumbai,||Mystery shrouds probe into actor Sushant’s death||Sunday marked the first death anniversary of 34-year-old Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Soon after he was found dead at his Bandra apartment in Mumbai, political parties started trying to gain mileage from the incident, leading to investigations by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). But none of the agencies have brought out a concrete report on Sushant’s death. The Mumbai police registered an accidental death report and said the actor had died by suicide. After his death, then Mumbai police spokesperson and Deputy Commissioner of Police Pranay Ashok had said, “He died by suicide... The police have not found any [suicide] note yet.” But 14 days later, on June 28, 2020, the actor’s father registered an First Information Report (FIR) in Patna accusing six people, including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her family members, of abetting Sushant’s suicide. The actor’s father, in his complaint, also claimed that Rs. 15 crore had been transferred from his son’s account to a few bank accounts. The FIR at Bihar saw the ED register a case on July 31, 2020, and begin a probe into alleged money laundering. Meanwhile, a team of the Bihar police arrived in Mumbai to investigate the case and found no cooperation from the Mumbai police in the matter. The Mumbai police did not cooperate as they felt it was against the norms to register an FIR in Bihar into a case that it (the Mumbai police) was investigating. This led to political outrage, following which the Bihar government transferred the case to the CBI. On August 6, 2020, the CBI registered an FIR against Ms. Chakraborty and others, and started a probe.  Meanwhile, the ED, which is probing the money laundering case, found mention of drugs in mobile phone data it had recovered during its investigation. Based on a letter from the ED, the NCB was roped into the investigation. After 10 months of investigation, NCB Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede told The Hindu , “We have so far arrested 35 accused, seized 7 kg of drugs, Rs. 35 lakh, and some foreign currency. The investigation in the Sushant Singh murder case is still going on.” CBI officials said the investigation was on. “We are investigating from all possible angles,” said a senior CBI officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mystery-shrouds-probe-into-actor-sushants-death/article34807938.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Only 3.5% of population is fully vaccinated so far||India recorded 67,699 new COVID-19 cases and 3,863 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Sunday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,95,12,862 cases and 3,71,440 deaths. Tamil Nadu reported 14,016 new infections, followed by Kerala (11,584) and Maharashtra (10,442). Maharashtra recorded 2,771 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (267) and Kerala (206). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths, which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19 lakh samples were tested in the country on Saturday (the results for which were made available on Sunday). About 34.84 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Sunday, which was 50,476 doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It was also 1.3 lakh doses more than what was recorded during the corresponding period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continued to increase. It stood at 30.14 lakh on June 12, which was more than the 26.96 lakh recorded a week before (June 5). About 21.8% of adults in India, 42.1% of those aged above 45, and 45.9% of people aged above 60, had been administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Sunday. While 15% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.5% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. The share of people who are fully vaccinated in comparable economies such as Brazil, Russia and South Africa is 11.07%, 9.78% and 0.81%, respectively. Among neighbouring countries, about 2.57% of Bangladesh’s population is fully vaccinated while the figure for Pakistan and Sri Lanka stood at 1.29% and 2.02%, respectively. India continued to record the highest number of daily cases in the world, with 90,090 average daily infections on June 12. The two other countries with the highest case count after India are Brazil (66,770 cases) and Colombia (25,384).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-35-of-population-is-fully-vaccinated-so-far/article34807963.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||MHA order inviting citizenship applications faces SC challenge||A May 28 order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) inviting non-Muslim refugees such as Hindus, Sikhs, Jains and Buddhists belonging to Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship is increasingly becoming the focus of challenge before the Supreme Court. A recent petition filed in the top court by Anis Ahmed, through advocate Selvin Raja, said the government order “utterly discriminates and deprives a class of persons namely, the Muslims”. Mr. Ahmed argued that the May 28 order does not withstand the test of Article 14 in as much as it treats people within a particular class, or persons entitled to apply for citizenship by registration and naturalisation, unequally by virtue of their religion. Identical arguments have been made in two earlier petitions filed by the Indian Union of Muslim League (IUML) and the Popular Front of India in the Supreme Court against the Executive Order issued by the Ministry. Mr. Ahmed urged the court to declare the MHA order “unconstitutional, discriminatory and ultra vires ” as it seeks to “utterly deprive the Muslims to seek for citizenship by registration and naturalisation unequally by virtue of their religion under Sections 5 and 6 of the Citizenship Act, 1955”. A fortnight ago, the IUML, through advocates Haris Beeran and Pallavi Pratap, urged the Supreme Court to stay the May 28 order. It said the order delegates the power to grant citizenship by registration and naturalisation to the Collectors of these districts. The IUML said the Home Ministry’s Order was a ruse to implement the “malafide designs” of the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) to grant Indian citizenship on the sole basis of religion. According to the CAA, Indian citizenship would be given to non-Muslim persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan — Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian — who came to India till December 31, 2014. The party said the CAA was already under challenge before the Supreme Court and the May 28 order intends to circumvent judicial scrutiny. The government had earlier averted a stay on the CAA by assuring the top court that the rules under the Act had not yet been framed. There were widespread protests in different parts of the country following the enactment of the CAA in 2019. Delhi had even seen riots in February last year. The IUML had said classification of applicants for citizenship on the basis of religion is illegal. The order does not “withstand the test of Article 14 inasmuch as it treats people within a particular class i.e. persons entitled to apply for citizenship by registration and naturalisation unequally by virtue of their religion”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-order-inviting-citizenship-applications-faces-sc-challenge/article34807947.ece
14 June 2021||Pune,||Sena to hold CM’s post for full term of MVA govt., says Raut||Stating that the question of the Maharashtra Chief Minister’s post remaining with the Shiv Sena was “not negotiable”, Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut on Sunday said Maharashtra’s top job would remain with his party till the current tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) led by Uddhav Thackeray completed its full five- year term. Mr. Raut, who is on a party-building tour in north Maharashtra, was speaking in Nashik. Responding to Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole’s hints that his party could contest separately in the local elections and that the Congress would emerge ‘number one’ in the State by 2024, Mr. Raut dispelled all speculation of discontent within the MVA, stressing no one was upset in the coalition. “In previous coalitions, there may have been sharing of the Chief Minister’s post or negotiations on sharing it between parties ... But in the MVA, there is no such thing and the Chief Minister will remain of the Sena [Uddhav Thackeray] for the full five-year term. There can be no negotiations on this point … Even Sharad Pawar has clarified this in his speech on the occasion of the NCP’s foundation day recently. While there is no doubt in any of our coalition partners’ [Congress and NCP] minds on this count, this issue is only being raked up repeatedly in the media,” said Mr. Raut. The Sena had broken its alliance with the BJP in 2019 over the issue of the Chief Minister’s post, forming an ideologically opposed coalition instead with the Congress and the NCP. Earlier, Mr. Raut had hit out against the BJP, alleging that the Sena always had a secondary status in the previous BJP-Sena government and was treated akin to “slaves”. Meanwhile, in a riposte to Mr. Raut, the BJP’s Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, said the Sena MP was merely putting on a brave face and that the MVA was rife with dissension. “The NCP is padding up to stake their claim on the Chief Minister’s post, while Nana Patole’s remarks make it clear that the Congress wants to go it alone in the next Assembly polls.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sena-to-hold-cms-post-for-full-term-of-mva-govt-says-raut/article34807951.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||Left parties seek rollback of fuel price hike, announce protest||The Left parties have announced a 15-day protest from June 16 to 30, demanding a rollback of fuel price hike and calling for controlling the prices of essential commodities. In a joint statement signed by general secretaries of the five Left parties — Sitaram Yechury of the CPI(M), D. Raja of the CPI, Debabrata Biswas of the All India Forward Bloc, Manoj Bhattacharya of the Revolutionary Socialist Party and Dipankar Bhattacharya of the CPI(ML) — the group pointed out that the prices of petroleum products had gone up by 21 times since the results of the recent Assembly elections were announced on May 2. “This is leading to a cascading inflationary spiral with the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) rising to an 11-year high. The prices of food articles have risen by nearly 5% in April. Primary commodities saw a rise of 10.16% and manufactured products have risen by 9.01%. By the time these commodities reach the retail markets, the consumers are charged much more,” the parties said. Earlier, the Congress, too, had held a day-long protest at petrol pumps across the nation against the fuel price rise. The Left parties said that the economy was going into a deep recession. “Clearly, unscrupulous black-marketing and hoarding is taking place under state patronage,” they said. The recent announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi of extending till Deepavali the PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana of 5 kg of foodgrains was inadequate, the parties said. Instead, 10 kg of foodgrains per month to all individuals, including a food kit with pulses, edible oil, sugar, spices, tea and so on must be distributed free, they said. “Modi government must immediately give direct cash transfers of Rs. 7,500 per month for six months to all families not in the income tax-paying bracket,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/left-parties-seek-rollback-of-fuel-price-hike-announce-protest/article34807953.ece
14 June 2021||Kolkata,||Tree of coffee family discovered in Andaman and Nicobar||A 15-metre-tall tree that belongs to the genus of the coffee family has recently been discovered from the Andaman Islands by a team of researchers from India and the Philippines. The new species, Pyrostria laljii , is also the first record of the genus Pyrostria in India, the researchers said. Plants belonging to genus Pyrostria are usually found in Madagascar, but the recently discovered species is new to science. The tree is distinguished by a long stem with a whitish coating on the trunk and oblong-obovate leaves with a cuneate base, and was first reported from the Wandoor forest in South Andaman. The other places in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands where the tree could be located are the Tirur forest near the Jarawa Rerserve Forest and the Chidia Tapu (Munda Pahar) forest.  Pyrostria laljii has been assessed as ‘Critically Endangered’ based on the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s (IUCN) Red List criteria. M.C. Naik from the Botanical Survey of India, M. Bheemalingappa from the Sri Krishnadevaraya University, Anantapuram, and Axel H. Arriola from University of the East, Manila, Philippines, published the details of the discovery a few months ago in an international, peer-reviewed journal Annales Botanici Fennici . Mr. Naik pointed out that the discovery was unique as the species was a big tree and had not been recorded as a new species yet. The species has been named Pyrostria laljii after Lal Ji Singh, Joint Director and Head of Office, Andaman and Nicobar Regional Centre, Botanical Survey of India. “While the genus Pyrostria is not found in India, there are several genera from the family Rubiaceae that are common in India. These plants, including cinchona, coffee, adina, hamelia, ixora, galium, gardenia, mussaenda, rubia, morinda, have high potential for economic value. More studies should be carried out to ascertain whether Pyrostria laljii could have some economic value,” Dr. Singh said. Other physical features that distinguish the tree from other species of the genus is its umbellate inflorescence with eight to 12 flowers. Dr. Singh and Mr. Naik have also discovered a new species of pokeweed named Rivina andamanensis . They said it was found growing under large trees, shaded and rocky areas, along with herbs and shrubby plants. “This discovery of new species, representing the first record of the pokeweed family Petiveriaceae in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, adds one more family to the islands’ flora,” the researchers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tree-of-coffee-family-discovered-in-andaman-and-nicobar/article34807966.ece
14 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||SP, AAP demand probe into land deal by temple trust||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the trust set up to build a Ram Mandir in Ayodhya of financial corruption worth crores of rupees in the purchase of a piece of land for the temple project. They demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate. Trust general secretary Champat Rai said they would “study the matter” as he brushed aside the allegations. Holding separate press conferences, former SP MLA from Ayodhya Pawan Pandey and AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh alleged that the land, valued at Rs. 5.8 crore, had been purchased and registered by two local businessmen for Rs. 2 crore on March 18 at around 7.10 p.m., but within 5-10 minutes of that, the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra purchased the land for an appreciated rate of Rs. 18.5 crore. The two leaders alleged that both the land agreements had common witnesses — Ayodhya Mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay and trust member Anil Mishra.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-aap-demand-probe-into-land-deal-by-temple-trust/article34808184.ece
14 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Navy divers in Meghalaya to assist mine rescue||An Indian Navy team on Sunday began assessing the coal mine in Meghalaya where five miners have been trapped since May 30. Frequent rain and underground water seeping in from inter-connected mines had affected the search and rescue operations in the Sutnga area of East Jaintia Hills district for almost a fortnight. The operation has been virtually a rerun of the December 2018 mine disaster at Ksan in the same district, in which at least 17 miners died. “A team of more than 10 Navy divers arrived yesterday (June 12) with equipment. They have been assessing the situation for starting operations that have been affected by rainfall,” Superintendent of Police Jagpal Singh Dhanoa said. “Almost 100 personnel of the National Disaster Response Force, the State Disaster Response Force and the district police have been deployed there. Water is being pumped out simultaneously from two inter-connected mines about 300 metres apart aerially, but the water level in the shaft where the miners were working is still over 100 ft,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/navy-divers-in-meghalaya-to-assist-mine-rescue/article34807928.ece
14 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Touched by love from Arunachal: YouTuber||YouTuber Paras Singh, who was granted bail by a court in Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh’s capital, on June 11, said he was touched by the love and care from the people of the State he had derided in one of his videos. The social media influencer also told the local media that he was going back home enlightened about the State and Northeast India. “I realised I made a great mistake and hurt the sentiments of the people of Arunachal Pradesh and the northeast. I will try my best to win their hearts back,” he said after a two-week stay in custody in Itanagar. He was arrested in May for a racial slur against Ninong Ering, a Congress MLA, and the people of the State. “I know the people of Arunachal Pradesh were very angry with me because of the thoughtless statements I made in one of my videos and I am very embarrassed about it. This made me think that the people here would be very upset, but once they got to know me and my story, everyone treated me so well,” he said. “Each individual that I met during the past two weeks during my stay in the jail here was very kind. Everyone taught me something new and something good about the State,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/touched-by-love-from-arunachal-youtuber/article34807930.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Digital tech reshaping management education: experts||As part of its Virtual Conclave for Career Guidance 2021, the SRM Institute of Science and Technology (SRMIST), in association with The Hindu Group, hosted a webinar on “How Digital Technology is Changing the Curriculum of Management Education” on Saturday. Ms. Jasjeet Kaur, Executive Director, Imarticus, Learning, pointed out that the pandemic had “opened gates to innovative methods of knowledge transmission globally and accelerated the adoption of digital technologies to deliver education. With rapid changes in the education sector, everything from the way we teach and learn will change.” Mr. Rupesh Bisht, CEO, Master’s Union, spoke about how the introduction of a tech component would help management schools create a stronger teaching mechanism while making traditional teaching methods more industry-relevant. “Students who are equipped with tech components will not only be participants, but will also drive business processes. They will be able to bring in perspectives that will provide a different and much-needed outlook in solving real-world business problems,” Mr. Bisht said. Dr. V.M. Ponnaiah, Dean, College of Management, SRMIST, explained that with changes in both business processes and models, “there is constant scope for specialisation in the areas of fintech, digital marketing, business analysis, AI and Data Science, among others. Often, credit transfers for applicable programmes are available and there are immense opportunities to learn from immersion programmes. So, every student should make use of such opportunities and align his/her interest with the company he/she is joining. Just like how organisations have a mission and vision for their growth, so, too, should students”. The session, moderated by Yashasvini Rajeshwar, Founder and CEO, Auxohub, concluded with a Q&A session. The webinar is available athttps://bit.ly/3ghnE9r.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/digital-tech-reshaping-management-education-experts/article34807932.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad toll shows massive undercount||For the first five months of 2021, the 14,332 excess deaths in the city corporation limits were 8.2 times more than the official COVID19 death toll of 1,740 for the entire State. These “excess deaths” were calculated as the difference between the 36,041 certified deaths in 2021 and the average number of certified deaths in the same period in the pre-pandemic years between 2016 and 2019 (21,709). Comparatively, the excess deaths’ multiple over the registered death toll in Kolkata and Chennai for 2021 was 4.5 and 3.3, in analyses published in The Hindu . The excess deaths in the corporation could not be compared to the GHMC’s official COVID-19 death toll as the State does not publish the district-wise pandemic fatalities, unlike many other States in the country. In fact, on two instances, the Telangana High Court had pulled up the State government for not furnishing the proper tally of COVID-19 deaths. Last year, on September 4, the High Court observed that the low daily tally of deaths published by the government was “unbelievable”. ‘Window dressing’ Recently on April 27, the High Court wondered if the State government was resorting to “window dressing” over the number of deaths. “If the State furnished fudged figures of deaths due to coronavirus, then people would not fear deaths due to the virus. It will be more damaging and [would] harm [the] public,” Chief Justice Hima Kohli had observed then. It is important to note that excess deaths could also include deaths due to other causes because of the inability or the lack of access to health services that were diverted to cater to the pandemic. However, most of these excess deaths in a pandemic peak should largely represent COVID-related deaths. The number of actual deaths might be even higher than what the GHMC had registered. According to the latest National Family Health Survey (2019-20), only 74% of deaths were registered with the civil authorities in Telangana. In urban areas, like GHMC, the number rose to 79%. “The caseload and the number of deaths did not match in Telangana where all the deaths are not registered. We need to reconcile the numbers by identifying and verifying the deaths which is a post-facto exercise. But it is a politically-loaded decision,” says Dr. B.R. Shamanna, an epidemiologist with the University of Hyderabad. As the official death count for Hyderabad has not been made available, we did a comparison with other cities in south India to arrive at the estimated undercount. For instance, as of June 12, 27% of all deaths in Tamil Nadu occurred in the capital, Chennai, while 47% of all deaths in Karnataka occurred in Bengaluru city. If the trends in Bengaluru held, the Hyderabad corporation would have recorded close to 820 deaths in 2021. The excess deaths in Hyderabad, 14,332 would be then 17.5 times more than the estimated reported deaths. Correspondingly if the trends in Chennai held, the undercount factor would be 30.5 times. If these trends are extrapolated to the entire State, the actual death toll from COVID-19 could range from 57,000 to 1,00,000. In 2020, the total reported deaths due to COVID-19 (from April to December) in Telangana was 1,535. But there were 18,420 “excess” deaths in the Hyderabad corporation alone last year — the difference between the certified deaths registered in the same months for 2020 and the average for the previous four years (2016-2019). This suggests COVID deaths could have been undercounted by a factor of 12 for 2020, much higher than the undercount factor in the second wave. If official deaths in the corporation alone were considered, the undercount factor could have been double (24 times) in 2020. Text messages and calls to Telangana Director of Public Health for a reaction to these figures remained unanswered. “We have to conduct a verbal autopsy to understand the cases and reasons so that we are accurate. Only then we will get a good handle over the pandemic,” said Dr. Shamanna.  (With inputs from Serish Nanisetti; Rakesh Dubbudu, Sumant Sen and Jasmin Nihalani helped with data compilation)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hyderabad-toll-shows-massive-undercount/article34807935.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP’s apathy towards farmers will hurt it in U.P.’||Stating that the BJP’s alleged “apathy” towards protesting farmers will hurt it in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly election in 2022, Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary on Sunday said artificial issues such as “love jihad” and “cow terror” would not work as issues of development would win in the election. The newly appointed RLD chief asserted that his party would not allow a communally polarised campaign to ruin the Hindi heartland State. ‘Strong ties with SP’ In an interview withPTI, Mr. Chaudhary said his party and the Samajwadi Party had a good rapport and a strong working relationship. He said details needed to be worked out for a formal alliance for the election. Asked if a ‘Mahagathbandhan’ or a grand alliance was needed in the State to take on the BJP and whether the BSP and the Congress would be part of it, Mr. Chaudhary said, for him, issues would come first and an understanding of those needed to be built between all alliance partners. The State government’s COVID-19 response had been atrocious and no one could forget the scenes of bodies in the Ganga, he added. He also said farmers should be the biggest poll issue in the country, and that they had been denied their rights for far too long. The “apathy and insensitive” attitude towards the protesting farmers would continue to haunt and hurt the BJP in polls, he said. Mr. Chaudhary had participated in a number of ‘kisaan panchayats’ in western Uttar Pradesh, where his party had a significant presence over the years, and campaigned aggressively against the Centre’s farm laws.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjps-apathy-towards-farmers-will-hurt-it-in-up/article34807943.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NSD to hold interviews for the post of Director||Almost three years after the post fell vacant, the National School of Drama (NSD) is set to hold interviews for the post of its new Director this month, after having set aside a panel of names selected in October 2018. Since then-Director Waman Kendre’s term ended in September 2018, Suresh Sharma has been Director in-charge. A selection committee recommended the names of four theatre personalities in October 2018, according to the file noting accessed by The Hindu . Among the names on the panel were Professor Sharma and Kerala-based director Thulaseedhara Kurup. Mr. Kurup wrote to Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on June 9 alleging that the interviews scheduled to start from June 24 would be in contempt of court as the matter was sub judice . Mr. Kurup alleged that he had been selected as the Director but it was set aside as there had been a year-long delay in processing the file. He had also moved the Delhi High Court seeking his appointment. A Culture Ministry official said the court had not placed a stay and that Mr.. Kurup had been selected for interviews this time too. The official said the 2018 panel was valid for a year but the appointment was not completed in that time frame.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nsd-to-hold-interviews-for-the-post-of-director/article34807945.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||50 shanties of Rohingya refugees gutted in Delhi||More than 50 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out at a Rohingya refugee camp near the Kalindi Kunj Metro station in south-east Delhi, said officials on Sunday. No injuries The incident took place on June 12 and the Fire Department received information about it around 11.55 p.m., a senior fire official said, adding that no one was injured. Five fire tenders were rushed to the spot near the Kalindi Kunj Metro station, Madanpur Khadar. The fire was brought under control around 3 a.m., the official said. According to police, a PCR call regarding the fire at the Rohingya camp was received at the Kalindi Kunj police station. The police reached the spot in Kanchan Kunj, Madanpur Khadar. Later, the fire was brought under control, a senior police officer said. “Fifty-six shanties, housing around 270 Rohingya refugees, were gutted in the fire. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained and appropriate legal action is being taken,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-East) R.P. Meena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/50-shanties-of-rohingya-refugees-gutted-in-delhi/article34807967.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||China strengthening base along the LAC||On the disengagement situation in the Pangong Tso area, two officials said both sides had agreed to and have actually disengaged from the Finger areas on the north bank, but added that it was only disengaged and not de-induction. Most Chinese deployment had just shifted back to the rear areas, one of the officials said. Both sides have also emptied the heights of the Kailash ranges on the south bank where the Indian Army was in an advantageous position after decades due to the operation by the Special Frontier Force (SFF) in the end of August pre-empting Chinese moves to occupy them.  No progress However, there has been no progress in the talks for disengagement at Gogra and Hotsprings as well as in Demchok and the strategic Depsang Valley. There was no change in the ground situation since the disengagement at Pangong Tso and the situation is quiet, the second official said. In the first combat fatalities in 45 years, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in the violent clash after they were attacked by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley on the night of June 15, 2020, during a “de-escalation” process after a month-long stand-off between the troops at several points in eastern Ladakh and Sikkim. China, which initially did not reveal its casualty numbers, later said four of its soldiers had been killed. 11 rounds of talks India and China have so far held 11 rounds of military talks for disengagement and de-escalation in eastern Ladakh since the stand-off began early May last year. Defence officials said there was no clarity yet on when the next round of talks would be held. Army chief General M.M. Naravane recently said India was dealing with China in a “firm and non-escalatory” manner and the coming rounds of talks would focus on restoration of status quo ante of April 2020. The Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson recently said the process of disengagement along the LAC “remains unfinished” and an early completion of disengagement could lead to de-escalation of forces which would “hopefully” lead to full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas and enable overall progress in the bilateral relationship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/china-strengthening-base-along-the-lac/article34807925.ece
14 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Heavy rain predicted in Odisha||The Odisha government on Sunday alerted all districts over possible heavy rain during two days. As per the warning issued by the Special Relief Commissioner (SRC), the low pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal persists. Associated cyclonic circulation is likely to move west-north-westwards across Odisha, Jharkhand and north Chhattisgarh during next 2-3 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heavy-rain-predicted-in-odisha/article34808152.ece
14 June 2021||Pune,||Maratha issue: Mete calls for stir on June 26||Cranking up the pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government over the Maratha quota issue, Shiv Sangram chief Vinayak Mete, an ally of the BJP, has called for a massive protest in Aurangabad on June 26. Mr. Mete, who had earlier organised a similar demonstration in Beed this month ignoring pandemic norms, warned that the forthcoming protest would not be a ‘silent’ one. He said a massive motorbike rally would be staged in Mumbai on June 27. “We have started a Statewide tour on behalf of the Maratha Reservation Struggle Committee…We will be visiting every district and holding meetings. We will stage rallies in all districts. This time, there will be no ‘silent rallies’. If our demands are not met by July 5, then we will not allow the monsoon session of the Legislature,” warned Mr. Mete. He said he had no faith left anymore in Mr. Thackeray’s government over the issue. “More than 45 days have passed since the Supreme Court had scrapped the Maratha quota law, but the State government has taken no concrete action to address the near-desperate condition of the Maratha youth, who are simmering with resentment,” Mr. Mete said. ‘Pretentious gesture’ He claimed that the Chief Minister’s recent visit to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue was nothing but a “hurried, pretentious gesture” which did not translate into anything substantial. Earlier this month, BJP MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati — a descendant of Chhatrapati Shivaji — had signalled the intensification of the quota agitation by announcing that the first Maratha morcha would commence in Kolhapur district on June 16. “Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has good relations with the MVA government leadership and the Chief Minister. Therefore, I urge him to increase the pressure on the State government to resolve the issue,” Mr. Mete said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maratha-issue-mete-calls-for-stir-on-june-26/article34807936.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||PM seeks support on patent waiver||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought “strong support” from the G7 countries for the joint India-South Africa proposal for a TRIPs (Intellectual Property Rights) waiver for coronavirus-related medicines and vaccines. Mr. Modi and other guest leaders attended three special sessions along with the G7 countries, including one on global recovery from the pandemic and access to vaccines, where the G7 committed to donating a billion vaccines to poorer countries, as well as a session on Sunday on climate change actions leading up to the COP-26 summit in the U.K. later this year. According to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), the G7 countries all supported “text-based negotiations” on the TRIPS waiver proposal, although the European Union is yet to endorse it. “President Macron also highlighted the need to focus on ramping up production capacity in Africa and called on India to lend its expertise as an important production hub globally,” said MEA Secretary (Economic Relations) P. Harish, adding that the UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, who was also present, had said the TRIPs waiver would enable the UN plans to vaccinate the globe by doubling the production of coronavirus vaccines. “PM’s views were appreciated by other leaders in the gathering,” Mr. Harish added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-seeks-support-on-patent-waiver/article34807940.ece
14 June 2021||Srinagar/New Delhi,||J&K police seek Google’s help on Parra||The U.S. authorities and Google were approached by the Jammu and Kashmir police to share email contents exchanged by Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, a close aide of PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti, with Pakistan-based secessionist leaders and terrorists, a chargesheet filed by the Union Territory police has said. The chargesheet said there is prima facie evidence “sufficient to launch prosecution” against Mr. Parra for establishing a nexus with terrorists to seek their backing for political gains and for reciprocating by way of providing help and support, which led to terror strikes. The chargesheet said Mr. Parra used to share information through several email services, of which three have been brought on record.  Mr. Parra’s lawyer and the PDP denied all allegations and termed them “politically motivated”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jk-police-seek-googles-help-on-parra/article34807941.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. needs widespread reforms: Sibal||The Congress must bring widespread reforms across all levels of the organisation to show it is no longer in a state of inertia and to present itself as a viable political alternative to the BJP, party veteran Kapil Sibal said on Sunday. “India needs a resurgent Congress. But for that, the party needs to show that it is active, present, aware and is in the mood to engage meaningfully,” the former Union Minister said in an interview. “For this to happen, we will need to have widespread reforms at the organisational hierarchy both at the central and State levels to show that the party is still a force to reckon with...” Mr. Sibal, who was among the group of 23 dissenting leaders of the party, acknowledged that at present, there is no strong alternative to the BJP, but said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has lost the moral authority to rule and the Congress can gain from the current mood in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-needs-widespread-reforms-sibal/article34807944.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||One shot at a time||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-shot-at-a-time/article34807957.ece
14 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Raids across Odisha on spurious drug||The Odisha government has unearthed a large stock of spurious Favipiravir tablets that had been purchased by a Cuttack-based pharmaceutical firm. The government had received a tip-off from the Food and Drug Administration, Maharashtra, that spurious Favipiravir tablets (Favimax-400), allegedly manufactured by one Max Relief Health Care, Solan, Himachal Pradesh, had allegedly been purchased by a Cuttack-based pharmaceutical wholesaler. It was also stated that Max Relief Health Care, Solan, was reportedly a non-existent drug manufacturer. A raid was recently conducted on the premises of Medilloyd Medicament Private Limited, Cuttack, which had purchased the drug. “We conducted a raid on a particular shop where we had found 170 boxes of Fabipiravir. One box contained 100 tablets. We have instructed all drugs administrations to conduct raids across all districts,” said Odisha Health and Family Welfare Minister Naba Kishor Das.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/raids-across-odisha-on-spurious-drug/article34807958.ece
14 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Patriarch of ‘world’s largest family’ dead||Zion-a Chana, patriarch of a Christian cult who held the world record for being the head of the “world’s largest family”, passed away at a private hospital at Aizawl in Mizoram on Sunday. He was 76. His family said he had been suffering from diabetes and high blood pressure. He was unable to eat since June 7 and went into a coma on June 11. Doctors from Aizawl went to his village, Baktawng Tlangnuam, about 100 km from Aizawl, and advised his family to shift him to the capital. He died soon after being brought to the hospital on June 13. “Mizoram bids farewell to Mr. Zion-a, believed to head the world’s largest family,” Chief Minister Zoramthanga said. Mr. Chana headed the Chana Pawl, a cult that his father, Khuangtuaha, had founded in June 1942. The cult believes in polygamy and has about 2,000 members, most of them living in the self-sustaining Baktawng Tlangnuam. Mr. Chana had 181 members living under one roof — his 39 wives, 94 children, 33 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/patriarch-of-worlds-largest-family-dead/article34807964.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Farming amid pandemic||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/farming-amid-pandemic/article34807924.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 498 crore for iDEX challenge||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved the budgetary support of Rs. 498.8 crore to Innovations for Defence Excellence (iDEX) challenge under the Defence Innovation Organisation (DIO) for the next five years. The iDEX framework and establishment of the DIO by the Department of Defence Production (DDP) is aimed at promoting innovation and indigenisation in the aerospace and defence sector at the start-up level. The scheme is aimed at providing financial support to nearly 300 start-ups, MSME, individual innovators and 20 partner incubators, the Ministry said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-498-crore-for-idex-challenge/article34807926.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several cases booked against founder of residential school||Following sexual abuse complaints from a few alumni of a residential school in Chennai’s outskirts, the Mahabalipuram All-Women police station has registered three cases against the school’s founder, Shiva Shankar Baba. The police have registered cases under various sections of the POCSO Act, including sexual harassment and abuse among others. A police officer said the cases were filed based on three complaints and the POCSO Act has been charged in two of them. “The school has been functioning since 2001. One of the complainants is a minor. They allege that Shiva Shankar Baba sexually harassed them, and claimed that the incidents happened a few years ago, when the complainants were studying in the educational institution,” the police officer said. Meanwhile, the police have formed special teams to arrest Shiv Shankar Baba, who is said to be in North India. “We are conducting a detailed investigation into the complaints. Students or their parents can contact the helplines for women or approach the nearest All-Women police station to complain if they have faced harassment or abuse. Their identities will not be revealed,” a senior police officer said. Following the arrest of Rajagopalan, 59, a teacher at another reputed school in the city, on charges of sexually harassing students, alumni of the residential school took to social media to reveal their ordeal. “We cannot reveal any details since the investigation is yet to begin,” a police officer said.  Meanwhile, sleuths from the CB-CID seized the computer and cellphones from the martial training centre run by Kebi Raj. Rape attempt in car He was arrested by the All-Women Police, Anna Nagar, on Monday. He was a martial arts instructor at a reputed city school and has been running Hi-Impact Martial Arts School in Anna Nagar. His student had alleged that in 2014, when they were returning after participating in a judo tournament in Namakkal, he behaved inappropriately and attempted to rape her in a moving car. She also alleged that she was sexually assaulted during the trip, and was threatened that she would be killed if she spoke of the incident.  The school has been functioning since 2001. One of the complainants is a minor. They allege that the incidents happened a few years ago, when they were studying in the institution Police Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-cases-booked-against-founder-of-residential-school/article34808093.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall below 1.5 lakh in State||Fresh COVID-19 cases fell to 14,061 on Sunday, taking the State’s active cases to 1,49,927. The State’s case tally touched 23,53,721. As many as 25,895 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 21,74,247. The State’s toll rose to 29,547, with 267 more deaths being recorded. While Coimbatore (1,895) and Erode (1,323) recorded over 1,000 new cases, the number of fresh cases fell below 100 in Ariyalur (91), Karur (95) and Perambalur (66). As many as 27 districts saw fewer than 500 infections. Districts such as Chengalpattu (563), Chennai (935), Salem (855), Thanjavur (615) and Tiruppur (820) recorded over 500 new infections. The youngest among the deceased was a 12-year-old girl from Coimbatore. She was diagnosed with type-2 diabetes mellitus. She was admitted on June 7 to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and tested positive the next day. She died on June 10 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In nine districts, the toll was in double digits. Chennai saw 27 deaths, followed by Coimbatore, where 19 people died. Ariyalur and Sivaganga did not record any death. In Chennai, the number of active cases fell to 9,410, with 1,589 more people being discharged in a day. Western districts of Coimbatore (17,617), Tiruppur (15,825), and Erode (11371) account for the most number of active cases. Among the deceased, 69 people did not have comorbidities. The oldest among those who died due to the infection was a 95-year-old woman, also from Coimbatore. The number of people vaccinated fell by over a lakh on Sunday, with just 2,08,123 being inoculated. While 490 healthcare workers and 1,042 frontline workers were vaccinated, 1,38,482 people in the 18-44 age group took the jabs. So far, 1,03,38,717 people have been vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/active-cases-fall-below-15-lakh-in-state/article34808111.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inscription on Chennai’s water crisis in 1818 is in Madurai museum||A stone inscription, explaining the water crisis in Chennai in 1818 and the 27 wells dug by British Civil Servant and Tamil Scholar F.W. Ellis, is in the Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal Museum in Madurai. Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture and Archaeology Minister Thangam Thennarasu and Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who inspected the renovation work at the Thirumalai Nayakkar Mahal, also viewed the inscription on Saturday. “It is a treasure since unlike the British period inscriptions, it is in beautiful Tamil verse. Ellis, who translated Tirukkural in English, had also included a couplet from Tirukkural in the inscription,” said Mr. Venkatesan. The particular inscription was placed on the parapet wall of the well dug near Periyapalayathamman temple in Royapettah, Chennai. “Mr. Thennarasu was able to read the inscription and it threw light on the drinking water crisis faced by Chennai and the efforts taken by Ellis to overcome the crisis. He also minted gold coins with Tiruvalluvar’s image embossed on it,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Mr. Thennarasu said it was in Chennai before being taken to the World Classical Tamil conference held in Coimbatore in 2010. “The inscription is important because it included a Tirukkural couplet. Our leader Kalaignar (late DMK leader Karunanidhi) appreciated it. When we created a museum for inscriptions in Nayakkar Mahal, it was exhibited along with other inscriptions,” he explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inscription-on-chennais-water-crisis-in-1818-is-in-madurai-museum/article34808095.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Inox Air Products’ Hosur plant to go live in 2022||Inox Air Products, one of the largest manufacturers of industrial and medical gases in India, said that its proposed plant at Hosur will produce liquid oxygen, liquid nitrogen and liquid argon and will be commissioned and operational in December 2022. “The commissioning of this plant would augment our liquid medical oxygen production capacity by 50%,” Siddharth Jain – director, INOX Air Products, said. With an investment of Rs. 150 crore, the Hosur plant will be identical to the Sriperumbudur plant which is currently producing 200 tonnes per day (TPD) of liquid gases. The Sriperumbudur facility is the largest medical oxygen manufacturing unit in the State with supplies going to 122 hospitals across the region. From a pre-COVID-19 daily medical oxygen supply average of 70 TPD in February 2020, it scaled up to a daily average of 180 TPD in April 2021 and in May, its capacity reached 149 TPD. “The Tamil Nadu market holds vital significance to us. So far, we have invested more than Rs. 215 crore in the State,” Mr.Jain said. According to him, all States should increase medical oxygen storage capacity. He explained that with the surge in COVID19 cases, every hospital increased the number of beds and ventilators, while the infrastructure to handle medical oxygen remained limited. “Due to the storage constraints, the frequency of filling storage tanks at hospitals increased from once in four days in pre-COVID-19 days to once in eight hours. This sudden increase in demand had put an unprecedented stress on the entire manufacturing and distribution team at our plant.” He pointed out that all State governments must work towards strengthening the supply chain and storage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inox-air-products-hosur-plant-to-go-live-in-2022/article34808397.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More history-sheeters will be arrested: Police Commissioner||The City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said around 15 history-sheeters will be arrested next week. “We have started a drive to nab history-sheeters. We will not turn a blind eye towards people who create unnecessary problems,” he said. He was speaking to mediapersons after inspecting three Tasmac outlets in the city a day ahead of their reopening, accompanied by Tasmac Managing Director L. Subramanian, to ensure that all COVID-19 protocols were in place. Speaking about the arrest of history-sheeter ‘Kakathoppu’ Balaji, Mr. Jiwal said police received information that he was in the R.K. Nagar police limits and was in possession of over 20 kg of marijuana. The police said he was injured while trying to flee from the police. He was arrested. Answering a question about complaints against YouTuber Madhan for using obscene language, Mr. Jiwal said this had come to the notice of the social media lab of the Central Crime Branch, and added that, “We will see the channel and get a legal opinion, and if there is something objectionable, action will be taken.” He said the police would ensure that customers follow physical distancing and wear masks (while waiting to buy liquor). He said there were 667 Tasmac outlets in the city, and of this, 27 were cluster shops, located close to each other. “Barricades have been placed in all shops and measures have been taken to ensure physical distancing is followed. If there is overcrowding, people will be made to wait in a holding area and tokens will be issued,” he added. He said police personnel, through public address systems, will remind people to follow COVID-19 appropriate behaviour. Mr. Subramanian said whenever there would be overcrowding in the shops, extra counters would be opened. “We have ensured there are adequate numbers of salesmen, and they have been instructed to finish each sale at the earliest,” he said. Answering a question on whether Tasmac will deliver alcohol through an e-commerce platform, he said it would be discussed with the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-history-sheeters-will-be-arrested-police-commissioner/article34808088.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People of all castes already are priests in temples since ancient times,says Murugan||Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan on Sunday said the party welcomed the initiative of the State government to consider appointing people of all castes, including women as priests in temples in the State. Mr. Murugan, however, said since ancient times people of all castes, both men and women have been priests in Tamil Nadu. He said people from Scheduled Castes alone are priests in the Bodyguard Muneeswarar temple and Vatlagundu Idamayan temple, Sembadavars are in Melmalayanur Angala Parameswari temple, Kuyavars in Paingaadu Ayyanar temple, Nadars in Virudhunagar Adiparasakti temple and Kurangani Muthumaalai temple, Velalars in Trichy Ugrakaliamman temple. Vanniars in Chinnaselam Beerangi Ayyanar temple, Kalvanthangam Angalamman temple, Siruvachur Madhurakaliamman temple, Pandarams in Thiruthervalai Annaandha Bhadrakali temple and Karur Thottakurichi Malayamman temple, Odhuvaar in Kulasekarapatnam Gnanamoortheeswar temple, Mukkulathors in Sankarankoil Udayanayaki temple and Vannaar in Periyamalai Aaladiyaan temple. “Recently, the government had said that it would consider appointment of women as priests. Right from ancient days, women also had got expertise in Agama shastras . women are already doing puja in Melmaruvathur Adiparasakthi Temple. We can see the influence of Paancharatra Aagama mode of worship in Andal’s pasurams ,” he said. Knowledge of Agama shastra  The party also urged the government to ensure that the people who are appointed as priests have proper knowledge and understanding of the particular branch of Agama shastra followed in the respective temples, Mr. Murugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-of-all-castes-already-are-priests-in-temples-since-ancient-timessays-murugan/article34808390.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State effects reshuffle of IAS officers, names Collectors||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday effected a major shuffle of IAS officers, appointing new Collectors for many districts. Kavitha Ramu, Director-cum-Mission Director, Integrated Child Development Scheme, has been posted as Collector, Pudukottai district, replacing P. Uma Maheshwari; S. Gopala Sundara Raj, Joint Managing Director & Project Director, Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board, has been posted as Collector, Ramanathapuram district, replacing Dinesh Ponraj Oliver who has been posted as Collector, Thanjavur district. K.V. Muralidharan, Director, Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business, has been posted as Theni Collector; Arun Thamburaj, Project Director, Tamil Nadu Road Sector Project, has been posted as Nagapattinam Collector. A.R. Rahul Nadh, Joint Secretary to Government (Protocol), Public Department, has been posted as Chengalpattu Collector; Dr. M. Aarthi, MD, Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation, has been posted as Kancheepuram Collector; Dr. Alby John Varghese, Deputy Commissioner (Health), Greater Chennai Corporation, has been posted as Tiruvallur Collector. D. Mohan, former MD, Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation, has been posted as Villupuram Collector; P.N. Sridhar, Regional Joint Commissioner (Central), Greater Chennai Corporation, has been posted as Kallakurichi Collector; P. Kumaravel Pandian, Commissioner, Coimbatore Corporation, has been posted as Vellore Collector; B. Murugesh, MD, Tamil Nadu Housing Board, has been posted as Tiruvannamalai Collector; Amar Kushawha, Additional Director of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, has been posted as Tirupattur Collector. Shreya Singh, Additional Collector (Revenue), Villupuram district, has been posted as Namakkal Collector; S. Visakan, Commissioner, Madurai Corporation, has been posted as Dindigul Collector; Dr. G.S. Sameeran, Collector, Tenkasi district, has been posted as Coimbatore Collector; Dr. S. Vineeth, Joint MD, Tangedco, has been posted as Tiruppur Collector; P. Ramana Saraswathi, Additional Commissioner of HR&CE, has been posted as Ariyalur Collector; Dr. T. Prabhushankar, Executive Director, CMWSSB, has been posted as Karur Collector; J. Meghanatha Reddy, Deputy Commissioner (Works), Greater Chennai Corporation, has been posted as Virudhunagar Collector; Dr. J. Vijaya Rani, MD, Tamil Nadu Adi Dravidar Housing Development Corporation, has been posted as Chennai Collector; Dr. J.U. Chandrakala, Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women, has been posted as Tenkasi Collector. H. Krishnaunni, Collector, Theni district, has been posted as Erode Collector; and P. Gayathri Kannan, Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (State Taxes), has been posted as Tiruvarur Collector. The government also announced postings for a number of Collectors who have been transferred to various departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-effects-reshuffle-of-ias-officers-names-collectors/article34808099.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1 crore people in T.N. vaccinated: Medical Minister||Over 1 crore people have been vaccinated in the State so far and the government is making efforts to vaccinate the eligible population in the Nilgiris by June end, Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian said. By Sunday, 1,01,30,594 people had been inoculated in Tamil Nadu. The State has received 1,10,41,030 doses so far, including those purchased by the State, he said. The State has 5,39,780 doses, which it expects to use up in two days. After inspecting health facilities in Villupuram with Higher Education Minister K. Ponmudi and Minister for Backward Classes S.S. Sivasankar, Mr. Subramanian said he had inspected primary health centres in the district. “The aim is to fully vaccinate the tribal and eligible population in the smaller districts with a lower population,” he told reporters after inspecting government hospital in Gingee. After the State exhausts its stock of vaccines in two days, it will wait for its June quota from the Union government, he said. The Medical Department would vaccinate around 21,000 eligible tribals in the Nilgiris and plantation workers in the coming days. “We hope to declare the Nilgiris a fully vaccinated district by June end,” he said. This will be followed by Ariyalur and Perambalur — smaller districts that have low population. Efforts are on to provide ID cards to all tribals to enable them to get vaccinated, he said. Mr. Subramanian added that the number of infected continued to drop in several districts. In two of the 37 districts, fresh cases were below 100; and in 28 districts it was below 500. Five districts reported over 500 infections daily and two others over 1,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1-crore-people-in-tn-vaccinated-medical-minister/article34808101.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tea shops allowed in 27 districts||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced that tea shops would be allowed to function from Monday, from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m, in 27 of the 38 districts. Tea shops will, however, only be permitted to provide parcel service. The government has also allowed sweets and savoury shops to function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., and they too can provide only parcel services. In a press release, the government said tea shops would be allowed to function in all districts except the seven western ones, including Coimbatore and the four delta districts, including Thanjavur, where the spread of COVID-19 is not yet fully under control. The announcement comes in the wake of widespread criticism against the government for allowing Tasmac liquor outlets to function, but not allowing tea shops to open. The government said it was allowing tea shops to operate based on feedback from various quarters. “There is no permission for people to drink tea at the shops. People will have to bring containers to take parcels and buy tea,” the government said. The government’s e-seva centres have also been permitted to function to enable people to get certificates and other services. Construction companies have also been allowed to operate with 50% staff to enable them to provide salaries, pay bills for purchase of construction materials and for necessary business works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-shops-allowed-in-27-districts/article34808107.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase II project will tower over 3 flyovers and Kathipara grade separator||The Chennai Metro’s phase II project will tower over three flyovers and a grade separator when completed. Of the three corridors in the 118.9-km phase II project, the crossovers, where the Metro trains run over flyovers, are in the stretch between Madhavaram and Shollinganallur. Trains will zip over the Porur and Medavakkam flyovers, the Kathipara grade separator and another yet-to-be built flyover between Mugalivakkam and Ramapuram. This new proposed flyover will be built by Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), and will be constructed as a 3-km-long four-lane structure that will help motorists cross Ramapuram Road junction, DLF junction and Mugalivakkam junction on the Mount-Poonamallee Road. The flyover, initially proposed by the Highways Department, will cost Rs. 350 crore to construct. The department will pay the amount to CMRL to design and execute the project. The flyover will be at level one and trains will run on level two. Sources in the Highways Department said the three junctions warranted a flyover since traffic had exceeded 1.5 lakh passenger car units (PCUs) per day three years ago. The Ramapuram Road junction witnesses very high traffic volume — over 15,000 (PCUs) per hour during rush hour. Land acquisition will be minimal since the road is already six lanes and the entire structure, along with the Metro, will be along the median. The columns will be 2 m wide. It will take two years to construct the flyover portion. According to officials of CMRL, they will award the contract for this work sometime this year and begin work subsequently.  The Vadapalani flyover, the core structure of which was constructed by the CMRL, is independent of the adjacent metro rail station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-phase-ii-project-will-tower-over-3-flyovers-and-kathipara-grade-separator/article34808090.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opinion split over ‘lack of support’ from SCs for AIADMK||The AIADMK, which is yet to deliberate officially on the reasons for its defeat in the Assembly election, is witnessing an informal discussion among many of its leaders on whether the “desertion” by the Scheduled Castes, regarded as a traditional vote bank of the party, contributed to its defeat in the recent Assembly election. Those who place this argument are essentially from the northern districts, where the party won a mere 12 seats out of a total of 78. Their argument is based on two broad points. Ponneri, where the AIADMK and its allies won eight out of 10 Assembly elections since 1977, has gone to the rival camp this time. The AIADMK’s nominee and two-time legislator, P. Balaraman, lost to Durai Chandrasekar of the Congress by a margin of about 8,400 votes. The defeat of the trio of the north — C.Ve. Shanmugam (Villupuram), M.C. Sampath (Cuddalore) and K. Veeramani (Jolarpet), all Vanniyars — is cited as another instance to substantiate the argument, despite the three being regarded as “senior and indispensable” Ministers during the AIADMK regime. Even one of the successful SC legislators of the party from the north concedes that in his constituency, 70 out of 75 “colonies”, the term normally used to denote settlements of the SCs, saw a dip in the votes he polled this time when compared to the 2016 poll. A former Minister feels that this time, he could sense a shift even among the traditional SC supporters of the party. The party’s decision to align with the PMK, clubbed with the AIADMK regime’s move to provide an internal reservation of 10.5% for Vanniyars within the quota for MBCs, appears to have led to the stance of the SCs. However, there is another view that the party’s performance in the SC constituencies in the north was not that bad. Out of 17 seats in the north earmarked for the SCs, the AIADMK fetched six. Compared to its performance in Assembly segments two years ago during the Lok Sabha poll, the party had consistently done better this time. The factor of “fatigue” with the 10-year-long AIADMK regime; a complete loss of support among religious minorities due to the electoral tie-up with the BJP; and a lack of cohesion were responsible for the defeat, says another section of leaders. I. Pandiyan, an activist for SCs, says local situations and factors led to the AIADMK's poor show. As for the south, the party seems to have had a different experience as seven constituents of SCs, now called “Devendrakula Velalar”, supported it in the wake of another policy measure of the State and Central governments, ahead of the Assembly poll, of providing the generic title. TMMK leader B. John Pandian asserts that it was because of the support from the “Devendrakula Velalar” group of castes that the AIADMK and its allies were able to put up a decent performance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opinion-split-over-lack-of-support-from-scs-for-aiadmk/article34808109.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Secretary gives first aid to calf hit by car near Tiruvallur||Health secretary J. Radhakrishnan, a veterinarian, treated an injured calf that was hit by his car. On Sunday, he travelled to Tiruttani to inspect COVID-19 related work at the healthcare facilities in the town. On his way from Tiruttani to Tiruvallur, the car he was travelling in hit a male calf, injuring it. “We gave first aid and then called an animal ambulance and got it shifted to the Tiruvallur veterinary hospital,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. The official is a veterinarian and provided first aid to the injured animal. He said Jawahar, Deputy Director, Health, was also present. The officials called for an animal ambulance. Sowmya, the veterinarian, took charge of the animal, which could walk but had sustained bruises and bleeding injuries. The animal was taken to the Tiruvallur veterinary hospital for treatment. Calf walks soon According to Dr. Radhakrishnan, the calf appeared to be in a shock. When tended to, it recovered and could walk within half an hour of the accident. “As a veterinarian, I felt I should not abandon it by the roadside. The Joint Director of Animal Husbandry, Tiruvallur, also responded and sent the animal ambulance,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-secretary-gives-first-aid-to-calf-hit-by-car-near-tiruvallur/article34808087.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New facility for LPG customers||Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) customers of State-run oil majors will soon be able to choose from where they want their refills to be delivered. As a pilot project, Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu will get the facility first. Customers, who book their cylinders online would be able to select the agency of their choice based on the star rating. It would be called LPG distributor portability. “Some 10 years ago, portability between the different oil companies was introduced. That did not do well. This time customers are being offered the option to choose from distributors of the same company just when it comes to delivery of cylinders within their postal pin code. A drop down facility would be offered online and customers can choose each month as to from which agency they want to get the cylinder. They can keep changing the agency every month from those available in the list. They will, however, remain as customers of the original agency,” explained an oil industry source. However, owners of agencies said they were not sure of how the system would work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-facility-for-lpg-customers/article34808128.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 care facilities will continue to function for six more months’||The State government is prepared for the third wave of COVID-19, said Medical Minister Ma. Subramanian on Sunday. After a tour of health facilities in Villupuram district, he told journalists that COVID-19 Care Centres and upgraded facilities in government hospitals and health facilities would be maintained for six more months. The government has also planned to commission newborn wards for children. He said the government was preparing for the next wave, which might affect children as well. He said a dedicated ward to treat children had been created in every hospital. In Chennai, in the next couple of days, two wards for newborns will be commissioned at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-care-facilities-will-continue-to-function-for-six-more-months/article34808098.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mythili Sivaraman remembered||Political leaders, writers, activists and friends of CPI (M) leader and former vice-president of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) Mythili Sivaraman came together virtually on Sunday to remember her life and work. “She donned several hats and was one of the foremost voices in speaking for women and the working class. She was an exemplary thinker, leader and writer, and her demise is an immense loss to us,” said CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan.  Former Union Minister P. Chidambaram said Ms. Sivaraman’s writings on the massacre of Dalits in Keezhvenmani were extremely important. “She will forever be remembered as a fighter,” he said. Stating that Ms. Sivaraman possessed an intellect al honesty, N.Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, said she was an inspiration to many youngsters. “Despite obstacles, she always kept working undeterred, focusing on the working class and the most vulnerable sections of the society,” he said. Mr. Ram said she was an excellent writer and that her writing was not just limited to ideas and jargon but had a ‘descriptive richness’ to them. “Her writings in both English and Tamil are rich resources. She managed to perfectly capture the struggles of the working class, their situation, spirit, heroism, vulnerability, losses and victories. All of these were truthfully documented, and she would draw lessons from it,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mythili-sivaraman-remembered/article34808091.ece
14 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK is double-faced on Tasmac’||BJP State president L. Murugan on Sunday asked Chief Minister M.K. Stalin why his party was double-faced on the issue of closing Tasmac shops and demanded that liquor outlets be shut. The Tamil Nadu government, as part of lockdown relaxations, had announced that Tasmac outlets could function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. “When Mr. Stalin was the Opposition leader, he demanded that Tasmac outlets be shut. When the government [AIADMK] announced the reopening of liquor outlets during the first wave of COVID-19, Mr. Stalin and his party condemned the move and held large protests. Now, after coming to power, he is reopening the shops,” Mr. Murugan said, leading a protest to condemn the move at the party headquarters, Kamalalayam. “During the election, they [DMK] said they would shut Tasmac shops. Now, after winning the election, their actions are different from their promises,” Mr. Murugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-is-double-faced-on-tasmac/article34808105.ece
14 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Insignificant SW Monsoon rain, Siruvani water level cause concern||In the last 12 days in June this year, the district has not received significant rainfall. This coupled with the falling water level in the Siruvani Reservoir has made the Coimbatore Corporation’s water managers worried. Prof. S.P. Ramanathan, chief, Agro Climate Research Centre, TNAU, said the district had recorded no rain in June, since the start of the South West Monsoon season. Only on Saturday, a couple of places in the district had received 0.5mm rainfall, well below the 2.5mm limit to consider it a rainy day. And, the total rainfall in the last 12 days was only four mm. In the next few days, the district could receive rainfall, 3 to 4mm. Even in Kerala, the South West Monsoon rainfall had been not it used to be, he said and added that the district could see significant rainfall only in July. Though Coimbatore was in the rain shadow region, it received good rainfall during the South West Monsoon season, which extended from June to September. The Agro Climate Research Centre had predicted normal rainfall for this year – 200mm as against the average 210mm. The less-than-expected rainfall in this month has the city’s water managers in Coimbatore Corporation worried as the water level in the Siruvani Reservoir continues to fall. As of June 12, water level in the 49.50 feet reservoir stood at 12.99 feet. In the coming days, the water level would continue to fall sharper in the reservoir. With the available water, the Corporation supplied Siruvani water only once in 10 days to the wards that were dependent on it. The Corporation had also planned to divert water from the Pilloor drinking water supply scheme if the Siruvani water level further dipped, the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insignificant-sw-monsoon-rain-siruvani-water-level-cause-concern/article34808385.ece
14 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur GH gets new oxygen plant||The Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital got a new oxygen generation plant on Sunday through the support of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Yong Indians (Yi). Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj inaugurated the oxygen generation plant, which could produce 350 kilolitre of oxygen per minute, said a release issued by the district administration. The CII said in a statement that the oxygen generator was installed at Rs. 70 lakh. The plant would support 75 to 125 beds according to the oxygen requirement of the patients. The plant produced oxygen round the clock with uninterrupted power supply as it had an automatic generator backup, it said. Mr. Saminathan appreciated the efforts taken by CII, Yi Tiruppur and the industries who supported the project. He said that COVID-19 cases were declining in Tiruppur district. According to the district administration, the hospital already had an oxygen tank which could store upto 6,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen. Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, MLA K. Selvaraj, hospital Dean P. K. Murugesan, office- bearers and members of the CII and Yi were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-gh-gets-new-oxygen-plant/article34808121.ece
14 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Volunteers join hands with Coimbatore Corporation to fight COVID-19||Every COVID-19 positive person in home isolation in the city receives at least a call a day from the Coimbatore Corporation inquiring about his or her well being. Making the calls to those in quarantine are a group of over 500 volunteers from across the State, who have joined hands digitally to strengthen the Corporation’s fight against the COVID-19 spread. The volunteers who have come under the ‘C4TN’ (Coimbatore for Tamil Nadu) banner include students, employees of multinational companies, doctors, homemakers, businessmen among other sections of the society , says C.G.S. Manion, a C4TN coordinator. The volunteering initiative that started on May 10 with a few persons, grew into a full-fledged operation as the number of positive cases in the city increased and operation turned complex. That is when Coimbatore-based software company eNova Software and Hardware Solutions chipped in to help. Within 36 hours, the volunteers, the company and Corporation developed a software to manage the entire operation to look after persons in home isolation, Mr. Manion says. After the Corporation shares the daily list of persons in home isolation, the volunteers update the database and call them to ask a set of 23 questions. They then fill in the details in the software. Based on the data entered, the software categorises the persons into three categories – red for those who required medical attention, orange for those whose showed a few COVID-19 symptoms and needed to be monitored and green for those who were healthy. Mr. Manion says after identifying the red category persons in home isolation, the software sends a push notification to the Corporation’s health team. The Corporation’s doctors then call them to ask specific questions and either prescribe medicines or relay the persons information to the zonal teams to rush them to hospitals. Radha Gangadharan, who volunteers from Chennai, says on Monday, the volunteers team rushed a city resident in home quarantine to hospital after her oxygen level dipped below 90. Thus far, the volunteers have made over 90,000 calls to persons in home isolation, Mr. Manion says. D. Prasanna Kumar, who works for an MNC, says he chose to volunteer because he wanted to help people in isolation, something that he underwent. A Corporation officer says while the civic body provided technical inputs and shared its requirements, the C4TN team chipped in with software and manpower.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/volunteers-join-hands-with-coimbatore-corporation-to-fight-covid-19/article34808125.ece
14 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air Marshal R.D. Mathur visits AFAC||Air Marshal R.D. Mathur, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C), Training Command, Indian Air Force, arrived in Coimbatore on a two-day visit to the Air Force Administrative College (AFAC) here on Saturday. This was his maiden visit to AFAC after assuming the office of AOC-in-C of the Training Command of the IAF. He was received by Air Commodore Rajnish Verma, Commandant, AFAC.  The Air Marshal reviewed upcoming infrastructure projects at the Air Force Hospital, newly constructed Air Force School building and the accommodation of airmen. He complimented the staff for their sustained efforts towards the quest for excellence in training and exhorted everyone to scale further heights, said a release issued by AFAC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/air-marshal-rd-mathur-visits-afac/article34808399.ece
14 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Containing COVID-19 spread is priority’||Containing the spread of COVID-19 is top priority, said Kranti Kumar Pati who assumed office as the Commissioner of Tiruppur Municipal Corporation on Sunday. A 2015 batch IAS officer, Mr. Pati served as the Executive Officer, Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple, Palani, prior to his current posting. He is replacing K. Sivakumar. After assuming office, Mr. Pati told journalists his primary focus would be on to contain the spread of the pandemic in Tiruppur district. He promised speedy disposal of grievances by the public related to basic amenities and other issues. “I will do my best to serve the people in a responsible, accountable and transparent manner,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containing-covid-19-spread-is-priority/article34808115.ece
14 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cyber Cell warns of cheating through online classifieds||The Cyber Cell of Coimbatore City Police has appealed to the public to be cautious while buying products after seeing advertisements on online marketplaces, such as OLX. A release said that persons who pose as defence personnel were found involved in cheating by collecting advance payments from gullible customers. The fraudsters, who are moving from one place to another on transfer, place advertisements regarding the sale of two-wheelers, cars and furniture at attractive rates. After receiving advance payments, they switch off mobile phone and delete the account of the online classifieds, said the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cyber-cell-warns-of-cheating-through-online-classifieds/article34808386.ece
14 June 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ex-servicemen petition Minister||The Ex-Servicemen Employees Welfare Association of Madurai has sent a representation to Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy urging the government to post ex-servicemen in their respective districts for employment. In the representation, members of the association said that during their service in the armed forces they had to be away from their family while serving the nation. Now, as the ex-servicemen they did not want to be recruited away from home as they wanted to spend time with their family.  The members also sought fixation of their pay based on the last drawn salary in the armed forces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-servicemen-petition-minister/article34808186.ece
14 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Future of rescued child workers in training centres remains bleak||When the World Day Against Child Labour was observed on Saturday, the future of 290-odd children pursuing studies at the Special Training Centres (STCs) under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), in the district is in the dark as their centres remain closed in the past one-and-a-half years due to COVID-19 pandemic while they were not paid their monthly stipend of Rs. 400 each in the past five years. A total of 294 child workers under 14 years in Talavadi, Kadambur, Gundri, Bargur and Sathyamangalam were rescued and admitted to 15 STCs that were run by non-governmental organisations in the district. These centres function under the Child Labour Division of the Ministry of Labour and Employment, which pays a monthly stipend to students to encourage them to continue their studies after which they are admitted to the regular schools in their area. Also, the teachers at the centre were paid consolidated salaries by the ministry. The stipend that was Rs. 100 a student was increased to Rs. 150 in 2010 and to Rs. 400 a month in February, 2017. However, the stipend was not credited to the children’s bank account from March, 2017 and the staff at the centres were not given salaries from March, 2020. About 6,000 children were studying at 300 centres in 16 districts in the State and the centres were not functioning since March, 2020. S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), an NGO, that runs centres at Vilankombai tribal settlement and Gundri Hills told The Hindu that most of the children’s parents work in brick kiln units, involve in sugarcane and bamboo cutting and they take their children with them. “We rescue the children and admit them in these centres and provide education”, he added. Since they were not receiving stipends and also due to poverty, they join their family and continue to work, he said and added that the purpose of the scheme is defeated. Also, there is no mobile connectivity in the hill areas preventing them from learning, he added. Since the pandemic is expected to continue and centres are not expected to be reopened any time soon, Mr. Natraj wanted classrooms to be conducted at a public place.  We rescue the children and admit them in these centres and provide education S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/future-of-rescued-child-workers-in-training-centres-remains-bleak/article34808384.ece
14 June 2021||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Constable killed in accident||A police constable, G. Raja, 34, was killed when a speeding car knocked down the motorbike which he was riding near Kundrakudi near here on Sunday morning. The police said that the constable, attached to Sakkottai police station, was proceeding to Kottaiyur for duty. When he was proceeding on Tiruchi-Rameswaram highway, the car hit his bike at Avudaipoigai junction killing him on the spot. The body has been taken to Government Hospital in Karaikudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/constable-killed-in-road-accident/article34808187.ece
14 June 2021||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 30-year- old man was hacked to death over non-payment of loan by a financier in Hosur on Saturday. The deceased Balaji, a small-scale entrepreneur, is reported to have borrowed Rs. 31 lakh from Raghuram. According to the police, demanded the loan with interest. Last week, Balaji’s parents had intervened assuring repaying of loan in instalments. Following this on Saturday, Balaji had visited Raghuram with a cheque. However, Balaji’s earlier cheques had bounced. Angered over Balaji producing a cheque instead of cash, Raghuram hacked him to death outside his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article34808396.ece
14 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination exercise resumes||Following the arrival of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines in Madurai after a short supply faced earlier this week, people thronged vaccination centres across the city on Sunday. Government Rajaji Hospital’s vaccination centre functioning on Elango Corporation Higher Secondary School premises witnessed serpentine queues from as early as 7 a.m. From office-goers to homemakers, people waited patiently for hours for the inoculation. R. Ramalakshmi, a 34-year-old homemaker, said inoculation was necessary to build immunity against the COVID-19. The woman said since she had to take care of her family members, she had to protect herself first. She and her husband, who works in a private firm, received the vaccination. For her husband, his firm had made it mandatory for their employees to get vaccination, she said. Even otherwise people should come forward to get vaccinated, she said. S. Muthukumar, a 24-year-old employee of a private firm in the city, agreed that vaccination was important in the fight against the pandemic. He and five of his family members received the vaccine. People said that they were satisfied with the arrangements made at the vaccination centres. Safety protocols such as wearing of face masks and maintaining physical distancing were followed at the vaccination centres. In Madurai district, 7,119 vaccine doses were administered - the beneficiaries included those who took it as first dose and second dose - on Sunday. The current supply would last for three to four days, said a senior health official.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district on Sunday recorded 260 new COVID-29 cases and the discharge of 306 persons. With the death of four patients – two men and two women – the death toll in the district increased to 491. The total number of positive cases stands at 42,693 and discharges at 39,203.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-exercise-resumes/article34808192.ece
14 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||190 kg of ganja, pistol seized||Madurai City Police have seized 190 kg of ganja, a pistol and five rounds of bullets and arrested three persons at Avaniapuram here on Sunday. The police identified the accused as brothers M. Boominathan, 21, and M. Solai, 34, relatives of Vellaikali, a gangster, and an autorickshaw driver, Marimuthu. The police are on the lookout for a few others in this connection. Acting on a tip-off, a team of police intercepted a motorcycle the brothers were riding and an autorickshaw. The team found 60 kg of ganja in their possession. Upon investigation, the police found that they had hidden another 130 kg of ganja in a house at Tirupathi Nagar Extension and seized it. The accused were also in possession of a pistol, purportedly made in Italy, with two magazines, five rounds and Rs. 1 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/190-kg-of-ganja-pistol-seized/article34808188.ece
14 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Sunday stood at 130.70 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 645 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.80 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 390 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,854 mcft. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 131.10 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 1,114.70 cusecs and a discharge of 1,204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 83.80 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 124 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34808193.ece
14 June 2021||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Desiltation works inspected||Shiv Das Meena, Secretary, Municipal Administration and Water Supply Department, inspected works being undertaken by the Public Works Department and Water Resources Organisation in Panangudi, Tirumarugal, Sellur, Karunkani and Keezhayur blocks on Sunday. Accompanied by Collector Praveen P. Nair, he determined the pace of desiltation works in irrigation canals. Senior officials said 69% of works had been completed. Out of a total length of 575 km, works along 399 km of canals had been completed and the rest would be completed before June 16.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/desiltation-works-inspected/article34808506.ece
14 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With more curbs lifted, next couple of weeks will be crucial for Puducherry||With more curbs lifted from the lockdown phase that ends at midnight on June 14, the next couple of weeks could be crucial in determining the impact of the unlocking on the COVID-19 situation, health officials say. While new relaxations followed a consistent decline in fresh infections, positivity rate and mortalities, the administration is hoping to maintain the downward trend while opening up more economic activities. For a large part of May, the Union Territory was reporting between 1,500 to 1,900 new cases a day while deaths were in the 20-30 range with a peak of 34 deaths on May 23, while since June 1, these numbers have come down to the 500-1,000 range with fatalities too dropping to around 10 or below. While keeping people mostly indoors during the preceding phase of lockdown where essential shops and eateries functioned only till noon has been key to this outcome, officials say the health consequences of opening up more economic activities will be known only after a fortnight or so. The ‘Puducherry model’ as Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan puts it, has been about balancing health interventions to bring down coronavirus numbers with the key competing necessity to keep the engine of informal economy humming and minimising livelihood loss. “Unlocking of lockdown restrictions comes with a collective responsibility to remain disciplined in adopting COVID-appropriate behaviour. Declining numbers cannot be taken as a sign that the virus is going away, as new cases are still being reported every day,” said Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar. He points out that it is very likely that a far greater proportion of the population may have been infected than the numbers detected from testing as was borne out by the findings of the sero survey done during the last surge. Therefore, the unlock phase places a collective responsibility on society to adopt COVID-appropriate behaviour, to not only keep everyone safe but also facilitate more robust relaxations going forward, he said. Lockdowns as social interventions need to be backed by a complement of other health interventions to control a pandemic, health officials said. “Lockdowns are only a means to an end. A set of other initiatives was also central to bringing down incidence of morbidity and mortality,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary. The administration is, meanwhile, launching an aggressive campaign to boost vaccination coverage with an intensive four-day camp for the 18+ segment on June 16. Alongside adoption of COVID-appropriate behaviour and enforcement by way of penalising those violating norms or not observing social distancing, there is the need for 100% vaccination of all, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/with-more-curbs-lifted-next-couple-of-weeks-will-be-crucial-for-puducherry/article34808097.ece
14 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry University ranks among world’s top 1,000||Pondicherry University has been ranked among the top 1,000 universities in the world in the latest QS World University Rankings. According to a press note, Pondicherry Central University was ranked between 801 to 1,000 category in the recently released QS World University Rankings 2022. Pondicherry University also appears in the top 20 among Indian Universities/ Institutions in the rank list from India. The University scored very well with regard to performance indicators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pondicherry-university-ranks-among-worlds-top-1000/article34808096.ece
14 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers oppose proposed move for hydrocarbon extraction||A cross-section of farmers and the general public of Karukakurichi Vadatheru in Karambakudi block in the district have expressed stiff opposition to the proposed move by the ONGC to carry out exploration of hydrocarbons in their village. Their opposition comes in the wake of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas’ announcement, inviting companies through international competitive bidding for exploration of hydrocarbons in various locations in the country, including in Karukakurichi Vadatheru. As news of the proposed move spread, a section of villagers expressed strong resentment by climbing over an exploratory well, established by the ONGC nearly three decades ago in Karukakurichi Vadatheru, opposing any move to carry out exploration of hydrocarbons in their village. The protesters were led by the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam’s district president, M.K. Arokiasamy. This prompted revenue and police officials to visit the village. Mr. Arokiasamy said the place where it was proposed to carry out the exploration for hydrocarbons fell under the Protected Special Agricultural Zone, covering the entire delta region and parts of Pudukottai district. The protest resorted to by the villagers of Neduvasal and those in its vicinity for over 100 days in 2017, opposing the hydrocarbon exploration project, had necessitated the government to stop the project. The recent announcement to carry out exploration of hydrocarbons in Karukakurichi Vadatheru too will be stoutly opposed. It is a fertile area like the delta region, said Mr. Arokiasamy. Exploration of hydrocarbons will not just affect farming, but also lead to further deterioration of the water table, he said. The Tamizhaga Anaithu Vivasayigal Sangakalin Orunkinaippu Kuzhu’s president, P.R. Pandian, who visited Karukakurichi Vadatheru, told reporters that the proposed move by the Centre went against the interests of Tamil Nadu. T. Jayaraman, chief co-ordinator of the Anti-Methane Project Federation, said the extraction of hydrocarbons through the harmful process of hydraulic fracturing would harm the water table.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-oppose-proposed-move-for-hydrocarbon-extraction/article34808104.ece
14 June 2021||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects rehabilitation centre||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Saturday inspected the Rehabilitation Institute of Mental Health at Ervadi. The institute follows spirituality and psychiatric treatment to the mentally ill patients. While the District Mental Health Programme takes care of the psychiatric treatment, an NGO takes care of the training with social worker and vocational trainer. The home has got 47 male and female patients who have been trained in basket making, agarbathi and home decorative articles. District Psychiatrist, District Mental Health Programme, J. Periyar Lenin, said that vocational training kept the patients active throughout the day. The Collector asked the officials to ensure that COVID-19 protocols are properly followed in the institute. District Differently-abled Welfare Officer, Jothilingam, Keezhakarai Tahsildar Murugesan, and Kadaladi Block Development Officer Anbukannan were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-inspects-rehabilitation-centre/article34808195.ece
14 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Socialism-Mamata Banerjee wedding a low-key affair||The wedding of a couple named Socialism and Mamata Banerjee, whose wedding invite had become the talk on social media last week, took place in a low-key manner here on Sunday. Socialism is the son of Communist Party of India’s Salem District Secretary A. Mohan. Mamata Banerjee hails from a Congress family. The wedding was conducted following COVID-19 protocols in a simple event at the couple’s native village near Katoor. CPI State Secretary R.Mutharasan presided over the wedding, which did not have a priest. The groom Socialism tied the knot to Mamata Banerjee in the presence of his siblings Communism and Leninism and nephew Marxism. Ms. Banerjee said that during her childhood, she did not understand the meaning of her name or Socialism and only later she came to know about Mamata Banerjee, West Bengal Chief Minister and her contributions. Mr. Socialism, who is also a Communist party worker, said that he would continue with his struggles for improving the lives of the downtrodden.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/socialism-mamata-banerjee-wedding-a-low-key-affair/article34808392.ece
14 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Tasmac outlets reopened only in districts where caseload has reduced’||Minister for Prohibition and Excise V. Senthil Balaji said the State government permitted reopening of Tasmac outlets only in districts where the caseload had reduced and it had not been permitted in 11 districts where cases were higher. Mr. Balaji told presspersons, “The Chief Minister ordered closure of Tasmac outlets on May 10 considering the increase in COVID-19 cases. Now, the outlets have been permitted to open in 27 districts where the disease spread has reduced. Outlets are not permitted to function in 11 districts in which disease spread is yet to reduce.” Mr. Balaji said that in Karnataka, liquor outlets were not closed even for a single day during the second wave and they functioned from 6 a.m to 10 a.m and now a revised order had been passed permitting liquor outlets to function till 2 p.m. About 50,000 cases were reported in Karnataka on May 15 and active cases were six lakh on May 17 and liquor shops continued to operate there despite COVID-19 at its peak. Some people were trying to portray that only Tasmac outlets had been permitted to function. However, export businesses with 50% staff, home appliances and mobile phone stores, hardware outlets had also been given relaxations in 27 districts and the 11 districts had also been given certain relaxations. On criticism based on protests conducted by DMK during previous regime against opening Tasmac outlets, Mr.Balaji said that during previous regime, even when disease spread was at its peak, the outlets were opened for two days - May 7 and 8 - and it was closed following court litigation and shops were reopened a week later. Mr. Stalin opposed opening of Tasmac outlets when disease spread was its peak and even today, the CM would not have permitted opening outlets if disease spread was high. Mr. Balaji said sales would be made only to those following COVID-19 protocols and there would be police presence the outlets. While positivity rate was 8% in Tamil Nadu, it was 29.67% in Karnataka. Strict measures were taken to prevent smuggling of liquor bottles from other states, he said and added that strict measures were also taken to prevent sale of liquor in black market in the 11 districts. On BJP’s protests demanding closure of liquor outlets, Mr. Balaji the BJP should have protested condemning the hike in fuel prices if it was concerned about the public. The increase in fuel prices had led to increase in price of essentials and the public were severely affected.  COVID-19 treatment Mr. Balaji said the deaths happening in the district were being studied and the positivity rate in private labs at Salem was only 13% on Saturday. The district administration now planned to shift patients from other government hospitals to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital or Steel Plant treatment centre and use other government hospitals for providing treatment for other diseases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tasmac-outlets-reopened-only-in-districts-where-caseload-has-reduced/article34808123.ece
14 June 2021||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mutharasan calls for cancellation of NEET exam||The NEET should be cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, said R. Mutharasan, State Secretary of the Communist Party of India (CPI) in Salem on Sunday. Mr. Mutharasan told presspersons that as Board examinations to Classes 10 and 12 have been cancelled in view of the pandemic, NEET must also be cancelled. The Central government has not acted in an unbiased manner in distribution of vaccines or medical oxygen to States, he felt. While 16 % of vaccine doses were allotted to Gujarat with about six crore population, only 6 % was allotted to Tamil Nadu with about eight crore population. This was also criticised by various High Courts, he said. The Union government does not have a proper stand regarding vaccination and three rates were permitted for the same vaccine. He demanded the Centre to provide vaccination to all States based on their population. Though the Prime Minister campaigns for vaccines there are not sufficient doses. Mr. Mutharasan said the Union government, which showed great interest in oxygen production at Sterlite copper plant, is not showing similar interest in vaccine production. The Union government planned to sell the vaccine production plant by HLL at Chengalpet and the party had petitioned the Chief Minister to retain it in the public sector and start vaccine production at the facility. He demanded the Centre to pay the GST dues to the State to overcome the financial crunch and criticised the Centre for hike in fuel prices. The State government, despite the financial crunch has implemented poll promises like distributing Rs. 4,000 cash relief. On reopening Tasmac outlets, Mr. Mutharasan said the Chief Minister will take right decision in this regard. He added that the State government has been approaching issues in a democratic manner and hence an all-party committee was constituted to provide consultations to the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mutharasan-calls-for-cancellation-of-neet-exam/article34808388.ece
14 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Containment areas inspected||Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj inspected the containment areas here on Saturday. He was accompanied by City Health Officer K. Parthibhan. Mr. Christuraj visited Dharma Nagar and reviewed measures taken to control the spread of coronavirus. He advised officials to ensure all essentials were made available to persons in the containment areas. As on Saturday, there were 75 containment zones and 1,886 persons under quarantine in the Corporation limits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-areas-inspected/article34808118.ece
14 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||BJP protests opening of liquor outlets||Cadres of Bharatiya Janata Party staged a protest in front of their residences here on Sunday condemning the State government for permitting opening of Tasmac outlets from Monday. They protested against the move by holding party flags and placards and demanded that the government withdraw the move. The protesters complained that while educational institutions, temples and various businesses remained closed, Tasmac outlets alone were allowed to function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-protests-opening-of-liquor-outlets/article34808387.ece
14 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Stalin assures job to engineering graduate||An engineering graduate who donated the gold chain Chief Minister M.K. Stalin during his visit to Mettur could soon get a job. R. Sowmya donated her gold chain weighing two sovereigns to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and also she petitioned for a job. In her petition, Ms. Sowmya said that she was an engineering graduate and her father Rathakrishnan was a retired staff of Aavin. Her mother died due to pneumonia last March and Rs. 13 lakh was spent for her treatment, she said. Ms. Sowmya said she has two sisters who were married and that she and her father are living on her father’s pension of Rs. 7,000. Of that, Rs. 3,000 is spent on rent for the house and they are making ends meet with the remaining Rs. 4,000. She requested the Chief Minister to help her with job opportunity even at a private firm and mentioned that she is not expecting a government job. Moved by her letter, Mr. Stalin tweeted that necessary action would be taken. He tweeted that the petition grabbed his attention and he appreciated her generosity to help during this pandemic. He said that necessary measures would be taken to provide her a job according to her educational qualification.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-assures-job-to-engineering-graduate/article34808393.ece
14 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express reaches Salem||The second Oxygen Express to Salem reached here on Saturday evening. According to a release by Southern Railways, the 66th Oxygen Express with four containers reached Salem Container Depot. The containers were loaded with 81.3 tonnes with medical oxygen from Bhilai, Chattisgarh. The release said, 67 oxygen express trains had been operated to the State and 4,941.32 tonnes of medical oxygen delivered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-reaches-salem/article34808119.ece
14 June 2021||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||Suspended constable held||Police arrested a constable, under suspension, for burglary here. Police said the constable, M. Karkavel (29) of Tiruchendur, was arrested for having stolen gold and cash of Rs. 7,500 from three houses on Murugan Street under Sattur Town police limits on June 8.  A former constable attached to Arumuganeri police station in Thoothukudi district, Karkavel was suspended after he was caught in a theft case under Tirunelveli city police limits in February 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/suspended-constable-held/article34808205.ece
14 June 2021||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. govt. has no option, but to open Tasmac shops’||The State government has opened Tasmac liquor shops to stop flourishing of illicit arrack, according to senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram. Talking to reporters here on Sunday, he asked if anyone could give a guarantee that illicit arrack would not flourish. “In that case, Tasmac shops can be closed. We too do not agree with opening of Tasmac shops. But, the government has no other option,” the former Union Minister said. Meanwhile, BJP leader H. Raja condemned the DMK for having gone back on its words by opening Tasmac shop. The DMK that had charged the previous AIADMK government with opening Tasmac shops when people were dying due to COVID-19 had now done the same when more people were dying, he said. However, he said, it was wrong to compare Puducherry government allowing liquor shops to function in the Union Territory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-govt-has-no-option-but-to-open-tasmac-shops/article34808190.ece
14 June 2021||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for objectionable post||Police arrested a youth for allegedly posting a message threatening the youth from a different caste. Police started an investigation after a post in social media threatened that the youth of a particular caste would be beheaded if they continued to press for their demand for christening Madurai airport after the late leader belonging to their community. M. Marudhupandian, 25, of Vasudevanallur filed a complaint with Vasudevanallur police. The police found that three persons, including V. Maridurai, 21, of Indra Colony near Mela Sanganaperi near Vasudevanallur, had reportedly posted the message and shared it. The police have arrested Maridurai and are on the lookout for his associates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-held-for-objectionable-post/article34808196.ece
14 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘Follow COVID-19 protocols in Tasmac shops’||With the relaxation of lockdown restrictions permitting the opening of Tasmac shops, Theni district administration and Tasmac have urged customers to follow the mandatory COVID-19 protocols. Customers were asked to carry umbrellas to maintain social distancing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/follow-covid-19-protocols-in-tasmac-shops/article34808199.ece
14 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||New SP for Theni takes charge||Dongare Pravin Umesh took charge as Theni SP on Saturday. He was hitherto Aide de camp to Governor in Chennai. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Umesh said strict action would be taken against those who committed crimes against women and children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-sp-for-theni-takes-charge/article34808198.ece
14 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fermented wash seized; hunt on for two persons||The Kurumbur police are on the lookout for two bootleggers who were brewing illicit arrack on Saturday night. According to Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar, a police team was deployed in Alwarthirunagari and Kurmbur police station limits on Saturday night following information about bootlegging in the forest areas as the liquor shops remain closed due to the lockdown. When the police team was crossing a palmyrah grove near Kurumbur, they saw two persons distilling illicit arrack in the forest. On seeing the police vehicle coming towards them from the nearby main road, the bootleggers managed to escape. The police team also seized the vessels, gas stove and a gas cylinder, all used for bootlegging, besides destroying 20 litres of fermented wash. Mr. Jayakumar, who visited the spot, deployed a special team to nab the bootleggers. In Tirunelveli district, the Kalakkad police arrested P. Mathi, 25, of Keezhapaththai near Kalakkad on Saturday night when he was allegedly selling illegally Indian Made Foreign Liquor to his customers. The police also seized 21 liquor bottles from him. The Valliyoor police arrested three persons from Thamaraikulam close to Kannanallur near Valliyoor for allegedly selling toddy and seized 10 litres of toddy from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fermented-wash-seized-hunt-on-for-two-persons/article34808200.ece
14 June 2021||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Miscreants damage cars||Unidentified persons smashed windscreens of 11 vehicles, including nine cars, parked in front of houses here on Saturday night. The vehicle owners filed complaints with SIPCOT police, who collected CCTV footages from the spots to zero in on the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/miscreants-damage-cars/article34808201.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of second instalment of relief begins||Minister for Municipal Administration K.N. Nehru on Sunday announced that Rs. 162 crore had been allocated towards special cash assistance for family cardholders in Tiruchi district. Flagging off the distribution of the second instalment of Rs. 2,000 cashand a bag of 14 essential items to family cardholders here, he said Chief Minister M.K .Stalin was implementing public welfare schemes since he assumed office. In the first phase, COVID-19 assistance to the tune of Rs. 158 crore was distributed to 7.93 lakh ration cardholders. Nearly 98% of the cardholders in the district received Rs. 2,000 each. In the second phase, it had been decided to distribute Rs. 2,000 each along with a bag of essential items to 8.13 lakh family cardholders in the district. A sum of Rs. 162 crore had been sanctioned for the scheme, which was was aimed at supporting people affected by closure of business and other establishments in view of the total lockdown. Mr. Nehru said the beneficiaries could collect the cash and essential items at their ration shops. Elaborate arrangements had been made at 1,224 ration shops in the district. To ensure smooth distribution of cash, tokens would be issued. As per the date and time mentioned in the tokens, the beneficiaries could collect the assistance at their ration shops. Collector S. Sivarasu; MPs S. Thirunavukarasar and Tiruchi N. Siva, MLAs A. Soundarapandian, S. Stalin Kumar, N. Thiyagarajan and M. Palaniyandi participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-second-instalment-of-relief-begins/article34808494.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Postpone semester examinations, says AUT||Association of University Teachers (AUT) has urged Bharathidasan University to postpone the re-scheduled semester examinations, originally scheduled for April, slated to begin from June 15 in view of the lockdown. Citing the notification on examination postponement by Anna University to June 21, Association State general secretary M.S. Balamurugan said the lockdown would make it impossible for students to buy examination stationery and visit the post office/courier office to despatch the answer scripts by 2 p.m. Bharathidasan University had issued instructions to ensure smooth conduct of the re-scheduled semester examination for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in compliance with safety protocol. The university had issued instructions to students saying the descriptive-type examination would be conducted in two sessions:- from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The students had the option of submitting the answer scripts in their respective colleges. But many colleges in the region had been designated as COVID Care Centres. Hence, it would not be proper to ask students to visit these institutions to submit the answer scripts, Mr. Balamurugan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/postpone-semester-examinations-says-aut/article34808504.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Top-ranked tennis player bags sponsorship||Kauvery Hospitals and Jay’s Tennis Institute, Tiruchi, have decided to sponsor the expenses for A. Lakshmi Prabha, a top-ranking tennis player from Tiruchi, by way of specialised training and enabling participation in national and international tournaments. S. Manivannan, Managing Director of Kauvery Hospitals, said the organisation would bear the domestic and overseas travel and accommodation expenses for participation in International Tennis Federation (ITF) tournaments. J. Madhan Mohan, Director of Jay’s Tennis Institute (JIT), said the institute’s infrastructure would be provided for training the player. Ms. Lakshmi Prabha is currently ranked No. 1 in All India Tennis Association (AITA) in under-16 category and No 9 in under 18-category. As per the June 7 dated ITF junior ranking, she is currently ranked world no 986. Ms. Lakshmi Praba’s father, Arun Kumar, a railway employee, said she missed many tournaments due to financial constraints. The sponsorship would enable her to participate in all tournaments and make a mark in national and international level competitions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/top-ranked-tennis-player-bags-sponsorship/article34808496.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccine camps for differently abled||The office of Differently Abled Rehabilitation Officer will conduct special camps to vaccinate over 20,000 registered members. So far, around 700 have been inoculated. The Department of Public Health, through the DDRO, organised two special camps for the visually impaired in Nagamangalam and Gandhi Nagar. Officials also travelled to 13 different special homes and inoculated 525 people, R. Ravichandran, DDRO, Tiruchi, said. “Our staff, along with health workers, travelled to these homes and inoculated adults caring for children in special needs homes, old-age homes, and other such facilities in the district. The efforts are to ensure that they are vaccinated against COVID-19,” he said. More arrangements for special camps will be made when vaccines are allocated for usage of DDRO. Meanwhile, DDRO has also taken up the mammoth task of contacting over 20,500 beneficiaries registered with their office to get information on their willingness to get vaccinated. “We will call each one of them and see if they require the vaccine or have already been immunised, and other information,” he said. Using the data, the office plans to initiate door-to-door vaccination. “There are many who are too old to venture outdoors, many whose health does not permit it and some who do not have a caregiver to bring them to us. We will make arrangements to reach their place of residence and give them the vaccine,” Me. Ravichandran said. The Health Department will soon allot vaccines to DDRO when the initiative gets off to a start, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccine-camps-for-differently-abled/article34808498.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Save SHG women from moneylenders’||The Women’s India Movement has appealed to the Collector to save the self-help group women from micro-finance firms and moneylenders, who are allegedly threatening them to repay their loans with interest even as the borrowers have been left unemployed and without any income due to COVID-19. According to Syed Ali Fatima, Tirunelveli city district secretary of Women’s India Movement, who led the petitioners to the Collectorate to drop the petition on Saturday seeking action against the micro-finance firms coercing the borrowers, most of the women affiliated to the self-help groups in Tirunelveli city, particularly from Melapalayam area, had borrowed money from the micro-finance firms since they were from very poor background. As most of them, all beedi rollers, labourers and farmhands, were facing medical expenses due to the outbreak of COVID-19 that started ravaging the country since March 2020, they, after spending their trivial savings, had borrowed money from the micro-finance firms and the local moneylenders to manage their medical bills. While the pandemic crippled their life, the lockdown led to the temporary closure of their workplaces and ultimately made them unemployed. The situation worsened further after the second wave of COVID-19 struck the already decimated population, leaving them at the mercy of the moneylenders and the micro-finance firms again. “Even after the Collector had warned the moneylenders and the micro-finance firms against threatening the borrowers, the coercion continues, much to the agony of the poor. Hence, the district administration should take action to bail out the borrowers from this tough situation,” Ms. Syed Ali Fatima appealed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/save-shg-women-from-moneylenders/article34808204.ece
14 June 2021||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre stage demo||BJP cadre staged a demonstration in front of their houses here on Sunday protesting the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to open liquor shops now. BJP’s State president L. Murugan announced that the party cadre would stage demonstrations against this move. Tirunelveli MLA Nainar Nagenthran staged a demonstration in Palayamkottai while party MLA from Nagercoil M.R. Gandhi staged the protest in Nagercoil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bjp-cadre-stage-demo/article34808202.ece
14 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Adivasi musicians re-discover traditional music during pandemic||A community-driven initiative by local adivasi artisans around Karikiyoor in Kil Kotagiri has resulted in the revival of local musical tradition, with the elders training the youth in making and playing traditional instruments. The members of the community have started producing traditional wind and percussion instruments at a workshop constructed in Aracode village. Local community members said that the use of many of these instruments were disappearing due to an ongoing cultural upheaval among the communities themselves. Arjunan, a village elder who passes on knowledge of making instruments, baskets, cups, mugs and handicrafts to younger members of the Irula community, said that all items produced at the workshop are made using locally-sourced bamboo. “All Irula festivals and celebrations are marked by music played on traditional instruments. Unfortunately, due to younger members having to leave the village to go and work in nearby towns, this tradition is being lost, with not many instrument makers or musicians who know how to play them, left,” said Mr. Arjunan. Currently, more than 10 kinds of wind and percussion instruments are being made in Aracode by the community members. Each instrument that the community would produce, which is personalised and unique, tailored to the requirements of the musician, could take more than a month to produce. Abhishek K,R, Programme Coordinator of Keystone Foundation, an NGO which has assisted the community in setting up a music academy where knowledge of making and playing the instruments is passed on from elders to the youth, said that community members were exposed to different instruments, materials and ideas at ‘Svaram’ – Musical Instruments and Research. The members were given access to knowledge and resources which allowed them to experiment in modifying their instruments, exploring new instruments and were also introduced to techniques that allowed them to be made more efficiently. “For instance, just making one section of the ‘kwol’ - a flute-like wind instrument, would take around 3-4 weeks. The maker of the instrument would usually spend his free time at the end of the day doing this. We wanted to introduce them to other techniques which they were free to incorporate into their process of making the instruments,” said Mr. Abhishek. The initiative has led to a shift in how music is played and enjoyed within the community itself. “For instance, the communities did not recreationally play music, but would only do so during specific festivals or events. By expanding this space, we are allowing more community members, including women, a chance to be a part of this process,” he said. Apart from traditional music, the group is working with sounds and music that were not part of their earlier repertoire, and this is leading to a reimagining of music as recreation. The community members have set up “Porivarai” – a community foundation, which makes the instruments along with other items that they sell at the village. Vimala, who has been working on producing handicrafts at Aracode for the last two years, said that the sale of the products had helped community members through the COVID-19 pandemic. “Without having to leave our village and our community, we can make enough money to run our families. This initiative has really helped the entire community, when many of our earning members lost their jobs due to the pandemic,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adivasi-musicians-re-discover-traditional-music-during-pandemic/article34808395.ece
14 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rare striped hyena killed by speeding vehicle in MTR||An eight-year-old striped hyena, believed to be one of less than 30 individuals inhabiting the Sigur plateau was killed after being run over by a vehicle along the Achakarai Road in the Masinagudi Forest Range in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Sunday. According to Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone) L.C.S.Srikanth, a postmortem was conducted on the carcass on Sunday. “ It had a slight injury on its face and mouth. During postmortem we could see heavy haemorrhage and internal bleeding… We can conclude that is was hit by an unidentified vehicle,” he said. Local conservationists said the male hyena that died was the same one that was being regularly sighted around Masinagudi town and feeding on scrap from a quarry that was being used as a dumpyard by residents. The forest department said that a case has been registered and that the Forest Range Officer, Masinagudi, was instructed to form a team to investigate the incident. “During postmortem, we found remains from the dump where it had been feeding,” said an official from the department. Local conservationists have for years been calling for better enforcement of speed restrictions in both the buffer and core areas of MTR, with deer, langurs and even leopards having been killed in the past by speeding vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rare-striped-hyena-killed-by-speeding-vehicle-in-mtr/article34808400.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,500 differently abled persons, helpers vaccinated in special drive||The Coimbatore Corporation on Sunday vaccinated over 1,500 differently abled persons and their helpers in a special drive organised exclusively for them. According to sources, the Corporation had conducted the special camps at its primary health centres in Ramnagar, Ganapathy Managar, Ganapathy, Kavundampalayam, Jail Road, K.K. Pudur, Kalveerampalayam, Kuniamuthur, Kurichi, Singanallur, Meenakshi Maternity Home on Mettupalayam Road, Nanjundapuram, Neelikonampalayam, Pattunool Centre in Sukhrawarpet, Peelamedu, Podanur, R.K. Bai Centre in Sukhrawarpet, Raja Street, Ramanathapuram, Rathinapuri, Seeranaickenpalayam, Selvapuram, Sowripalayam, Telugupalayam, Thondamuthur, Thudiyalur, Uppilipalayam, Town Hall, Vadavalli, Vellakinar and Vilankurichi. The Corporation would continue the drive on Monday too and had asked other persons to not go to those centres for vaccination as it was a special drive meant for the differently abled. A release from the district administration said that the differently abled persons need to carry their identity card and their parents or helpers Aadhaar card for vaccination. In Coimbatore rural, the vaccination drive on Sunday was held for the parents/guardians of the differently-abled school students. A Health Department official said that 2,055 persons were vaccinated in the drive which was held with the support of the School Education Department. The vaccines were administered to the selected persons through 45 government schools and one private school in blocks namely Madukkarai, Periyanaickenpalayam, Sarkarsamakulam, Thondamuthur, Anamalai, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi, Annur, Sultanpet, Perur, Pollachi north, Valparai, Karamadai and Sulur. The official added that the district administration would arrange a special drive for the differently abled persons and their parents/guardians, in rural areas on Monday as held in Coimbatore Corporation limits on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1500-differently-abled-persons-helpers-vaccinated-in-special-drive/article34808113.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New cases below 2,000 in central region for first time since April||The central districts on Sunday reported 1,965 fresh cases, signifying a substantial drop in the infection rate since April. The number of deaths reported was also on decline with about 43 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Tiruchi district reported the highest number of deaths with 11 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam reported eight each, while Pudukottai reported seven. Thanjavur district reported four deaths, Perambalur three and Karur two. No deaths were reported in Ariyalur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region with 615 patients reporting positive. Tiruchi district came second with 413 patients testing positive, while Nagapattinam reported a slight drop with 323 cases. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, reported a marked drop with 239 patients testing positive. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had only 18 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had only 19. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 92 and beds, 83 respectively. Pudukottai district reported 123 fresh cases, while Karur reported 95. Only five ICU beds were available in Pudukottai district. Karur had a total of 39 vacant ICU beds. Ariyalur reported 91 fresh cases, while Perambalur recorded 66. Perambalur had increased its bed capacity and reported that 31 ICU beds were available. Ariyalur, meanwhile, had only three vacant ICU beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-cases-below-2000-in-central-region-for-first-time-since-april/article34808501.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 1,895 new cases, 19 deaths||Coimbatore district on Sunday reported 1,895 new cases of COVID-19, registering a decline from Saturday’s 1,982 cases. The district had 17,617 active cases on Sunday and 2,534 persons recovered. The Health Department on Sunday said that 19 more persons from Coimbatore district died of COVID-19, taking the toll to 1,735. A total of 820 persons tested positive in Tiruppur district on Sunday. The district had 15,825 active cases. The district’s toll increased to 634 after three more persons died of COVID-19. As many as 1,570 persons recovered in Tiruppur district on Sunday. In the Nilgiris, 422 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 25,558. The toll increased from 132 to 135 on Sunday while 3,602 people are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 1,323 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 76,270. While 1,809 persons were discharged, 11,371 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll to 492. As many as 855 COVID-19 positive cases and 11 deaths were reported in Salem on Sunday. According to health officials, 587 cases were indigenous and 122 cases were reported in the Corporation limits. In Namakkal, 373 cases and six deaths were reported. In Krishnagiri, 273 indigenous cases and one death were reported and 211 cases and five deaths were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-reports-1895-new-cases-19-deaths/article34808117.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hydrocarbon project against T.N. law: Stalin||“It is unfortunate that the sentiments of the people, the probable ecological impact and the legal enactments by the Government of Tamil Nadu have not been taken into account by the relevant authorities,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Stalin said the calling of bids by the Government of India had already ignited agitations in Pudukottai and neighbouring districts due to apprehensions over the adverse consequences of hydrocarbon extraction in the agrarian region. Food security “The Cauvery basin, as you are well aware, is the bedrock of Tamil Nadu’s food security and agro-based economy since time immemorial. This ecologically fragile zone supports the livelihoods of millions of farmers and farm workers. In this context, projects to extract hydrocarbons from the Cauvery basin have faced unanimous, strident opposition from all stakeholders,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hydrocarbon-project-against-tn-law-stalin/article34808102.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers start preparations for sowing but worries persist||Farmers have begun preparations for kharif sowing. However, they are unsure of the effect of lockdown. Nearly three-fourths of the 10 lakh hectares of land will be covered in the kharif season. Most farmers are ploughing their fields. They hope to receive pre-monsoon showers so that they can start sowing. However, they are faced with several challenges. Vithal Madhav Rao Patil, who is a vegetable grower, said that the extended lockdown has reduced transportation of vegetables and fruits to Goa from Belagavi. “We have suffered huge losses as vegetables are perishable and should be utilised in a day or two. We don’t know if the government will open the markets or resort to lockdown once again, in the name of the third wave, if any,” he said. Devendrappa Angolkar is working in his sugarcane farm in Bagewadi. His brother, who was working in Belagavi, has come back to work with him in the fields. Angolkar anticipates that the sugar factories may not pay him in time. “The factories have retained huge arrears of the last four years. As their transactions have been affected, they are in no position to pay arrears. What we suspect is whether they will pay us for our sugarcane this crushing season,’’ he said. Krishik Samaj president Sidagouda Modagi said that 25 sugar factories owe around Rs. 150 crore to farmers in Belagavi district. “This is around 30% of all the arrears owed by the 80 functioning factories in the State. Successive governments have failed to force the factories clear their arrears,’’ he said. Shivanagouda Patil, a foodgrains trader, said that the negative impact of the lockdown will take years to abate. “We have the additional challenge of the weakening of the APMCs. If there is no decentralised, transparent buying, traders are likely to form cartels and cheat farmers,’’ he said. He said that the government should introduce the weekly shandis and village markets, along with strengthening the APMCs, so that farmers get fair price for their produce. “The government is yet to release flood loss relief to farmers who lost houses in 2019 and 2020. Even now, they have a vague worry in their mind about possible floods in this monsoon,’’ said a farmers leader Choonappa Pujari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/farmers-start-preparations-for-sowing-but-worries-persist/article34808135.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Maheshwaraiah, former V-C of CUK, no more||H.M.Maheshwaraiah, linguist and former Vice-Chancellor of the Central University of Karnataka, Kalaburagi, died of post-COVID-19 complications in Dharwad on Sunday. He was 71. He leaves behind his wife, Rajeshwari Maheshwaraiah, a son and two daughters. He had tested positive for COVID-19 and had undergone treatment at KIMS. Doctors discharged him two weeks ago. But he developed some post-COVID-19 complications and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Dharwad. He failed to respond to treatment, family sources said. The last rites will be held at the Karnatak University graveyard on Monday. Born in Hithal village of Shivamogga, he studied for his Masters degree in Linguistics and Kannada and got a doctorate in Linguistics from Karnatak University, Dharwad. He worked in the CUK Kannada department for over 30 years, before serving as the Vice-Chancellor. He had researched on endangered Indian languages and written about ways to preserve them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/maheshwaraiah-former-v-c-of-cuk-no-more/article34808075.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Oxygen arrives||The 33rd Oxygen Express train reached the inland container depot at Whitefield in Bengaluru on Sunday. It started from Kanalus, Gujarat, on Friday. It carried 99.21 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen in six containers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/oxygen-arrives/article34808069.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Elected||Ramesh T. Jangal was unanimously elected Chairman of the Institution of Engineers (India) Belagavi Local Centre during a recent Executive Committee meeting. Mr. Jangal has served Karnataka Public Works Department for 40 years in various capacities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/elected/article34808136.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Mukhtar Pathan’s son dies of COVID-19||Imran Khan Pathan, son of Mukhtar Pathan, BJP leader and Chairman of Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation, died in Belagavi on Sunday. He had recovered from COVID-19, but suffered from other complications, family sources said. He was 27. Imran Khan Pathan, a software engineer, was an employee of a West Asian-based IT company. He returned to Belagavi after his company allowed him to work from home. He had contracted the virus two weeks ago. The final rites were held in the Idgah Burial Ground on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mukhtar-pathans-son-dies-of-covid-19/article34808137.ece
14 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||13 houses sealed||Belagavi City Corporation officers sealed 13 houses with two or more COVID-19 positive cases here on Sunday. This is due to the State government changing the rules of containment zones. Earlier, an area, ward, street or house was to be declared a micro containment zone only if there were five or more positive cases. But now, the number has been reduced to two. A team led by Corporation Commissioner K.H. Jagadish went around visiting houses, apartments and streets with multiple cases. They identified 13 such houses, blocks or apartments on Saturday and Sunday. The residential buildings were identified in Bhavani Nagar, Rani Chennamma Nagar, Kaveri Nagar, Bhagya Nagar, Somwar Peth, Guru Prasad Colony, Madoli Road, Agarkar Road and Roy Road. All the residents of micro containment zones will be tested for COVID-19, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-houses-sealed/article34808138.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will take months for auto, taxi drivers to recover losses’||While the city gears up for easing of lockdown restrictions, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, who have not had a regular income since April, say it will be months before they can recover their losses. The Karnataka government has announced that autorickshaws and taxis will be allowed to ply with a maximum of two passengers from Monday. Many are worried that they may not see brisk business until every one of them is fully vaccinated. However, it was only in the first week of June that the government started a drive to vaccinate them. Crucial Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, said vaccinating drivers is crucial. “People will want vaccinated drivers to drive the vehicles. Even our customers in the corporate sector will insist on us sending drivers who have been vaccinated. We are conducting vaccination camps with the help of the BBMP.” Ride-hailing app Uber is providing financial support to drivers to get vaccinated. The platform, like many others, had launched safety protocols and a ‘no mask, no ride’ policy. Another major concern among drivers is the rising price of fuel. “Diesel price has already crossed Rs. 90 per litre. The cost involved in running a taxi is very high and we may not get good bookings for the next five to six months. We will get bookings only when the tourism sector improves and companies ask employees to return to office,” said Rajeev, a taxi driver. Drivers have been demanding that the government instruct banks and private lenders not to force them to pay EMIs for vehicle loans for at least three months. “Last year, when the lockdown was relaxed, within a few days, private financiers started harassing auto drivers demanding repayment of loans. Drivers will face the same problems this time too unless the government intervenes,” said K. Somashekar of Namma Chalakara Trade Union. Meanwhile, around 1 lakh drivers received Rs. 3,000 as COVID-19 relief from the State government via direct benefit transfer as of June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-take-months-for-auto-taxi-drivers-to-recover-losses/article34808064.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No question of reducing fees this year’||Private school managements have ruled out any reduction in school fees for the 2021-22 academic year, but say they would accommodate payments in multiple instalments. At a press conference on Sunday, representatives of the Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) defended the decision, citing a drop in enrolment and non-payment of fees from the previous academic year. This comes amid a stand-off between school managements and parents, and Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar recently saying the situation was no different now when compared to last year when the government had fixed a 70% cap on school fees. “Unaided private schools are already reeling under heavy losses. The 70% fee cap order by the State government was only for the last academic year and does not apply for this year,” said Shashi Kumar, convenor of KPMTCC. He added that they had also challenged the 70% cap order in court. “There is a drop of about 20% in new admissions and over 40% of the students have fee dues from last year. Moreover, the State government has not cleared the RTE refund of about Rs. 700 crore in the State, adding to our woes. In this situation, there is no way we can reduce the school fee this academic year,”said Mr. Kumar. Private school managements have recently come under severe criticism as some schools have been reportedly roping in moneylenders to coerce parents to take loans and pay the fees. This was condemned by Minister Suresh Kumar as well. In response, the KPMTCC said the Minister’s statement was “sweeping and generalised”. The government should take action against erring schools, but not tar them all with the same brush, it said. KPMTCC members also voiced their concerns over pending fee dues. “How do we give admissions to students who have not paid their fee for the last year? When pressed for the fee dues, many parents are seeking transfer certificates. Is it fair to leave the school after taking service for a year and not paying for it? There are many HC orders that allow us to withhold the results of such students. The government should sort this out,” Mr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-question-of-reducing-fees-this-year/article34808077.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restart public transport services: Industries||Industries that are set to resume work on Monday have criticised the government’s continued ban on public transport. In a statement, the Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) said that without public transport, it would be difficult for employees to report to work. Industries have been allowed to function with 50% of their staff on Monday and the garment sector with 30%. “Unlocking will be meaningful only if a conducive atmosphere is created for resumption of activities of industries in full swing. In this direction, the government must provide transport facilities to industrial areas. This will go a long way in helping the resumption of activities of small and medium industries,” said K.B. Arasappa, president of KASSIA. Ashish Verma, convener of IISc. Sustainable Transportation Lab, said the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), should be allowed to operate with passengers following social distancing norms. “The lack of public transport will especially affect lower income groups. They have already been hit badly because of the pandemic, and opting for other modes of transport will burden them further. A helper who comes to our lab from the southern part of the city has to shell out close to Rs. 100 for a one-way commute by auto,” he said. While Prof. Verma is paying for her transport, the government has put the onus on employers. Shivaprakash, who works in an industrial unit inPeenya, said, “Due to lockdown, workers are not getting regular salary so meeting daily expenses has been an issue. I used to travel in city buses by purchasing monthly passes. Without buses it will be difficult to commute to work.”  Contract services When contacted, BMTC officials said they were following the government’s rules. “For the benefit of those who are doing essential services we are running 160 buses and those will be continued. Along with that another 160 chartered and contract services will be operated as per agreement reached between industrial units, BBMP, and others,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/restart-public-transport-services-industries/article34808061.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Caste row: Boy, parents attacked in Karnataka||A 16-year-old boy belonging to a lower caste and his parents were allegedly beaten by villagers when he visited a shop to buy milk at Hoskote on Friday evening. The police have charged 13 people under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and also for unlawful assembly, assault, and criminal intimidation. “We have arrested two people, and the other accused are on the run. Efforts are on to track them down,” a police officer said. According to the police, the accused Narayanaswamy and others who were at the shop held Pawan by his collar and pushed him onto the ground. “In his statement, the boy said they asked him how he could dare come to the shop given his caste,” said the police. Humiliated, Pawan returned home crying and narrated the incident to his father Rajappa, a farmer, and his mother Sujatha. When the parents went to enquire, the accused attacked them with clubs and slashed Sujatha’s hand with a chopper when she tried to resist. The couple went to the hospital to get their injuries treated before approaching the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/caste-row-boy-parents-attacked-in-karnataka/article34808067.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS row: Sudhakar to talk to Governor, CM||Reacting to controversy over the appointment of a private college Principal as the interim Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told presspersons on Sunday that he would take up the matter [in his capacity as Pro-Chancellor] with the Governor and the Chief Minister. “I did not know about the appointment. In 26 years, this is the first time that a private college principal has been appointed as the Vice-Chancellor, even if interim,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “As Pro-Chancellor, I wrote to the Governor seeking to meet him two or three weeks ago. Perhaps because of COVID-19, he is not meeting anyone.” He added that there is no private college member in the university. “It is the biggest health university in the country with over 2 lakh students. I will raise whatever matter has to be raised with the Governor and the Chief Minister,” he said. Earlier this week, Jayakara S.M., Principal of AECS College of Dental Sciences, was appointed as in-charge Vice-Chancellor of RGHUS. The Governor and Chancellor of State universities issued an order appointing him with effect from June 15 until a regular Vice-Chancellor is appointed or until further orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-row-sudhakar-to-talk-to-governor-cm/article34808068.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dedicated COVID-19 facility for pregnant women in city sees 300th delivery||Amid a ferocious second wave of COVID-19, the Hajee Sir Ismail Sait (HSIS) Gosha Hospital in Bengaluru saw the successful completion of the 300th delivery on Saturday. The State-run hospital, attached to Bowring and Lady Curzon Medical College and Research Institute, is the dedicated COVID-19 facility for pregnant women in the city. Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted: “HSIS Gosha Government Hospital in Bengaluru achieved a remarkable milestone on June 12. It successfully carried out 300th delivery among Covid positive pregnant women! Kudos to all the doctors, nurses and staff of the hospital.”  569 admissions D. Tulasi Devi, Medical Superintendent of HSIS Gosha Hospital, told The Hindu that the hospital was designated as a dedicated COVID-19 maternity care facility on March 27. “Since then, we have had 569 total admissions and 300 deliveries. As many as 480 got discharged,” she said. Apart from Bengaluru, the facility also came to the aid of women from neighbouring Tumakuru, Kunigal, etc. “Of these admissions, 141 were normal deliveries, 159 Caesarian, and there were six abortions. As many as 55 were pre-term deliveries, and seven babies tested positive. There were 28 maternal deaths. Of the seven positive babies, one baby died because of spesis,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dedicated-covid-19-facility-for-pregnant-women-in-city-sees-300th-delivery/article34808056.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7,810 new cases, 125 deaths||As Karnataka prepared to unlock partially from Monday, the State recorded 7,810 new COVID-19 cases and 125 deaths. According to the bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday, the positivity rate for the day was 6.02 against 1,29,617 tests, and the case fatality rate 1.6. As many as 1,348 new cases and 23 deaths were reported in Bengaluru Urban. With 18,648 new recoveries, the total number stood at 25,51,365. The total number of active cases was 1,80,835. As concerns over the number of cases in other districts remained ahead of unlocking, prompting the government to keep some of them under lockdown, Mysuru reported 1,251 new cases and 25 deaths — the highest of the day. Other districts that reported a high number of cases are Hassan (581), Shivamogga (393), Mandya (467), Dakshina Kannada (434), Davangere (391), and Tumakuru (352). Bidar recorded the least with seven new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7810-new-cases-125-deaths/article34808058.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Attack on doctor, nurse: PHANA writes to Bommai||A day after a patient’s son allegedly attacked a doctor and a nurse in the ICU of a top private hospital, the Private Hospitals and Nursing HomesAssociation (PHANA) has called for strict action to be taken against the accused. In a letter to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, the association highlighted the rising number of attacks on the medical community, and called for accused to be booked under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. On Saturday afternoon, Padmakumar, a senior intensivist, and a nurse at Fortis Hospital on Banerghatta Road were assaulted by a 29-year-old man whose father was in on ventilator support. The accused, Jagdish, and his mother abused the doctor and team in the ICU, while the staff was counselling them. Jagdish hit Dr. Padmakumar on the head and then assaulted a senior nurse before he could be restrained. Injuries According to the police, the doctor sustained a hematoma of the scalp region, while nurse Mala sustained injuries to her abdomen. “An MRI revealed that the doctor did not sustain a major injury to the brain,” said the police, who booked Jagadish and his mother,Jayanthi, under several sections of the Karnataka Prohibition of Violence Against Medicare Service Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Service Institutions Act and also under Section 323 (assault) of the IPC. PHAHA, in its letter, said, “There is a deep sense of insecurity at work places and health care professionals are fearing to go to work.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/attack-on-doctor-nurse-phana-writes-to-bommai/article34808062.ece
14 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Will act against illegal migrants: BSY||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that the State Government will identify illegal migrants from Bangladesh and Pakistan and return them. He spoke to presspersons at Shikaripura on Sunday. “I have received information about recent incidents involving illegal migrants. I have directed the officers to identify such people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/will-act-against-illegal-migrants-bsy/article34808066.ece
14 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seven COVID-19 deaths||Hassan reported 505 fresh cases of COVID-19 and seven deaths on Sunday. With this, the number of cases increased to 95,695 and toll to 1,125. So far 87,239 persons have recovered from the infection. As many as 7,331 people are in treatment and of them, 140 are in intensive care units. Of the fresh cases, 193 are from Hassan taluk, 63 from Arkalgud, 54 from Arsikere, 51 from Channarayapatna, 47 from Belur, 37 from Sakleshpur, 27 from Holenarasipur, 26 from Alur and seven are from other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-covid-19-deaths/article34808139.ece
14 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Remove names of Naribol brothers from FIR in murder case, say seers||As many as 10 seers from different Lingayat maths in Jewargi taluk of Kalaburagi district have come forward to condemn what they called “false implication” of Doddappagouda Patil Naribol, a BJP leader and former MLA from Jewargi, and his brother Basavaraj Patil Naribol in a murder case. Siddalinga Mahaswamy of Nelogi Virakta Math, Rudramuni Shivacharya of Madivaleshwar Math in Kadakol, Shivananda Mahaswamy of Sonna Virakta Math, Mahanta Swamy of Jeratagi Virakta Math, Siddalinga Swamy of Yadrami Virakta Math, Abhinava Gurubasava Shivacharya of Ankalaga Hiremath, Sopananath Swamy of Trivikramananda Math of Gabbur, Siddabasava Kabir Swamy of Chigarahalli, Kenchabasava Shivacharya of Kolakur Hiremath and Basayya Swamy of Kattisangavi held a media conference in Kalaburagi on Sunday and demanded that the names of the Naribol brothers be removed from the First Information Report (FIR) in the murder case. Hanamantha Kudligi, a resident of Kudligi village in Jewargi taluk and younger brother of a former Zilla Panchayat member Shantappa Kudligi, was murdered on June 8, 2021 and the Nariboli brothers are among the accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/remove-names-of-naribol-brothers-from-fir-in-murder-case-say-seers/article34808141.ece
14 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Complete lockdown in 18 GPs till June 21||As part of steps to break the chain of transmission of COVID-19 in rural areas in Dakshina Kannada, the district administration has decided to enforce complete lockdown in 18 gram panchayats between 9 a.m on Monday and 9 a.m. the following Monday. In a notification on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that these [17] gram panchayats have 50 and more active positive cases. They are Neermarga and Konaje in Mangaluru taluk; Ujire, Charmadi, Naravi, Koyyuru, Mittabagilu, Malady, Neriya and Laila in Belthangady taluk; Aivarnadu, Amara Mudnuru, Kollamogaru, Guttigaru and Aranthodu in Sullia taluk, Subrahmanya and Savanuru in Kadaba taluk and Channittodi of Bantwal taluk. Dr. Rajendra said that except for work which are permitted, people will not be allowed to enter or leave villages in these panchayats. Members of the panchayat level task force will provide on payment basis the articles required by villagers. Tahsildars, Taluk Panchayat Executive Officers, the Police and Panchayat Development Officers in these taluks have been asked to work in coordination to effectively enforce the lockdown guidelines. Apart from allowing hospitals, pharmacies and laboratories to open, the Deputy Commissioner has permitted operation of milk booths of Karnataka Milk Federation. He has also allowed movement of vehicles of farmers in the morning and evening for depositing milk at milk cooperative societies. Petrol bunks near the State and National Highways have also been permitted to operate during the lockdown, Dr. Rajendra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/complete-lockdown-in-18-gps-till-june-21/article34808144.ece
14 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Matsyagandha Express to be reintroduced tomorrow||The Railways has decided to reintroduce Train Nos 02620/02619 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai Lokmaya Tilak Terminus (LTT)-Mangaluru Central Matsyagandha fully reserved daily superfast special on June 15 and June 16, respectively. A release from Konkan Railway Corporation here said that Train No 02620 will leave Mangaluru Central at 12.40 p.m. [from June 15 to June 30] to reach LTT at 6.35 a.m. the next day. Train No 02619 will leave LTT at 3.20 p.m. [from June 16 to July 1] to reach Mangaluru Central at 10.10 a.m. the next day. These trains will have commercial halts at Suratkal, Mulki, Udupi, Kundapur, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Bhatkal, Murdeshwar, Honnavar, Kumta, Gokarna Road, Ankola, Karwar, Madgaon Jn., Kudal, Ratnagiri, Chiplun, Panvel and Thane stations. They will have two 2-tier AC coaches, three 3-tier AC coaches, 10 sleeper class coaches, five second sitting coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans, all LHB. Extended The Railways has extended the periodicity of Jabalpur-Coimbatore-Jabalpur weekly superfast special express till August this year. A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway said that Train No 02197 Coimbatore-Jabalpur weekly superfast special will leave Coimbatore at 3.30 p.m. on Mondays [from June 14 to August 2] to reach Jabalpur at 8.45 a.m. on Wednesdays, with eight trips. Train No 02198 Jabalpur-Coimbatore weekly superfast special will leave Jabalpur at 11.50 p.m. on Fridays [from June 11 to July 30] to reach Coimbatore at 5.10 p.m. on Sundays, with eight trips. The trains will have one 2-tier AC coaches, five 3-tier AC coaches, nine sleeper class coaches and two luggage-cum-brake vans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/matsyagandha-express-to-be-reintroduced-tomorrow/article34808133.ece
14 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stationery, phone repair shops to open for a day||The Udupi district administration has allowed opening of stationery and mobile phone accessory shops for one day on June 16 between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. to facilitate students community to buy essential material. In an order issued on Sunday, Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that since online classes are going on, students are in need of stationery as well as mobile phone repair/accessories services. Hence, the decision to allow opening of these shops for a day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stationery-phone-repair-shops-to-open-for-a-day/article34808143.ece
14 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, MDMA seized||The Konaje Police arrested two persons and seized 65 grams of MDMA worth Rs. 3.9 lakh on Sunday. The police gave the names of the accused as Shafeeq and Altaf from Kasaragod district of Kerala. The police said that a team led by Sub-Inspector of Police Mallikarjun Biradar acted on a tip-off and stopped a car bearing a Kerala registration number at Vijayanagar of Natekal in Manjanady village. The car was on its way to Kerala, from Melkar. The police said that the arrested persons have admitted to procuring MDMA from a man in Kammanahalli in Bengaluru. They were using an interior road to take the drug illegally to Kerala. Apart from MDMA, the police seized the car and also a mobile phone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-arrested-mdma-seized/article34808145.ece
14 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Epigraphy gets short shrift in ASI restructuring exercise||The proposed restructuring of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has left the scholars and retired staff of the department fuming. They have alleged that the field of epigraphy has been given short shrift by the government. As per a circular of the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, 758 new posts would be created in the ASI as part of a cadre-restructuring exercise, subject to the abolition of 304 posts in the existing scheme of things. But what has left scholars shocked is that not a single post has been created for the epigraphy branch, which is the basis for the reconstruction of history based on material evidence such as inscriptions on rocks, caves, temples, pillars, stones, and copper plates which are still being discovered. In as late as March 2021, the ASI had issued a note that 41Group A posts would be revived, including that of Director, Epigraphy (Sanskrit and Dravidian), and Director, Epigraphy (Arabic and Persian). A notification calling for the appointment of Director, Epigraphy (Sanskrit and Dravidian), was issued on Tuesday, but this is only on deputation while two other posts related to the Sanskrit branch have lapsed. In the new scheme of things, 70 posts related to horticulture have been created, including 55 horticultural assistants, apart from 434 conservation assistants whose job will basically be to oversee the maintenance of monuments. But not a single post related to epigraphy has been notified. When contacted, senior officials in the ASI preferred not to comment on the issue, saying they were not authorised to do so. Contrary to plan But T.S. Ravi Shankar, retired Director of the epigraphy branch of ASI, told The Hindu that the new proposal flew in the face of NITI Aayog’s plan of the ASI restructuring under which strengthening the epigraphy branch was clearly enunciated. The restricting and cadre review takes place once in a few decades and by ignoring epigraphy, the government has demoralised the staff, said Dr. Ravi Shankar, adding that it would not attract new talent nor retain the existing staff. Another scholar, who has retired from the epigraphy branch after more than three decades of service but did not wished to be named, remarked that professionals would have to retire in the same post to which they were appointed at the time of joining and hence this development would pave the way for the flight of talent from the epigraphy branch to universities. Citing his own example, the scholar said he had remained as an assistant in the department for 22 years despite many publications to his credit, while he would have retired as a Head of Department had he joinedany university. Given the vastness of the country and the potential for unearthing more inscriptions, it is imperative to at least retain or revive the sanctioned posts, but instead some of the posts have been abolished, said Dr. Ravi Shankar. Though two zonal offices of the epigraphy branch were created in the 1990s, it did not result in the creation of newposts, he added.  No post notified In the new scheme of things, 70 posts related to horticulture have been created, including 55 horticultural assistants, as well as 434 conservation assistants whose job will be to oversee the maintenance of monuments. But not a single post related to epigraphy is notified||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/epigraphy-gets-short-shrift-in-asi-restructuring-exercise/article34808073.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of power||Attempts by his own party leaders to oust B.S. Yediyurappa(in picture)from the Chief Minister’s post hit the headlines every now and then. Rumours of a leadership change die down, only to resurface again. Minister for Revenue R. Ashok, who is seen as part of the camp close to Mr. Yediyurappa, likened those eyeing the Chief Minister’s post to passengers trying to reserve seats in a bus by throwing a towel on the seat. “But they are trying it in a bus that has broken down and ona seat that does not exist,” he said. “Mr. Yediyurappa is our leader and even the Centre has endorsed him... Unlike those trying to unseat him, the Chief Minister is in the right bus that is running on time,” he said.   When the system fails to ensure adherence to the rules and people are allowed to violate them with impunity, they naturally get bolder. Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi(in picture)witnessed one such situation during a meeting in Dharwad. While there is no bar on government doctors practising privately after duty hours, there have been complaints galore about doctors doing so during duty hours and it has continued unabated. While discussing complaints about a private COVID-19 Care Centre, Mr. Joshi sought to know who was representing the private hospital. To his disbelief, he saw a government doctor standing up to announce without hesitation that he was the one. Mr. Joshi could only ask the concerned authority to take action. But when the issue of some doctors not attending to their duties at KIMS Hospital came up during the visit of Health Minister K. Sudhakar, Mr. Joshi could not resist raising the issue. “Look at the audacity of that doctor... This is because there is no action against such doctors,” he told the KIMS medical director, while Mr. Sudhakar nodded in agreement. However, after the meeting, only notice was served to some doctors for skipping work.   During the COVID-19 lockdown, there were several reports about politicians helping the public. One of them was Congress MLA Anjali Nimbalkar(in picture)buying three well-equipped ambulances for Khanapur taluk hospital. However, what drew greater attention was the fact that she drove one of them herself. The pictures and videos of her driving it were widely shared on social media, with tags in Marathi such as “brave leader of Khanapur”. And thus, in a reinforcement of gender stereotypes, the point of discussion was not Ms. Nimbalkar’s contribution, but how an MLA, “that too a woman”, had volunteered to drive an ambulance.   A.H. Vishwanath(in picture), MLC, who is currently with the BJP after his stints with the Congress and the JD(S), does not miss a chance to take a swipe at his political opponents. The latest controversy, over alleged irregularities in land deals linked to his political bête noire S.R. Mahesh of K.R. Nagar, has given him yet another opportunity. Mr. Vishwanath waded into it and demanded that former Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who had questioned the legal sanctity of the transactions, be appointed as a special officer to investigate all the land scams in Mysuru. “I am only keen that the MLA of my native place, whose reputation is at stake as people associate him with the land mafia, gets an opportunity to come clean,” quipped Mr. Vishwanath. The sarcasm was not lost on anyone.  Chitra V. Ramani   Girish Pattanashetti   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai   R. Krishna Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/corridors-of-power/article34808082.ece
14 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Revenue officials take back re-encroached land in Idukki||The Revenue Department has ‘retained’ nearly two acres of land belonging to the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) that was encroached upon again by a man after the KSEB had declared it as its property at Anayirangal in Chinnakanal village. The land, on which a court case is on, was encroached upon and a building was constructed there last year. A Revenue team led by the Udumbanchola tahasildar attached the property after demolishing the structure as per a direction by the District Collector. The KSEB then erected a board declaring it as its property. Court case A case was also registered at the Devikulam court against the person for encroachment of government land. On Saturday, however, the Revenue team led by Udumbanchola tahasildar Niju Kurien was surprised to see the area fenced and cardamom being cultivated by the same encroacher. The board erected by the KSEB was lying on the ground. The team re-erected the board and informed it to the Dam Safety Department of the KSEB. An official of the Revenue Department on Sunday said that the cardamom plants were nearly a year old and well maintained by the encroacher. The Revenue team was surprised to see that the area was fenced by the encroacher as if to prevent any ‘outsider’ from entering the property. It was alleged that the lackadaisical attitude of the KSEB authorities had resulted in the re-encroachment of the same land on the protective area near the dam. Mr Kurien told The Hindu that instances of encroachment had increased during the lockdown period. After retaining the land by the Revenue Department, the KSEB should take up the onus to protect it from encroachment again, he said. The officials are of the opinion that only serious and timely action against the encroachers would act as a deterrent. Udumbanchola and Devikulam taluks witnessed a large number of cases related to land encroachment and illegal construction in addition to tree felling and timber theft. As per a High Court order, any construction in Devikulam taluk requires the NOC (no objection certificate) from the Revenue authorities. However, the region witnessed a spurt in encroachment of government land and illegal constructions especially since the lockdown started. The encroachers took advantage in the absence of official monitoring, according to Revenue authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/revenue-officials-take-back-re-encroached-land-in-idukki/article34808175.ece
14 June 2021||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tale of a mystery cat echoes across Anamudi hills||Is ‘Pogeyan’ a myth or a fact? A big cat, grey in colour, is apparently leading a reclusive life in the high-altitude grasslands of the Anamudi forest on the Western Ghats. Local tribespeople call it ‘Pogeyan’ ostensibly because of its colour, that of smoke. However, wildlife enthusiasts, ever in pursuit of the creature, are yet to capture a photograph of it. So, the aura of the mystery cat remains; it appears and disappears like the mist. The first reference of Pogeyan can be found in a painting by a Britisher. Twenty-three years ago, wildlife photographer Sandesh Kadur and a group of tribespeople claimed to have spotted it on the Anamudi grasslands. Before Sandesh could photograph it, the huge cat disappeared. When The Mountains of the Monsoon by Sandesh and James Zacharia was released in 2008, Pogeyan became a talking point. Forest Department officials too do not dismiss Pogeyan as myth. “There are unexplored flora and fauna in the Marayur forest landscape. Just because Pogeyan has not been photographed, once cannot conclude that the animal does not exist,” said M.G. Vinod Kumar, Marayur Range Officer. Pogeyan came back to reckoning when the photo of a white wild gaur captured in the same forest land was released.  The Mystery Cats of the World (1989) or other authentic books have no reference of Pogeyan. The mystery on the big cat, however, is bound to remain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tale-of-a-mystery-cat-echoes-across-anamudi-hills/article34808225.ece
14 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Trenching of relaid roads, footpaths draws flak||Resentment is brewing against trenching of recently relaid roads and footpaths to lay power / telecom cables and water pipelines in various parts of Kochi. The latest was the trenching of Park Avenue Road right in front of the Kochi Corporation office, which was milled and resurfaced recently by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) as part of its ‘smart road’ initiative. With NGOs like Ernakulam Vikasana Samiti registering strong protest, CSML said the final layer of tar coating was yet to be done on the road. Trenching to lay power cables was permitted after dense bituminous macadam (DBM) work was over. The duct laid on the road is located on the other side. The trenched portion will be restored and electric poles installed before final tarring is done, CSML sources said. The Samiti had maintained that cables ought to have been laid before resurfacing work was done since it could now weaken the road. CSML sources said trenching had to be permitted since there was delay in arrival of power cables. “DBM tarring was done to restore the road and since the High Court directed us to speed up tarring on Park Avenue Road,” they added. The footpaths relaid by Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) around three years ago too have suffered damage due to trenching. A couple of other roads, including Convent Road and TD Road, that CSML had resurfaced earlier this year too were trenched for repairing pipelines and cables and left improperly restored. The agency filed a police complaint citing that it had no idea as to who had trenched a part of TD Road. “We had informed all agencies well in advance before resurfacing the roads, to execute their work, if any, before we began black-topping work. We also made it clear that they would have to restore any resurfaced road that they trenched subsequently, as per our quality standards,” CSML sources said. Footpath dismantled KMRL has, in the meantime, dismantled a portion of the footpath on the Thykoodam-Pettah stretch that it had relaid around three years ago, inviting much flak. “We had to do this since the rebuilt drains sank when the road alongside was resurfaced. The foopath on the stretch will henceforth be raised and paved using tiles,” metro sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trenching-of-relaid-roads-footpaths-draws-flak/article34808213.ece
14 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Test positivity rate falls to 10.04% in Ernakulam||Ernakulam saw 1,088 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 10.04%. For testing, 10,834 samples were collected. The TPR for the district has remained below 15% for four consecutive days now. The active caseload has fallen to 15,396. Recoveries continue to outnumber fresh cases, and 2,332 people were considered to have recovered on the day. Seven health workers tested positive on Sunday. Vengola recorded the highest number of cases with 63 people testing positive from the area. Elamkunnapuzha recorded 54 cases, Nayarambalam 47 cases, Thripunithura 38, Keezhmad 36, Edathala and Kumbalangi 30 each, Palluruthy 27, and Fort Kochi 26. As many as 41,463 people remain in quarantine. While 353 people were discharged from hospitals and other treatment centres, 154 were admitted on the day. Of the people recovering from the infection, 10,684 people remain at home.  In Kozhikode Fresh COVID-19 cases and daily test positivity rate (TPR) continue to decline in Kozhikode as only 892 of the 9,778 people tested positive for the virus in the district. The daily TPR is 9.33%. According to the district medical officer, there were 881 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of 10 others is not known. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 188 locally acquired infections. As many as 1,509 people recovered from the infection. Meanwhile, 11 local bodies in the district have been included in the list of critical areas where the infection rate is high. Karassery and Peruvayal grama panchayats are under the highly critical list where strict restrictions will be imposed. As many as 27 local bodies have reported a high TPR. (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/test-positivity-rate-falls-to-1004-in-ernakulam/article34808211.ece
14 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Mini fishing harbour to be partially opened||The Chellanam mini fishing harbour will open partially on Monday after a gap of about two months. There are around 250 fishing boats, all of them small boats manned by traditional fishers, that come from areas like Arthunkal, Ottamassery, Andharkaranazhi, and Azheekkal. The prolonged closure of the harbour, loss of fishing days due to weather warnings, and COVID-19 lockdown had put fishers in serious financial trouble. Many of them had taken up other works, including joining the pool of autorickshaw drivers, for survival, said P.A. Charles, a fisherman who had left the harbour work during the pandemic. Boats will venture out for fishing on the basis of their registration, with alternate days being allotted to them. They will go only short distances in view of heavy rain and rough seas. They will mostly be within the mobile phone range and fishing trips will last only about three to four hours. The rapid spread of COVID-19 and the high test positivity rate had forced the closure of the mini fishing harbour in the early weeks of May. Besides the loss of fishing days, fishers had also sustained damage to their boats and gear in heavy rain induced by cyclonic storms off the coast of Kerala. Cyclone Tauktae had caused most of the damage to fishing boats. V.D. Majeendran of Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation said monsoon season was a peak time for traditional fishers as trawling boat operations remained suspended. Bulk of the catch for traditional boat operators come in the brief window of time during the rainy season, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mini-fishing-harbour-to-be-partially-opened/article34808215.ece
14 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Traders to down shutters today||Traders under the aegis of the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti will down shutters on Monday, demanding, among other things, permission to open and operate all shops and business establishments in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. A statement issued by traders on Sunday said All Kerala Distributors’ Association, Ernakulam Market Stall Owners’ Association, Bakers’ Association, association of optical shops, and association of supermarket owners are among those who will join the strike.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traders-to-down-shutters-today/article34808214.ece
14 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Man held with 8 kg of ganja||Excise sleuths on Sunday arrested Rajesh, resident of Gowri Mandiram, Eravipuram, after seizing more than 8 kilograms of ganja from him. The 34-year-old, a repeat offender accused in a similar case, has been sourcing ganja from Tamil Nadu. He was nabbed while waiting for a buyer and the arrest was made by a special team following a tip-off received by Kollam Excise Circle Inspector I. Naushad. During interrogation, he told the officials that he had received 10-kg ganja from Tamil Nadu and it was transported in a vegetable lorry. He had sold around 2 kg of the consignment and was planning to sell the rest to a wholesale vendor for Rs. 2 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-with-8-kg-of-ganja/article34808176.ece
14 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Award for ‘Daivakali’||Chathannur Mohan commemoration and the handing over of Katha Puraskaram instituted by Chathannur Mohan Foundation will be held online on June 15. Daivakali, an anthology of short stories by Ajijesh Pachatt, has been selected for the award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/award-for-daivakali/article34808177.ece
14 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kollam has 1,312 new cases||The district reported 1,312 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,878 recoveries on Sunday. While 1,303 patients contracted the virus through contact, the others include three NRIs and six health workers. Kollam district currently has 35,348 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 14,93,715. While 3,149 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 2,59,973 primary and 16,721 secondary contacts of the cases.  Alappuzha The district reported 660 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. It also recorded six COVID-19-related deaths. Test positivity rate for the day stood at 10.29%. Of the fresh cases, 657 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of three others remains unidentified. Meanwhile, 1,123 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload stands at 11,677. Kottayam As many as 622 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, all but one person contracted the virus through local transmission. The daily Test Positivity Rate (TPR) of the district reported a further decline to 9.05%. With 73 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Panachikkad panchayat, which recorded 43 cases. As many as 846 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases in the district to 4,978, while 31,824 others remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease. Meanwhile, the test positivity rate in 36 out of the 77 local bodies fell below the 10% and of these, seven panchayats recorded a TPR of below 5%. The situation marks a major improvement from a situation when the TPR in all local bodies crossed 20% mark while some panchayts even touched a TPR of 50%. Presently, TPR in only six panchayts hovers between 20 and 30%. Pathanamthitta In the district, 223 persons tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, 222 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The contact source of three cases are yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 12.5%. With 14 cases, Ezhamkulam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Pathanamthitta with 13 cases . The disease, meanwhile, claimed four more lives in the district. With 563 recoveries on the day, Pathanamathitta currently has 4,976 active cases.   (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kollam-has-1312-new-cases/article34808178.ece
14 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fingers pointed at forest dept. in tree-felling case||With the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees in Wayanad triggering a political stir in the State, questions are being raised on the Forest Department’s ‘silence’ when the Revenue Department issued orders permitting felling of trees in ‘patta’ lands granted to cultivators. Government sources told The Hindu that senior Forest officials had failed to express reservations about these orders’ illegality. Besides, the higher-ups did not caution the field officers about the likelyunderhanded practices. Also, the field officers had been lax in seeking clarifications on the Revenue orders. Sources said the Forest Department had issued permission for cutting trees even when the Revenue orders had mentioned that no permission was required. Besides, the Vigilance and intelligence wing attached to the Department of Forests kept quiet though its officials were empowered to act even before an offence was committed. Field officers of the Vigilance wing were equally responsible for prevention of offences, they said. Ownership confusion A government source said the trees on the ‘patta’ land belonged to the Revenue Department and officials could take legal action under the Land Conservancy Act 1957 and register a complaint with the police. But now, the Forest Department was claiming ownership of these trees. In fact, the Forest Department had created some confusion between Land Assignment ‘patta’ (revenue land, where only government can cut the trees) and Land Tribunal ‘patta’ (land that once belonged to landlords, where the landowners now own the trees and can cut them). From Thiruvananthapuram to Thrissur, forest occupancy prior to January 1, 1977, had been regularised and ‘patta’ had been issued under the Land Assignment Special Rules, 1993. Hence, only government has the right to cut the trees and the cultivators were not apprised of the fact properly. The confiscation of timber from ‘patta’ land under Kerala Forest Act would not stand the scrutiny of court. This was because, Section 27 of the Act stated that confiscation of the timber could be done only when trees were felled on forestland.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fingers-pointed-at-forest-dept-in-tree-felling-case/article34808222.ece
14 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Container shipping a boost to MSMEs||Entrepreneurs in small-scale industries sector are delighted over the decision of some of the prominent container shipping companies to resume operations at Beypore Port taking advantage of the State government’s latest coastal shipping promotional programmes and the initiatives to settle labour issues. With the arrival of the first container vessel on June 22, the port will witness the end of a three-year-long stalemate, which had caused huge loss to entrepreneurs. “The Chief Minister himself has intervened to settle labour issues which had crippled the functioning of the port and trouble-free goods movement. As of now, there are two prominent liners ready to star their operations to Beypore,” said M. Adburahiman, district president, Kerala Small Scale Industries Association. He added that container movement between domestic ports would largely come to the benefit of footwear industry of Kozhikode and spice sector of Wayanad. According to Mr. Abdurahiman, the improved connectivity between various domestic ports in India would equally be a boost for exporters and importers in Kozhikode district. “The modern wood chipping machines manufactured here for the furniture industry are very popular in other States. With the resumption of container service, industrial units in the sector will definitely witness an increase in business. Same is the case with many other such small industrial units,” he pointed out. For importers, the purchase of affordable and quality construction materials from other States and their timely shipping for wholesale traders here will become an easy task. Merchants who deal with the large-scale trade of cement and tile products are expecting a huge fall in the existing road transportation cost with the resumption of the container shipping service. Similarly, agro-entrepreneurs believe that movement of foodgrain and agriculture produce between various States will also become a less expensive affair. According to District Industries Centre data, there are nearly 11,500 registered industrials units in Kozhikode district alone with an investment of Rs. 819 crore under the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) category. Many of these small and medium industries are likely to benefit from container shipping operations. Nearly 45,000 workers are directly or indirectly part of such ventures, which are going through a crisis with the COVID-19 outbreak. The latest move will be a relief for many, apart from the already declared 17 specific measures, including extension of moratorium and one-time settlement benefits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/container-shipping-a-boost-to-msmes/article34808457.ece
14 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||817 conferred degrees at IIMK convocation||The Indian Institute of Management-Kozhikode (IIMK) held its 23rd convocation virtually here on Saturday evening. A. Vellayan, Chairman, Board of Governors, IIMK, conferred Ph.D, MBA, MBA (EPGP), and MBA (BL) degrees. A total of 817 students were conferred titles and degrees. They included students from the IIMK’s doctoral programme in management (PhD), the flagship Postgraduate Programme in Management (PGP), the one-year full time Postgraduate Programme in Business Leadership (PGP-BL), and the Executive Postgraduate Programme in Management (Kozhikode and Kochi campuses). The toppers from each programme were also awarded gold medals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/817-conferred-degrees-at-iimk-convocation/article34808218.ece
14 June 2021||Mysuru,KERALA||Social media support for IAS officer increases||An online campaign in support of former Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has gained traction and, as on Sunday evening, has elicited more than 1.35 lakh signatures on www.change.org. The campaign, titled ‘Bring back Rohini Sindhuri’, has been launched seeking her reinstatement as Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru, from where she was transferred recently. The online petition was launched by a concerned citizen on June 6, but it began trending during the past 48 hours. The immediate cause of Ms. Sindhuri’s transfer was the public spat she had with Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag, who too has been shunted elsewhere. But there is speculation that the elected representatives and the land mafia ganged up to get Ms. Sindhuri out of their way as she was inquiring about irregularities pertaining to land transactions in Mysuru. The petition, addressed to the President of India, states that the government did not even give time for Ms. Sindhuri to submit reports regarding the alleged land scam involving influential persons. “…deep down, we all know there is a big pile of scam hiding under this. So the politicians had her transferred without giving proper or clear information to the public… we want her to lead the investigating team,” the petition states. Incidentally, A.H. Vishwanath, MLC belonging to the BJP, has also suggested that Ms. Sindhuri should be appointed as a special investigating officer to look into the irregularities in various land-related transactions in and around Mysuru. Social activists are working on a PIL using earlier Supreme Court judgments, though sources said they would exhaust other avenues before going to court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/social-media-support-for-ias-officer-increases/article34808071.ece
14 June 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Dr. C.S. Mohandas is dead||C.S. Mohandas, 90, a physician who made seminal contributions to the treatment of diabetes, died at Ottapalam on Sunday. He was fondly called Rajaji’s doctor as he had treated India’s last Governor General C. Rajagopalachari as an assistant to Sam G.P. Moses at the Madras Govt. General Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dr-cs-mohandas-is-dead/article34808219.ece
14 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special council meet to discuss graft allegations||A special meeting of the city Corporation council is expected to be held this week, after the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded that a discussion be held on its allegations of corruption in sanitation activities held as part of the Attukal Pongala this year. Though Mayor Arya Rajendran had earlier issued a detailed explanation on the allegations, BJP councillors had last week raised the demand for a special council meet to discuss the issue. As per the Municipal Act, if one-third of the members demand the convening of a special council meeting over some specific issue, it has to be held within 10 days. The Corporation authorities now plan to hold the meeting on Thursday, expecting the lockdown curbs to be lifted on Wednesday. The meeting will be held as per COVID-19 protocols. A council meeting held in May, which was proposed to be organised partially online, was disrupted with all of the BJP councillors arriving for the meeting. In that meeting too, the BJP councillors had displayed placards against the Mayor and the Left Democratic Front over the Pongala sanitation issue. Mayor’s statement In a statement posted in her FB page, the Mayor had said the garage supervisor had submitted a report before Pongala, saying that 53 tipper trucks should be taken on rent to remove the waste, in case the festival is held as in previous years. However, considering the COVID-19 restrictions in place, permission was accorded to rent 20 trucks as the Pongala was limited to the Attukal temple surroundings and households. These trucks were deployed in the various health circles a day before Pongala. Ms. Rajendran said 28 loads of waste was removed from the various health circles after Pongala, with the largest quantities of waste being from Manacaud, Fort, Sreekandeswaram, Chala, Chenthitta and Karamana circles. She maintained that there was no change in the amount of waste generated from the areas near the temple. But, the opposition has continued to raise corruption allegations in the hiring of trucks for waste removal with a flurry of social media posts from opposition councillors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-council-meet-to-discuss-graft-allegations/article34808180.ece
14 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Case pool in State on a slow decline||Kerala reported 11,584 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, when 94,677 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) registered 12.24% on the day. The State’s active case pool is declining slowly and steadily on a daily basis and now has 1,23,003 patients, when 17,856 patients were reported to have recovered from the disease. 206 deaths The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality has reached 11,181, with the State adding 206 recent deaths to the official list on Sunday. On Sunday, 2,309 COVID patients were newly admitted to hospitals. Hospitalisations are declining, but the pace is slow. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals now stands at 30,675. Total ICU admissions of critically ill COVID-19 patients declined significantly on Sunday to 3,009, when compared to the previous day’s figure of 3,115. The number of those requiring ventilator support has dipped to 1,189. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 27,28,239. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,775, Thrissur 1,373, Kollam 1,312, Ernakulam 1,088, Palakkad 1,027, Malappuram 1,006, Kozhikode 892, Alappuzha 660, Kannur 633, Kottayam 622, Kasaragod 419, Idukki 407, Pathanamthitta 223 and Wayanad 147 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-pool-in-state-on-a-slow-decline/article34808232.ece
14 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,775 new cases in capital||As many as 1,775 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV2 as the number of active COVID-19 cases fell to 13,576 in the district on Sunday with 2,315 people recovering from the illness. The test positivity rate has also dipped to 14.89% when 11,916 were subjected to tests. While 1,640 cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection, the source of infection was unknown in 128 cases. Six health workers were among those who tested positive. The death toll continued to rise with 34 deaths, reported between April 16 and June 12, being attributed to the disease. A total of 2,339 people have died due to COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram district thus far. Facing a worrying spread of the disease in various parts, the district administration has decided to ramp up testing in 28 grama panchayats. At least 100 people will be tested through primary health centres in these panchayats. Steps will be adopted to encourage people to shift to DCCs and CFLTCs as much as possible to prevent spread. Refutes allegations The Government Medical College Hospital has dismissed allegations that non-COVID-19 treatments have been disrupted in the hospital. Superintendent M.S. Sharmad said no major surgeries such as angiogram, angioplasty, cancer treatment and other emergency treatment has been cancelled in the hospital. Casualty wing In addition, the casualty wing continued to function round-the-clock. The outpatient (OP) wing also operated, despite being restricted to enable greater focus for COVID-19 treatment. Dr. Sharmad pointed out many patients who are unable to access the OP facilities have been utilising the E-Sanjeevani telemedicine facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1775-new-cases-in-capital/article34808179.ece
14 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trial telecast of digital classes till June 18||Trial telecast of ‘First Bell 2.0’ digital classes on KITE Victers channel has been extended till June 18. With the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, estimating the preliminary number of students who do not have access to digital classes at 49,000, efforts are on to make such students view the classes on TVs at local study centres, libraries, or similar facilities. With lockdown in place till June 16, children have not been able to reach these centres. Also, facilities at these study centres are still in the process of being arranged. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, at a high-level meeting, had promised digital education for all students, with priority for tribal children. From June 14 to June 18, pre-primary to class 10 students will be able to view a repeat of the classes telecast in the first week of June. Plus Two students will be able to view the classes telecast from June 7 to 11 from Monday to Friday. Visit www.firstbell.kite.kerala.gov.in for details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trial-telecast-of-digital-classes-till-june-18/article34808228.ece
14 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU to go ahead with online exams||A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) has decided to go ahead with its plan to conduct final-semester BTech. theory examinations in the online mode. The examinations for both full-time and part-time admissions will be conducted internally — at the college-level — between June 28 and July 12. Colleges have been tasked with employing appropriate arrangements for transmitting question papers online and collecting the scanned copy of the answer sheets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-to-go-ahead-with-online-exams/article34808229.ece
14 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert in Kerala’s 11 districts||Rainfall is likely to be widespread over Kerala till Thursday, with the southwest monsoon showing signs of revival. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put 11 districts, except Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Palakkad, on yellow alert for isolated heavy rainfall on Monday. All 14 districts are on yellow alert on Tuesday as per a 4 p.m. weather update on Sunday. Fishers warned Several districts can expect isolated heavy rainfall till Thursday. Fishermen have been advised not to set out to sea till Thursday due to the likely strong winds touching 40-50 kmph speed along the Kerala and Karnataka coasts and over Lakshadweep.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-in-keralas-11-districts/article34808220.ece
14 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Two held||Two persons were arrested in connection with illegal tree felling in the district. The arrested are Sunny Puthussery of Poomala and John Rafy of Mullassery. They were arrested in connection with the axing of 84 teak trees from revenue land at Alumkunnu, Poomala, under the Pattikkad Forest Range. The Forest Department recovered 64 pieces of teak log worth Rs. 2,95,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-held/article34808226.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Global demand stokes tree felling||Across the State, an “influential criminal mafia” had felled protected trees by misinterpreting an October 2020 revenue order allowing farmers to harvest common hardwood they cultivated on their land. The detection of the felling of 101 rosewood trees in Muttil South village in Wayanad district was just the tip of the iceberg. A team led by Wayanad DFO, Flying Squad, P. Dhanesh Kumar had seized the entire bulk of the estimated 202 cubic metres of wood stolen from Muttil. Investigators said one cubic metre of rosewood cost Rs. 7 lakh in the black market. The price often accrued several-fold when the timber found its way to foreign markets. The mafia had exploited the economic downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic to convince financially hard-pressed farmers to sell the rosewood on their plots for a pittance, investigators said. The Congress and the BJP had accused the government of rescinding the Revenue Department order only in February despite red flags raised by District Collectors and forest officials as early as November last. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau is investigating the corruption angle in the case and Crime Branch the other aspects .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/global-demand-stokes-tree-felling/article34808233.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Wrecked by waves||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/wrecked-by-waves/article34808217.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Many shades||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-shades/article34808461.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/back-to-freedom/article34808463.ece
14 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate falls to a low of 5.52 in Anantapur||The district’s COVID-19 positivity rate dipped to its lowest in the second wave at 5.52 on Sunday, but the number of cumulative fatalities crossed the 1,000-mark (1,002) with a steady death rate since May 1. The last time the district saw a decline in positivity rate was on June 1 with 5.94%, dropped from 12% the previous day. But the officials said that was an aberration, as all Rt-PCR tests were halted for a day at VDR Laboratory and rapid antigen tests were done instead, leading to a false figure. The positivity rate went back to 14% a couple of days later. In the last 43 days of the second wave, the district added 66,902 new cases taking the cumulative tally to 1,49,594 and at least 341 deaths at an average of 8 deaths a day. The total number of samples tested from the beginning of the pandemic are 17,40,788. Of them, 5,22,075 samples were collected from urban areas out of which 65,345 turned positive, registering a 12.52% positivity rate in the urban locations. The number of tests in the rural areas was 12,18,713 with a positive rate of 6.88% (83,824) till Sunday. Out of the 1,064 hospital beds occupied on Sunday, 145 were in ICU and 717 oxygen-supported and the remaining 202 were non-oxygen beds. The district has 1,842 active cases as of Sunday, with 778 in home isolation. Vaccination drive Meanwhile, District Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan has asked the medical and health department to focus on immunisation as that was the only way to curb the spread. The district has so far administered 8,48,678 doses, with 6,50,739 persons receiving one dose and 1,97,939 persons receiving both doses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positivity-rate-falls-to-a-low-of-552-in-anantapur/article34808023.ece
14 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shepherd, 15 sheep killed in accident||A four-wheeler reportedly mowed down a herd of sheep and ran over the shepherd also in the early hours of Sunday at Chiguruchettu in R. Kothapalli village of Ramagiri mandal in the district. The shepherd, identified as Boya Pothanna, 48, died on the spot. People noticed the accident after daybreak. They found 15 dead sheep scattered on the road. According to the Ramagiri police, Pothanna is survived by a wife and two daughters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shepherd-15-sheep-killed-in-accident/article34808024.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe reveals mass trafficking of women from Bangladesh||While investigating the gang rape and torture of a Bangladeshi woman in the city, the Ramamurthy Nagar police have unearthed another prostitution racket in their own backyard. The rescued women told the police that they and “hundreds of other women” had been brought illegally into India from Bangladesh by traffickers. During a raid recently, the police arrested four people and rescued seven women in Kanakanagar K. Channasandra, close to the police station. The police also rescued a five-year-old girl, believed to be the daughter of one of the women. The arrest of the prime accused, Shobuj, helped the police uncover the prostitution racket. The women were allegedly brought to the country by the gang that Shobuj is part of. “They told us that they were among the hundreds of women who crossed the border illegally from Bangladesh to India a few months ago. They were assisted by one Rafiq Ashraful from Bangladesh who helped them evade the border security personnel. We believe he is part of the gang and operates from Bangladesh,” said a senior police official. After entering India, the women were taken to Howrah in West Bengal and remained there for a few days, while the traffickers allegedly organised identity proof documents. They were then divided into small groups and sent to different cities. “The traffickers had promised them good jobs, but once they arrived at a city they were forced into prostitution. In Bengaluru, Shobhu and the others would retain a major share of what the women earned,” said the police official, adding that investigation is ongoing During the raid on the house, the police recovered 46 sets of documents, including Aadhaar cards, for the women and the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/probe-reveals-mass-trafficking-of-women-from-bangladesh/article34807983.ece
14 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Actor ‘Sanchari’ Vijay critical after accident||National award-winning Kannada actor ‘Sanchari’ Vijay suffered severe head injuries in a motorcycle accident here on Saturday night and is critical. He underwent a brain surgery at Apollo Hospital, Bannerghatta Road, on Sunday. “He has suffered haemorrhage in the right part of the brain. He is yet to regain consciousness. Doctors have said he will be under observation for the next 48 hours,” said filmmaker Mansore, a friend of Mr. Vijay. On Saturday, Mr. Vijay and some of his friends went to Vaishnavi Apartment in Jayanagar, from where they were distributing food packets to the needy as part of relief work. Around 11.45 p.m., Mr. Vijay and his friend Naveen started towards the former’s residence on a motorcycle. Both were not wearing helmets. Barely 100 metres from the apartment, the motorcycle skidded and both suffered severe injuries. Mr. Naveen, who was riding the motorcycle, has suffered a spinal injury and is in a critical condition as well, police sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/actor-sanchari-vijay-critical-after-accident/article34807979.ece
14 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flower trade wilts under lockdown||In pre-COVID times, about two dozen hamlets in Nagalapuram, Pitchatur, Narayanavanam and Puttur mandals in the district used to be abuzz with activity in the summer months. It was during summer that flowers, mainly jasmine and tuberose, used to sell like hot cakes. Many gunny sacks of jasmine used to be loaded on to APSRTC buses and trucks bound for the Koyambedu flower market in Chennai. After COVID struck the country last year in March, around 200 families in these hamlets who predominantly depend on cultivation of different flowers were left in dire straits. A large number of them are small farmers growing the flower varieties in just a quarter of an acre. No takers Though their business resumed in September, their fortunes were yet to return. Just as things were getting back to normal, the second wave hit the country in March dashing their hopes. Presently, not even a single sack is reaching Chennai, which is under rigorous lockdown strictures. It has been two months since the flowers in their small-sized gardens have seen any takers. Only a few households that are not used to missing the daily pujas buy these flowers. It is only a namesake business at the trading points (mandis) elsewhere in the district. “Before the pandemic, we used to get good money for our stocks immediately. Now we are just dumping our flower sacks there. Once in a week or fortnight, we get our payment, ten times less than our customary price. We can’t protest too. We have no choice but to abandon the crop,” says Mutthurasa (30), a farmer of Nagalapuram mandal. Pitchatur mandal is known for producing the finest jasmines, thanks to the presence of the Araniyar reservoir, which serves the interests of hundreds of farmers. Pitchatur worst hit The adequate level of groundwater table is another reason for bumper crops of flowers here. However, the pandemic has robbed the happiness of the growers in the mandal, which has taken the brunt. At Narayanavanam mandal headquarters, over a hundred flower vendors have been left without comfort since March last year. Their customers were a good number of pilgrims visiting the Kalyana Venkateswara Temple here. “Most of our customers are now not willing to buy flowers. The fear of infection inhibits them from approaching us. It seems they have made up their minds to do without flowers for a few more months,” said a flower seller Velamma (55).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/flower-trade-wilts-under-lockdown/article34808026.ece
14 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||B’day party at farm house: 68 youngsters booked||As many as 68 youngsters, including 21 women techies, were booked by the Cyberabad police on Sunday for taking part in a birthday party at a farmhouse in Kadthal village in Rangareddy district in violation of COVID-19 norms. Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said that 47 men, gathered on the premises to celebrate the birthday of their friend Varun Goud, who is currently at large.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bday-party-at-farm-house-68-youngsters-booked/article34807968.ece
14 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘61 agri labs will be opened in State on July 8’||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Sunday said that 61 Integrated Agriculture Laboratories (IAL) would be opened in the first phase on July 8 across the State. All of them would be integrated with aqua laboratories. Mr. Kannababu laid the foundation stone for the IAL-Kakinada at Vakalapudi. It would be built at a cost of Rs. 82 lakh. Addressing officials and farmers here, Mr. Kannababu said: “The IALs will ensure the quality of seeds before supplying them to farmers. The laboratories are also being designed to offer multi-purpose services including those required for aquaculture and diagnosis of cattle diseases.” “The State government has prepared a Detailed Project Report to spend Rs. 15,000 crore for improvement of infrastructure facilities in rural areas, creating additional godown space and cold storage facilities,” said Mr. Kannababu. The Minister said that the State government had decided to set up three training centres on agriculture machinery at Naira (Srikakulam district), Samarlakota (East Godavari district) and Kurnool. Milk chilling centres On the Amul-Andhra Pradesh State dairy project, Mr. Kannababu said 9,998 bulk milk chilling centres would be constructed across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/61-agri-labs-will-be-opened-in-state-on-july-8/article34808027.ece
14 June 2021||Kannur,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-year-old child in hospital with injuries||A one-year-old child has been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, with fractures on the collarbone and swelling on the face. The child sustained injuries in an alleged attack by a man who was living with her mother. According to the police, the child and her mother Remya, 26, were living with Ratheesh at a rented house at Kanichchar Chengom in Kelakam. Out of danger The mother, a tribal woman from Aralam, has three children. A month ago she left home, leaving the other two children, and started living with 42-year-old Ratheesh. The incident allegedly took place on Saturday evening and it came to light when the child was rushed to the Peravoor taluk hospital. Later she was referred to the medical college hospital. Hospital sources said the child was out of danger. The police have apprehended both Remya and Ratheesh and charged them under Indian Penal Code sections 341, 323, 334, and the Juvenile Justice Act. Rights panel directive Meanwhile, the Human Rights Commission has also intervened in the incident and had directed the police to conduct a detailed investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-year-old-child-in-hospital-with-injuries/article34807971.ece
14 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||No woman applicant for priesthood in Kerala temples||Priesthood will continue to remain an exclusive male bastion in Kerala for some more time as no woman has sought appointment as priests in the temples managed by the State Devaswom boards. No woman has approached the Travancore, Cochin and Malabar Devaswom boards, which have administrative control over the nearly 2,000 temples in the State, with requests for appointment. Incidentally, it appeared that there were no qualified women candidates as none has been formally trained in temple rituals and pujas at the two government-recognised thantra schools of the State. The disinterest of women in priesthood stands in stark contrast with their counterparts in Tamil Nadu where many women have sought permission to perform puja in temples. P.K. Sekar Babu, the Tamil Nadu Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments, had stated that women, if trained, could be appointed as priests in temples. Minister’s view Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan said the issue had not been discussed as it had not come up for consideration in the State. N. Vasu, the president of the Travancore Devaswom Board, said the agency had not discussed the issue as no woman had approached the board with such a request. M. Nandakumar, president, Cochin Devaswom Board, said the board alone could not take a decision on the issue as the government had to decide on it in consultation with priests and other stakeholders. Usually, women do not enter the sanctum sanctorum of temples though women were the head priests at Mannarasala and Pambumekkattu temples, he said. Online meet today M.R. Murali, the president of Malabar Devaswom Board, said no woman had raised such a demand. Akhila Kerala Thanthri Mandalam, a collective of priests, which offers training programme for Hindu males in temple rituals, will hold an online meeting on Monday to discuss the issue. S. Radhakrishnan Potti, the general secretary of the mandalam, said only men were trained in rituals at the institute run by the organisation. ‘All religions’ Confirming that no women candidates have been admitted to the thantra courses, Mullappally Krishnan Namboothiri, the working president of the Aluva Thanthra Vidya Peedam, said the government should strive to enrol women as priests in all religions. Women empowerment and renaissance would become meaningful only when women are made priests in all religions and not in Hindu temples alone, he said.  The disinterest of women in priesthood stands in stark contrast to their counterparts in Tamil Nadu where many women have sought permission to perform puja in temples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-woman-applicant-for-priesthood-in-kerala-temples/article34807969.ece
14 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||More cases of tree felling emerge across State||Fresh cases of suspected illegal felling of trees have emerged from across the State as the investigating teams are poring over official records and visiting the sites to ascertain the magnitude of loss. Five investigation teams headed by Divisional Forest Officers of the Flying Squads were on the field on Sunday to cross-verify the permits issuedwith the status of the holdings from which the felled trees were located. Around 500 huge teak and rosewood trees were suspected to be felled illegally from Thrissur district. The trees were suspected to be illegally axed from Elanad, Pattikkad and Mannamangalam areas of Thrissur district. While most of the trees that were felled in Wayanad were seized, it is suspected that the trees that were cut down in Thrissur had crossed the borders of the State, which could make its detection and seizure a difficult task, according to investigators. In Ernakulam, it is feared that around 100 huge teaks located close to the Thattekad Bird Sanctuary were felled. A few logs, that were suspected to have been cut out from the felled trees, were seized from Perambuvoor. Around 40 permits were issued in Ernakulam for taking out the felled trees. In Idukki It was estimated that close to 300 trees were felled in Idukki district and the most number of such cases were found to have taken place at Neriyamangalam and Adimali areas. One such case has been reported from Edavanna in Palakkad. A laborious challenge awaits the investigation teams as they have to verify the land records available with the revenue officials to ascertain the status of the land and the legality of the permits issued. The teams have been told to submit their report before June 22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-cases-of-tree-felling-emerge-across-state/article34807970.ece
14 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Copperplate inscriptions found at Srisailam temple||The Bhramarambha Mallikarjuna Devasthanam, engaged in reviving ancient Ganta Matham near Srisailam temple complex, chanced upon six sets of copperplate inscriptions on Sunday. There were 18 copper leaves found, said temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao. The inscriptions depict the far and wide patronage by people, he added. Telugu University’s School of History, Culture and Archaeology Professor P. Chenna Reddy said that the copperplates found at Srisailam could be dated back to somewhere between 14 and 16 centuries. Scripts in Sanskrit, Telugu Out of the six sets, four have inscriptions in Sanskrit and Nandi-Nāgarī script and the other two plates are in Telugu script, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/copperplate-inscriptions-found-at-srisailam/article34808029.ece
14 June 2021||Madikeri,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mentally unstable man beaten to death by cops; 8 suspended||A 50 year-old mentally unstable man, Roy D’Souza, was beaten to death allegedly by policemen for violating lockdown norms here in Karnataka last week, following which eight of them have been suspended, said a senior police officer. The policemen were booked on a complaint by the man’s brother. The police said the case would be handed over to the CID as per National Human Rights Commission guidelines.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mentally-unstable-man-beaten-to-death-by-cops-8-suspended/article34807977.ece
14 June 2021||Mysuru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Covaxin trials under way on children in Karnataka||Clinical trials of Covaxin among children are under way at the Child Rehabilitation Centre of the Cheluvamba Hospital, under the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC&RI), in Mysuru. Out of 53 volunteers between 12 and 18 years, 30 were eligible to receive the vaccination after RT-PCR tests and IgG negative reports. “All the 30 were vaccinated last Sunday. Another 20 children will be vaccinated shortly,” said C.P. Nanjaraj, Dean of MMC&RI. Those eligible All the children are under observation and they will receive the second dose 28 days after the first dose. The children will be monitored for 208 days, he said. Children with a negative RT-PCR report and showing absence of antibodies through an IgG test are eligible for the clinical trials. The Cheluvamba Hospital in Mysuru is one of the 10 institutions across India, and the only one in Karnataka, to be selected for the clinical trials of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited. Children between 6 and 12 years and 2 and 6 years will also be part of the trials. About 50 children in each group will be selected shortly, Dr. Nanjaraj said. The hospital is following the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the authorities. The dosage for the children is the same as that administered for persons above 18 years [0.5 ml]. The children will remain in the hospital for about two hours after administering the vaccine. “The children in all the three groups will be monitored for 208 days and if there is no problem, then can a decision be taken for giving permission for vaccinating children,” the Dean said. The trials are being carried out under the supervision of paediatricians Pradeep and Prashant of Cheluvamba Hospital.  The children will receive the second dose 28 days after the first dose and they will be monitored for 208 days||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covaxin-trials-under-way-on-children/article34807976.ece
14 June 2021||NUZVID,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 3,000 take part virtually in IIIT fest||The fifth national-level techno management festival, Teckzite’ 2021, organised by Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) from IIIT campus virtually, was concluded on Sunday. More than 3,000 students from different universities and colleges participated in the five-day event and presented their projects. Ruthvik Mehenge, a student from Trinity College in Pune, emerged the winner of the event ‘Confront COVID-19’ for his project ‘Vascaver - An active refrigeration system for last leg vaccines transportation’. An IOT-based water quality monitoring system, designed by a team of students--G. Nitish Satya Sai, K. Sai Manikanta, A. Sri Ganesh and R. Sudheer--was the winner of ‘Project Exhibition’. Gottipilli Sravanthi from PUC first year, RGUKT, Nuzvid IIIT, is the winner of the event ‘PUC Orator’. S. Mourya and A. Dhanunjay of IIIT were the winners of the event ‘IPL Auction’.  IIT Madras professor Thalappil Pradeep, who was the guest for the concluding session of the festival, spoke on the need for providing access to clean water through nanotechnology-enabled solutions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/over-3000-take-part-virtually-in-iiit-fest/article34808034.ece
14 June 2021||Palakkad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramya files complaint against CPI(M) activists||Ramya Haridas, Alathur MP, has filed a police complaint against a few Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] activists for threatening and verbally abusing her. In her complaint registered at the Alathur police station on Sunday, Ms. Haridas said she was threatened by a group led by former Alathur panchayat vice president M.A. Nazar and councillor Najeeb. Mr. Nazar and Mr. Najeeb denied the allegations, and said that the MP had fabricated a case against them. The Alathur grama panchayat filed a case against Ms. Haridas and her assistant Palayam Pradeep for threatening and abusing Mr. Najeeb and other panchayat officials. The cause The incident that led to a quarrel between the MP and the CPI(M) activists occurred on Sunday afternoon when she walked up to a group of Haritha Karma Sena women engaged in cleaning the premises of the police station at Alathur. However, Mr. Najeeb objected to Ms. Haridas spending time with the women in close proximity. An altercation followed, leading to Ms. Haridas staging a protest by sitting on the road. She alleged that the activists had threatened to ‘finish her off’ if she stepped in Alathur. Leader of the Opposition V. D. Satheesan termed the incident shocking.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ramya-files-complaint-against-cpim-activists/article34807982.ece
14 June 2021||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mechanised boat operators to postpone fishing by one week||The Kakinada-based mechanised boat operators have decided to postpone resumption of fishing activity in deep sea fearing spreading of COVID-19 and inconvenience to export activity due to partial curfew restrictions. The 61-day annual fishing ban ends at midnight on June 14. In East Godavari district, 450 mechanised boats are operating from the Kakinada fishing harbour engaging in deep-sea fishing that targets mainly tuna and prawns. Kakinada Mechanised Boat Operators Welfare Association former president Pamadi Maatharaju told The Hindu, “We have decided to postpone the fishing activity till June 22. Nearly 6,700 crew operating the 450 mechanised boats will be at the risk of being infected with the coronavirus. Postponement of the fishing by one week will minimise the risk.” “The chances of spread of virus among the crew are high as several of them hail from the coastal belt in the district, which is still in the grip of the COVID-19. The boat operators are also fearing adverse impact on export activities in the wake of partial curfew,” added Mr. Maatharaju. The fish from the Kakinada harbour is exported mainly to Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu from where it would be exported to foreign destinations in Asia. Joint Director (Fisheries) P.V. Satyanarayana told The Hindu, “We have assured the marine fish exporters and mechanised boat operators that they will be given special permissions for the transport irrespective of the partial curfew restrictions. However, the operators choose to wait.” Fibre boat operators Meanwhile, the operators of 5,100 small and fibre boat operators have been prepared to resume fishing from the midnight of June 14 or on June 15 from the 30 points in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mechanised-boat-operators-to-postpone-fishing-by-one-week/article34808529.ece
14 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand stokes illegal rosewood felling||The steep demand in the international market for musical instruments and furniture fashioned out of rosewood had stoked the widespread illegal felling of the endangered tropical hardwood tree from revenue land assigned to farmers for cultivation during 2020-21, according to Kerala Forest Department investigators. Forest Minister A.K. Saseendran told The Hindu that he had asked the forest vigilance to take stock of protected trees on land assigned to farmers. “I expect them to give a set of recommendations on how to monitor the health of the trees and preserve them without hampering farmers’ livelihood.” The vigilance had opened an inquiry into the lucrative black market for the endangered species. It would audit the State’s “forest wealth” lost to illegal loggers. Investigators said a bulk of the coveted rosewood ended in China. Misdeclaration of cargo at ports facilitated the racket, they said. Across the State, an “influential criminal mafia” had felled protected trees by misinterpreting an October 2020 revenue order allowing farmers to harvest common hardwood they cultivated on their land. The detection of the felling of 101 rosewood trees in Muttil South village in Wayanad district was just the tip of the iceberg. Investigators said one cubic metre of rosewood cost Rs. 7 lakh in the black market. The price often accrued several-fold when the timber found its way to foreign markets. The mafia had exploited the economic downturn caused by the pandemic to convince farmers to sell the rosewood on their plots for a pittance, investigators said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/demand-stokes-illegal-rosewood-felling/article34807973.ece
14 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala sees 11,584 cases; test positivity rate 12.24%||Kerala reported 11,584 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, when 94,677 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 12.24%. The State’s active case pool is declining and now has 1,23,003 patients, when 17,856 patients were reported to have recovered from the virus. The cumulative fatalities have reached 11,181, with the State adding 206 deaths. On Sunday, 2,309 patients were admitted to hospitals. The total number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals now stands at 30,675. The total ICU admissions declined significantly 3,009, when compared to the previous day’s figure of 3,115. The number of those requiring ventilator dipped to 1,189. The cumulative case burden of the State now stands at 27,28,239. Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases with 1,775, Thrissur 1,373, Kollam 1,312, Ernakulam 1,088, Palakkad 1,027, Malappuram 1,006, Kozhikode 892, Alappuzha 660, Kannur 633, Kottayam 622, Kasaragod 419, Idukki 407, Pathanamthitta 223 and Wayanad 147 cases. In Telangana, the daily positivity rate was at 1.4% in spite of the testing going down by about 29,000 on Sunday even as 1,280 new cases and 15 deaths were reported. According to a bulletin issued by the Public Health department, the cumulative total of positive cases and deaths has reached 6,03,369 and 3,484 respectively. Of the cases reported on Sunday, 165 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area and 156 from Khammam district. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh continues to witness a steady drop in the infections and deaths. While the recovery rate has increased to 94.61%, the fatality rate remains at 0.66%. On Sunday, the State reported 58 deaths and 6,770 infections, taking the cumulative toll and tally to 11,940 and 18,09,844 respectively. The total number of recoveries crossed 17 lakh and stood at 17,12,267. Over two lakh people have recovered in the past two weeks. The number of active cases stood at 85,637. Nearly half of the active cases were spread over three districts: East Godavari – 19,336 (22.58%); Chittoor – 12,296 (14.36%); and Prakasam – 8,692 (10.15%). Fresh COVID-19 cases fell to 14,061 on Sunday, taking Tamil Nadu's active cases to 1,49,927. The State’s case tally touched 23,53,721. As many as 25,895 people were discharged, taking the total figure to 21,74,247.  (With inputs from Chennai, Hyderabad, and Vijayawada bureaus.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-sees-11584-cases-drop-in-ap-fatalities/article34807985.ece
14 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to launch new online system for death reporting||Following criticism over the alleged “less-than-honest” manner in which Kerala was reporting its COVID-19 deaths, the Health Department is now rolling out an online, real-time reporting system, which will ensure transparency, accountability and completeness in COVID-19 death reporting henceforth. The system, developed by e-health division, is being rolled out on a trial basis on Tuesday. The COVID-19 death reporting in the State has been mired in controversies right from the time of the first wave and inconsistencies in reporting, gaps in data and the unusual disparities in mortality rate between districts have led to allegations of data manipulation by the State. Even though the importance of accurate death reporting and data sanctity for the purposes of pandemic-impact assessment and policy formulation for the future had been pointed out time and again by health experts, the State did nothing to set right its systems or to undo the damage that had been done. With the State and the Central governments deciding to offer compensation to the victims of COVID-19, especially children who had been left orphaned by the pandemic, inconsistencies in death reporting was no longer something that the government could sweep under the carpet. Entries by doctors Under the new online reporting system being made accessible to all public and private hospitals, doctors can enter the details of COVID-19 deaths — whether COVID-19 is the direct or underlying cause — directly on to the World Health Organisation’s reporting format. This will be approved by the head of the institution and sent to the District Medical Officer, who will compile the data and release the report. The software will auto generate several other data sets too, apart from electronic medical records. ‘Undeclared’ deaths “Till now, there has been so much variance in the COVID-19 death data reported from panchayats, health vigilance, hospitals and the districts and the gap was beginning to be yawning. It is not necessarily due to ‘hiding’, but more so because of incomplete hand-written medical bulletins from hospitals, which get shelved, so that the deaths go ‘undeclared’. The backlog of three to four weeks was being cleared slowly, which was why 200-250 deaths a day were being released during the past two weeks,” a senior Health official said. Mandatory fields “In the new online reporting system, one cannot report a death to the district without completing many mandatory fields, including date of COVID-19 testing, the SRF ID (specimen referral form ID) and cause of death. Every death has to be reported within 24 hours. The system detects process delays and will keep prompting, ‘task pending’. In all, the new system ensures transparency, real-time reporting and most importantly, completeness of data,” he said Kerala’s case reporting has always been sound and the State’s case fatality rate (CFR), which is a proportion of deaths to the total COVID-19 cases detected, has been naturally low. But at some point, the need to maintain a low CFR overtook other considerations. It was this very conscious exercise to project the CFR at a low which eroded the State’s credibility in COVID-19 death reporting. Commendable “It is commendable that the State has taken the demand for accurate COVID-19 death reporting seriously. It should now undertake a COVID-19 death data reconciliation exercise, as is being done in other States so that the COVID-19 death data so far can be recalibrated and data gaps filled,” a public health expert said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-to-launch-new-online-system-for-death-reporting/article34807980.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Baby born with three extra fingers||The news of a baby boy born with three extra fingers at Arepalli Rangampeta village of Chandragiri mandal created widespread interest in the vicinity on Sunday. ‘Congenital anomaly’ The awestruck parents T. Murali and T. Bhargavi observed 23 fingers on his hands and feet, instead of the normal 20, which is said to be due to a congenital anomaly. Doctors called this as Polydactyly and maintained that but for the condition, the baby was maintaining fine health. As the talk spread, residents of the nearby villages gathered to take a look at the infant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/baby-born-with-three-extra-fingers/article34808030.ece
14 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Union Minister Goyal prays at Tirumala||Union Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal offered prayers at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Sunday. Accompanied by his family members, the Minister arrived at the temple entrance to a ceremonial reception by Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy. The temple priests escorted him to the sanctum sanctorum with traditional honours. Later, the pundits showered Vedic hymns (Vedasirvachanam) on the Minister and presented him ‘Srivari Tirtha Prasadam’. State Minister B. Rajendranath, newly-elected Tirupati MP M. Gurumoorthy, TTD board member and Government Whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy were present. Later, the Minister prayed at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple in Tiruchanur. Meanwhile, Mr. Gurumoorthy, accompanied by ZRUCC member P.C. Rayulu, represented to Mr. Goyal the need to expedite development of the sixth platform in the Tirupati railway station, expansion of southern entrance, new train between Nellore and Chittoor via Tirupati, and recalled the long-pending demand for creation of a Balaji railway division headquartered at Tirupati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/union-minister-goyal-prays-at-tirumala/article34808515.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic curve sees a steady drop||The State continues to witness a steady drop in the COVID-19 infections and deaths. While the recovery rate has increased to 94.61%, the fatality rate remains at 0.66%. In the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, the State reported 58 deaths and 6,770 new infections, which took the cumulative toll and tally 11,940 and 18,09,844 respectively. The total number of recoveries crossed 17 lakh and stood at 17,12,267. Over two lakh people recovered in the past two weeks. With 12,492 people recovering in the past one day, the number of active cases came down to 85,637. Nearly half of the active cases were spread over three districts – East Godavari – 19,336 (22.58%); Chittoor – 12,296 (14.36%); and Prakasam – 8,692 (10.15%). Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Anantapur districts together had only 7.4% active cases. The daily positivity rate of the 1,02,876 samples tested was 6.58%, while the overall rate of the 2.045 crore tests remained at 8.85%. Chittoor reported 12 deaths in the last 24 hours, which was the highest among the districts. The toll in other districts was as follows: East and West Godavari (7 each); Srikakulam (6); Anantapur and Visakhapatnam (4 each); Kadapa, Krishna, Prakasam and Vizianagaram (3 each); and Guntur, Kurnool and Nellore (2 each). East Godavari reported the highest daily tally of 1,199 infections. It was followed by Chittoor (968), West Godavari (765), Prakasam (530), Srikakulam (491), Kadapa (473), Krishna (440), Guntur (433), Anantapur (367), Kurnool (299), Visakhapatnam (290), Nellore (267), and Vizianagaram (248). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,47,847), Chittoor (2,08,118), Guntur (1,57,241), West Godavari (1,51,658), Anantapur (1,49,594), Visakhapatnam (1,45,023), Nellore (1,23,330), Kurnool (1,19,505), Prakasam (1,15,078), Srikakulam (1,14,469), Kadapa (1,01,615), Krishna (95,643) and Vizianagaram (77,828).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-curve-sees-a-steady-drop/article34808512.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Peddireddi to discuss sanitation scheme with sarpanches today||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy will participate in Swaccha Sankharavam, an interaction with sarpanches in the State through a video-conference on Monday for the successful implementation of Jagananna Swachha Sankalpam  (JSS). JSS is a 100-day sanitation advocacy campaign to be launched on July 8, the birth anniversary of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, and implemented in 13,371 villages across the State for clean and healthy environs. As the first persons of the gram panchayats, the 13,095 new sarpanches have the responsibility to implement the government vision and transform their villages into clean habitations with strategic and material support from the government, according to a statement. Ensuring people’s participation, JSS envisages scaling up of the Manam Mana Parishubhratha  (sanitation with people’s participation) initiated from June 1 last year as phase-1 in 1,320 villages and phase-II from October 2 in 4,737 villages. The plan is to adopt a three-pronged approach to create litter-free and garbage-free visually-clean villages and to promote good sanitary practices and sustainable sanitation facilities in the rural parts of the State. The focus of the programme would be on door-to-door collection, solid waste management, finding revenue model from the end products of waste treatment, enhancing institutional cleanliness, encouraging people’s contribution towards village sanitation activities and community engagement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/peddireddi-to-discuss-sanitation-scheme-with-sarpanches-today/article34808521.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel to select pontiff of Brahmamgari Mutt||Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao has said that the government will constitute a committee to look into the issue of selecting the successor to head the Sri Pothuluru Veerabrahmendra Swami Vari Matham (Brahmamgari Mutt) in Kadapa district. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said it was the responsibility of everyone to protect the dignity and respect of the mutt. “Sri Pothuluri Veerabrahmendra Swami, who penned the ‘Kalagnanam’, a book of predictions in Telugu, had entered ‘jeeva samadhi’ in 1693. Since then, 11 pontiffs have headed the mutt,” the Minister said. After the passing away of Sri Veerabhoga Vasanta Venkateswara Swamy, there was a dispute over his successor. It was said that the pontiff had chosen his successor and mentioned the same in the will he had executed, he added. But trouble broke out as the families of his first and second wives wanted that a person from their respective lineage be declared the successor of the mutt, the Minister said, and added that “the government is yet to take a decision on the issue.” The government would solicit the advice of Hindu dharmic organisations, he said, and added that people could submit their suggestions to the Regional Joint Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/panel-to-select-pontiff-of-brahmamgari-mutt/article34808519.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRLDC keen on replicating ‘ArcGIS’ in southern grid||The reliability group of Southern Regional Load Dispatch Centre (SRLDC), a constituent of the Power System Operation Corporation Limited (POSOCO), requested the AP-Transco to share details of its geographical system software, ‘ArcGIS’, in order to replicate the same for the entire southern grid, which connects five States and a Union Territory. According to an official release, the AP-Transco introduced a comprehensive solution for displaying the State’s entire power network on the geographical system software, ‘ArcGIS’, with the support of internal teams. ArcGIS facilitates geo-tagging of the substations and the entire transmission and distribution line network of the AP-Transco and the Discoms. The ArcGIS helps in creating a grid map of entire AP network from consumer to generating stations, knowing the real time overloading or underloading of lines and the boundaries of all power companies of the State, thereby ensuring efficient management of the grid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srldc-keen-on-replicating-arcgis-in-southern-grid/article34808523.ece
14 June 2021||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 arrested in raids on liquor, gutkha units||In a joint operation, the police booked 102 cases against Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDPL) and gutkha smugglers and ID liquor manufacturers during raids in two days. The police arrested 150 persons and seized gutkha products worth about Rs. 12 lakh, two cars, two bikes and mobile phones from them, said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. “The teams led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal raided the illicitly distilled (ID) liquor units at different places in the district and destroyed about 3,800 litres of jaggery wash and seized 70 litres of countrymade liquor,” the SP said. Raids were also conducted on gambling dens and cockfights in the district, he added. 2,239 bottles seized ASP Mallika Garg, who monitored the operation, said 2,239 bottles of liquor had been seized in the raids. Vigil had been stepped up on A.P.-Telangana borders to prevent smuggling of NDPL from the neighbouring State, Ms. Mallika said on Sunday. Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) M. Ramesh Reddy, Mehaboob Basha, B. Srinivasulu, G. Nageswar Reddy and N. Satyanandam and other officers participated in the operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/150-arrested-in-raids-on-liquor-gutkha-units/article34808021.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government urged to drop school restructuring project||Leaders of the Federation of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Organisations (FAPTO) have demanded that the government drop its school restructuring programme as it would further contribute to school dropout rate and would curtail the number of teacher posts. At a press conference, federation Chairman G.V. Narayana Reddy and Secretary General K. Narahari pointed to circular 172 on the proposed ‘reforms’ the government intends to introduce and urged the authorities to allow the existing school education structure to continue. The leaders said they were not against the proposal to link pre-primary schools to the primary schools and addition of plus-two education in high schools. But deviating from the primary school structure, which has been existing for last 75 years in the State, and bringing in fundamental changes may weaken the primary education system, they said. Merger of Classes 1 and 2 in Anganwadi centres and calling them Foundation schools and integration of Classes 3, 4 and 5 in the nearest high schools was not a practical move, they argued. ‘Against Right to Education Act’ They said instead of sending their children to a school located at a distance of 3 km, parents of students in Classes 3,4 and 5 would prefer sending them to private institutions. The federation leaders said these proposals were against the spirit of the Right to Education Act and the National Education Policy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/government-urged-to-drop-school-restructuring-project/article34808031.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State collects Rs. 44,178 cr. GST in 2020-21||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Commercial Tax and Excise K. Narayana Swamy said the State collected Rs. 44,178.51 crore GST in the fiscal year 2020-21 and a target of Rs. 55,935.13 crore has been set for the current fiscal of 2021-22. In a release, he said that COVID-19 impacted the State revenue. In a special drive between October 2020 and March 2021 the government had collected Rs. 1,772 crore pending taxes. He said the State’s Commercial Tax Department stood fourth in the country. Regarding income through liquor sales, he said that the State’s VAT collection was 41% less during the 2020-21 fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-collects-rs-44178-cr-gst-in-2020-21/article34808513.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP lashes out at YSRCP for ‘targeting’ opposition leaders||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu has accused the government of targeting the Opposition leaders for questioning the “atrocities and irregularities of the ruling party leaders in the otherwise peaceful North Andhra districts.” In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Atchannaidu condemned the “attacks on the properties” of former TDP MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao in Visakhapatnam. “If the government believes that the former MLA had encroached lands, it should commission a survey and show proof for the same,” he said. The day was not far when the people of Visakhapatnam would teach a lesson to the YSRCP leaders, Mr. Atchannaidu said. “By pursuing politics of hatred, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and his Ministers are destroying the future of the State,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-lashes-out-at-ysrcp-for-targeting-opposition-leaders/article34808517.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cancel SSC examinations, demands TDP||Telugu Desam Party MLC Mantena Satyanarayana Raju has charged the government with being adamant in the conduct of the SSC examinations despite the students and their parents demanding its cancellation. In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Raju said that the national boards such as ICSE and CBSE had already cancelled the Class 10 examinations. “More than 16 States have cancelled the exam, putting the safety and security of the students and their parents above everything else in view of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. Considering these factors and taking a cue from other States, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should cancel the examinations, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cancel-ssc-examinations-demands-tdp/article34808516.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh seeks probe into APPSC row||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to direct an inquiry by a sitting judge into the row over the digital evaluation of answer scripts introduced by the APPSC in the Group-1 Mains examination. In a letter addressed to the Governor on Sunday, Mr. Lokesh said that the APPSC had arbitrarily introduced digital evaluation. The notification dated December 31, 2018, had made no mention of digital evaluation, he said. “COVID-19 is sought to be used as an excuse for digital evaluation even as evaluation of other examinations is being done manually,” he said. The APPSC aspirants were unanimous in demanding that a White Paper be released on the SOP followed during digital evaluation, Mr. Lokesh said in his letter. ‘Candidates moved court’ In an unprecedented move, more than 300 candidates had approached the Andhra Pradesh High Court seeking that the papers be evaluated again manually and the names of candidates selected for interview be disclosed, he said. “The APPSC’s response to RTI queries is raising further doubts,” he said. “Only a thorough inquiry by a sitting judge can restore the trust in and legitimacy of the APPSC,” Mr. Lokesh added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lokesh-seeks-probe-into-appsc-row/article34808518.ece
14 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Populist schemes bankrupted State: BJP||A meeting of the senior leaders of the State BJP held here on Sunday resolved to fight against the proposed increase in property tax and mount pressure on the government to solve the problems being faced by the farmers in selling their produce. Addressing the media after the deliberations, BJP State general secretary and MLC P.V.N. Madhav said the meeting took note of the government’s “anti-people policies” and the need to scale up the COVID-19 vaccination drive. Besides, the meeting decided to have deliberations of the State party executive committee in the virtual mode on June 28. Mr. Madhav said the leaders were critical of the populist schemes being implemented by the government at the expense of development. The “money distribution spree” landed the State in bankruptcy, he said. The party objected to increasing various taxes when people were reeling under the impact of COVID-19. He said that the meeting also faulted the government’s proposal to monetise prime lands in cities. On the political front, the State BJP decided not to forge an alliance with any other party having already tied up with the Jana Sena Party. Union Minister and State party affairs in-charge V. Muraleedharan, co in-charge Sunil Deodhar, national organising secretary Shiv Prakash, national general secretary D. Purandeswari, national secretary Y. Satya Kumar, State president Somu Veerraju and former president K. Lakshminarayana were present at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/populist-schemes-bankrupted-state-bjp/article34808522.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC staff demolish walls on ‘encroached’ lands of TDP leader||A tense situation prevailed at Tunglam and Jaggarajupeta, near Gajuwaka, when officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) demolished boundary walls and godowns on lands, allegedly encroached by former MLA and Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leader Palla Srinivasa Rao and his family members, in the early hours of Sunday. The lands were reportedly in the possession of Mr. Palla Sankar Rao, brother of Mr. Palla Srinivasa Rao. It may be recalled here that a building belonging to Mr. Srinivasa Rao was demolished by the GVMC staff in April on the charge that it was being constructed on encroached land. Mr. Sankar Rao, who was at the site, when the demolition was being done on Sunday morning, said that their family had purchased the land 35 years ago. He questioned why the GVMC officials started demolition in the early hours. Meanwhile, TDP State president K. Atchannaidu strongly condemned the GVMC action. He alleged that those who question the ‘misdeeds’ of the government were being targeted and harassed. He described the seizure of land belonging to the family members of Mr. Srinivasa Rao as an attack on the Backward Classes. TDP State general secretary Md. Nazeer, in a statement, alleged that the YSR Congress Party government was disturbing peace in Viaskhapatnam city by indulging in destructive activities. He condemned the demolition of the fencing on the site belonging to Mr. Srinivasa Rao. The officials had surveyed the lands in the past and ruled there were no encroachments, he said. He alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was trying to intimidate the Opposition leaders. Taking exception to the statements of Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Mr. Nazeer challenged him whether he would resign if his statement that lands valued at Rs. 790 crore were encroached, was proved wrong. The TDP leader alleged that the properties of Sabbam Hari, MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu and the GITAM were demolished in the past.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-staff-demolish-walls-on-encroached-lands-of-tdp-leader/article34808530.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP leader’s family has encroached 49 acres’||There is a need to book criminal cases and put a few political leaders involved in grabbing lands behind bars as it will act as a deterrent to others, Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao’s remarks come in the wake of the GVMC officials demolishing the boundary walls and godowns on the lands allegedly encroached by former MLA and TDP leader Palla Srinivasa Rao and his family members, in the early hours of Sunday. The lands were reportedly in the possession of Palla Sankar Rao, brother of the former MLA. A building belonging to the former MLA had been demolished by the GVMC staff in April on the charge that it was being constructed on encroached land. Addressing the media, the Minister said that Mr. Sankar Rao had 61 acres of land in his possession at Jaggarajupeta, Tunglam and other areas of the city. “Of this, 49 acres, both government and private, have been encroached by the Palla family. The basic value of the land is Rs. 263 crore and the market value is estimated to be Rs. 791.41 crore,” the Minister said. He also alleged that the TDP leaders, during the tenure of N. Chandrababu Naidu as the Chief Minister, had resorted to large-scale grabbing of lands. “When the YSRCP government is recovering the encroached lands, the TDP leaders are trying to project it as Visakhapatnam being put for sale,” the Minister said. Referring to the TDP going to the court against making Visakhapatnam the Executive Capital and opposing distribution of house sites to the poor, the Minister said that the TDP wanted the support of the people of Visakhapatnam and the North Andhra region during the elections, but was against development of the region later. “Visakhapatnam, with its cosmopolitan culture and infrastructure such as an international airport, has the potential to grow on a par with the cities such as Hyderabad and Chennai,” he said, and urged the opposition parties not to oppose the development of the city.” Railway zone On the proposal to increase property tax, the Minister retorted, “You want development, but you don’t want to pay taxes. You also don’t want the government to borrow money.” The BJP leaders in the State should strive for the commencement of work on the South Coast Railway (SCoR) Zone, which was announced by the Centre more than two years ago, apart from securing Special Category Status (SCS) to the State, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-leaders-family-has-encroached-49-acres/article34808525.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees four deaths, 290 new COVID cases||The Visakhapatnam district reported 290 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The death toll increased to 985 after four more persons succumbed to coronavirus. A total of 818 persons recovered. With the new cases, the cumulative tally increased to 1,45,535. The number of active cases has been declining for the last three weeks. By Sunday morning, the active cases decreased below 6,000 and stand at 5,962. Meanwhile, the cumulative number of discharges/recoveries has increased to 1,38,588.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-sees-four-deaths-290-new-covid-cases/article34808534.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Betting racket busted, 4 held||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) and the PM Palem police busted a cricket betting racket and arrested four persons at Rushikonda here on Saturday night. The police have seized communication equipment from the accused. The arrested were identified as K. Ravi Kumar (29) of Akkayyapalem, T. Dhanunjaya (34) of Sujatha Nagar, M. Sivaji (29) of Srikakulam and V. Rambabu (43) of MVP Colony. The police have seized communication set-up box containing 29 mobile phones with SIM cards along with head sets, two laptops, two television sets, router and router connector. According to the police officials, the main accused in the case Ch. Srinivas, alias cable Srinu, who is yet to be arrested, had employed four persons for organising the betting in the city. PSL matches The gang has been reportedly organising bettings over the Pakistan Cricket League (PSL) T-20 league which commenced on June 9. Police said that the gang collected bets from the punters for the match between Quetta Gladiators and Peshawar Zalmi teams on Saturday night through online apps by using communication equipment. “The gang had communication set-up box equipment, which had 30 mobile phones, to communicate with 30 persons at a time. The gang used an app to communicate ratings of the match. They also cheated the punters by announcing wrong ratings,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/betting-racket-busted-4-held/article34808536.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Abolish GST on COVID drugs and equipment’||Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) has demanded that the Centre abolish Goods and Services Tax(GST) on COVID-19 drugs and equipment for at least one year or till the pandemic was wiped out. In a statement on Sunday, PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya while hailing the decision of the Centre to abolish the GST on drugs used in the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) cases, only reducing the GST from 12% to 5% on COVID-19 drugs and that too till September was not the right solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/abolish-gst-on-covid-drugs-and-equipment/article34808532.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEA organises blood donation camp||A blood donation camp and tree plantation programme were organised by the Steel Executives Association (SEA) of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) in memory of the victims , who died in a mishap at the VSP on June 13, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sea-organises-blood-donation-camp/article34808531.ece
14 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to organise a series of events from today||On the occasion of ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsava’ from June 14 to 20, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park, Visakhapatnam, is organising awareness activities about the species Asiatic Wild Dog. According to the IGZP officials, there will be online sessions by eminent speakers .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/zoo-to-organise-a-series-of-events-from-today/article34808535.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky behaviour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/risky-behaviour/article34808539.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparing for voyage||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/preparing-for-voyage/article34808527.ece
14 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Senior Maoist leader dies of heart-attack in forests||Kathi Mohan Rao alias Dhamadhada, a well-educated senior Maoist leader from Garla village in Mahabubabad district, reportedly died of heart-attack in neighbouring Chhattisgarh’s Dandakaranya forest region on Thursday. Mohan Rao, who has been working underground for the last three decades, breathed his last following heart-attack despite best efforts by the Maoist cadres to save him, according to a statement issued by the CPI (Maoist) State committee official spokesperson Jagan on Sunday. His funeral was conducted with revolutionary traditions on June 11 in Dandakaranya, the statement said. Mohan Rao was closely associated with the Radical Students Union (RSU) during his college days while pursuing M.Sc in Kakatiya University in early 1980s. He started his underground life by joining the then People’s War Group’s Mahadevpur area squad in 1991. He was arrested in 1992 while undergoing treatment for an ailment at a hospital and after release from jail returned to underground life. He subsequently served as a ‘teacher’ in a school run by the Maoists’ ‘Janatana Sarkar’ for sometime in Dandakaranya region. He remained in underground life till his last breath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-maoist-leader-dies-of-heart-attack-in-forests/article34808441.ece
14 June 2021||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,TELANGANA||Ex-MP donates 1,000 PPE kits to hospital||TRS leader and former Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy donated 1,000 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to doctors and other staff at the government headquarters hospital in Kothagudem on Sunday. Mr Reddy along with the Zilla Parishad vice-chairman Kancharla Chandrasekhar Rao and others visited the government hospital in the coal town and handed over the PPE kits to hospital superintendent Sarala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ex-mp-donates-1000-ppe-kits-to-hospital/article34808434.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Oxygen concentrators, cylinder refills cheaper now||With the rate of COVID-19 infection gradually slowing down, the prices of medical oxygen, which had increased by 700% to 800% during the two months of the distressing second wave, have also come down. Pre-COVID, a bulk cylinder could be refilled for around Rs. 300. However, as the second wave set in, leading to a spike in number of patients in need of oxygen, the cost of one refill climbed to Rs. 2,000-2,500. Now, a refill costs Rs. 500 in Hyderabad. The upsurge From 360-odd patients admitted to hospital ICUs on March 1 this year, the occupancy increased to over 4,100 in the third week of April. On Sunday, the number stood at 2,987. ICU admissions in hospitals is taken as an important measure to indicate severity of the infection. At the peak of the second wave, ICU beds in major government and corporate hospitals in Hyderabad were mostly full. For many, finding a bed equipped with oxygen supply was a challenge. The oxygen saturation levels of a COVID patient dropping below 95 is considered risky, so many attendants used to make rounds of hospitals to find a bed. As a temporary measure to keep the patient safe, family members and friends made arrangements for oxygen cylinders. This pushed up demand for oxygen cylinders and oxygen concentrators, and the manufacturers cashed in on the demand. Desperate pleas on social media platforms requesting for medical resources are still fresh in people’s minds. However, now with a drop in severe COVID cases, the prices of the resources have dropped too. “Now, it costs Rs. 500 per refill of a bulk oxygen cylinder,” said Mujtaba Askari, trustee of Helping Hand foundation, an NGO which provided the cylinders based on requests from desperate families. Several volunteers were also involved in arranging or providing oxygen cylinders to needy patients at their home. Besides the manufacturers, ambulance drivers also charged more from people citing exorbitant charges in refilling cylinders or of other resources such as Personal Protective Equipment. Oxygen concentrators Also in great demand and short supply were oxygen concentrators. Their exorbitant price stunned everyone — they were sold for Rs. 45,000-60,000 before COVID but during the peak of the second wave, the cost went up to Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 1.8 lakh. People who wanted to buy and keep it at home as a precaution decided against it after finding out the price. Some organisations leased them for around Rs. 1,000 a day. Now, their prices too have come down. “There is no demand for the oxygen concentrators now. Earlier, people used to rent it at Rs. 1,000 a day. Now, no body is ready to pay even Rs. 500 a day as rent,” said a trader on condition of anonymity. Dr Mujtaba said several NRI doctors and others from US and Europe, connected with members of voluntary organisations here and donated the oxygen concentrators. “We are now in a position to give it to patients in rural districts too,” he said. Other resources Another major organisation involved in providing medical services to COVID-19 patients said prices of other medical resources also went up during the peak of second wave. Oxygen flow meters which usually cost around Rs. 450 were sold for Rs. 3,000 or more while oxygen regulators worth Rs. 1,400 were sold for Rs. 3,600. Nasal cannula whose cost is Rs. 18 were priced at Rs. 55 while the Rs. 25 surgical spirit was sold for Rs. 45. “These prices have to be regulated during periods of high demand so that people don’t bear the brunt of exorbitant charges,” said the head of the organisation, seeking anonymity. President of Indian Medical Association-Warangal, P. Sudhir Kumar said prices of the oxygen cylinder refill is still around Rs. 1,000 in Warangal. If the prices are regulated, burden on hospitals and thus patients will decrease. Dr Sudhir also said that taxes on all forms of medial resources used in COVID-19 treatment have to be waived off so that financial burden on people comes down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-concentrators-cylinder-refills-cheaper-now/article34808428.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warangal jail to house 24-storied hospital||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered construction of a 24-storied green building for the multi-super speciality hospital to be constructed in place of the central jail at Warangal. It should have a helipad on the terrace for landing of helicopters bringing patients for emergency care. To be built on the lines of the multi-storied Mackenzie Health Sciences Centre in Canada, the hospital should have cross-ventilation for free flow of air and light, authorities were told. Mr. Rao will lay the foundation stone for the building and a new Collector’s complex on June 21 when he will go to Warangal for inspection of works taken up under Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes of developing villages and towns. On June 20, he will visit Siddipet and Kamareddy districts. Announcing this at a meeting of Additional Collectors and District Panchayat Officers (DPOs) to gather field-level experiences of the programmes, Mr. Rao said he would adopt a district to participate in their works. He warned the officials that they would not be spared if they were found wanting in execution of programmes. Strict action would be taken if their performance did not improve even after his surprise visits. He handed over to Additional Collectors a copy of the Government Order permitting them to draw up to Rs. 25 lakh for immediate expenditure to resolve issues of local bodies. Admitting that the Additional Collectors and DPOs worked hard, he said he had ground report that their initiatives were not up to desired levels. Therefore, he decided to undertake surprise visits after giving them time to rectify the shortfalls. He convened this meeting to forewarn them. He asked senior officials to suspend gram panchayat secretaries and sarpanches if they did not conduct gram sabha to finalise works in villages. It was the responsibility of DPOs to ensure gram sabha went into financial statements of villages. The expenditure under charged accounts should be met first before going into other works of villages. He asked the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to send some Additional Collectors and DPOs to Kerala, which was in the forefront of rural development. The office chambers of Additional Collectors should be next to that of Collectors to give them a respectable position. The Additional Collectors were asked to be extra vigilant to layouts by real estate dealers in towns. They sold lands allotted to community halls, transformers, sub-stations and water tanks in their layouts. These pieces of land should be registered with municipalities before allotment for such ventures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/warangal-jail-to-house-24-storied-hospital/article34808448.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,TELANGANA||Over 63L ryots to get Rs. 7,509 crore support||The Telangana government is all set to credit investment support (grant) of about Rs. 7,509 crore at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre directly into the bank accounts of 63,25,695 pattadar farmers in the State with a total landholding of 150.18 lakh acres for taking up cultivation of crops this kharif (vanakalam) season. The process of transferring the cash benefit to the bank accounts linked to the landholding farmers would begin on June 15 and is expected to be completed in 10 days. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy released the details of farmers eligible to receive the Rythu Bandhu assistance this season. The list of pattadar farmers was finalised by the office of the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA) and handed over to the Agriculture department. A total of 2,81,865 farmers with a landholding of 66,311 acres would get the investment support additionally this season compared to the 2020-21 yasangi (rabi) season. The Minister allayed the fears of farmers with regard to the change in their bank branches’ IFSC code numbers following merger of some banks after the investment support was credited for the last rabi season. The Minister suggested that farmers who secured pattadar passbooks for the first time submit their details such as copies of pattadar passbook, Aadhaar card and bank account details to AEOs concerned or Agriculture Officers in the mandal offices. According to the details finalised by the CCLA, pattadar farmers of Nalgonda district would get benefited most with Rythu Bandhu this season, as always, as 4,72,983 farmers with a landholding of 12.18 lakh acres would get Rs. 608.81 crore and Medchal-Malkajigiri would benefit the least since 39,762 farmers with a landholding of 77,000 acres would get Rs. 38.89 crore. Eligible farmers in seven districts would get the investment support in the range of Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 400 crore, in 11 districts they would get in the range of Rs. 200 crore to Rs. 300 crore and in 10 districts they would get Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 200 crore in total. In three districts – Warangal Urban, Mulug and Medchal-Malkajgiri —, they would get less than Rs. 100 crore each. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said in spite of the COVID impact, the government had extended Rs. 14,656.02 crore investment support to farmers during the two crop seasons of 2020-21 and in the budget for 2021-22 the government had allocated Rs. 14,800 crore for implementing the scheme for the fourth year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-63l-ryots-to-get-rs-7509-crore-support/article34808442.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Restrict mass gatherings till year-end, experts urge govt.||With the COVID-19 cases considerably reducing in this devastating second wave, public health experts want the governments to continue to restrict mass gathering of people for any activity, be it political, religious or social, till the end of the year. Only a small number of people should be allowed at a time for events that cannot be postponed, they suggest. Further, all international travellers should be subjected to quarantine for 14 days and at the end of this period, all members of the household and neighbouring houses should be tested, advocates Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy, in an exclusive interaction. “A global systematic review conducted recently showed that early initiation of quarantine, large scale screening, strong contact tracing systems and isolation of cases as a combined strategy is the most effective in combating COVID. If the screening coverage is low and isolation facilities are scarce, 75% of asymptomatic cases and mild symptomatic cases will be missed. This will be catastrophic,” he warns, urging the governments and citizens not to let their guard down. Fever and severe acute respiratory infections surveys can help along with testing in early detection. Here again, community volunteers can be trained to support health staff. Nursing, pharmacy, medical social work, physiotherapy students and dental students can also be provided a brief orientation to conduct these services. Instead of physical forms, each team conducting a fever survey can be provided a tablet for uploading data to a cloud server, he suggested. The director, had worked with World Health Organisation-Geneva, on the ‘Childhood Blindness Program’ and was a UNAIDS Consultant with National Aids Control Organization where he guided and monitored the first ‘Behavioural Surveillance Survey’ facilitating the development of the first ‘Computerised Monitoring Information System’ for the National AIDS Control Program. “Contact tracing is critical. Residential Welfare Associations and colony committees should be roped in to help in contact tracing of their colonies so that there is less pressure on the already stressed health human resource,” he said. Dr. Murthy affirmed that virus transmission can only be reduced by healthy behaviour in the hands of the people and vaccination by the government. Testing/isolation The public health expert also called for increasing testing facilities at the primary health care centres, community health care centres and the district hospitals supported by mobile testing units so that there is a penetration of testing into the rural areas to control the virus spread. Testing rate per million population has dropped from 100,900 during the first wave to 95,212 in the second wave from March 2021 till date. “Early detection at the sub-district levels is critical. Medical officers at PHC and CHC should be trained and provided adequate support including personal protection kits to function effectively. Infrastructure needs to be ramped up at this level, including oxygen beds and assured oxygen supplies,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/restrict-mass-gatherings-till-year-end-experts-urge-govt/article34808429.ece
14 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagtial police catch burglar||Unlike the typical modus operandi of Pardhi gang where a group resorts to house burglaries, here is a Pardhi community man who has been committing offences as a ‘solo enterprise’. Jagtial district police arrested Pandhari Balu Pawar (34) from Aurangabad in Maharashtra and recovered 1.06 kg of gold ornaments and 1.31 kg silver articles worth around Rs. 56 lakh from his possession. The arrest has provided several clues to the police personnel as the change of committing offences with one-man operations. Such huge recovery of gold ornaments, by far the highest in any district in the State, has proved a watershed in crime detection in recent times. The accused, Pandhari, has been involved in 21 house-breakings by night and even robbery cases that took place at Jagtial rural, Ibrahimpatnam, Metpally, Raikal, Medipally, Sarangpur and Korutla in the district, Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma said. She said that even they were surprised to know that Pandhari was a solo offender as the Pardhi community members commit offences in groups and share the booty. The accused was not involved in physical or sexual assaults.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagtial-police-catch-burglar/article34808439.ece
14 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jail demolition completed||The Warangal Central Jail was demolished on Sunday under tight police security to pave way for construction of a multi super-speciality hospital. The demolition started in the early hours of Saturday but was suspended after a few hours to enable shifting of leftover material. It was taken up with several earth movers on a war footing on Sunday. The road opposite the jail was closed for traffic and the media not allowed to go anywhere near the 70-acre campus. Only the compound wall was visible to onlookers as the demolition went on throughout the day. Sources said the demolition was carried out all of a sudden to pre-empt litigation after it was informed that an NGO was planning to move court. The jail authorities submitted a letter handing over the campus to MGM Hospital Superintendent Chandrasekhar on Friday evening. The 135-year-old Nizam era jail was said to have been constructed with steel imported from England and precious logs of teak wood. They were disposed of by shifting in trucks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jail-demolition-completed/article34808449.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State posts 1,280 cases, 15 deaths||The daily positivity rate of COVID-19 infections in the State was at 1.4% in spite of testing going down by about 29,000 during the day as 1,280 new cases and 15 deaths were reported during the 24-hour period till 5.30 p.m. on Sunday. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department, the cumulative total of positive cases and deaths has reached 6,03,369 and 3,484, respectively. Of the cases reported on Sunday, 165 were from GHMC area and 156 from Khammam district. In 24 districts, the cases reported were in double-digit numbers with a maximum of 80 in Nalgonda district and in another seven district,s they were in single digits with the lowest of 1 in Kamareddy district. With 2,261 infected persons declared recovered during the day, the total recoveries have gone up to 5,78,748 and the rate up to 95.91% as against 95.22% at the national level. Similarly, the case fatality rate in Telangana is 0.57% against 1.3% at national level. A total of 91,261 samples were tested on Sunday and reports of another 1,663 samples were awaited. The active cases in the State stood at 21,137 as of Sunday evening. Meanwhile, a total of 2,15,240 doses of vaccine were administered to different categories of recipients from 18 years of age and above.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-posts-1280-cases-15-deaths/article34808425.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City firm gets DGCI nod for phase 2 drug trials||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR), and city-based Laxai Life Sciences have been given the regulatory approval by Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) to undertake a two-arm phase-II clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug Colchicine in improvement of clinical outcomes during the treatment of COVID-19 patients. CSIR institutes in this important clinical trial are the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) in Hyderabad and Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM) at Jammu. “CSIR’s two partner institutes are looking forward to the outcome of this phase II clinical efficacy trial on Colchicine, which may lead to life-saving intervention in the management of hospitalised patients. India is one of the largest producers of this key drug and if successful, it will be made available to the patients at an affordable cost,” said IICT director S. Chandrasekhar and IIIM director DS Reddy in a joint statement. Enrolment of patients for clinical trials has already begun at multiple sites across the country and is likely to be completed in the next 8-10 weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/city-firm-gets-dgci-nod-for-phase-2-drug-trials/article34808430.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special flight to take Eatala, team to Delhi||Former Minister Eatala Rajendra and his supporters will be flying to New Delhi on a special flight early on Monday morning to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The special flight has been booked by himself to accommodate about 180 leaders and followers, including former MLAs E. Ravindra Reddy and Ramesh Rathod, and former ZP chairman T. Uma, party sources said on Sunday. The flight will take off from Shamshabad airport around 7.30 a.m. and land in Delhi at 9.30 a.m. Mr. Rajender will then move to the BJP national headquarters to take up party membership formally along with his followers. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president J.P. Nadda is expected to be present to welcome the former Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) entourage from here. Although there is no word, as of now, on Home Minister Amit Shah giving any appointment, the former minister is said to be keen on meeting him to send a strong signal. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, who has played a key role in luring him into the party along with party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, will be hosting both lunch and dinner at his official residence. The touring party is said to have booked a private hotel and the BJP on its part has reserved a few guest houses for accommodating them, party sources said. Interestingly, the BJP national leadership has conveyed that not more than 20 persons will be allowed into the party office considering the COVID regulations and just two persons present on the stage to be received by the president. However, Mr. Rajender and BJP leaders wanted to display a show of strength and approached the airport as well as security authorities concerned to allow the special plane to land in Begumpet airport the day after so that a procession can be taken out to the party office in Nampally, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/special-flight-to-take-eatala-team-to-delhi/article34808444.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Personal appraisal for Collectors||The Chief Minister said the performance of Collectors would henceforth be recorded by their personal appraisal reports. He made the comment while throwing his weight behind officials and asking them to work fearlessly. They should not bow to pressure from anyone. Mr. Rao asked senior bureaucrats at the meeting to not only serve show-cause notices on Additional Collectors and DPOs but take action against them without delay if they were found wanting in discharge of duties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/personal-appraisal-for-collectors/article34808445.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sale of lands to be notified on June 16||The State government has announced notification of sale of vacant lands around Hyderabad on June 16 and e-auction on July 16. The Cabinet recently decided to sell government vacant lands and lands and houses constructed by State housing corporation to shore up its resources. A revenue of Rs. 10,000 crore was targeted for the purpose in this year’s budget. A committee headed by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao asked all departments to furnish details of vacant lands in their possession. Thereafter, standard operating procedures for sale were finalised and committees constituted for effective completion of the process. In the first phase of sale, 50 acres of land parcels at eight sites in Kokapet and 15 acres at Khanampet will be up for sale. They were the land bank of Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority and Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation respectively. The government had announced hundred per cent assured title of land with no encumbrances and absolute ownership of land to successful bidders. It also promised time-bound fast-tracking of approvals in single window, unlimited floor space index (FSI) and multiple use zone for office space, IT, residential, institutional, commercial and mixed use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sale-of-lands-to-be-notified-on-june-16/article34808450.ece
14 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||We will reacquire lands being sold now: Bhatti||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has warned that the party leaders would personally stop the sale of lands proposed by the government. “We will personally visit the lands identified for sale and urge the people not to buy those lands,” he said at an interaction with the reporters here. He said Congress would come back to power in 2023 and all the lands for sale now would be thoroughly reviewed and taken back for public use. Mr. Bhatti said lands were the State’s property and they could be utilised for public purpose only, and not for sale to run the government. He reminded that Sonia Gandhi agreed for Telangana only after realising how the State’s property was being misused. In fact, the TRS too had opposed sale of Telangana lands by the then government. How come it was following the same policy now, he asked. He said Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao had already pushed the State into a debt-trap and by 2023 the State would have a debt of Rs. 5 lakh crore. “State’s income would not be enough for paying the interest and the debt and economy was in a precarious situation. The CM is going on raising loans for day-to-day affairs of the government,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/we-will-reacquire-lands-being-sold-now-bhatti/article34808452.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KIMS IPO opens on June 16||Healthcare service provider Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), that now has nine multi-speciality hospitals in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana with around 3,000 beds, plans to expand to markets adjacent to its existing core markets, including Chennai and Bengaluru. Besides Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, it is exploring prospects of foraying into some parts of central India as well as Bhubaneswar in Odisha. The IPO (initial public offering) of KIMS that opens on June 16 and will close on June 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kims-ipo-opens-on-june-16/article34808437.ece
14 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t fleece people: MLA||Sangareddy MLA, T. Jayaprakash Reddy has appealed to private hospitals not to fleece people using their helplessness in the COVID times and demanded that the government come to the rescue of people forced to pay lakhs of rupees for medicare. At a press conference here, he said doctors in private hospitals were good but the only problem was their unaffordable billing. “You can earn Rs. 50,000 or a lakh on the actual costs incurred but you can’t charge Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 30 lakh expecting patients to pay”, he said. On the PCC chief issue, Mr. Jayaprakash Reddy said he had sought the position for himself given his seniority and service to the party. “My name should be considered at least for working president if the high command has any other name on its mind. However, he would accept the decision of the party high command and work whomever they appoint.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-fleece-people-mla/article34808451.ece
14 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for selling drug in grey market||Five persons selling medicines used in the treatment of Black Fungus in the grey market were apprehended by Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (north Zone) team here on Sunday. Acting on a tip-off, the team led by inspector K Nageswar Rao laid a trap at BK Guda of SR Nagar and apprehended Vallapothula Venugopal (40), Gajula Naveen (29), both medical agents, Varre Ashok (29), a car driver, Kandukuri Prasad (36), a techie and Bommisetti Harish (28), fertilizer shop owner. Police seized six vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B Injections (Abhope inj 50) of Bharat Serums and Vaccines Ltd, three vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B Injections (Ambilon 50) of Celon Laboratories Pvt Ltd and five mobile phones from them. The accused were selling each vial for Rs. 35,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/five-held-for-selling-drug-in-grey-market/article34808432.ece
14 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Etigaddakishtapur oustees write to Chief Minister||In a novel way to bring their problems to the attention of the State government, oustees of Etigaddakishtapur wrote to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, urging him to look into their issues and address them at the earliest. They alleged that despite repeated appeals officials had failed to address their problems. “We are the residents of Etigaddaksihtapur in Toguta mandal and our village is going to be submerged under Mallannasagar along with some other villages. The officials started acquiring our lands in 2016 and payment of compensation is continuing. Payment of compensation for those who crossed 18 years was not being implemented. In some cases, cheque payment was stopped but new cheques were not issued. The plots and houses at Rehabilitation and Resettlement Colony (R&R) were not registered and officials are forcing us to vacate the village without providing us what we are entitled for,” the oustees said in the letter sent by post on Saturday to the Chief Minister. The same was mailed to Chief Minister’s Office on Sunday. “We have met Collector and RDO several times in this regard but of no use. We are facing several problems in the village. Even going for any work outside village has become Herculean task with the increase of bund height. There are aged, single women and men. Some of them were not paid compensation even today. Two persons died as timely medical assistance was not extended due to shifting of primary health centre,” the oustees said in their letter. The oustees posted videos on social media, saying they were not against projects but only demanding compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/etigaddakishtapur-oustees-write-to-chief-minister/article34808454.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Kauravas, Pandavas, politics of the day||An interesting parallel to the present-day politics was drawn by AICC spokesperson D. Shravan at the recent Satyagraha Deeksha staged by Pradesh Congress Committee to protest the “pathetic” attitude of the Central and State governments in fighting COVID. He said like Kauravas, the TRS had over 100 strength in the Assembly but they lacked any concern for health of the poor and middle class people. On the other hand, the Congress, like Pandavas, had been striving to help people in spite of its small numbers by arranging oxygen and ambulance to some patients. Former minister Eatala Rajender said there would only be Kurukshetra or ‘dharma yuddha’ in Huzurabad whenever byelection is held there. It prompted the Congress to raise the issue of its legislators who switched loyalties to TRS without quitting.   With the acceptance of resignation of Eatala Rajender from MLA post, all eyes are now on the date of bypoll. Political parties are already engaged in calculation of their advantages and disadvantages based on poll dates. Mr. Rajender will understandably be in favour of early election as it would help him take advantage of “sympathy factor”. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), according to analysts, is preferring bypoll after a couple of months as it will get time for gaining foothold in the constituency. As the drama over the episode is gradually subsiding, focus is now on the Election Commissionfor announcing the date for bypolls.   The resignation of Eatala Rajender received instant reaction from his former Cabinet colleagues. Backward Classes Minister Gangula Kamalakar recalled Mr. Rajender’s offensive against the Chief Minister that the latter’s action in dropping him from the Cabinet was nothing short of an attack on a herd of goats by a wolf. The Minister asked Mr. Rajender to identify the wolf and the sheep, now that it was clear the ex-Minister amassed wealth by making his voters scapegoat. Minister V. Srinivas Goud sought to know if the uncharitable words against CM were a reward to him for making Mr. Rajender a minister.  (B. Chandrashekhar, M. Rajeev, N. Rahul)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kauravas-pandavas-politics-of-the-day/article34808446.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||The lingering wave||The second wave of the pandemic has nearly passed on, but the havoc it wreaked still remains. Cases are dropping by the day, from five-digit figures in the middle of last month, it has slipped to three digits by the middle of June. Yet, nearly 1,300 patients are in need of intensive medical care at hospitals, according to Delhi government records. Worryingly, every second patient occupying a hospital bed in the Capital is recovering from severe repercussions of the virus infection on their respiratory system. The pattern of prolonged recuperation period, according to doctors, is as “difficult” to predict as its outcome. There were 11,703 hospitalised COVID-19 patients on May 20 – 6,481 in non-ICU wards and 5,222 in ICUs – when the city had recorded as many as 35,683 new cases in 24 hours. Over the next three weeks, the number of beds occupied in hospitals registered a steep drop of 80% with their total occupancy plummeting to 2,229 by June 9. The daily caseload, by that time, had dropped to 4,212. However, while the number of occupied non-ICU beds fell to 941 from 6,481, as many as 1,288 ICU beds were still occupied at the end of the 21-day period compared to 5,222 on May 20. A dovetailing of non-ICU and ICU hospital bed occupancy during the second wave reveals that, on average, COVID-19 patients recuperating on ICU beds constituted over 56% of the total patients every day during the 21-day interval in Delhi’s hospitals. Significant presence Save for three days – May 20, 21 and 22 – the number of patients inICU wards outnumbered those in non-ICU wards. On May 20, there were 6,481 patients on non-ICU beds against 5,222 on ICU ones, 5,694 against 5,017 on May 21 and 5,001 against 4,880 on May 22. ICU patients remained significantly higher compared to non-ICU patients for the remaining 18 days. According to records, the peak occupancy of ICU beds – 62.13% – came on June 1 when the city reported 9,364 new cases and 2,469 patients were in ICU compared to 1,505 on non-ICU beds. By the middle of last week, ICU occupancy had gone down to 57.78%. Doctors cited two reasons. One was the “overwhelming” numbers of moderate and severe patients who turned to city hospitals during the second wave. Besides the wave was shorter, though lethal, compared to the first, which peaked in November last year. Even during that time, it took about three months for most patients to be discharged from the ICU, says B.K. Rao, Chairman of Critical Care Department at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “After the first wave peak in November, most of the ICU patients could be discharged in the following three months,” Dr. Rao said. However, 35% of the total patientsin hospitals are in ICU beds with ventilators. Dr. Rao explains: “During the first wave, the cases were spread out and it happened over a couple of months. But during the second wave, the cases happened over a short span as the wave was there only for about one and a half to two months.” Many have yet to recover from post-COVID infections . “Some  who have been tested negative continue to be hospitalised as they have yet to recover from lung condition caused by it. Patients who have turned negative are shifted to the non-COVID ICU. These patients are either requiring ventilator support or high oxygen support. It is difficult to predict their recovery pattern and their outcome at this point,” he says, adding that the number of moderate to severe COVID patients who came to the hospital was overwhelming during the second wave. Sumit Ray, Head of Department of Critical Care at Holy Family Hospital says it is a general trend that after the peak, most admitted in hospitals will be in ICUs. Global pattern “What happens after peak surge is that a lot of patients withsevere lung damage stay on ventilators for a long time. Irrespective of the waves, it is true across the world . When the numbers dip, most of the people in hospitals will be in ICUs.  People going to the ventilator will stay on the ventilator for four to six weeks. That is why currently more than one-third of the total patients are in ICU beds with ventilators,” Dr. Ray points out. Precisely for this reason, the number of people in ventilators won’t fall at the same rate as the cases. Besides, the total number of people who tested positive was high during the second wave. Automatically, there would be more severely infected people. “Even during the first wave, when the cases were peaking, we had said that the ICU bed requirement would go up a little later. Initially, we needed more oxygen beds and casualty beds, but later on, we will need more ICU beds and ventilators. Evidence in literature across the world supports this. It has nothing to do with the first or the second wave. This is what happens in COVID,” Dr. Ray added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/the-lingering-wave/article34808408.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Capital sees 255 fresh cases with 23 deaths||The Capital recorded 255 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday along with 23 deaths and 376 recoveries, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin said 72,751 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 0.35%. There are 3,466 active cases in the city, of which 1,037 are under home isolation. The total number of cases recorded till date now stand at 14,31,139 with 24, 823 deaths. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the COVID situation has improved significantly in the Capital and now and the focus is on economic revival along with preparations for a possible third wave. “I hope the cases continue to decline rapidly so that slowly our lives can get back on track. This has been a great tragedy and we have to battle this together. We have to hope that the cases don’t increase, and a third wave does not come,” Mr. Kejriwal said as he announced the lifting of several restrictions. The government said 83,286 beneficiaries were vaccinated in 24 hours, of which 54,928 have received their first dose. Cumulative beneficiaries stand at 60,72,572, of which 14,40,394 have gotten both doses. Senior AAP leader Atishi said less than two days of stock of Covaxin left for youth and less than one day of Covishield. She said it has been observed that as soon as the vaccination programme starts for the youth, the speed of the drive increases. “We would like to appeal to the Central government to maintain a regular supply of vaccines for the youth — 18-44 years. The more vaccines we make available to the youth, the more hesitation about the vaccination will be removed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-sees-255-fresh-cases-with-23-deaths/article34808409.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon expected in next 48 hours, says Met||The Met department on Sunday evening said conditions are favourable for the advancement of the southwest monsoon to Delhi during the next 48 hours. The normal date for the arrival of the southwest monsoon in the Capital is June 27. No heat waves This year, the Capital has not experienced any heat waves and the highest the mercury has touched is 42.2 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the maximum temperature recorded was 35.2 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal for the season. The minimum settled at 23.8 degrees Celsius, which was also four degrees below normal. “The southwest monsoon has further advanced into some more parts of Madhya Pradesh; entire Chhattisgarh, Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar; most parts of East Uttar Pradesh; some parts of West Uttar Pradesh; entire Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad; some parts of north Haryana, Chandigarh and north Punjab on June 13,” the Met department said. The bulletin added that conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into most parts of Madhya Pradesh; remaining parts East Uttar Pradesh; Delhi; some parts of West Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab during next 48 hours. The forecast for June 14 reads: “Generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 34 and 25 degrees Celsius.” The extended forecast shows that rain is expected in the Capital for the next four days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/monsoon-expected-in-next-48-hours-says-met/article34808410.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Elderly woman found murdered in Burari||A 65-year-old woman was found dead with a slit throat and burn injuries in north Delhi’s Burari, the police said on Sunday. The victim has been identified as Rajwati from Kamalpur, they said. The police said the case came to the fore when her 38-year-old son Parmod informed the police. Parmod who runs a dhaba said he and his wife had gone to Khajuri on Saturday and when they returned home around 10 p.m., they saw Rajwari lying dead. The entry into the house was friendly and it appears that the accused were known to Rajwari, the police said. The body was shifted to Sabzi Mandi mortuary and the post-mortem will be conducted on Sunday. Manhunt on A case of murder has been registered and three teams have been formed to nab the accused. The police are looking into all aspects, including thetheft angle, the officer said. An officer said CCTV footage being checked to ascertain the identities of the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/elderly-woman-found-murdered-in-burari/article34808411.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||3 held for robbing man of mobile phone, cash||Three people have been arrested for allegedly robbing a man in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar, the police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Rohit, Chandan Kumar Rai, and Malloda alias Varsha, they said. The complainant in the case, Rohit Taneja from Lajpat Nagar, told the police that on Saturday while going back home, a woman signalled him to stop near Saket Court, saying her friend was lying injured near a hospital, an officer said. Mr. Taneja along with the woman reached the hospital where he saw two men waiting at the spot. The three then robbed him of his mobile phone, documents and around Rs. 8,000-Rs. 10,000 cash, the officer said. The accused then sped off in an autorickshaw. During investigation, the autorickshaw was found registered in one Harish’s name. The police along with the complainant reached Harsh’s house following which Rohit was arrested, said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. Based on Rohit's disclosure, Malloda and Rai were also arrested. The autorickshaw, cash and Aadhaar card were recovered from their possession.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-held-for-robbing-man-of-mobile-phone-cash/article34808412.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||42-yr-old woman held for sexually assaulting minor||A 42-year-old woman was arrested for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl in south-west Delhi’s Dabri, the police said on Sunday. According to the FIR, the 16-year-old’s mother and the accused were known to each other. The teenager’s mother had sent her to the accused’s house to learn things related to a parlour. When she returned, the daughter refused to go back home as the accused had threatened to upload her obscene video, which she had recorded, on social media. The accused also threatened to kill her and her mother if she leaves the house, the victim alleged. The accused, who runs an NGO, sexually abused and assaulted the minor, and also forced her to do household chores, an officer said. One day, the victim fell ill and was taken to a doctor when she managed to contact her mother and informed her about the ordeal. Later, police were informed about the incident. A case under Sections 4 and 6 of the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 377 (unnatural sex) of the Indian Penal Code have been registered. The police said the accused was previously involved in two criminal cases.  One day, the victim fell ill and was taken to a doctor when she managed to contact her mother and informed her about the ordeal. Later, police were informed about the incident||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/42-yr-old-woman-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor/article34808413.ece
14 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Heavy rain may lash Odisha||The Odisha government on Sunday alerted all districts over possible heavy rain during next two days. As per the warning, the low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal persists. Meanwhile, the monsoon further advanced into remaining parts of Odisha on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/heavy-rain-may-lash-odisha/article34808420.ece
14 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||‘Gurugram best city to live in COVID times’||Gurugram is the most suitable city to live in during COVID-19 times considering factors such as population density, open area ratio and hospital infrastructure, said a report by Square Yards titled “Suitability Index: The COVID Perspective”. The study throws light on the suitability of living and working in three prime cities in the country — Bengaluru, Mumbai and Gurugram with respect to COVID-19. The report says that factors such as population density, open area ratio and hospital infrastructure are far more important than the distance from work or affordability to decide where a homebuyer wants to live during COVID-19. The localities in Gurugram’s East zone such as sectors 52-56, 58, 40-44, 30, 24-27 are found to be the most suitable for living as per the index. As per the data, both Mumbai and Bengaluru offer only 1.3 and 0.30 hospitals per 10,000 people respectively, while Gurugram outshines both with 2.5 hospitals for every 10,000 people.  Number of cases Mumbai had 13 of the total 24 wards severely affected with more than 50 cases per 10,000 people. In Gurugram, the North and East zones averaged 55 cases per sq km while in Bengaluru four zones of the total eight recorded more than 200 cases per sq km.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gurugram-best-city-to-live-in-covid-times/article34808419.ece
14 June 2021||Kendrapara (Odisha),||Woman killed by crocodile||A fisherwoman died following an attack by a crocodile in close vicinity of Bhitarkanika National Park. An estuarine crocodile attacked her while she was fishing in a creek at Vekta village under Rajnagar police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/woman-killed-by-crocodile/article34808418.ece
14 June 2021||Mumbai,||Car ‘sinks’ on Mumbai housing society premises||A video of a car disappearing into a pool of water in a Mumbai housing complex after the spot where it was parked caved in went viral on social media on Sunday. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said the spot where the car sank used to be a well but was partially covered with cement concrete by the housing society. The incident occurred at Ram Nivas society located at Kama lane in Ghatkopar (West) on Sunday morning, the police said, adding no one was injured. “The housing society had covered a well with reinforced concrete cement and residents were using the area to park their cars. A police team reached the spot and brought the car out of the water body. The spot has been cordoned for the safety of residents,” an official said. Some years ago, the housing society had closed half the portion of the well by carrying out RCC work and used the spot to park the vehicles. However, due to rain, the portion caved in, and the vehicle drowned, he said. The BMC refused to take responsibility for the incident which followed a spell of heavy rain in the city. In a statement, the Shiv Sena-controlled municipal corporation stated it has nothing to do with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/car-sinks-on-mumbai-housing-society-premises/article34808169.ece
14 June 2021||NUH,||Stars to encourage jab in Nuh||Nuh, a Meo Muslims-dominated district of Haryana, languishes at the bottom of the table for vaccination coverage in the State with administration of around 11% of the targeted doses so far against the State average of 16%. To ramp up the numbers, the district authorities have now decided to rope in local “celebrities” — sportspersons, actors, and achievers — to dispel misgivings on the vaccine and encourage people’s participation in the immunisation drive. Conceding that the vaccination coverage in the district was far from satisfactory, Deputy Commissioner Capt. Shakti Singh said the authorities had taken several measures to encourage people to take part in the vaccination drive and had now decided to rope in local “celebrities”. He said these local “celebrities” could be sportspersons, actors, or even those who have cleared competitive exams and are trusted and looked upon with respect. “Also, we want to rope in doctors belonging to the district even if they are settled outside to convince people to get vaccinated,” said Capt. Singh. The administration is also in talks with Indian Idol winner Salman Ali, a local, for this. The recorded video message of these celebrities would be disseminated through social media to influence the locals. Only 81,818 vaccine doses were administered in the district till June 9, the lowest in the State. Capt. Singh attributed the low vaccination coverage to “general distrust” among the locals about the welfare schemes initiated by the government, besides “misinformation campaign” against the vaccination on social media and illiteracy. The administration also reached out to the masses through social and religious leaders and the results were encouraging, said Capt. Singh, adding that there was also a sense of fear among the people in the wake of the second wave and they were now willing to getting the jab. The figures also showed almost ten fold increase in the vaccination data for the past two months compared with the first three months.  60% above 18 years District Immunisation Officer Basant Pandey said the district has an estimated 12 lakh local population and 60% of them were above 18 years. He said that vaccination coverage was better in Tauru and Ferozepur Jhirka blocks compared to other blocks. Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislative Party and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed said poor health infrastructure had shaken the faith of the common man in the wake of the second wave and people had lost faith in the administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/stars-to-encourage-jab-in-nuh/article34808417.ece
14 June 2021||Pune,||Pune real estate sector reeling under second wave onslaught||The second wave of the pandemic has left Pune’s burgeoning real estate market gasping for breath. A severe paucity of construction workers, rising prices of essential materials, and delays in getting building permits have affected the construction sector. A nationwide survey conducted between May 24 and June 3 by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) — the apex body of private real estate developers — found that more than 90% developers are facing labour shortages at their sites and as a result, feared long delays in their projects. Nearly 5,000 developers from more than 200 cities participated in it. Rising prices of material “As per the CREDAI-National’s countrywide survey, about 94% builders in Pune are facing labour shortages and say ongoing projects may be delayed. Rising prices of cement, steel, copper, aluminium and PYC will push up housing prices. Up to 91% developers say they are not getting required approvals on time,” Anil Pharande, president, CREDAI-Pune Metro, said. The survey also found that 75% of builders’ customers are facing home loan problems, given the impact of the pandemic on the purchasing power and loan repayment. More than 50% of the developers said their construction costs had increased by 10-20 % on account of rising material and labour costs. Given that the second wave was more lethal than the first, and the effects are now beginning to show on the economy, Mr. Pharande said the construction business, which was in full gear, now needed the government’s help to rejuvenate itself. “Accordingly, we want the stamp duty reduction scheme to restart in Maharashtra and Input Tax Credit in the GST. Faster clearance of sanctions will also help us optimise our cost and timelines. If the projects are approved as soon as possible, we can have some control over the timing and alternative cost of completing the projects,” he said. The Pune chapter of CREDAI has urged the Central and the State governments to infuse urgent financial stimulus and initiate progressive measures to assist recovery, a one-time restructuring of loans, and a six months’ extension of completion date by RERA among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pune-real-estate-sector-reeling-under-second-wave-onslaught/article34808170.ece
14 June 2021||Jerusalem,||Israel coalition set to end Netanyahu era||Israel is set to swear in a new government on Sunday that will send Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu into the opposition after a record 12 years in office and a political crisis that sparked four elections in two years. Naftali Bennett, the head of a small ultranationalist party, will take over as Prime Minister. But if he wants to keep the job, he will have to maintain an unwieldy coalition of parties from the political right, left and centre. The eight parties, including a small Arab faction that is making history by sitting in the ruling coalition, are united in their opposition to Mr. Netanyahu and new elections but agree on little else. They are likely to pursue a modest agenda that seeks to reduce tensions with the Palestinians and maintain good relations with the U.S. without launching any major initiatives. Mr. Netanyahu, who is on trial for corruption, remains the head of the largest party in Parliament and is expected to vigorously oppose the new government. If just one faction bolts, it could lose its majority and would be at risk of collapse, giving him an opening to return to power. Deep divisions The country’s deep divisions were on vivid display as Mr. Bennett addressed parliament ahead of the vote. He was repeatedly interrupted and loudly heckled by supporters of Mr. Netanyahu, several of whom were escorted out of the chamber. Mr. Bennett’s speech mostly dwelled on domestic issues, but he expressed opposition to U.S. efforts to revive Iran’s nuclear deal with world powers. “Israel will not allow Iran to arm itself with nuclear weapons,” Mr. Bennett said, vowing to maintain Mr. Netanyahu’s confrontational policy. “Israel will not be a party to the agreement and will continue to preserve full freedom of action.” Mr. Bennett nevertheless thanked President Joe Biden and the U.S. for its decades of support for Israel. Mr. Netanyahu vowed to return to power. He predicted the incoming government would be weak on Iran and give in to U.S. demands to make concessions to the Palestinians. “If it is destined for us to be in the opposition, we will do it with our backs straight until we topple this dangerous government and return to lead the country in our way,” he said. ‘Stability expected’ Yohanan Plesner, president of the Israel Democracy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, said the new government will likely be more stable than it appears. “Even though it has a very narrow majority, it will be very difficult to topple and replace because the opposition is not cohesive,” he said. Each party in the coalition will want to prove that it can deliver, and for that they need “time and achievements.” Still, Mr. Netanyahu “will continue to cast a shadow,” Mr. Plesner said. The new government is meanwhile promising a return to normalcy after a tumultuous two years that saw four elections, an 11-day Gaza war last month and a coronavirus outbreak that devastated the economy before it was largely brought under control by a successful vaccination campaign. The driving force behind the coalition is Yair Lapid, a political centrist who will become Prime Minister in two years, if the government lasts that long. He called off a planned speech to Parliament, instead saying he was ashamed that his 86-year-old mother had to witness the raucous behaviour of his opponents. In a brief speech, he asked for “forgiveness from my mother.” “I wanted her to be proud of the democratic process in Israel. Instead she, along with every citizen of Israel, is ashamed of you and remembers clearly why it’s time to replace you,” he said. The new government is expected to win a narrow majority in the 120-member Assembly, after which it will be sworn in. The government plans to hold its first official meeting later this evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-coalition-set-to-end-netanyahu-era/article34807917.ece
14 June 2021||Yangon,||A rare solidarity for Rohingya||Anti-junta protesters flooded Myanmar’s social media with pictures of themselves wearing black Sunday in a show of solidarity for the Rohingya, a minority group that is among the most persecuted in the country. Since the military ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi from power in a February 1 coup, an anti-junta movement demanding a return to democracy has grown to include fighting for ethnic minority rights. The mostly Muslim Rohingya — long viewed as interlopers from Bangladesh by many in Myanmar — have for decades been denied citizenship, rights, access to services and freedom of movement. Activists and civilians took to social media on Sunday to post pictures of themselves wearing black and flashing a three-finger salute of resistance, in posts tagged “#Black4Rohingya”. “Justice must (be) served for each of you and each of us in Myanmar,” said prominent rights activist Thinzar Shunlei Yi on Twitter. Local media also showed a small protest in Myanmar’s commercial hub Yangon, with black-clad demonstrators holding signs in Burmese that said they were “protesting for the oppressed Rohingya”. By afternoon, the #Black4Rohingya hashtag was trending on Twitter in Myanmar, with more than 180,000 mentions. Sunday’s show of support from the mostly Buddhist, ethnic Bamar-majority population is a far cry from previous years, when even using the term “Rohingya” was a lightning rod for controversy. Military crackdown In 2017, a bloody military campaign in Myanmar’s west sent some 7,40,000 Rohingya fleeing across the border into Bangladesh carrying accounts of rape, mass killings and arson. The military has long claimed the crackdown was justified to root out insurgents, and Ms. Suu Kyi also defended the army’s conduct by travelling to the Hague to rebut charges of genocide at the UN’s top court. The Myanmar public was largely unsympathetic to the Rohingya’s plight, while activists and journalists reporting on the issues faced vitriolic abuse online. Prominent Europe-based Rohingya activist Ro Nay San Lwin said the online campaign is a yearly effort to raise awareness — but Sunday was “the first time” he had seen it go viral in Myanmar. “I am so happy to see those inside Myanmar joined this campaign. I am more hopeful to have a stronger solidarity from them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/a-rare-solidarity-for-rohingya/article34807919.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Britain calls Macron’s view of N. Ireland ‘offensive’||Britain accused European Union leaders on Sunday of holding the “offensive” view that Northern Ireland is not fully part of the United Kingdom, as Brexit cast a shadow over the Group of Seven summit. Britain and the EU are in a spat over post-Brexit trade arrangements that could see British sausages banned from entering Northern Ireland, the only part of the U.K. that borders the 27-nation bloc. The dispute is raising political tensions in Northern Ireland, where some people identify as British and some as Irish. Sausage row British media reported that Prime Minister Boris Johnson asked French President Emmanuel Macron when they met on Saturday in Carbis Bay how he would feel if sausages from Toulouse could not be moved to Paris. They said Mr. Macron replied the comparison did not work because Paris and Tolouse were part of the same country. The French presidency did not deny Mr. Macron had made the comments. It said he was explaining “that Toulouse and Paris were on a geographical unity of territory, Northern Ireland is on an island. The president wanted to stress that the situation was quite different and that it’s not appropriate to hold that kind of comparison.” U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the idea Northern Ireland was not an integral part of the U.K. was “not only offensive, it has real world effects on the communities in Northern Ireland, creates great concern, great consternation.” “Can you imagine if we talked about Catalonia, the Flemish part of Belgium, northern Italy, Corsican France, as different countries?” he said on Sky News. “We need a bit of respect here. And also, frankly, an appreciation of the situation for all communities in Northern Ireland.” Relations between Britain and the EU have soured since the U.K. made its final break from the bloc at the end of 2020, more than four years after voting to leave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/britain-calls-macrons-view-of-n-ireland-offensive/article34807914.ece
14 June 2021||New York,||Rare earth metals at the heart of China-U.S. rivalry||What if China were to cut off the U.S. and Europe from access to rare minerals that are essential to electric vehicles, wind turbines and drones? At a time of frequent geopolitical friction among those three powers, Washington and Brussels want to avoid this scenario by investing in the market for 17 minerals with unique properties that today are largely extracted and refined in China. “The expected exponential growth in demand for minerals that are linked to clean energy is putting more pressure on U.S. and Europe to take a closer look at where the vulnerabilities are and the concrete steps these governments can take,” said Jane Nakano, a senior fellow at the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies. Heavy dependence In 2019, the U.S. imported 80% of its rare earth minerals from China, the U.S. Geological Survey says. The EU gets 98% of its supply from China, the European Commission said last year. Amid the transition to green energy, in which rare earth minerals are sure to play a role, China’s market dominance is enough to sound an alarm in western capitals. Rare earth minerals, with names like neodymium, praseodymium and dysprosium, are crucial to the manufacture of magnets used in industries of the future, such as wind turbines and electric cars. And they are already being used in consumer goods such as smartphones, computer screens and telescopic lenses.  This week the U.S. Senate passed a law aimed at improving American competitiveness that includes provisions to improve critical minerals supply chains. U.S. aims to boost production and processing of rare earths and lithium, another key mineral component, while “working with allies to increase sustainable global supply and reduce reliance on competitors,” Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Sameera Fazili said on Tuesday. The best hope for boosting American production can be found at the Mountain Pass mine in California. Once one of the major players in the sector, the mine suffered as China rose and ate up its market share, aided by Beijing’s subsidies. China is expected to remain dominant for some time to come, but experts say that if recycling is scaled up, “20 to 30% of Europe’s rare earth magnet needs by 2030 could be sourced domestically in the EU from literally zero today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/rare-earth-metals-at-the-heart-of-china-us-rivalry/article34807921.ece
14 June 2021||Washington,||Bidder pays $28 mn for trip to space with Bezos||A mystery bidder paid $28 million at auction on Saturday for a seat alongside Jeff Bezos on board the first crewed spaceflight of the billionaire’s company Blue Origin next month. The Amazon founder revealed this week that both he and his brother Mark would take seats on board the company’s New Shepard launch vehicle on July 20, to fly to the edge of space and back. The Bezos brothers will be joined by the winner of Saturday’s charity auction, whose identity remains unknown, and by a fourth, as yet unnamed space tourist. “The name of the auction winner will be released in the weeks following the auction’s conclusion,” tweeted Blue Origin following the sale. “Then, the fourth and final crew member will be announced — stay tuned.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/bidder-pays-28-mn-for-trip-to-space-with-bezos/article34807910.ece
14 June 2021||Algiers,||Algerians shun parliamentary election under protest boycott||Algeria voted on Saturday in a parliamentary election boycotted by the long-running Hirak protest movement and marked by a high abstention rate. Pro-government parties had urged a big turnout hoping to restore stability after two years of turmoil since the ouster of President Abdelaziz Bouteflika.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/algerians-shun-parliamentary-election-under-protest-boycott/article34807911.ece
14 June 2021||SAO PAULO,||LT--Virus Outbreak-Brazil-Bolsonaro||Brazil’s President Jair Bolsonaro led thousands of motorcyclist supporters through the streets of Sao Paulo on Saturday — and got hit with a fine of about $110 for failure to wear a mask. From his motorcycle, he waved at the largely maskless supporters, who cheered as he insisted that masks were useless for those already vaccinated — an assertion disputed by most public health experts.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lt-virus-outbreak-brazil-bolsonaro/article34807913.ece
14 June 2021||Beijing,||AS--China-Gas Explosion||At least 12 people were killed and 39 seriously injured on Sunday after a gas line explosion tore through a residential neighbourhood in central China. The cause of the explosion remains under investigation. More than 900 people were evacuated from the area. Images showed rescuers climbing over broken concrete slabs to reach those trapped inside.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/as-china-gas-explosion/article34807915.ece
14 June 2021||Geneva,||Switzerland votes on pesticides ban||Switzerland on Sunday rejected proposals that would have made it the first European country to ban synthetic pesticides. Voters heeded the government’s advice and rejected the two publicly-proposed initiatives that would have changed the landscape for farming in the country.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/switzerland-votes-on-pesticides-ban/article34807922.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The world is hardly wired for cyber resilience||A string of high-profile cyberattacks in recent months has exposed vulnerabilities in the critical infrastructure of even advanced nations. This has reinforced the need for improved defences against actual, and potential, cyberattacks by all countries across continents.  America under attack Several high-profile cyberattacks were reported from the United States during the past several months. Towards the end of 2020, for instance, a major cyberattack headlined ‘SolarWinds’ — and believed to have been sponsored from Russia — had rocked the U.S. It involved data breaches across several wings of the U.S. government, including defence, energy and state. Before the U.S. could even recover from this breach, thousands of U.S. organisations were hacked in early 2021 in an unusually aggressive cyberattack, by a Chinese group Hafnium, which had exploited serious flaws in Microsoft’s software, thus gaining remote control over affected systems.  In quick succession, thereafter, the U.S. has witnessed three more major attacks: an audacious ransomware attack by Russia/East Europe-based cybercriminals, styled DarkSide, on Colonial Pipeline (which is the main supplier of oil to the U.S. East Coast), compelling the company to temporarily shut down operations. The siege was lifted after Colonial Pipeline paid out several million dollars as ransom to unlock its computers and release its files. There are reports of the ransom being received in bitcoins which was later seized by the U.S government. Another Russia-backed group, Nobellium, next launched a phishing attack on 3,000 e-mail accounts, targeting USAID and several other organisations. Early this month, JBS SA, the U.S. subsidiary of a Brazilian meat processing company, was the target of a ransomware attack; the company also paid a ransom in millions.  Now, civilian targets These attacks were all primarily on civilian targets, though each one was of critical importance. Obviously cyber, which is often referred to as the fifth domain/dimension of warfare, is now largely being employed against civilian targets, bringing the war into our homes. Most nations have been concentrating till date mainly on erecting cyber defences to protect military and strategic targets, but this will now need to change. The obsession of military cyber planners has been to erect defences against software vulnerabilities referred to as ‘Zero-day’, that had the capability to cripple a system and could lie undetected for a long time. (The most celebrated Zero-day software of this kind to date is Stuxnet, which almost crippled Iran’s uranium enrichment programme some years back). Today, other Zero-day software, no doubt exist, though little is known about them. What is, however, evident is that a whole new market currently exists for Zero day software outside the military domain, and the world must prepare for this eventuality.  Defending civilian targets, and more so critical infrastructure, against cyberattacks such as ransomware and phishing, including spear phishing, apart from unknown Zero day software, is almost certain to stretch the capability and resources of governments across the globe, somewhat in the manner that nations have been forced to find the resources and the methods to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. One related problem is that the distinction between military and civilian targets is increasingly getting erased and the consequences of this could be indeterminate. For instance, the 2012 cyberattack on Aramco, employing the Shamoon virus, which wiped out the memories of 30,000 computers of the Saudi Aramco Oil Corporation, has ever since been one reason for the very frosty relations between different countries in West Asia and the Gulf region.  Cyber warfare is replete with several damaging methodologies. In the civilian domain, two key manifestations of the ‘cat and mouse game’ of cyber warfare today, are ransomware and phishing, including spear phishing. Ransomware attacks have skyrocketed, with demands and payments going into multi-millions of dollars. India figures prominently in this list, being one of the most affected. Also experts believe that of late, the recovery cost from the impact of a ransomware attack — in India, for example, has tripled — and mid-sized companies, in particular, today face a catastrophic situation, if attacked, and may even have to cease operations. Thus, the need to be aware of the nature of the cyber threat to their businesses and take adequate precautionary measures, has become extremely vital. Banking and financial services were most prone to ransomware attacks till date, but oil, electricity grids, and lately, health care, have begun to figure prominently.  Zeroing in on health care What is specially worrisome at this time, when a pandemic is raging, is the number of cyberattacks on health-care systems. With data becoming a vital element in today’s world, personal information has become a vital commodity. One of the more vulnerable areas where data tends to be linked to a specific individual is in health care. Compromised ‘health information’ is proving to be a vital commodity for use by cybercriminals. All indications are that cybercriminals are increasingly targeting a nation’s health-care system and trying to gain access to patients’ data. The available data aggravates the risk not only to the individual but also to entire communities.  It would be a mistake to believe that we can hope for a respite from cyberattacks such as ransomware and phishing. Cybercriminals are becoming more sophisticated, and are now engaged in stealing sensitive data in targeted computers before launching a ransomware attack. This is resulting in a kind of ‘double jeopardy’ for the targeted victim. Also, today’s cybercriminals, specially those specialising in ransomware and similar attacks, are different from the ordinary run-of-the-mill criminals. Many are known to practise ‘reverse engineering’ and employ ‘penetration testers’ to probe high secure networks.  The bad news is that the cyber landscape is poised to undergo more fundamental changes. Motivation for cyberattacks vary: for (some) nation states, the motivation is geopolitical transformation; for cybercriminals, it is increased profits; for terror groups, the motivation remains much the same, but the risk factor may be lower. However, it is ‘insider threats’ — due to discontent with the management or for personal reasons — that could well become an omnipotent reality.  Need for data protection Cybersecurity essentially hinges on data protection. As data becomes the world’s most precious commodity, attacks on data and data systems are bound to intensify. Reportedly, we create more than three quintillion bytes of data everyday (some put it at over 2.5 quintillion) — with several billion devices interconnected to billions of end point devices exchanging petabytes of sensitive data, on the network. This is only bound to grow. Ensuring data protection could, hence, prove to be a rather thankless task, complicating the lives of Information and other security professionals. The data life cycle can broadly be classified into data at rest (when it is being created and stored), data in motion (when it is being transmitted across insecure and uncontrolled networks), and data in use (when it is being consumed). Constant exposure lends itself to ever increasing data thefts and abuse. With mobile and cloud computing expanding rapidly, and also given the nature of the on-going pandemic, cybersecurity professionals are now engaged in building a ‘Zero Trust Based Environment’, viz., zero trust on end point devices, zero trust on identity, and zero trust on the network to protect all sensitive data. What is of interest is that there do exist quite a few niche companies today, which have developed (or are developing) newer technologies to create a Zero Trust Based environment employing: software defined solutions for agile perimeter security, secure gateways, cloud access security, privileged access management, threat intelligence platforms, static and dynamic data masking, etc. The moot point is whether not only those in authority but even more so those in the world of business, (specially oil and finance, and specifically health care) are aware of this — and, more important, are ready to utilise these technologies — to ward-off a cyberattack and safeguard their data.  Preparation is needed Building deep technology in cyber is essential. New technologies such as artificial intelligence, Machine learning and quantum computing, also present new opportunities. Nations that are adequately prepared — conceptually and technologically — and have made rapid progress in artificial intelligence and quantum computing and the like will have a clear advantage over states that lag behind in these fields. Pressure also needs to be put on officials in the public domain, as also company boards, to carry out regular vulnerability assessments and create necessary awareness of the growing cyber threat. In the end, it might be appropriate to quote IBM Chairman, Arvind Krishna, that cybersecurity will be “the pressing issue of this decade” and that “value lies in the data and people are going to come after that data”. M.K. Narayanan, currently Executive Chairman of CyQureX Pvt. Ltd., a U.K.-U.S.A. cybersecurity joint venture, is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-world-is-hardly-wired-for-cyber-resilience/article34807898.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Planning for a biosecure future||COVID-19 has made it clear that our traditional imagination of national security is no longer credible. The preparedness of nation states and tenuous global security arrangements were insufficient in dealing with the crisis. The future of national security studies, therefore, will be forced to undergo a paradigm shift if it must retain any policy impact at all — it would need to rethink the sources of insecurity, to begin with. The growth of exponential technologies such as synthetic biology, artificial intelligence and nanotechnology is bound to change the theory and practice of national security. COVID-19 has quickened the inevitable. Among the exponential technologies shaping the world today, the biological revolution is of exceptional importance. The rapid rise of synthetic biology in the last two decades and its still-to-be-understood implications haven’t received sufficient attention from the security studies or policy communities. COVID-19 has further highlighted the biosecurity concerns of synthetic biology. The argument is not that COVID-19 originated in a lab, but that dangerous bio-weapons can come from labs. Synthetic biology That new organisms, biological parts and devices can be created or that existing natural life forms can be redesigned should ideally be the subject matter for scientists to concern themselves with or for ethicists to debate. But today, there is a growing realisation that exponential technologies have hitherto unforeseen national and global security implications. In 2014, for instance, the U.S. Department of Defense categorised synthetic biology as one of the six ‘disruptive basic research areas’ even though linkage between national security and synthetic biology is yet to become an agenda item in mainstream national security debates. Synthetic biology is a revolutionary technology which can help us manipulate biological organisms and processes for human betterment, especially in treating diseases, by re-engineering cells. But it is a double-edged sword. There are many risks associated with the technology which must be addressed before it becomes widely accessible. For one, there is the possibility of deliberate misuse. While the technology is still not easily accessible, the day is not far off when such technologies won’t be difficult to access. There is a need to carefully review, especially in the wake of the pandemic, the biosecurity systems in place where such technologies are in use. Accidental leaks of experimental pathogens are another concern. Insufficiently trained staff, inadequately safeguarded facilities, and lack of proper protocols could all be behind such leaks. The reality is that there has been very little focus on threats emanating from biological sources. Contrast this with the focus on nuclear weapons, facilities and material. Not only are they tightly controlled but are also the subject of strong global regimes. This is despite the fact that a well-orchestrated biological attack could have serious implications even though it would be less ‘spectacular’ since its effects are less immediate. This was before synthetic biology came into play. A well-planned attack using highly infectious pathogens synthetically engineered in a lab could be disastrous. What if such attacks are contemplated and carried out by state actors against adversaries? How easy would it be to pin responsibility on a specific actor if the incubation period is high and the pathogen can be modified to hide its origin? Unlike the nuclear domain, the fields of biology or synthetic biology are not regulated internationally despite growing military interest in synthetic biology applications and their potential misuse. The ‘weapon of mass destruction’ (WMD) capability of bio-weapons has been long recognised but very little has been done by the international community about it. Of the three types of WMD, nuclear weapons have received the maximum safety and security attention given the treaty and institutional arrangements associated with it. Chemical weapons come next. There is an international convention and an implementing body. However, when it comes to bio-weapons, all we have is the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BTWC) of 1972 with no implementing body. The BTWC does not have a verification clause, nor does it have clearly laid down rules and procedures to guide research in this field. The dilemma is evident in Article 1 of the BTWC itself which bans “microbial or other biological agents, or toxins, whatever their origin or method of production” that “have no justification for prophylactic, protective or other peaceful purposes”. In other words, while bio-weapons are banned, research for medical and bio-defence purposes are allowed. While this is understandable, the problem is that there is a thin line between bio-defence research and bio-weapons research. Since bio-defence research routinely uses pathogens and toxins for experimental purposes, processes, know-how and outcomes of bio-defence research could potentially be used to create bio-weapons, especially with the new advancements in synthetic biology. More so as the pharmaceutical industry has vehemently opposed any intrusive inspection regime. An Ad Hoc Group set up in 1994 to negotiate a Protocol to enhance the transparency of treaty-relevant biological facilities and activities to help deter violations of the BTWC submitted a report at the Fifth BTWC Review Conference in 2001 but was not accepted by the member states. The initiative has since been shelved. Pandemics have also highlighted that the traditional distinction at the international institutional level between biological weapons (a field governed by the BTWC) and diseases (a domain under the World Health Organization) may not be useful anymore. There needs to be more conversation between health specialists and bio-weapons/defence specialists. The November 2021 BTWC review conference must take stock of the advances in the field, address the thinning line between biotechnology research and bio-weapons research, and consider international measures for monitoring and verification. India uniquely unprepared India is at a uniquely disadvantaged position compared to the more developed countries in this area given poor disease surveillance, insufficient coordination among various government departments dealing with biosecurity issues, and the pathetic state of the healthcare system. India has multiple institutions dealing with biosafety and biosecurity threats but there is no coordination among them. For instance, implementation of biosafety guidelines is the responsibility of the Science and Technology Ministry and the Environment Ministry. However, labs dealing with biological research are set up under the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, which are under the Ministries of Health and Agriculture, respectively. This highlights two issues pertaining directly to biosecurity. One, the multiplicity of bodies and ministers makes coordination difficult, especially in the absence of an empowered coordinating body. Two, given the rising risk of diseases of zoonotic origin, the traditional ministry-wise separation might not be useful. Another important question is whether India, with its porous borders and ill-trained border control institutions, is prepared for defending against pathogens or dangerous biological organisms or agents arriving from abroad. COVID-19 should serve as a wake-up call. Happymon Jacob is Associate Professor at the School of International Studies, JNU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/planning-for-a-biosecure-future/article34807907.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Censorship by noise||For nearly two decades, I have been concurrently looking at the annual Reuters Memorial Lecture delivered at the Reuters Institute for the Study of Journalism, University of Oxford, and the Pulitzer Prizes for journalism administered by Columbia University. While the prizes represent the best practices in informing the public, the lecture deals with “a critical issue facing the news industry” and is delivered by “someone at the highest level of journalism”. The concurrent reading, in a sense, becomes a form of SWOT analysis. The lectures and prizes give insights into the current status of journalism and provide valuable clues on navigating its choppy waters. The vulnerability of journalism It is disheartening to record that this year, both the Reuters Memorial Lecture and the Pulitzer Prizes have become veritable documents of the vulnerability of journalism. In April 2020, Nadja Drost wrote a long-form report in The California Sunday Magazine titled “When can we really rest?” It was on migrants crossing the Colombia-Panama border, which is said to be one of the most dangerous journeys in the world, to reach the U.S. On June 11, 2021, Ms. Drost, a freelance writer, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for Feature Writing for her article, which the Pulitzer committee described as “a brave and gripping account of global migration that documents a group’s journey on foot through the Darién Gap, one of the most dangerous migrant routes in the world”. The tragedy is that The California Sunday Magazine no longer exists. Last June, it stopped its print edition. And as the COVID-19 pandemic continued to take its toll, the magazine stopped publishing online and posting on social media at the end of September. Kristen Hare of Poynter pointed out the historic significance of this development. She wrote: “At least in the last 10 years, this is the first example we can find of a publication closing before it won a Pulitzer.” She also pointed out that in the U.S., during the pandemic, more than 75 newsrooms closed, including some that were more than 100 years old. This pandemic-induced bloodbath in journalism is evident in India too. If the Pulitzer Prize has gone to a defunct publication that was dedicated to long-form journalism, the Reuters Memorial Lecture brought out the multiple pressures faced by journalists in pursuing their vocation in a free and independent manner. On June 8, Brazilian journalist Patrícia Campos Mello delivered the annual lecture drawing from her series of investigative pieces on the rise of disinformation in Brazil. While the focus of her talk was Brazil, it is impossible not to draw parallels with what we are witnessing in India. She said: “Lies are the foundation of the health tragedy we are going through and lies are the cornerstone of our incoming political disaster. Professional journalism is one of the last barriers against the collapse of democracy in Brazil and in many other countries struggling with an avalanche of lies. Meticulously checked information, careful and balanced reporting, and in-depth investigations are the only hope to bring back reality to many countries where facts became malleable and often secondary to opinions and beliefs.” Fudging data This is true in India too. We have seen gross under-reporting of the rate of COVID-19 infections and mortality. We have seen numbers, including on the availability of vaccines, being fudged. We are in an unenviable position where the Union government has issued a directive asking the States not to divulge the details about the vaccine stock in hand as these details are “sensitive information”. Ms. Mello pointed out that today, the muzzling of the press has taken on a different hue. She called it “censorship by noise and defamation”. It is a trait that has been normalised in India. She said: “Censorship, in this new world, doesn’t require the suppression of information. On the one hand, populist leaders flood social media, messaging apps, and the internet in general with the version of facts they want to prevail – so that it drowns out investigations and negative news. It’s the so-called censorship by noise. Then, for that manipulation of public opinion to succeed, these digital populist leaders need to delegitimise professional journalism.” The act of delegitimising professional journalism undermines news media’s status as the fourth estate and denies it the crucial watchdog role. This blatant institutional capture not only ruptures our democratic fabric but also irreparably damages it.    readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/censorship-by-noise/article34807903.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Biden’s Manichean vision||The G7 summit in Cornwall, U.K., was noteworthy for the cohesive vibe among member states, buttressed by their shared identity of being democracies. After four years of irrelevance wrought by the illiberal former U.S. President, Donald Trump, this club of rich, industrialised countries has got a new lease of life under his liberal successor, Joe Biden, who believes that democracies should unite against authoritarian rivals. In Mr. Biden’s Manichean vision, the world is at an “inflection point between those who argue that autocracy is the best way forward and those who understand that democracy is essential”. Disproving the “false narrative” that dictatorships are faster and more efficient, and refuting autocrats who claim that the age of democracy is over, are the driving forces of Mr. Biden’s foreign policy. At the Cornwall summit, his non-confrontational approach to his G7 counterparts signaled democracies can manage their differences, team up multilaterally and push back the influence and muscle-flexing of China and Russia. An expanded coalition To make sure that the messaging about team-building by democracies went across, the host of the Cornwall summit, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, invited four other democracies as guest participants – Australia, India, South Korea and South Africa. The combination of the G7 and the first three of these invitees has drawn attention to an expanded ‘D10’ coalition of democracies. Mr. Biden’s Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, Kurt Campbell, promotes D10 as a necessary instrument to “bridge European and regional (Asian) approaches to Chinese challenges.” Since Japan is the only democracy from Asia within the G7, forging a D10 with Australia, India and South Korea could corral the U.S.’s European and Indo-Pacific allies to present a transcontinental counterweight to China. A 78-year-old who built his career in American politics during the Cold War, Mr. Biden carries the liberal memories of that period when the U.S. mobilised allies across continents to beat back the Soviet Union. Interdependent links But what is different with today’s ‘new Cold War’ is that power is more diffused around the world and economic interdependence transcends a neat division of the world into black (dictatorships) and white (democracies). For example, despite being a U.S. ally and a democracy, South Korea is wary of joining a formal D10 or Quad-plus alliance because its economy is interwoven with that of China. India, which has been wooing the Europeans to bring their economic and military heft to the Indo-Pacific, would be happy to see a combined trans-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific formation like D10 that could counterbalance Chinese hegemony. But it cannot afford to alienate friendly undemocratic powers like Vietnam, Iran or Russia, all of which are vectors for India’s ambitions of becoming a ‘leading power’ in the world. And for that matter, the Americans and Europeans are themselves not undiluted upholders of democracy. The U.S.’s allies in West Asia remain notoriously authoritarian, and European countries still cultivate client dictatorships in Africa. As every democratic power has some authoritarian partners, should the Biden-led pitch for a “summit of democracies” and “contest with autocracies worldwide” be treated as hypocritical rhetoric? Politics is the art of the possible and so is geopolitics. The G7 and D10 are not idealistic alliances to spread democracy everywhere. They have to be selective in targeting adversaries and strike a balance among moral values, geo-strategic needs, and the complexities of the present multipolar world order. To the extent that cementing relationships with the principle of democracy helps corner specific undemocratic foes, there is a practical utility to D10. But these concepts cannot metastasise into rigid structures waging holy war between good and evil. Navigating ambiguities with nuanced policies is the key. Sreeram Chaulia is a Professor and Dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bidens-manichean-vision/article34807904.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Origin unclear||Over 17 months after WHO first reported a cluster of cases of pneumonia of unknown cause in Wuhan, China, scientists are yet to determine with certainty how the SARS-CoV-2 virus emerged. Much like other viruses, SARS-CoV-2 too could have a natural origin or somehow escaped from the coronavirus research lab in Wuhan, the epicentre of the COVID-19 outbreak. With no hard scientific evidence available to confirm the lab leak hypothesis, there are some scientific leads that support a natural origin. If it is a zoonotic spillover, the virus could have either directly crossed over from bats to humans or through an intermediate host. But till date, neither the bat species that hosts the SARS-CoV-2 virus nor the intermediate host has been found. China’s secrecy and delay in reporting the Wuhan outbreak and in finding the natural host or the intermediary have further fuelled the lab spillover hypothesis. Finding the host animal can be daunting. While the civet cat and dromedary camel were quickly identified to be the intermediate hosts of SARS and MERS, respectively, it took years to identify the horseshoe bat that harbours SARS virus strains. To date, a complete Ebola virus has never been isolated from an animal source. If the virus had been bioengineered, the genome sequence would carry tell-tale signs. But scientists have not found any signature of genetic manipulation. While a particular site (furin cleavage) on the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein that allows the virus to infect the cells has been cited as evidence of bioengineering, the fact is that it is not unique to SARS-CoV-2. A combination of nucleotides in the furin cleavage site that encode for a particular amino acid — another feature that is forwarded as supporting laboratory manipulation — too has been shown to be not unique. For instance, the nucleotide combination encoding for the amino acid is present in other sites of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and in the 2003 SARS virus. The possibility of SARS-CoV-2 evolving via cell culture appears bleak as scientists have found the virus losing features key to transmission and virulence unless cultured using new methods. Reports of three Wuhan lab researchers falling ill in November 2019 by itself does not prove a lab leak hypothesis. There is no evidence that they were infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and even if they were, it is necessary to prove that it happened from inside the lab. In the absence of conclusive evidence to support either hypothesis so far, a thorough investigation is needed. While the inquiry by the U.S. intelligence might provide clues, a scientific investigation is more likely to help reach closure; China’s cooperation, therefore, becomes vital and politicising the virus origin is not going to help.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/origin-unclear/article34807893.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Renewed uncertainty||The latest factory output data released by the National Statistical Office is yet another sign of the rocky start that the economy is having in the new fiscal year. April’s Index of Industrial Production (IIP) estimates show all three sectoral constituents of the index — mining, manufacturing and electricity — suffered reverses, as output slid below the preceding month’s levels. With the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic increasing in intensity that month and several key industrial hubs coming under renewed local lockdowns, all six end-use categories — primary, capital, intermediate and construction goods and consumer durables and non-durables — endured month-on-month contractions. Manufacturing, which accounts for 77.6% of the IIP, saw production shrink 12.6% from March, and contributed significantly to a 13% sequential contraction in overall industrial output. The NSO advised against drawing a year-on-year comparison, which it said would be affected by the fact that the nationwide lockdown had prevented many establishments from operating in April 2020. Figures from April 2019 indicate the IIP registered a marginal 0.08% growth, aided by a 6.8% increase in electricity output from two years earlier. However, from the pre-pandemic level, manufacturing shrank 0.9%, reflecting the deep rut it finds itself in. Output of capital goods and consumer durables also lagged the corresponding 2019 levels by 14.3% and 11.6%, respectively, signalling that the outlook for investment in production capacity and discretionary consumption remains disconcertingly weak. Consumer non-durables, comprising household essentials, witnessed an almost 11% contraction from March, testifying to the demand destruction that has accompanied the second wave. To be sure, the IIP arrives with a lag of six weeks and may likely be viewed as more of an indicator of past economic activity than as a tool to assist in providing an accurate prognosis. Still, other data from May, including manufacturing and services PMI and retail automobile sales, underline the extent to which economic activity has been constrained since the start of this quarter. With IHS Markit’s surveys showing manufacturing stagnating last month and services contracting for the first time in eight months, the Composite PMI Output Index slid from 55.4 in April to 48.1 in May indicating a moderate reduction in activity. New vehicle registrations more than halved in May from the previous month, another tell-tale sign of the demand drought. With job losses accelerating, and consumer spending hit by a combination of falling real incomes, depleted savings and increasing health-care costs, the broader outlook for a near-term revival in consumption-led demand appears bleak right now. To ensure an abiding recovery, the government needs to expedite targeted, demand-creating fiscal support measures and drastically quicken the pace of vaccinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/renewed-uncertainty/article34807894.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||British agriculture||London, June 9 - The decision to decontrol agriculture has caused great consternation amongst the agricultural community. The Farmers’ Union objects to the disorganisation which will be caused by the repeal of the Act which only came into operation on January 1st while the prospect of lower wages owing to the dropping of minimum pay which is now 46 to 50 shillings per week and also longer hours, is causing great concern amongst labourers. It is generally agreed that prewar employment conditions must not return. Nevertheless, the outlook in agriculture is far from bright and the present marked tendency to turn ploughland into grass complicates the position for labourers who already deemands. The suggestion which was made that the difficulties ahead could be tided over, if the workers were to agree to increased hours without extra pay, has been abandoned as impracticable as also the idea of applying Factory Union rates. The Press points out that the Cabinet in arriving at a decision had to consider the Dominion’s wheatlands and dairy farms and maintains that the whole edifice of the Empire stands upon food production and the consumption of Britain and that while British farm worker plays a very necessary part in the Empire’s responsibility, he is by no means a leading actor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/british-agriculture/article34807900.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||5 cigarette units in public sector likely||Cigarette units will come up in public sector if proposals recently cleared by the Industrial Development Ministry go through [New Delhi, June 13]. As many as five State industrial development corporations have been issued letters of intent to open cigarette factories and these are to be located in Tamil Nadu, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala and Haryana. Besides these an application from Madhya Pradesh Industrial Development Corporation is under consideration. Barring Assam, the other States have proposed units with an annual production capacity of 4,500 million pieces each. Assam has proposed a unit with 3,000 million pieces capacity. Within a span of six months, letters of intent have been issued for eleven new units and for the expansion of one of the existing units of National Tobacco Company. Of the eleven new units, five are in the State sector and six in the private sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/5-cigarette-units-in-public-sector-likely/article34807899.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Simple equity funds, a better option for first-time investors||Q.I have been saving Rs. 4,000 per month and started earning in the last few months. I want to plan investments in some mutual fund or via SIPs. I am also open to direct investments. What will be a good option for beginners? Aditya Ranjan A.You can consider simple equity funds from the Nifty 50, and Nifty 500 indices and use PPF as part of your debt option. PPF can also act as your tax-saving investment in case you fall under a taxable slab. Apart from this, make sure you take a good health insurance policy and cover your family too, if they don’t have one. This has become a necessity now. If you have dependent parents, spouse, or children, please take a term insurance to cover at least 8 years of your income and a personal accident insurance. Q.I am a 20-year-old student. I have no earnings, savings, or investments, so I have zero income. However, I want to learn about financial planning so that whenever I receive my very first salary, I put it in the right place and at the right time. Kindly also suggest how I may earn money being a student. Lakshika A.It is good to know that you want to learn and earn. There is plenty of material on the Internet to read up on financial planning. You can also read good books like ‘Let’s talk Money’ and Retire Rich’. If you need to earn money as a student, the best is for you to do a part-time job, likely online in the present scenario, connected with your area of study. Other than this, it is not a wise choice to try to do stock trading to make money until such time you have adequate savings of your own. When you have such savings, start a combination of recurring deposit for shorter periods of 1-2 years and open a PPF account to deposit some savings in it. These early habits will inculcate disciplined savings. You can then slowly venture into other investment products. Q.I am a 25-year-old student and have savings of about Rs. 50,000 for investment. I can also invest Rs. 1,000-5,000 as monthly contribution in some productive assets, but that must be somewhat predictable and profitable. I can put my money in these options for up to seven years (if better options are available then in that case up to 15 years). Based on the above criteria, please suggest options for me. Shivani A.If you want your returns to be predictable, then it is best that you go for fixed-income options. At present, consider investing the lump sum in RBI Floating Rate Savings Bond. This is a 7-year lock-in product where interest rate will be floating (7.15% at present) and will increase if the rate goes up and decrease if it falls. But it will remain 35 basis points higher than the NSC rate. So, this is one of the superior-returns-and-safe option today. The return is not fixed — to that extent it is not entirely predictable. But you can expect better-than-FD rates. For the remaining amount, you can consider 50% of your monthly savings in bank RDs where return is predictable and another 50% in equity index funds where it will be profitable in the long term but will never be predictable. We suggest this considering your age and ability to take risk. Please note that no market-linked product will be predictable. And it may have short-term losses but can generate profits in the long term. Q.I am 25 years old. I recently got a government job, and my basic salary is Rs. 30,000. I want to make the best use of my salary. Can you please guide me on how to spend? Should I invest a part of my salary, and if yes then where and how? Please also recommend some books on this. Mohd Anjum A.Congratulations on your new job. It is good to start saving early. But it is hard to teach people on how to spend as it is entirely based on personal preferences and habits. However, you can learn a lot about investing and personal finance in good books like ‘Let’s talk Money’ and Retire Rich’. Set aside a sum for investment and then spend. That’s a better way to handle your money. Consider simple products like PPF and recurring deposit and slowly start SIP on equity index funds such as the Nifty 50 index. You can then slowly ramp up mutual funds. Do not get swayed by the lure of quick returns in stock markets without taking a few years to understand how it works. Read good books, rather than just listening to videos that teach you ‘everything about investing’ in 20 minutes. Q.I am 70. I had doing business for 45 years. Unfortunately, I faced a loss in business a few years ago and had to sell all my assets to settle liabilities. My wife and I are now left with our residential house and a bank deposit of Rs. 30 lakh only. I have no pension and we must depend on the interest earned from these deposits. My children are employed, they have their own family responsibilities and are staying separately. Since the bank deposit interest has reduced considerably, we find it difficult to make both ends meet. I request you to suggest some good and safe investment plan which will gain at least Rs. 25,000 per month for our expenses, including medicines. Ramdas A.P A.I am sorry to note your situation. It is indeed difficult to get a high interest rate in these times. You might want to consider investing in Senior Citizens’ Savings Scheme (SCSS) available with the post office and major banks, for Rs. 15 lakh and the rest in RBI Floating Rate Bonds (available in SBI and a few other large banks and brokerages). Right now, the SCSS gives 7.4% and the RBI Bonds 7.15%. But the RBI Bond rates may go up if interest rates move up and vice versa since it is a floating rate bond. But you can expect it to be higher than regular FD rates. We do recognise it is hard to meet you target of Rs. 25,000 per month even with these. Make sure your children include you in any medical insurance policies so that you get cover on at least key illness or hospitalisation. Q.I’m 21 years old and have recently completed a bachelor’s degree. I now work for a private company, earning about Rs. 50,000 a month. I’m planning to go abroad and complete my master’s this year. Therefore, I want to invest money for 4-5 months. Also, if I were to invest for a year, what would be the best option? Ashish Agarwal A.Considering the short period of investment, simply invest in FDs or liquid funds. Any other form of investing for this time frame, especially equity market investing, can be writ with risks. For one year at best, you can start a recurring deposit or use ultra-short debt mutual funds. Q.I am pursuing my MBA and I get Rs. 5,000 for my expenses every month from my dad. Other than an occasional outing for Rs. 500 a month, I don’t spend the rest. So, I want to save it for my future. The amount is lying in my account. I have interest in mutual funds. Can you suggest good mutual fund schemes so that I can divide my 5,000 by five and invest in different schemes to get returns after 10 years? Venki A.Considering your time frame, you might want to test your feet in equity through mutual funds. Use Nifty 50 and Nifty 500 equity index funds and 30-50% of your savings in liquid funds or recurring deposits or PPF (15 years). You can gradually increase this and widen your fund choice with more index funds. Index funds will allow you to simply mimic the market without the need to track fund performance or strategy or fund manager-change. It also comes at a far lower cost as they are passive and simply allow you to ride in key market benchmarks.  (Vidya Bala is Co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/simple-equity-funds-a-better-option-for-first-time-investors/article34807890.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||To claim or not to claim||Motor Third-Party Liability (TP) insurance is a cover under which the insured does not get to make a claim, but is covered for any claims that others may make on him. The claimant will be the victim, of a vehicle accident, who sustained injuries or damage to his vehicle or other property. In the case of death, his legal heirs can make the claim against the offending vehicle’s owner and, due to the transfer of such liability via the TP policy, the insurance firm will step in to pay the claim as per policy terms. If there is no TP cover, the owner of the vehicle is responsible for the liability. We saw the procedure for making a TP claim earlier in these columns. It is essentially petitioning a special court called the Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal (MACT). MACTs have a huge caseload, leading to time-consuming legal proceedings. In cases where claims are filed before the MACT, out-of-court negotiated settlements are encouraged. This will be recorded by the court. Both time and penal interest are saved thus. If your vehicle was damaged in the accident, you may be entitled to claim for repairs from your insurer, if you have an Own Damage (OD) cover. This can be a standalone cover or part of a Comprehensive Motor Insurance policy, which is a combination of a TP and an OD cover. There is a provision that in the case of a collision of vehicles, each vehicle’s insurer pays under the respective policy without any need to establish fault. So, if your vehicle is damaged, claiming from your company is a simpler process. You can avoid long drawn-out legal procedures and get on with your life. In any case, the TP policy has a cap of Rs. 7.5 lakh as compensation for third-party property damage. Claims above that have to be collected from the vehicle owner. If you are making an OD claim, it will be for actual repair expenses, let us say Rs. X. You will receive Rs. Y, factoring in depreciation and allowable costs for repairs and parts as applicable. If you go to your insurer’s network garage, this process is simpler as it will be cashless. Calculating net compensation But you will also lose your no-claim bonus (NCB) when you claim from your insurer. Depending on the number of your claim-free years, your NCB could be up to 50% of your OD renewal premium. You can start accumulating this again with every future claim-free year. Suppose you have 3 years’ worth NCB, calculate its quantum through 3 future years until it is reinstated. Reduce this from Rs. Y and you will arrive at the actual compensation you get. Damage to your property other than your vehicle that was part of the accident is another matter as your OD policy will not cover it. Then, your recourse is to file a TP claim with the MACT as outlined earlier. If it’s an injury, the same reasoning applies for deciding where to make a claim. If your own hospitalisation or personal accident policies cover your expenses, consider that route first. If disablement bars you from working and earning, then filing a TP case becomes more justified in terms of effort versus outcome. In the case of injury, especially leading to disablement, and in the case of death, there are no caps on compensation awarded by MACT. Guidelines under the Motor Vehicles Act are broadly followed and they depend on medical expenses incurred, age of victim, earnings, number of dependents and, the extent of disablement, in case of injury. In the case of death and grievous injury, there is a stronger reason to seek compensation through the TP route over and above claims through the victim’s life or personal accident policies. There are cases where the offending vehicle’s TP policy will not be liable to pay compensation: eg, if the driver was drunk when the accident happened or if he was driving without a valid driving licence.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/to-claim-or-not-to-claim/article34807888.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||loose change||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/loose-change/article34807892.ece
14 June 2021||Paris,||Djokovic resurrects himself, wins Slam No. 19||Novak Djokovic came all the way back after dropping the first two sets to beat Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-7(6), 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 at the Roland-Garros final Sunday for his 19th Grand Slam title. Djokovic’s second trophy at Roland-Garros moves him one major championship away from tying the men’s record of 20 shared by Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer. It also puts reigning Australian Open champion Djokovic halfway to a calendar-year Grand Slam, something no man has accomplished since Rod Laver in 1969. The 34-year-old Djokovic eliminated 13-time French Open champion Nadal in a semifinal that lasted more than four hours Friday night. That might be why the 22-year-old Tsitsipas had the upper hand early, and Djokovic looked drained for two sets. Eventually, though, he started making fewer mistakes, got his best-in-the-game returning on track, served almost flawlessly down the stretch and was able to complete his sixth career comeback from two sets down — and second of the past week. Indeed, the International Tennis Federation said Djokovic — who trailed 19-year-old Lorenzo Musetti two sets to none in the fourth round — is the first man in the professional era to win a Grand Slam tournament after twice facing a 2-0 deficit in sets. Experience could have been a factor, too. This was the first major final for Tsitsipas and 29th for Djokovic, who also won here in 2016, along with nine titles at the Australian Open, five at Wimbledon and three at the U.S. Open. Of just as much, if not more, significance to the ultimate outcome Sunday: Djokovic entered the day with a 34-10 record in five-setters — including a men’s-record 31 wins in Grand Slam matches of that length — while Tsitsipas was 5-4. On a sunny and breezy afternoon, with the temperature approaching 80 degrees Fahrenheit (over 25 degrees Celsius), Tsitsipas needed just over 100 minutes to grab a big lead Sunday. But the tenacious and talented Djokovic did not quit, grabbing early breaks in each of the last three sets.   Djokovic is the third player in history, after Rod Laver and Roy Emerson, to win all four Majors at least twice. He is the first in the Open Era (post 1967) to do so First time in his career Djokovic has come back from two sets down in a Grand Slam final to win Before Djokovic, the last Grand Slam men's singles champion to have multiple comebacks from two sets down was Ted Schroeder at Wimbledon 1949 The Serb has now played six five-set Major finals and lost only once (Murray, 2012 US Open final) Sunday was Djokovic's 17th five-set match in the semifinal or final of a Major. He has won 14 of those The 34-year-old has now won 13 of his last 16 Slam finals. Losses have come against Nadal (2020 French Open) and Wawrinka (2015 French Open & 2016 US Open) Djokovic lost six sets en route to the title in Paris, the same number he lost en route to the 2014 Wimbledon title. These are the most he has lost in 19 Slam wins||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/djokovic-resurrects-himself-wins-slam-no-19/article34807998.ece
14 June 2021||Birmingham,||New Zealand thrashes England, clinches series||New Zealand overpowered England by eight wickets in the second Test at Edgbaston on Sunday as it sealed a 1-0 series win with more than a day to spare. Set a target of just 38 after England tailender Olly Stone was out to the first ball of the fourth day, the Black Caps finished on 41 for two. Stand-in captain Tom Latham hit the winning boundary to be 23 not out after the first Test of the two-match series at Lord's ended in a draw last week. Victory gave New Zealand just a third win in 18 Test series in England and a first this century after its 1986 and 1999 triumphs. By contrast, this was England’s first series loss at home since 2014 defeat by Sri Lanka. Meanwhile, New Zealand on Sunday toppled India to become the No. 1 ranked Test team in the world. New Zealand now has 123 points in the ICC Team Test Rankings while India has 121 and is second. Australia is third with 108 while England is placed fourth (107 points).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-thrashes-england-clinches-series/article34808040.ece
14 June 2021||BENGALURU,||Vinoo Mankad inducted into the ICC Hall of Fame||Former India all-rounder Vinoo Mankad was among 10 cricket icons inducted to the International Cricket Council (ICC) Hall Of Fame on Sunday. Mankad was among a special edition intake group to celebrate the history of Test cricket, and to coincide with the first ever ICC World Test Championship Final. Great record Mankad, one of India’s greatest all-rounders, played 44 Tests. He scored 2,109 runs at an average of 31.47, and took 162 wickets with his left-arm orthodox spin. Mankad was involved in a 413-run opening partnership with Pankaj Roy against New Zealand at Madras in 1956, a then world record. Mankad also played a key role in India’s first ever Test victory, against England at Madras in 1952, with a 12-wicket match haul. After his playing career, he coached another legendary Indian cricketer and fellow ICC Hall of Fame member, Sunil Gavaskar. Speaking on Mankad’s induction, Gavaskar said, “Vinoo Mankad’s legacy has been to tell the aspiring Indian cricketer to believe in oneself. He was a great proponent of self-belief. ‘When you get a 100, let that be the knock on the selector’s door. ‘“If it is unheard, then score that double hundred and let that knock be even louder. You can have the best technique, but if you do not have the temperament to support it, you will not succeed. You have to keep hanging in there and have that self-belief he would say.”’  The Inductees  Early cricket era (pre-1918): Aubrey Faulkner (SA), Monty Noble (Aus)  Inter-war era (1918-1945): Learie Constantine (WI), Stan McCabe (Aus)  Post-war era (1946-1970): Ted Dexter (Eng), Vinoo Mankad (Ind)  ODI era (1971-1995): Desmond Haynes (WI), Bob Willis (Eng)  Modern era (1996-2015): Andy Flower (Zim), Kumar Sangakkara (SL)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vinoo-mankad-inducted-into-the-icc-hall-of-fame/article34807992.ece
14 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Eriksen sends greetings from hospital||Christian Eriksen remained in hospital and was in stable condition on Sunday, after collapsing during his side’s Euro 2020 opening match with Finland, the Danish football association said. “This morning we have spoken to Christian Eriksen, who has sent his greetings to his teammates. His condition is stable, and he continues to be hospitalised for further examination,” Danish FA DBU said on Twitter. “The team and the staff of the national team has received crisis assistance and will continue to be there for each other after yesterday’s incident,” DBU said. Meanwhile, Denmark’s team doctor Morten Boesen said on Sunday that Eriksen’s heart stopped and that “he was gone” before being resuscitated with a defibrillator. “He was gone. And we did cardiac resuscitation. And it was cardiac arrest. How close were we? I don’t know. We got him back after one defib. That’s quite fast,” said Boesen. Denmark coach Kasper Hjulmand said when he spoke to Eriksen, the midfielder was more concerned about his teammates’ well being than his own. “He said, ‘I don’t remember much but I’m more concerned about you guys. How are you doing’?” Hjulmand said. Meanwhile, Inter Milan director Giuseppe Marotta has dismissed suggestions that club midfielder Eriksen had previously contracted COVID-19. Sanjay Sharma of St. George’ University of London, the playmaker’s cardiologist at former club Tottenham Hotspur, said Eriksen had no prior heart issues during his time with the Premier League side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eriksen-sends-greetings-from-hospital/article34808008.ece
14 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||When chess met cricket, cinema, music and business on the 64 squares||Viswanathan Anand could have waited for his opponent, Nikhil Kamath, to lose on time, though from a completely winning position. But, the genial genius from Chennai didn’t. He resigned, though his rival had only seconds left. That was one of the memorable moments from a unique COVID-19 fund-raiser event on Sunday featuring Anand and an impressive line-up of celebrities from cinema, cricket, music and business. The event conducted by chess.com raised more than Rs. 6.7 lakh, most of which will go to Akshayapatra Foundation. Nikhil’s victory was indeed very much the talking point. The founder of Zerodha, India’s largest retail stockbroker, used to play chess in his school days. He wasn’t the only one that managed to stretch Anand, though. Bollywood producer Sajid Nadiadwala played some solid chess before erring in a rook ending. Kannada actor Sudeep also came up with some fine moves. Anand did win those games, though. He had it easier against Indian cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal, much easier than he would have hoped, as the wrist-spinner is a former National age-group champion. Superstar Aamir Khan put up a good fight, despite getting into an inferior position early on. After his loss, Aamir regaled the viewers with anecdotes about his encounters with chess players, including a little girl who thrashed him during the shoot of his movie Lagaan. Anand’s other opponents were actor Riteish Deshmukh, singers Arijit Singh and Ananya Birla and Manu Kumar Jain, global vice president, Xiaomi. The programme ended with Arijit singing one of his hits, Ae dil hai mushkil…||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/when-chess-met-cricket-cinema-music-and-business-on-the-64-squares/article34808036.ece
14 June 2021||Southampton,||‘New Zealand has the advantage’||Cheteshwar Pujara says New Zealand will have the advantage going into the World Test Championship (WTC) final after playing and winning the Test series against England, but India will utilise the available time to prepare well for the title clash, starting here on June 18. “They will obviously have advantage having played two Test matches, but when it comes to the final we will give our best and we know that our team has the potential to do well and win the championship,” Pujara told bcci.tv . “Playing in different conditions in a single day here is the most challenging part for a batsman because if it rains you go off the field and then suddenly it stops raining and you start again. “So there are breaks in between and this is where you need to understand and accept the challenge. Mentally you have to be strong, your concentration needs to be up to the mark.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/new-zealand-has-the-advantage/article34808000.ece
14 June 2021||London,||England gets the better of lacklustre Croatia||Raheem Sterling ignited England’s Euro 2020 campaign as the Manchester City forward’s clinical finish sealed a 1-0 win against Croatia in their Group D opener on Sunday. Gareth Southgate’s side was struggling to break down Croatia until Sterling struck in the second half at sun-baked Wembley. The 26-year-old’s first goal at a major tournament — in his 13th game — was the perfect riposte to critics who questioned Southgate’s decision to select him instead of Jack Grealish. Days after he was given an MBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours List for his anti-racism campaigning, Sterling enjoyed a perfectly-timed moment of redemption. In a rematch of the 2018 World Cup semifinal won by Croatia, England was hampered by a lack of cutting edge until Sterling came to the rescue. In truth, this was a far from convincing performance, but Southgate will take heart from the way his team kept its nerve on a pressure-packed occasion.  The results: Group C: Austria 3 (Lainer 18, Gregoritsch 78, Arnautovic 89) bt North Macedonia 1 (Pandev 28).   Group D: England 1 (Sterling 57) bt Croatia 0.    By The Numbers   0 - This is the first major tournament match in which England has had no Liverpool nor Manchester United player in the starting XI since a EURO 1992 group stage game against France  17 - At 17 years and 349 days, Jude Bellingham is the youngest ever to play in the Euros for any nation  19 - Raheem Sterling has been directly involved in 19 goals in his last 17 England games (13 goals, 6 assists)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-gets-the-better-of-lacklustre-croatia/article34808012.ece
14 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Clippers fight back into the series||Kawhi Leonard and Paul George combined for 65 points as Los Angeles Clippers beat Utah Jazz 132-106 in game three of their NBA playoff series here on Saturday. Leonard finished with 34 points and 12 assists and George had 31. The Clippers put themselves in deep peril by losing the first two games of the Western Conference second round series. Reggie Jackson and Nicolas Batum added 17 points each for the Clippers. Jazz was playing without guard Mike Conley, who sat out his third straight game with a sore hamstring. Donovan Mitchell scored 30 points but missed the final seven minutes after turning his right ankle. Joe Ingles scored 19 points, while Jordan Clarkson added 14. Utah trailed 106-95 after a three by Clarkson with 7:18 left. Mitchell left the game and the Clippers smelt blood, scoring 10 straight points, with Leonard and Batum draining consecutive threes to make it 116-95 with 5:22 remaining.  The result (semifinals): WC: Los Angeles Clippers 132 bt Utah Jazz 106 (Jazz leads series 2-1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/clippers-fight-back-into-the-series/article34808048.ece
14 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Finland stuns Denmark||Joel Pohjanpalo scored and Lukas Hradecky saved a penalty to give Finland a 1-0 victory over Denmark on Saturday in a European Championship Group B game overshadowed by Christian Eriksen’s collapse. The game was suspended for about 90 minutes and when play resumed, Pohjanpalo put Finland ahead in the 60th minute when he rose above Joakim Maehle to head home a cross from Jere Uronen. Goalkeeper Kasper Schmeichel got his hands on the ball but couldn’t keep it out. Penalty saved The Danes’ best chance came when Yussuf Poulsen went down in the area under a challenge from Paulus Arajuuri. But ’keeper Lukas Hradecky dived to his left to stop Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg tame penalty kick. Later in St. Petersburg, Romelu Lukaku scored twice as Belgium confirmed its status as one of the favourites with a confident 3-0 victory over hosts Russia. Despite being without key performer Kevin De Bruyne, world number one ranked Belgium was rarely in trouble.  The results: Group B: Belgium 3 (Lukaku 10, 88, Meunier 34) bt Russia 0; Denmark 0 lost to Finland 1 (Pohjanpalo 60).    By the numbers   1 - Joel Pohjanpalo scored Finland’s first ever goal at the Euros with what was its first shot in the competition  3 – Finland’s Lukas Hradecky is only the third goalkeeper to save a penalty on his debut in the Euros after Przemyslaw Tyton in 2012 (Poland v Greece) and Trols Rasmussen in 1988 (Denmark v Spain)  26 – The number of goals Romelu Lukaku has been directly involved in, in his last 19 appearances for Belgium in all competitions (22 goals, 4 assists)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/finland-stuns-denmark/article34808006.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Praggnanandhaa slips to second spot||R. Praggnanandhaa slipped to second place and required a strong finish over the last four rounds of the Gelfand Challenge online rapid chess tournament on Sunday. Trailing by half-point to Germany’s Vincent Keymer (12 points), Praggnanandhaa was left to rue the costly oversight against Kazakh girl Zhansaya Abdumalik in the 12th round when reached a dominant position but lost his queen to a knight-fork and resigned. The other half-point he dropped on Friday was also to a Kazakh girl, Dinara Sadukassova in the final round. In fact, it was Keymer’s final-round win over Zhansaya that gave him the sole lead. Nihal Sarin, who needed to win all five rounds on Friday to have an outside chance of returning to the title-race, kept winning and caught up with D. Gukesh at the fourth spot.   The results (involving Indians): 15th round: Dinara Saduakassova (Kaz) drew with R. Praggnanandhaa; Olga Badelka (Blr) lost to Nihal Sarin; D. Gukesh bt Zhu Jiner (Chn); Christopher Woojin Yoo (USA) bt Leon Mendonca.   14th round: Praggnanandhaa bt Gunay Mammdzada (Aze); Nihal bt Gukesh; Mendonca bt Dinara.   13th round: Polina Shuvalova (Rus) lost to Praggnanandhaa; Yoo lost to Nihal; Gunay lost to Mendonca.   12th round: Praggnanandhaa lost to Zhansaya Abdumalik (Kaz); Nihal bt Dinara; Nodirbek Abdusattorrov (Uzb) lost to Gukesh; Mendonca drew with Shuvalova.   11th round: Lei Tingjie (Chn) lost to Praggnanandhaa; Gunay lost to Nihal; Gukesh lost to Volodar Murzin (Rus); Abdumalik lost to Mendonca.   Leading standings (including Indians): 1. Vincent Keymer (Ger, 12 points); 2. R, Praggnanandhaa (11.5), 3. Christopher Yoo (USA, 10.5); 4-5. Nihal Sarin and D. Gukesh (10 each); 9. Leon Mendonca (8) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/praggnanandhaa-slips-to-second-spot/article34808037.ece
14 June 2021||HYDERABAD:,||Harsha in lead||Uma Harsha emerged the sole leader with 5.5 points from six rounds in the open category of the 181st Brilliant Trophy online chess tournament on Sunday. J. Ramakrishna and Vighnesh Advaith were joint second with five points each while Parth Sehra, Mathiazhalagan, Karthik Sai and Ayush Jain shared the third spot with 4.5 points each. In the junior category, Naga Sai Sarthik, Akash Kumar and Rajkumar shared the lead with 5.5 points each in six rounds.  Important results:   Sixth round, junior: Naga Sai Sarthak (5.5) drew with D. Rajkumar (5.5); Akash Kumar (5.5) bt Ashish Chaudhari (4); Nannya (5) bt Yashvi Jain (4); Sharishma (5) bt Srikara Darbha (4); Joseph Tom (5) bt K. Anil (4).   Open: Karthik Sai (4.5) lost to Uma Harsha (5.5); J. Ramakrishna (5) drew with Parth Sehra (4.5); Vighnesh Advaith (5) bt Niranjan (4); Mathiazhagan (4.5) bt Kesavan (3.5); Ayush Jain (4.5) bt P. Nihal (3) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harsha-in-lead/article34808421.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Kheerthi among 17 leaders||A day after becoming the National (under-18) girls champion, G. Kheerthi (three points) was leading with 16 others following the third round of the National (under-16) online rapid chess championship on Sunday. In the open section, top seed Aditya Mittal was among the 35 leaders with three points from as many rounds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kheerthi-among-17-leaders/article34808038.ece
14 June 2021||Abu Dhabi,||du Plessis suffers concussion||Former South Africa captain Faf du Plessis suffered a concussion after a nasty collision with Quetta Gladiators teammate Mohammad Hasnain while fielding during their Pakistan Super League match against Peshawar Zalmi here on Saturday. du Plessis was taken to hospital for scans. However, much to everyone’s relief, du Plessis said on Sunday he was back from the hospital and "recovering". The collision took place in the 19th over of the Peshawar innings when du Plessis' head hit Hasnain's knee while trying to save a boundary. "Thank you everyone for all the messages of support. I'm back at the hotel recovering. Have concussion with some memory loss but I will be fine. Hopefully be back on the field soon. Much love," du Plessis tweeted. It was the second case of concussion in two days for the Gladiators. In its last match against Islamabad United, a Mohammad Musa bouncer hit West Indian Andre Russell on the helmet. He was replaced by fast bowler Naseem Shah.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/du-plessis-suffers-concussion/article34808042.ece
14 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Milkha Singh’s wife Nirmal passes away||Nirmal Kaur, wife of sprint legend Milkha Singh and former captain of the Indian volleyball team, passed away at a Mohali hospital due to complications from the COVID-19 infection she had contracted last month. She was 85 and is survived by her husband, a son and three daughters. “We are deeply saddened to inform you that Mrs. Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away after a valiant battle against COVID at 4 p.m. today [Sunday],” a statement from the spokesperson of the Milkha family said. “A backbone of the Milkha family, she was 85 years old. It is tragic that Milkha Singh could not attend the cremation which was conducted this eveningas he is still in the ICU (of PGIMER in Chandigarh).” Nirmal was brought to Fortis Hospital at Mohali on May 26, two days after Milkha was admitted to the same facility with COVID pneumonia. A former Director of Sports for Women in the Punjab Government, Nirmal had fought a valiant battle till the very end, the family spokesperson said. “The family has expressed its grateful thanks to everyone for their solidarity and prayers right through the battle which gave them the strength to face it bravely.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/milkha-singhs-wife-nirmal-passes-away/article34808046.ece
14 June 2021||Kaunas (Lithuania),||Malvika in final||India’s Malvika Bansod defeated France’s Anna Tatranova in straight games to enter the women’s singles final at RSL Lithuanian International badminton tournament here on Sunday. The third seeded Indian, who had reached the quarterfinals of Austrian Open last month, beat Anna 21-13, 21-10 in a lop-sided contest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/malvika-in-final/article34808050.ece
14 June 2021||Paris,||Krejcikova takes the doubles title with Siniakova||French Open champion Barbora Krejcikova, right, in pic , completed a rare sweep of titles at Roland-Garros as she won a third women's doubles Major trophy with fellow Czech teammate Katerina Siniakova on Sunday. The duo defeated Bethanie Mattek-Sands and Iga Swiatek 6-4, 6-2 in the final on Sunday. Less than 24 hours after she claimed her maiden singles Slam title, Krejcikova became the first woman since Mary Pierce in 2000 to lift both trophies at the clay-court Major. Only seven women have completed the titles sweep at Roland-Garros. In addition to her pair of trophies, Krejcikova will reclaim the No. 1 spot in the doubles rankings next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/krejcikova-takes-the-doubles-title-with-siniakova/article34807994.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||Removal of ignorance||The greatest hurdle to the jivatma’s salvation is the ignorance of the true identity of the indwelling atma. For all of us, the ‘I’ sense or the ego sense is strong and this is part of one’s deha dharma. It gives rise to the tendency to look upon one’s own body, wife, children, kith and kin, etc, one’s possessions such as house, profession, etc as the source of happiness. The entire lifetime is spent in thinking of how to own them, and then how to protect them, and safeguard them from dangers with no concern for the welfare of the atma. In all his works, Adi Sankara teaches us to ponder on the teachings of the sastras which focus on those eternal truths that are of real value for the atma in contrast to the laukika topics with which most of us are generally preoccupied with, pointed out Sri K. Ramasubramaniam in a discourse. In his grantha Satasloki, the acharya highlights the benefits of Mimamsa Vedanta drawing attention to the way the Upanishads try to explain the truth of the immortal atma with simple examples and anecdotes. It is similar to the way a concerned mother, keen to pacify the crying child, tries to offer various playthings or fruits. The aim is to make us understand that all of us have accumulated ignorance through several births and this has to be removed with conscious effort. As long as the mind is a slave to ignorance, the truths cannot be realised. The Kenopanishad teaches us to evaluate the cause behind the way the sense organs function. The ear or the eye does the wonderful job of hearing the sounds of the external world and seeing the objects. But in reality the ear and the eye are only instruments and cannot function by themselves. It is the immortal atma within that enables these to do their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/removal-of-ignorance/article34807959.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 08:00 IST,||Sudoku — June 14, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-14-2021/article34808584.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||The spy who has won over the country||Manoj Bajpayee is shooting for a new project atop a hill in Uttarakhand. The internet connection is inconsistent. “I miss the personal touch,” he says, slightly vexed that all interactions have gone online since the pandemic. But even on a patchy Zoom call, his excitement is apparent. The second season of The Family Man , in which he reprises the role of Srikant Tiwari, the middle-aged spy dealing with middle-class problems and midlife crisis, released on June 4. And there has been a torrent of feedback. “It is quite overwhelming,” he says. “Though the first season was well received, it took time for people to watch the series and for it to spread through word of mouth. The second one just took off from the first hour of its release. People are binge-watching it; hundreds of people I know are watching it for the second or even third time.” The anticipation, after all, was enormous. Season one had ended on a cliffhanger. But there was the question of whether the second season would match or surpass the storytelling of the first. The reviews have been largely positive. There’s been no dearth of Twitter memes and theories. Even some of the cameo roles have garnered a following (Google ‘Chellam Sir Family Man memes’). Most recently, the banter between Netflix and Amazon Prime Video, about Bajpayee’s new drama, Ray (releasing June 25 on Netflix), caught everyone’s attention. “Every day, there is a lot of love pouring in through social media, personal messages. It’s quite unprecedented for me,” says the actor, 52, adding, “This kind of success, one cannot expect.” There have been controversies too, sinceThe Family Man 2trailer dropped. The show narrates the story of a rebellious army of Tamils in Sri Lanka closely resembling the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). And a few political leaders from Tamil Nadu have called for its ban, accusing the makers of negatively portraying the Tamil Eelam. “The objections started before the show started streaming,” Bajpayee says. “But the apprehensions slowly started getting answered once it released. So many people from Tamil Nadu are loving the show. So, that takes care of the other negative voices. Let the product talk for itself.” The National Award-winning actor believes the writers and directors — Raj Nidimoru and Krishna DK (known as Raj and DK), Suman Kumar and Suparn S Verma — have created “a show that is sensitive to the emotions of people in this country”. In an interview with The Hindu Weekend , he talks about his character, the pan-Indianness of the show, collaborating with South Indian actors, and more. Edited excerpts: Was there any pressure going into the second season?  We were already shooting in Chennai for season two when the first started streaming. The script was ready, and all the major portions of the schedule was done. So the reception of season one didn’t impact season two. In your career, you haven’t stayed with any other role as much as you have with Srikant Tiwari. Does that make him one of your favourite characters? A character always leaves a residue in the actor’s mind regardless of how well you move on from it. I give all of myself to each and every character I do. So, it’s hard to pick a favourite. For a film, you shoot for 45-50 days and you are out of it. With The Family Man , if you include the days of shooting and preparation, it is over 150 to 200 days. When the next season starts, you have to relive the character. That’s tiring and tedious to do. You need the ability to return to the character after being a part of other projects. It’s a different ballgame. Were there any apprehensions before signingThe Family Man ?   I got offers for a few other series on OTT platforms, but I didn’t want to be a part of them. I wanted to do something where I could make a difference as an actor. When Raj and DK narrated the synopsis, I was sold on the idea of an intelligence guy with the problems of a middle-class person. I can see bits of Srikant Tiwari in the people around me. He is kind of like RK Laxman’s Common Man. He is a part of the play and also a witness to the play. You have starred in a few comedies. But your most acclaimed roles have been ones with darker shades. Do you have a preference for the latter?  Not really. No matter how dark my characters are — even if they are gangsters or policemen or an intelligence guy — I like to make them relatable. I draw examples from the lives of regular people. Each and every person who watches my films or shows should feel that these are their stories. That’s my endeavour when I prepare for a role. The Family Mandeals with volatile topics — Kashmir in the first season, Sri Lankan Tamils in the second. When you enter such politics-heavy projects, are you more careful than usual?  You go by the character or the story that you are given. Your job is to go with conviction and give your 200% to your role. But every actor or creative person should have an understanding of the politics in their country. The writers of The Family Man are well-read. All the characters in the show are heroes in their own stories. We humanise them. We are not here to take sides. We put forth arguments from both sides and let people decide for themselves.  There are quite a few Tamil-speaking actors in the show.  I have done two commercial films in Tamil [ Samar and Anjaan ], and my experience with my co-stars and directors has been amazing. It’s the same when you are working with fantastic talents like Priyamani and Samantha Akkineni [who play Tiwari’s wife and a Sri Lankan Tamil respectively in season two]. You are observing their work ethics and their methods. It was such an eye-opener for me. I have admired Priyamani from season one. This time, I was amazed how Samantha ferociously went into preparing for the project, be it the dialogues or the martial arts training.  The Family Man 2is streaming now on Amazon Prime Video. Watch ManojBajpayee in conversation with Praveen Sudevan on weekend.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-spy-who-has-won-over-the-country/article34808147.ece
14 June 2021||June 14 2021 00:00 IST,||3||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/3/article34808165.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||Court rejects plea of overweight applicant||The Delhi High Court has rejected the appeal of a man, seeking appointment as airman in the Indian Air Force, challenging the Medical Board’s decision declaring him ‘unfit’ for service on three grounds — being overweight, unable to squat, and suffering from hyperbilirubinemia. The High Court took into account the response of the government that the ideal weight prescribed in the Manual of Medical Examination and Medical Boards for the height of the petitioner, Amit Kumar, of 178 cm and 19 years, was 63 kgs with a margin of 6.3 kgs. “However the weight of the petitioner [Mr. Kumar], as per the records produced, on the date of the examination by the Medical Board as well as by the Appeal Medical Board was way above i.e., 83 kgs and 80 kgs respectively,” the court said. “Since one ground is enough for this petition to be dismissed, we are not opting to go into other two grounds of rejection,” the court said while rejecting the petition. The court also remarked that the petitioner is not found to be controverting the finding of the Appeal Medical Board, that his weight on December 30, 2020 was 83 kgs and on March 1, 2021 was 80 kgs. “Suffice it to say that, the petitioner, without imputing any mala fides to the officers constituting the Medical Board/Appeal Medical Board, cannot controvert their findings as to having weighed the petitioner,” the High Court said while dismissing the plea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-rejects-plea-of-overweight-applicant/article34808154.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||Man arrested in Delhi riots case granted bail||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to a man, who was arrested for being part of a mob and indulging in pelting stones during the north-east Delhi riots last year, saying that there is no direct evidence like CCTV footage. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait also took account of the fact that the co-accused of petitioner have been granted bail in this case. The crux of the prosecution case is that the FIR was registered at the instance of one Pappu, who has alleged that on February 25, 2020 at about 2.15 p.m., when his brother Babu reached Khajuri Khas, he was attacked by the mob and received grievous injuries. Thereafter, on February 27 he succumbed to injuries during treatment. Shabuddine was arrested on March 20 last year in connection with the case. “According to the chargesheet, the role attributed to the petitioner [Shabuddine] is of being part of the mob and participating in the riots and indulging in pelting stones. How and in what matter the claim of prosecution that petitioner’s role is different than the other co-accused will be tested during trial,” the court noted. “Chargesheet in this case has been filed. However, the charge is yet to be framed and trial will take substantial time,” the court said while granting bail to Shabuddine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-arrested-in-delhi-riots-case-granted-bail/article34808155.ece
14 June 2021||Ghaziabad,||Couple strangled by son in Ghaziabad||A man was arrested for allegedly strangulating to death his elderly parents and also deceiving the police by claiming it to be a robbery-cum-murder at their home in Loni, officials said on Sunday. Police arrested the accused, Ravi Dhaka, on Sunday and recovered a nylon rope, a towel used in the crime, Rs. 15,000 in cash, and a fixed deposit certificate of Rs. 5 lakh. Superintendent of Police (Rural) Iraj Raja said the accused was sent to jail after a case was lodged under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Ravi told police that he had strangled his father Surendra Dhaka (70) and mother Santosh (63) to death on Friday at his house in Balram Nagar of Loni area in the district, the SP said. He was worried that the entire family property would be passed on to his younger brother’s family, the officer said. At the scene of the crime, Ravi fooled the police of a robbery as he had thrown goods and clothes in a haphazard way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/couple-strangled-by-son-in-ghaziabad/article34808167.ece
14 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC holds street plays on benefits of jab||To raise awareness about the benefits of vaccination against COVID, the Delhi Metro is organising a series of street plays at its construction sites. Targeting a small group at a time, these plays expect to reach out to over 3,000 workers and encourage them to get vaccinated. The Delhi Metro said professional artists, who work in commercial movies, TV shows and web series have been roped in for the programme. “Since most of the workers come from U.P, Bihar, the shows are designed in different dialects spoken in rural parts of these regions,” a DMRC spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-holds-street-plays-on-benefits-of-jab/article34808166.ece
14 June 2021||New Delhi,||Hit by dust storms, Jama Masjid structures damaged, need urgent intervention of experts: Shahi Imam||The structures of the historic Jama Masjid in Old Delhi have suffered damage in two dust storms within a week’s time, the Shahi Imam of the mosque said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hit-by-dust-storms-jama-masjid-structures-damaged-need-urgent-intervention-of-experts-shahi-imam/article34808156.ece
