16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: 3 student activists get bail||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Jawaharlal Nehru University students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the northeast Delhi riots in 2020. In its order, the court rebuked the Delhi Police for “casually” invoking provisions of the anti-terror law against the three accused, who had protested against the enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), noting that the line between the constitutionally guaranteed “right to protest” and “terrorist activity” had been blurred. “We are constrained to say, that it appears, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the state has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’,” a Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani observed. “If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril,” the Bench asserted. The three activists, arrested in May last year, have been named in multiple FIRs in relation to the riots. They were granted bail by local courts in the other riots-related cases but denied bail in the FIR where the stringent UAPA provisions were invoked against them. The High Court remarked that the chargesheet lacked “any specific, particularised, factual allegations” that would make out the ingredients of offences under the UAPA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-riots-3-student-activists-get-bail/article34825940.ece
16 June 2021||Kolkata,||Bengal to revive 135-year-old Shalimar Shipyard||West Bengal will revitalise the 135-year-old Howrah-based Shalimar Shipyard which, during its heyday, was a major ship-repair unit on the entire east coast but has witnessed stagnation in the recent decades. Though the facility still manufactures vessels, including for the Navy, it has long been overtaken by other players — both government and private — in the business. The original shipyard was established by Turner Morrison in 1885 and, after Independence, changed hands several times before being taken over by the government of West Bengal in 1980. “We are looking at Shalimar seriously because restructuring will make it profitable, and that will be a feather in the cap of the State government. So far it was run by retired people, but to re-energise it we have now appointed a young IAS officer [Transport Corporation MD Rajanvir Singh Kapur] as its new chairman,” Transport Minister Firhad Hakim said at the site on Monday. “Our top priority is financial restructuring and space utilisation and to bring back the business that is now going to the private sector. If an MBA can successfully run a private enterprise, why can’t an IAS officer, who is no less meritorious, run a government organisation?” Mr. Hakim said. The Shalimar Works has produced close to 600 vessels so far and its clients have included several government and private organisations. Mr. Hakim said maintenance and repairs of the vessels of the Transport Department would now be done only through Shalimar. A World Bank project on Inland Waterways, he said, would also bring maintenance and repair works to the shipyard.  Riverine tourism “We would try to make Shalimar a preferred stop for ship repair and maintenance. Also, as per the vision of the government, we would come up with AC vessels that could be plied and booked as chartered on Hooghly River. This would be helpful for riverine tourism as well upscale the riverine transport of Kolkata,” Mr. Kapur told The Hindu . Mr. Kapur, who took charge as the WBTC MD only in January 2020, is the brain behind the Calcutta Tram World, an ongoing project that’s set to transform the neglected Gariahat tram depot into a cultural centre. Until late last year, a large portion of the still-in-use depot, right in the heart of the city, served as a dump yard. Thanks to the project, the 24 trams that stood junked there were saved from going to the scrap dealer, with 12 of them becoming part of a museum, their interiors exhibiting items and pictures from the bygone era.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bengal-to-revive-135-year-old-shalimar-shipyard/article34826125.ece
16 June 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal BJP battles dwindling flock||The West Bengal unit of the BJP was left scrambling for face-savers on Tuesday after a third of its 75 MLAs did not turn up for a meeting with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar a day earlier to highlight the post-poll violence in the State. Dilip Ghosh, the State party chief, said a decision had been taken to take along 31 MLAs but many more arrived, so the number swelled to 51. The Trinamool leadership was quick to highlight the “missing MLAs”. “All the MLAs did not go and meet the Governor. Why did the 24 MLAs not go? The BJP should investigate this,” said TMC leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. The meeting was billed as a show of strength for the embattled party after the defection of its national vice-president Mukul Roy to the Trinamool Congress last week sparked speculation of more MLAs following suit. The party won 77 seats but two of the winners, who are Lok Sabha MPs, did not take oath as MLAs. Mr. Ghosh said the defectors had come with the tide and their decision to leave will not hurt the party. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has been emphasising that he will ensure that they are disqualified as per the anti-defection law. The BJP finds itself in a catch-22 situation. It had encouraged defections before the elections when about 30 TMC MLAs joined the party. What makes the situation more complicated is that the two TMC MPs who defected to the BJP have not resigned from the Lok Sabha. One of them is Mr. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari. “Suvendu should go and share the wisdom of anti-defection law with his father,” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said. Defections have been a regular phenomenon in the State politics for the past 10 years. Between 2011 and 2021, dozens of MLAs of the Congress and a few from the Left joined the Trinamool. Political observer Biswanath Chakraborty said 14 Congress MLAs and three from the Left joined the TMC between 2016 and 2021 and none was disqualified. Besides the MLAs, several leaders like Rajib Banerjee and Prabir Ghosal are sending feelers to the TMC that they want to return, as is former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee. Internal bickering For the BJP, the problem is also the bickering among its leadership. One of the most senior leaders and former Meghalaya Governor Tathagata Roy has been regularly targeting the leadership. Soon after Mr. Mukul Roy’s return to the TMC, the former Governor targeted Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP national general secretary who is the party central observer to Bengal. He tweeted asking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to take the BJP national secretary into Trinamool, sharing a photograph of Mr. Mukul Roy and Mr. Vijayvargiya. The former Governor had described Mr. Mukul Roy as a “Trojan horse”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-bjp-battles-dwindling-flock/article34826395.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||Vaccination scam feared in Mumbai apartment complex||At least 390 residents of a tony housing complex in Mumbai’s western suburbs suspect they may have been duped in an alleged COVID-19 vaccination scam. Not only were the names of two reputed hospitals wrongly used as a “partners” in the vaccination camp, many now fear they may not have been vaccinated as the Co-WIN portal shows no record their vaccination. The incident came to light after two young residents of the Hiranandani Heritage apartment complex in Kandivli west took to Twitter. The Hindu spoke with another resident of the residential complex, who corroborated the events and requested anonymity, citing the building society’s management committee.  Not involved: hospitals Both the hospitals named — Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital and Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital — have denied being involved in the vaccination camp. Mumbai police sources told The Hindu that a probe had been started and some of those who organised the camp had been questioned. “Our society WhatsApp group informed us that the Kokilaben Hospital was partnering for the vaccination camp on May 30. Every person would be charged Rs. 1,260. Those who received the jab did not get a confirmation SMS, as is the usual practice. When we inquired, we were told there would be a delay of four to five days,” the resident told The Hindu . The society paid Rs. 4.60 lakh in cash to one Mahendra Singh towards the cost of the vaccines, without a receipt. After a week’s time, some residents received certificates with different dates and names of different hospitals, such as Nanavati Hospital, Lifeline Hospital, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s Nesco Covid Care Centre, etc. “When we questioned, we were told that the vaccination was done by one Shivam Hospital in Kandivli. On inquiring, that hospital denied any knowledge of it,” he said. Some of the certificates received by the residents are showing as valid on the Co-WIN app while others aren’t. The accounts of a few members on Co-WIN display no record of vaccination. None among those vaccinated experienced any side-effects.  The Hindu was not able to reach Umesh Shah, chairman of the apartment’s society, on a call or message. Dr. Santosh Shetty, executive director and CEO at the Kokilaben Hospital, said his hospital never operated through agents. “We have nothing to do with this vaccination camp. We have informed the police,” he said. The Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital issued a statement on Tuesday saying they had not conducted any vaccination camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/vaccination-scam-feared-in-mumbai-apartment-complex/article34826494.ece
16 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Family of Mizoram cult leader accepts his death after a day||More than a day after refusing to believe he had died, the family of a polygamous Christian cult leader in Mizoram has decided to perform his last rites. Zion-a Chana or Zionghaka, who headed the Chana cult and the world’s largest family, died in a private hospital in Aizawl on June 13. He went into coma on June 11 after falling ill on June 7 due to diabetes and hypertension. But members of his family at Baktawng village, about 100 km from Aizawl, and about 3,000 followers of the cult claimed he was alive and his body still warm. They finally accepted the death of the 76-year-old patriarch on Monday night. Zaitinkhuma, the cult’s secretary, said Zion-a would be interred in the village. “We have not yet decided on the time of his burial.” Zion-a had 39 wives, 94 children and 33 grandchildren. All family members live in a sprawling four-storey mansion in Baktawng, a self-sustaining village. The family and the cult’s reputation had made Baktawng a major tourist attraction. Zion-a had even built a guest house in his mansion to cater to tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/family-of-mizoram-cult-leader-accepts-his-death-after-a-day/article34826127.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Despite assurance, Twitter yet to appoint compliance officer||Despite its assurance to the government on June 5 to provide details of a chief compliance officer (CCO) within a week, microblogging platform Twitter has failed to do so thus far. It has instead informed the government that it has posted job descriptions for required roles and will fill these as quickly as possible, The Hindu has learnt. According to an official source, due to non-compliance with the new IT rules, Twitter may no longer be classified as an intermediary, and there will be no separate order from the government on this. By losing its intermediary status, the U.S.-headquartered social media platform can now be held liable for any content posted by any user on its platform. However, according to Twitter, an interim CCO has been retained and the details would be shared with the Ministry soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despite-assurance-twitter-yet-to-appoint-compliance-officer/article34825941.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cautious easing of lockdown restrictions in the State||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday announced the commencement of a cautious and gradual winding down of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions from June 17. The extend of relaxations would hinge on the test positivity rate (TPR) in the ward, panchayat, municipality or corporation concerned. Lockdown restrictions would be total in containment zones. Triple lockdown would automatically come into force in localities with a weekly average TPR of 30% and above. Mr. Vijayan said the State would shut down entirely on the weekend. The administration would review lockdown restrictions every week on Wednesday. The ban on inter-district travel would continue. The decision signalled a welcome respite from an unexpectedly long lockdown season that began on May 8 to turn the tide of the virulent second coronavirus wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cautious-easing-of-lockdown-restrictions-in-the-state/article34826158.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Decision on unlock 2.0 soon: CM||Bolstered by the decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru and 19 other districts, the State government is planning the second phase of unlocking of various commercial activities from next Monday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa told presspersons on Tuesday that depending on the improvement in the COVID-19 situation in Bengaluru and other districts, he would take a decision on further relaxing norms in a day or two. The government has modified some of the lockdown restrictions imposed in 20 districts, including Bengaluru, till June 21. Following a demand from trade bodies and industries, the government is expected to permit operation of public transport such as BMTC and KSRTC buses to ensure free movement of workers to their workplaces, sources said. Jewellery shops, garment shops, shopping malls, hotels, and salons are expected to get relaxations. Hotels and public transport are expected to get permission to operate with 50% seating capacity, sources said. At present, all industries and manufacturing units have been allowed to open with 50% staff while garment industries have been permitted to open with 30% staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-unlock-20-soon-cm/article34825966.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||AY.1 not a variant of concern yet: Centre||India on Tuesday formally acknowledged the occurrence of AY.1, a coronavirus variant that is closely related to the prevailing Delta variant. AY.1, or B.1.617.2.1, has a mutation called K417N that is linked to high infectivity and has been associated with the Beta variant, first identified in South Africa. “This [AY.1] was first identified in March in Europe but brought into the public domain only two days ago,” said V.K. Paul, Chairman, National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of COVID-19, at a press conference. “Yes, a new variant has been found. It’s not yet a variant of concern, or one which has adverse consequences to humanity. We don’t know much about it yet and are studying it, including the prevalence in India,” he said. As The Hindu reported on Monday, five Indian laboratories submitted data on this variant in May and June to GISAID, a global repository. Public Health England, a U.K. body, said of the 63 genomes in the GISAID repository as of June 7, six were from India. Evidence of AY.1 had been found in Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Karnataka. Dr. Paul said that while continued mutation was a biological fact, the steps to protect against exposure remained the same — “not giving opportunities to the virus to spread”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ay1-not-a-variant-of-concern-yet-centre/article34825938.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,||At least 1.41 lakh missed taking Covaxin 2nd dose within 6 weeks||At least 1,41,319 people in Tamil Nadu failed to get their second dose of Covaxin within the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-advised window of a maximum of six weeks as on June 13, an analysis of the vaccination data shows. According to the ICMR, the second dose can be taken from four to six weeks of the first dose. If those who failed to get the second dose in the minimum required window of four weeks is considered, the number is as high as 1.74 lakh. The State had received a total of 16.82 lakh doses of Covaxin from the Centre and through its own procurement till June 9. Of these, the State administered 11.55 lakh first doses and 5.05 lakh second doses till June 13. For the analysis, May 2 was taken as the reference point. A six-week period is from May 2 to June 13. Ideally, as per the ICMR guidelines, people who took Covaxin on May 2 must have taken their second dose by June 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-141-lakh-missed-taking-covaxin-2nd-dose-within-6-weeks/article34826026.ece
16 June 2021||Lucknow,||Suspended BSP legislators meet Akhilesh Yadav, may join SP||At least five MLAs suspended by the Bahujan Samaj Party last year met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday, triggering speculation that they may join his party. Handia legislator Hakimlal Bind said he, along with Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Raini and Sushma Patel, met the SP chief. However, Mr. Bhargav said that he was not present at the meeting. “I was in Sidhauli [his Assembly constituency] and did not go there [meeting]. I also saw my name being flashed on news channels,” he said. Deputy leader of the BSP in the State Assembly Uma Shankar Singh described the MLAs as “garbage”. ‘Discussion on polls’ Mungra Badshahpur MLA Ms. Patel said the meeting with Mr. Yadav, which lasted for 15-20 minutes, witnessed “discussions on the upcoming U.P. Assembly elections”. Asked about the future course of action, Ms. Patel said, “Personally, I have made up my mind to join the Samajwadi Party.” However, Bhinga MLA Mr. Raini said that they can form a party or join an outfit without attracting the provisions of the anti-defection law only if their number reaches 12, two-thirds of the current strength of the BSP in the 403-member Assembly. Currently, our number is 11, he said. “Ex-Speaker Sukhdev Rajbhar can be the 12th MLA,” said Mr. Raini. “Once the political party is formed, senior leader Lalji Verma will tell you,” he added. Reports surfaced that Mr. Raini met U.P. Assembly Speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit but the latter denied it. Mr. Siddiqui said if Ms. Mayawati decides to withdraw their suspension, they may think of rejoining the party. “As far as the meeting with Akhilesh Yadav is concerned, it was a courtesy call and there was no discussion on polls or tickets,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/suspended-bsp-legislators-meet-akhilesh-yadav-may-join-sp/article34826403.ece
16 June 2021||patna,||After LJP split, eyes on Congress MLAs in Bihar||After the split in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), now speculation is rife in Bihar for a possible break among 19 State Congress legislators. Congress leaders, though, have strongly denied it and said “such rumours are being spread by leaders of a party to create confusion”. If some ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) party leaders are to be believed, as many as 10 out of the 19 Congress MLAs in the State are in constant touch with them and ready to break away from their party “at any time”. “We now need the support of only three Congress MLAs to make a split in the party by two-thirds to avoid action under the anti-defection laws,” said a senior JD(U) leader, adding, “but, very soon these three too would come”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/after-ljp-split-eyes-on-congress-mlas-in-bihar/article34826132.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ownership battle begins in Lok Janshakti Party||A day after the internal coup in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), an intense ownership battle emerged between the two factions, one headed by Chirag Paswan and the other by his uncle Pashupati Nath Paras, who led the rebellion. A notice released by the Paswan faction claimed that at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, a national executive meeting was called by the party, in which all the five MPs, Mr. Paras and Mr. Paswan’s cousin Prince Raj were removed from the primary membership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ownership-battle-begins-in-lok-janshakti-party/article34826402.ece
16 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram cult leader’s kin finally accept his death||More than a day after refusing to believe he died, the family of a polygamous Christian cult leader in Mizoram has decided to perform his last rites. World’s largest family Zion-a Chana or Zionghaka, who headed the Chana cult as well as the world’s largest family, died in a private hospital in Aizawl on June 13 afternoon. He slipped into a coma on June 11 after falling ill on June 7 due to diabetes and hypertension. The members of his family at Baktawng village, about 100 km from Aizawl, and about 3,000 followers of the cult claimed he was alive and his body still warm. They finally accepted the death of the 76-year-old patriarch about 9 p.m. on Monday. Zaitinkhuma, the cult’s secretary said Zion-a will be interred in the village. “We have not yet decided the time of his burial,” he said. Zion-a had 39 wives, 94 children and 33 grandchildren. All members of the family live in a sprawling four-storey mansion in Baktawng, a self-sustaining village. The family and the cult’s reputation had made Baktawng a major tourist attraction. Zion-a had even built a guest house in his mansion to cater to tourists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mizoram-cult-leaders-kin-finally-accept-his-death/article34826396.ece
16 June 2021||Guntur,||Rs. 248.47 crore released under Vahana Mitra||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday released Rs. 248.47 crore for the beneficiaries of the YSR Vahana Mithra scheme, under which the government was providing a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that Rs. 10,000 is being provided to the drivers for the recurring expenses such as insurance and maintenance of the vehicle to procure fitness certificate for the third time in three years. “In May 2018, I had promised this in Eluru during my padayatra. Considering the difficulties of auto-rickshaw drivers, who hardly earn Rs. 500 a day but have to pay Rs. 10,000 towards insurance and other expenses, the government has come up with this initiative,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rs-24847-crore-released-under-vahana-mitra/article34825934.ece
16 June 2021||Special Correspondent Pune,||With surge in recoveries active cases dip in State||With a robust 15,176 recoveries reported across Maharashtra on Tuesday as against 9,350 COVID-19 cases, the State’s active case tally dipped below the 1.40 lakh mark to reach 1,38,361. More than 1,500 deaths were added to the toll. Of these 275 deaths were reported in the last 48 hours and a further 113 occurred during the past week. The total cases have reached 59,24,773 while cumulative recoveries have risen to 56,69,179 with the recovery rate at 95.55%. “Of a total 3,84,18,130 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,24,773 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.42%) have returned positive with over 2.03 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Mumbai reported 572 new cases to take its case tally to 7,16,351 while the active count reached 17,519. With 14 deaths, the city’s fatalities reached 15,216. Pune reported over 1,100 cases taking its total to 10,37,780. As per State Health Department figures, 16 deaths were reported taking the toll to 15,593. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined below 12,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/with-surge-in-recoveries-active-cases-dip-in-state/article34826488.ece
16 June 2021||Pune,||Ajit Pawar takes a dig at State Congress chief||Taking a jibe at Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole over the latter’s alleged Chief Ministerial aspirations, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said that while there was nothing wrong in someone expressing their desire to become CM, the magic figure of 145 MLAs was needed to become one. Mr. Pawar said that as per the formula worked out by the heads of the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena, Uddhav Thackeray would remain the State’s Chief Minister, leading the tripartite ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ajit-pawar-takes-a-dig-at-state-congress-chief/article34826491.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for the skies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiming-for-the-skies/article34826130.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Moment in the sun||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/moment-in-the-sun/article34826393.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||2 more held in Antilia bomb scare case||Two more people have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of explosives-laden SUV found near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said on Tuesday. A special court here remanded the two, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, in NIA custody till June 21, he added. “Shelar and Jadhav were nabbed from Malad on June 11. On the face of it, both were involved in the conspiracy,” an official said. The NIA suspects they played a role in the murder of Hiren, a Thane-based businessman who had claimed that the SUV found near Antilia on February 25 had been stolen from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2-more-held-in-antilia-bomb-scare-case/article34826489.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Aiming for the skies||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiming-for-the-skies/article34826495.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Varsities told to conduct semester exams soon||Universities have been directed by Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan to conduct semester examinations soon. The examinations were put on hold owing to the second wave of COVID-19 infections. As a result, most universities had not conducted examinations for the odd semester and had begun even semester courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/varsities-told-to-conduct-semester-exams-soon/article34825968.ece
16 June 2021||Guwahati,||Foodgrain ‘scam’ hits Meghalaya||An alleged foodgrain scam involving the Food Corporation of India has added to the embarrassment of the Meghalaya government facing flak for poor management of the COVID-19 crisis. Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma has denied his government’s involvement in the “scam” detected in adjoining Assam a few days ago. But the BJP, a constituent of his coalition government, and the Opposition Congress, have demanded a probe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/foodgrain-scam-hits-meghalaya/article34826131.ece
16 June 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal Governor flags Mamata’s ‘inaction’||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee questioning her “continued silence and inaction” over post-poll violence and urged her to discuss it in the Assembly. The Home Department was quick to respond saying the contents of the Governor’s letter are “not consistent with real facts”. On Monday, 51 BJP MLAs had submitted a memorandum to the Governor on the violence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/west-bengal-governor-flags-mamatas-inaction/article34826134.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘One day’s stock available for 18-44 age group’||AAP MLA Atishi on Tuesday said that half of the govern-ment-run vaccine centres for the people of 18-44 age group were shut down on Tuesday and the rest will be shut down on Wednesday due to shortage.“For 18-44 age group, less than one day’s stock is available,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-days-stock-available-for-18-44-age-group/article34826398.ece
16 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Myanmar province CM takes refuge in Mizoram||The Chief Minister of a province of Myanmar is the newest high-profile lawmaker to have taken refuge in Mizoram following a military coup in the country. Salai Lian Luai, CM of Chin State, crossed over to Champhai town on Monday night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/myanmar-province-cm-takes-refuge-in-mizoram/article34826400.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia says no clarity yet on Galwan clashes||On the first anniversary of the Galwan valley clashes, Congress president Sonia Gandhi said the disengage-ment process with China “appears” to have worked to India’s disadvantage. She asked the Centre to take the nation into confidence over the progress made in restoring the status quo ante.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sonia-says-no-clarity-yet-on-galwan-clashes/article34826399.ece
16 June 2021||Pune,||Nearby||Demanding an increase in the per litre price of milk for dairy farmers, the Left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has alleged that milk farmers were given a raw deal by private and co-operative milk unions who cut costs by claiming a low demand for milk during the pandemic-induced lockdown. The AIKS has said that private and co-operative milk unions had slashed the purchase price of milk by Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 per litre, while keeping the selling rate unchanged for consumers. To protest this, the outfit has planned a Maharashtra-wide agitation on June 17. It has demanded that farmers be given the pre-lockdown rates of Rs. 35 per litre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article34826490.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||Death toll in State crosses 30,000||The death toll from COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu crossed 30,000, with the State regis- tering 267 new fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/death-toll-in-state-crosses-30000/article34826024.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||Panel to study admission to professional courses||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin issued orders for constituting a commission to look into ways to increase the admission of students into professional courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-to-study-admission-to-professional-courses/article34826025.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns W.B. riots hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to a request by the Union government to adjourn the hearing on the petitions seeking a CBI or a SIT (special investigation team) investigation into incidents of post-poll violence in West Bengal. Appearing before a Vacation Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta asked the court to schedule the hearing on June 18. The court was primarily hearing a joint petition filed by the family members of BJP activists Abhijit Sarkar and Haran Adhikari, who were killed allegedly in the violence following the Assembly polls in May. ‘Total inaction’ The families have alleged “total inaction” and even “subversion” of the investigation by the State administration and police. The State government has replied that first information reports had been registered and several arrests made in connection with the murders. In an affidavit filed on Monday on allegations of State complicity in the post poll violence, the Mamata Banerjee government maintained that these were “concocted stories” spread on social media by miscreants. It said, “It is untenable to categorise each and every act of violence following the declaration of elections results as ‘post-poll violence’ while adopting a premise that such violence is ongoing in West Bengal to which the State machinery is turning a blind eye”. False allegations of State complicity was drawn on the basis of hearsay reports disseminated on social media by miscreants. The apex court was misled about the law and order situation. The petitions “reek of political motivation”, it said. The State said, “No person can be forced to stay away from his/her house, as it is their inherent right to live in their houses peacefully”. The petitions in the Supreme Court conveyed a “misleading narrative” while a five-judge Bench of the Calcutta High Court was already hearing a gamut of issues arising from the “alleged post-poll violence”. The State said a three-member committee of officers nominated by the National Human Rights Commission, the West Bengal Human Rights Commission and the Member Secretary of the West Bengal State Legal Service Authority had been formed to monitor the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-adjourns-wb-riots-hearing/article34825861.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Paras group had the blessings of BJP and JD(U)||The breaking away of the majority of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) parliamentary unit from Lok Sabha MP Chirag Paswan to form an independent group in the Lower House, had the full backing of the BJP as well as the Janata Dal (U), and will have far reaching consequences for the NDA equations in Bihar. According to those aware of the run-up to the dramatic developments on Monday, the seeds of this split were sown on the day the results of the Bihar elections were being announced last November. The BJP had almost immediately reached out to the LJP’s lone MLA, Raj Kumar Singh to secure his support in a delicately balanced House and got his backing for the Speaker’s election. “We were still talking to him when the Janata Dal(U) got him to join their party. We were of the opinion that if he had stayed as an Independent he could have been made Minister,” said a senior Bihar BJP office-bearer. Personal equations After that, both NDA partners were in constant touch with the five MPs of the LJP, in effect isolating Mr. Chirag Paswan. “Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai has excellent equations with Chandan Singh (MP from Nawada) who is also Suraj Bhan Singh’s (a trusted lieutenant of late Ram Vilas Paswan) brother. Also, another MP, Veena Devi is actually from the BJP but fought from an LJP ticket as the seat she wanted to contest from (Vaishali), went to the LJP kitty in the alliance division,” said the source. A week before the events of Monday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda met with the party’s Bihar unit president Sanjay Jaiswal, Mr. Rai, and BJP general secretary in charge of Bihar, Bhupendra Yadav in New Delhi. The BJP remained in the background of events, however, and continues to be tight-lipped. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Bhupendra Yadav’s only comment was that the events “were an internal matter of the LJP”. Within hours of the split in the LJP, Mr. Paswan’s uncle Pashupati Nath Paras was recognised as the parliamentary party leader of the LJP in the Lok Sabha. Significantly, there was no talk of merging the party into JD(U), with Mr. Paras insistent on maintaining a separate entity. Significance of split The fact that the breakaway LJP has been recognised as a separate party with five MPs, means that the split between the two NDA allies – the BJP and the JD(U) — remains at 17 and 16 seats respectively in the Lok Sabha, with Mr. Paras in a strong position to claim the single Ministerial berth in the Union Council of Ministers promised to the LJP, whenever the next reshuffle happens. “If the LJP had merged with the JD(U) parliamentary party, they would have had 21 seats, four more than the BJP; their claim on multiple Ministerial berths would have been stronger, and the struggle with which we (BJP) have shrugged off the junior partner status to JD(U) in Bihar would have been for nought in future negotiations,” said a source. This intricate cut and thrust of alliance politics in a State which is considered to have the most political of electorates is far from over. Mr. Paras will have to do his best to emulate his canny elder brother, the late Ram Vilas Paswan, to stay afloat, while Mr. Chirag Paswan will have to go back to the starting point, albeit much diminished. The BJP and JD(U)’s complicated pas de deux in Bihar will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paras-group-had-the-blessings-of-bjp-and-jdu/article34825871.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,||States hit by unequal supply of vaccines||The States such as Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar continue to experience a crunch in their COVID-19 vaccine supply, while those such as Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat are enjoying a relatively better stock position, data from an RTI query reply reveal. Till June 9, nearly 25 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses have been supplied to the States and the Union Territories by the Centre and through the direct State procurement channel, the RTI reply reveals. This was about seven crore doses more than what was supplied about a month back on May 11. A State-wise analysis of the doses received on both these dates relative to the adult population shows that supply to some States continues to increase at a higher rate than others. For instance, with the number of doses supplied till May 11, Tamil Nadu could have potentially given one dose of the vaccine to 13.2% of its adult population. A month later, as on June 9, the share of such adults has barely improved to 17.5%. In West Bengal, the share has slightly improved from 17.2% to 22.5% in the considered period. On the other hand, in Himachal Pradesh, the share of adults who could have potentially got a dose in the considered period has improved from 39.9% to 52.8%. In Gujarat, the share has gone up from 29.6% to 39.6%. The population figures are based on government estimates for the year 2021. The unequal distribution of doses continues to grow despite a high utilisation rate in most of the States. For instance, Tamil Nadu acquired 1,01,07,190 doses from the Centre and through its own channel till June 9. Of these 97,65,284 doses — 96.5% — have been utilised by the State till 8 p.m. on June 9. The figures do not include procurement and administration by private hospitals. States such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar too have utilised more than 90% of the doses supplied, according to vaccine administration data published by the Union Health Ministry on June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-hit-by-unequal-supply-of-vaccines/article34825892.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Ownership war begins in LJP||A day after the internal coup in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), an intense ownership battle emerged between the two factions, one headed by Chirag Paswan and the other by his uncle Pashupati Nath Paras, who led the rebellion. A notice released by the Paswan faction claimed that at 4 p.m. on Tuesday, a national executive meeting was called by the party, in which all the five MPs, Mr. Paras and Mr. Paswan’s cousin Prince Raj were removed from the primary membership of the party. The notice is signed by the secretary general of the LJP, Abdul Khaliq. While the other faction claimed that they, too, had called a national executive meeting and decided to appoint Suraj Bhan, elder brother of party MP Chandan Singh and a close associate of the late Ramvilas Paswan as working president. Both factions have also simultaneously shot off letters to the Election Commission of India. “According to the party’s constitution, only the president and the secretary general have the right to call for the party’s national executive to meet. And the national executive not only has MPs and MLAs but also the secretary general, treasurer, 16 general secretaries, 16 national secretaries, and nearly 15 presidents of frontal organisations and presidents of State units,” Mr. Khaliq told The Hindu . The Paswan faction has also written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to recant the appointment of Mr. Paras as the Parliamentary party leader of the LJP, claiming that only the chairperson of party’s Parliamentary board had the right to nominate the leader according to its constitution. Mr. Paras’s faction, meanwhile, is confident that it will be able to win the legal battle. “Our letter to the Election Commission on the appointment of Mr. Suraj Bhan as working president precedes their notice on removing all of us,” Khagaria MP Mehboob Ali Kaiser said. The question of ownership of the party, though, will be settled only by the Election Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ownership-war-begins-in-ljp/article34825877.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,||‘Jabs help against hospitalisation’||A real-world study undertaken by Public Health England in 14,019 people infected with the delta variant (B.1.617.2) in England found that vaccination with two doses of AstraZeneca and Pfizer offered high protection against hospitalisation. Of the 14,019 people infected with the delta variant, only 166 required hospitalisation. The study was undertaken between April 12 and June 4. In the case of the AstraZeneca, effectiveness against hospitalisation after full vaccination was 92%, while it was 96% in the case of Pfizer. The results have been posted as a preprint. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed. Public Health England had earlier found that despite modest reductions, vaccines remain effective against the delta variant. It found that full vaccination offered good protection against symptomatic disease. Vaccine effectiveness against symptomatic disease was 67% in the case of AstraZeneca and 88% with Pfizer. Single dose Effectiveness against hospitalisation was high even with one dose of AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccine. In the case of delta variant, one dose of AstraZeneca vaccine offered 71% protection, while two doses offered 92% protection. In the case of Pfizer vaccine, the protection was 94% after one dose and 96% after two doses. “This is reassuring data for India. In order to choose our way forward, I think we should use modelling approaches that lay out different implementation strategies and compare their impact at different stages of the pandemic,” says Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore. Another study posted as a preprint on May 24 found that protection against all symptomatic infections after a single dose of AstraZeneca was only 33.5% against the delta variant and 51.1% against the beta (B.1.1.7) variant. After the second dose, the protection against all symptomatic infections increased to 59.8% in the case of the delta variant and 87.9% against the beta variant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jabs-help-against-hospitalisation/article34825882.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Govt. confirms first death from reaction to vaccine||A government panel studying COVID-19 vaccine side effects on Tuesday confirmed the first death due to anaphylaxis following vaccination. According to a report submitted by the national Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) Committee, a 68-year-old man died from anaphylaxis (severe allergic reaction) after being vaccinated with Covishield on March 8. The death is reported as “vaccine product related reaction” in the report. The causality assessment of 31 reported adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) cases was carried out by the panel. N.K. Arora, Adviser, National AEFI Committee, told The Hindu : “It is the first death linked to COVID-19 vaccination due to anaphylaxis. But compared to the overall numbers, only a small number had a severe reaction. Those getting their vaccination need to wait for 30 minutes at the inoculation centre after vaccination as most of the anaphylactic reactions occur during this period and prompt treatment prevents deaths.” Miniscule risk Reacting to the report V.K. Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog, said: “This incident should not create fear in the minds of people and there should be no apprehension about the safety of the vaccines approved for Indian population. Whenever decisions about public health are taken, we discuss the benefits and risks involved and in this case the risk involved is minuscule as opposed to the gains.” The report meanwhile noted that of the 31 assessed cases, 18 were classified as having inconsistent causal association to vaccination (coincidental — not linked to vaccination), seven were classified as indeterminate, three cases were found to be vaccine product related, one was anxiety-related reaction and two cases were found to be unclassifiable. It added that mere reporting of deaths and hospitalisations as serious adverse events does not automatically imply that the events were caused due to vaccines. The report said the results of the causality assessment of 31 cases approved by the national AEFI Committee on February 5 (five cases), March 9 (eight cases) and March 31 (18 cases) have been released after thorough review and deliberations. “Only properly conducted investigations and causality assessments can help in understanding if any causal relationship exists between the event and the vaccine,” the report said, adding that for causality assessments, priority has been given to death cases. The Health Ministry on Tuesday said the number of deaths reported following COVID-19 vaccination in the country is only 0.0002% of 23.5 crore doses administered which is within the expected death rates in a population. It is also important and pertinent to note that the mortality rates for those testing positive for COVID-19 disease is more than 1% and COVID-19 vaccination can prevent these deaths. Therefore, the risk of dying following vaccination is negligible as compared to the known risk of dying due to COVID-19 disease, it said. The Health Ministry added that AEFI is defined as ‘any untoward medical occurrence which follows immunisation and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the usage of the vaccine. “It can be any unfavourable or unintended sign, abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease. Healthcare workers, doctors and vaccine recipients have been always encouraged to report all deaths, hospitalisations and events resulting in disability as well as any minor and adverse events following immunisation at any point of time after vaccination,” said the release. Charu Goyal Sachdeva, HOD, Internal Medicine, HCMCT Manipal Hospitals, added that there should be no fear or apprehension about COVID vaccines. “Taking vaccines is advisable even for people who have had the COVID-19 infection. Vaccination should be done after the government prescribed window period following COVID,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-confirms-first-death-from-reaction-to-vaccine/article34825887.ece
16 June 2021||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha records sharp decline in daily COVID-19 cases||Odisha on Tuesday reported 3,405 COVID-19 positive cases, registering a sharp drop in daily cases. Compared to 4,339 cases reported on Monday, the State found 3,405 persons testing positive afresh — a decline of 21.52% on a single day. With 3,405 samples of the 56,807 tests that were conducted during the past 24 hours turning out to be positive, the test positivity rate is estimated at 5.99%. The Health and Family Welfare Department said 8,735 persons had tested positive while the TPR was 14.2% on June 1. A remarkable improvement has been noticed in the past fortnight. As per State government’s audited death report, 42 persons were reported to have succumbed to COVID-19 taking the toll to 3,388 on Tuesday.  Active cases Only five of the 30 districts have active cases higher than 2,500 while 12 other districts have active cases between 1,000 and 2,500. Active cases have fallen below 1,000 in 13 districts. Western Odisha districts such as Nuapada, Balangir, Kalahandi, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Jharsuguda and Sundargarh where cases were rising rapidly initially in the second wave are returning to normality. The situation continued to be grim in the coastal region where Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Cuttack and Khordha have been reporting a high number of daily cases. Khordha on Monday reported 500 cases followed Jajpur with 391. In view of the steady improvement, the government is contemplating to ease lockdown restrictions. As the lockdown ends on Wednesday, there would be gradual relaxation which would differ from district to district, according to sources||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-records-sharp-decline-in-daily-covid-19-cases/article34826170.ece
16 June 2021||JAIPUR,||With Pilot losing support, no early Cabinet expansion in Rajasthan||With former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot losing his grip on the MLAs who sided with him during the last year’s political crisis, the Cabinet expansion and political appointments in Rajasthan are likely to get delayed. Several of the MLAs considered loyal to Mr. Pilot have expressed faith in CM Ashok Gehlot’s leadership. Sardarshahar MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma,, oldest legislator in the Assembly at 76, said here on Tuesday though he considered Mr. Pilot his leader, Mr. Gehlot was above him in his capacity as the CM. “Even Mr. Pilot will have to respect him as his leader,” Mr. Sharma, who had stayed with the former Deputy CM during his rebellion, told reporters here. Mr. Sharma said he had camped along with Mr. Pilot outside Rajasthan during the rebellion because the public works in his constituency were not being done by the State government. “I have no complaints against the government now... The issue of resentment in Congress is being exaggerated.” Future moves The septuagenarian Congress leader is the third Pilot loyalist, after Viratnangar MLA Indraj Gujjar and Todabhim MLA P.R. Meena, to praise Mr. Gehlot for the works done in their constituencies in the recent days. Deeg-Kumher MLA Vishvendra Singh, who was sacked as the Tourism Minister during the turmoil, also met Mr. Gehlot recently, triggering speculation about his future moves. Mr. Gehlot has given enough indications that the Cabinet reshuffle and expansion would not be carried out under pressure from the Pilot camp. The Chief Minister’s Office said in a statement released on Monday that Mr. Gehlot would not meet anyone in person for the next one to two months as a precaution in view of his condition following his recovery from the COVID-19 infection. The sources in the Congress said this situation would automatically result in the Cabinet expansion being deferred by a couple of months. “This is an astute move by Mr. Gehlot. He has tactfully conveyed to both Mr. Pilot and the AICC committee that he is not going to bow under their pressure,” Sikar-based political analyst Ashfaq Kayamkhani remarked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-pilot-losing-support-no-early-cabinet-expansion-in-rajasthan/article34826169.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IUML gets two weeks to reply to affidavit||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) two weeks to respond to an affidavit by the Union Home Ministry that its May 28 order, delegating power to the Collectors of 13 districts in five States to grant citizenship to non-Muslims from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh, has “no relation whatsoever” with the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) of 2019. Appearing before a Vacation Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian, senior advocate Kapil Sibal and advocate Haris Beeran, for the IUML, sought time to file its rejoinder to the government's reply to their petition challenging the legality of the May order. Petitions, including that filed by the PFI (Popular Front of India) and a private individual, have drawn parallels between the CAA and the May 28 notification, which facilitates non-Muslims from the three countries residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for citizenship. The IUML said the May 28 order was a deliberate ploy to implement the CAA’s “malafide designs”. ‘Delegation of power’ In its response, the Union Home Ministry said that the May order “merely delegates the power of [granting citizenship by registration and naturalisation] to the local authorities in particular cases”. “The Central Government used its authority under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act… It is merely a process of decentralisation of decision-making aimed at speedy disposal of the citizenship applications of such foreigners… It has no relation whatsoever to the CAA,” the MHA affidavit said. The government reasoned that the notification did not “provide for any relaxations to the foreigners and applied only to foreigners who had entered the country legally”. The applicants should possess valid documents such as passports and Indian visa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iuml-gets-two-weeks-to-reply-to-affidavit/article34825852.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,||The Hindu scores in responsible suicide reporting||The Hindu has topped in an assessment of multiple English newspapers for responsible reporting of suicide-related news. The study — The Application of a Scorecard Tool for Assessing and Engaging Media on Responsible Reporting of Suicide-Related News in India — was conducted by the Department of Psychiatry, Voluntary Health Services and SNEHA Suicide Prevention Centre, Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy, Indian Law Society and Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, Nossal Institute for Global Health, University of Melbourne. The authors developed a scorecard to assess and rate media reports on suicides. The scorecard consisted of 10 positive and 10 negative parameters. They applied the scorecard to 1,318 reports on suicide from nine English newspapers with the highest readership in the country, between April 1 and June 20, 2020. The average positive score across all newspapers was 1.32 and average negative score was 3.31.  The Hindu scored 2.71 in positive parameters and 2.35 in negative parameters. In comparison with other newspapers, it had the highest score in positive parameters and lowest in negative parameters. The positive parameters in the scorecard included presence of help-seeking information such as national or state-level support services, 24/7 crisis helplines, report establishes a link to poor mental health, link to drug/alcohol abuse, comments from mental health and suicide prevention experts and links to hopeful stories. Use of criminalising language, attention-grabbing headlines, mentioning and describing method of suicide/attempted suicide in the article, has accompanying photographs and is on the front page of the newspaper were among the negative parameters. However, the findings also revealed that most newspapers performed poorly on both scorecards. There was a higher prevalence of negative reporting practices in the articles compared to positive practices. The study was published in the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-hindu-scores-in-responsible-suicide-reporting/article34825864.ece
16 June 2021||Kolkata,||West Bengal BJP struggles to keep its flock together after Mukul’s exit||The show of strength the West Bengal BJP had planned to highlight the post-poll violence turned a major embarrassment as one-third of MLAs did not turn up for the meeting with Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The party won 77 seats but two of the legislators, who are Lok Sabha MPs, did not take oath as MLAs. The defection of party vice-president Mukul Roy to the Trinamool Congress last week has already resulted in speculation of more MLAs and leaders following suit. The Trinamool leadership was quick to point out the “missing MLAs”. “All the MLAs did not go and meet the Governor. Why did the 24 MLAs not go. The BJP should investigate this,” TMC leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said. State party president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday said the decision was to take 31 MLAs but many more arrived, so the number swelled to 51. He said the defectors have come with the tide and their decision will not hurt the party. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari has been emphasising that he will ensure that they are disqualified as per the anti-defection law. The BJP finds itself in a catch-22 situation. It had encouraged defections before the elections where about 30 TMC MLAs had joined the party. What makes the situation more complicated is two TMC MPs who defected to the BJP have not resigned from the Lok Sabha. One of them is Mr. Adhikari’s father Sisir Adhikari. Defections have been a regular phenomenon in the State politics for the past 10 years. Between 2011 to 2021, dozens of MLAs of the Congress and a few from the Left joined the Trinamool. Political observer Biswanath Chakraborty said 14 Congress MLAs and three from the Left joined the TMC between 2016 and 2021 and none was disqualified. “When the BJP used defections as a political tool, it might not have thought of such a situation. It does not have a moral high ground and as far as disqualification is concerned it is up to the Speaker,” says Prof. Chakrborty, who teaches political science at the Rabindra Bharati University. Besides the MLAs, several leaders like Rajib Banerjee and Prabir Ghosal are sending feelers to the TMC that they want to return. Former Kolkata Mayor Sovan Chatterjee is also doing so. One of the BJP’s senior most leaders and former Governor of Meghalaya Tathagata Roy has been regularly targeting the leadership. Soon after Mr. Mukul Roy’s return to the TMC, Mr. Roy targeted Kaliash Vijayvargiya, BJP national general secretary who is the central observer to West Bengal. “Auntie [Buaji] Mamata, please take this stupid cat into Trinamool. He may be heartbroken missing his friend! They used to remain closeted together for the whole day,” Mr. Roy tweeted in Bengali sharing the photograph of Mr. Mukul Roy and Mr. Vijayvargiya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/west-bengal-bjp-struggles-to-keep-its-flock-together-after-mukuls-exit/article34825874.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||House Standing Committee on IT summons Twitter representatives||The Standing Committee on Information and Technology, headed by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, has summoned Twitter representatives to appear before the panel on June 18 to hear their views on the steps they had taken to prevent the misuse of social media and online news. Parliamentary standing committees are resuming work after a long gap on Wednesday. Most of them have not met since April due to the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Fireworks are expected in Thursday’s meeting of the IT panel, with the Opposition and the BJP warring over Twitter tagging a few posts of BJP leaders as “manipulated media”. In May, Mr. Tharoor wrote to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) on Twitter’s ‘manipulated media” tag drawing the ire of panel member and BJP leader Nishikant Dubey, who wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker, demanding the ouster of Mr. Tharoor claiming that he is using the standing committee as an “extension of the Congress”. Mr. Tharoor had to issue a long clarification, where he said that the committee decided to communicate with the MeitY through e-mail, because the standing committees have not been meeting and that the MeitY’s response would be circulated to the members. The agenda for Thursday's meeting is, “To hear the views of representatives of Twitter followed by evidence of representatives Electronics Technology ‘Safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms including special emphasis on women security in the digital space.” Other than the differences between the Congress and the BJP on the “manipulated media” tag, the MeitY’s ultimatum to Twitter to comply with the amended IT rules is also expected to come up for discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/house-standing-committee-on-it-summons-twitter-representatives/article34825879.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||Maharashtra adds big backlog of deaths||India recorded 62,265 new COVID-19 cases and 2,520 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Tuesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,96,32,350 cases and 3,76,849 deaths. Kerala reported 12,246 new infections, followed by Tamil Nadu (11,805) and Maharashtra (9,350). Maharashtra recorded 1,458 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (267) and Kerala (166). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Between June 1 and June 14, Maharashtra has added 12,909 backlog deaths to its total death toll. Backlog deaths are those that occurred more than a week before the day they were recorded but were not counted in the earlier bulletins. The State had recorded a total of 1,12,696 fatalities due to the virus until June 14. Around 17.51 lakh samples were tested in the country on Monday (the results for which were made available on Tuesday). Vaccine doses As many as 39.27 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Tuesday. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 31.11 lakh on June 14, which is more than the 27.8 lakh recorded a week before (June 7). About 22.4% of adults in India, 42.8% of those aged above 45, and 46.4% of people aged above 60, have been administered with at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Tuesday. Only 3.5% of India’s total population is fully vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-adds-big-backlog-of-deaths/article34825890.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre probing charges of fake COVID tests during Kumbh Mela||The Health Ministry on Tuesday said an investigation is under way into the allegations that over a lakh fake COVID-19 tests were done in Uttarakhand during the Kumbh Mela. To a question at the Ministry press conference, Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said: “We got to know about an incident when a Punjab resident received a message that his COVID test had been conducted in Haridwar, while he was in Punjab. The information was passed onto the State government, which in a pro-active manner conducted an inquiry and about a week ago and directed senior officials in Haridwar to prepare a detailed report.’’ He said while the exact number of the alleged fake tests is not known, a detailed report is expected within a week or so. Action will follow “Whatever necessary action, including for criminal offence, will be taken against those involved in recording tests without actually conducting them.’’ The Ministry said some reports had indicated that a large number of test results were issued by private labs which may have been fake. The labs reportedly did so to meet the daily quota of 50,000 tests set by the Uttarakhand High Court. A detailed probe was ordered by the Haridwar administration after preliminary investigations revealed that many private labs roped in by the district health department had issued fake reports in the name of random people on the basis of their identity cards and phone numbers. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was alerted when the Punjab resident reported the matter to a senior officer in Uttarakhand. He alleged that his Aadhaar and mobile number had been misused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-probing-charges-of-fake-covid-tests-during-kumbh-mela/article34825888.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Coup in LJP is part of JD(U)’s long-term plan||The coup in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), culminating in the isolation of Chirag Paswan, son of its founder, Ram Vilas Paswan, is just one of the series of attempts made recently by the Janata Dal(U) and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to bolster his party after its below par performance in the 2020 Assembly election. Within seven months of returning as Chief Minister for a record fourth time, Mr. Kumar has been trying to put the house in order. The JD(U) won 43 seats (15.39% of the vote share) in the election, relegated to the third position behind the RJD (75 seats and 23.11% vote share) and the BJP that got 74 seats and 19.4% of votes. “We did not lose this election, we were tactically defeated by those with us and those against us. The LJP’s campaign, which could not have happened without a tacit understanding of the BJP, defeated 46 of our candidates,” a JD(U) leader said. While sitting in the driving seat, the BJP expected him to play the second fiddle, a position he has never been comfortable with. Nitish’s moves His first step was to put his own house in order. So in December, he appointed R.C.P. Singh in his place as the party’s national president. Mr. Singh belongs to the Kurmi caste. To balance the caste arithmetic, two weeks later, Umesh Kushwaha, a low-key leader, replaced Bhashist Narain Singh as the State president. Mr. Kushwaha belongs to the Koeri caste. Then Mr. Kumar got down to bringing others into the fold. On January 22, the lone BSP MLA, Mohammad Jama Khan, joined the JD(U). In March, the JD(U) engineered the return of Upendra Kushwaha, a former protege of Mr. Kumar. He had walked out in 2013 to form the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party. In the 2020 elections, where the party fought in alliance with the BSP and the AIMIM, Mr. Kushwaha hurt the JD(U) in 25 seats. In April, the lone LJP MLA, Rajkumar Singh, joined the JD(U), taking the BJP by surprise. Mr. Singh had walked out of the BJP to join the LJP ahead of the 2020 polls and the BJP was expecting his return. “The script that Pashupati Nath Paras read out on Monday was definitely not his own. This is the signature style of Mr. Nitish Kumar, who had, post 2010, tried to break the RJD too. Engineering the LJP coup, Mr. Kumar also wants to send a message to the BJP,” RJD MP Manoj K Jha told The Hindu . Speculation is on that the LJP split is not the last political event on the cards. The JD(U), sources claim, is talking to the 19 Congress legislators and five AIMIM MLAs too. It wants to be on an equal keel as the BJP, free from its pressure and influences. Party general secretary K.C. Tyagi denied any direct role of the JD(U) in the LJP coup. He said his party was doing essential housekeeping. “Our aim and goal is to return to the position we were in 2009 when we won 118 seats, to revive the same acceptability that Mr. Nitish Kumar enjoyed then,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/coup-in-ljp-is-part-of-jdus-long-term-plan/article34825875.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Sonia says no clarity yet on Galwan clashes||On the first anniversary of the Galwan valley clashes between troops of India and China, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday said the disengagement process with Beijing “appears” to have worked to India’s disadvantage. She asked the Union government to take the nation into confidence over the progress made in restoring the status quo ante. In a statement, she noted that there was still no clarity on what caused the unprecedented clashes on the borders. She urged the government to ensure its performance matched the commitment of the soldiers protecting the borders. “Having patiently waited for the government to come clean and inform the nation about the circumstances in which the unprecedented incident happened and reassure the people that the sacrifice of our brave jawans was not in vain, the Congress Party reiterates its concern that no clarity is yet available and the Prime Minister’s last word on the subject a year ago was that no transgression had occurred,” she observed. “We have repeatedly sought details of the episode in light of the Prime Minister’s statement, as well as details of what progress has been made towards restoring the status quo ante prior to April 2020,” she stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sonia-says-no-clarity-yet-on-galwan-clashes/article34825854.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Research must follow protocol, says Ministry||All research work has to follow a process and action will be taken if protocols are not followed, said the Health Ministry on Tuesday to a question on a probe into a filovirus study of bats in Nagaland undertaken by the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) and the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR). The Ministry’s response follows the report “Government report flags ‘lapses’ in Nagaland bat study’’ published in The Hindu on June 15.  The Hindu first reported the study in February 2020 on the inquiry being initiated into whether adequate permissions had been sought for the study that according to a Central government report now specified “concerning lapses” in the conduct and protocols followed. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Aggarwal on Tuesday said: “There are protocols for all research work undertaken and wherever there are lapses action will be taken to ensure that mechanisms are put in place to rectify the situation.’’ The Ministry is also concerned about the storage of the Nagaland bat samples. The Ministry wants the samples to be at the Biosafety Level-4 (BSL-4) standard facility at the National Institute of Virology laboratory in Pune rather than NCBS’s Bengaluru facilities that are rated BSL-3. It said samples must be handled in a laboratory equipped for “biosafety and biosecurity conditions” as they can pose a “significant public health hazard”. This when the Department of Atomic Energy noted that the samples were “non-infectious” and had been checked for the presence of filoviruses (Ebola and Marburg). Asked about the zoonotic pathogens and need to protect against any spill-over — the Nagaland bat study on filoviruses (Ebola and Marburg) is in no way related to the coronavirus (SARs) studies at Wuhan — Mr. Aggarwal said laboratories had to be supported to ensure that pandemics are prevented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/research-must-follow-protocol-says-ministry/article34825855.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||AY.1 not a variant of concern yet: Centre||On vaccination, Dr Paul said reserves of the Novavax vaccine had come into India on Monday, and are likely be produced domestically in “very large” quantities”. “What we know is that it is extremely safe and has a very high efficacy. There is a bridging trial of this vaccine underway in India. The positive results of this augur very well for our country. We should be proud that another vaccine appears to be the horizon in our country,” he added. The United States company, that has partnered with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, tested its two dose ‘NVX-CoV2373’ vaccine on a population of around 30,000 adults in the U.S. and Mexico. Novavax said it plans to apply for authorisations in the third quarter (July-September) and is on track to manufacture 100 million doses per month by the end of September and 150 million doses per month by the end of 2021 and most of these doses are expected to go to low and middle income countries. Earlier in June, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) had given permission to SII to go ahead with Phase 2/3 trials, of the vaccine that will be branded as “Covavax” in India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ay1-not-a-variant-of-concern-yet-centre/article34825858.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||FCI rice to be used for ethanol production||The Central government has allocated 78,000 tonnes of rice procured for food security purposes to be diverted to ethanol production instead this year, at a subsidised rate of Rs. 20 a kg, Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said on Tuesday. However, he insisted that the share of rice in ethanol production was “miniscule and transitory”, emphasising that maize would form the primary feedstock for grain-based ethanol production instead. This is part of the government’s plan to double distilling capacities by 2025, partly by encouraging an increase in the share of grain-based ethanol production from the current focus on molasses-based production. Earlier this month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi presented a road map advancing the target date for achieving 20% blending of ethanol in petrol by five years to 2025. The last two years have seen blending levels of around 5%, which is likely to jump to 8.5% in the current year, according to a Ministry statement. Mr. Pandey told presspersons that the Centre was targeting an ethanol production of 1,500 crore litres by 2025, out of which almost half, 740 crore litres, would be from grain-based distilleries, with the remainder coming from sugar-based distilleries. Currently, about a third of the 710 crore litre ethanol production capacity comes from grains. Only 38 crore litres of grain-based ethanol is used for fuel. This year, the Centre had committed for about three lakh tonnes of rice procured by the Food Corporation of India for ethanol production. However, only 78,000 tonnes would be lifted by six distilleries, said Mr. Pandey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fci-rice-to-be-used-for-ethanol-production/article34825862.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi riots: 3 student activists granted bail||Ruling that no offence under the anti-terror law is made out against any of the three student activist, the High Court said, “the phrase ‘terrorist act’ cannot be permitted to be applied in a cavalier manner to criminal acts or omissions that fall squarely within the definition of conventional offences as defined inter alia under the IPC (Indian Penal Code)”. The Delhi police had maintained that the accused engaged in “sloganeering and instigating the public against the government” and tried to create a “communally surcharged environment” with the intent to disrupt the unity and strike terror. Responding to this, the High Court observed, “We find ourselves unpersuaded and unconvinced with this submission since we find it is not founded on any specific factual allegation and we are of the view that the mere use of alarming and hyperbolic verbiage in the subject charge-sheet will not convince us otherwise”. ‘Stronger foundations’ “The foundations of our nation stand on surer footing than is to be likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by a tribe of college students or other persons, operating as a coordination committee from the confines of a University situated in the heart of Delhi,” the High Court observed. Noting that protests against governmental and parliamentary actions are legitimate, the High Court said though such protests are expected to be peaceful and non-violent, it is not uncommon for protesters to push the limits permissible in law. The prosecution case against Ms Kalita is that as part of a women’s rights group called Pinjra Tod, and other activistic groups , she had participated in a ‘larger conspiracy’ which led to violence and rioting in the north-east Delhi. “Surely the right to protest is not outlawed and cannot be termed as a ‘terrorist act’ within the meaning of the UAPA, unless of course the ingredients of the offences under sections 15, 17 and/or 18 of the UAPA are clearly discernible from the factual allegations contained in chargesheet,” the court added. The case cited by the prosecution against Ms Narwal is that she was involved in instigating the local population in certain Muslim dominated areas in Delhi, particularly women, to protest against CAA and the exercise undertaken by the central government for creating a National Register of Citizens (NRC), by allegedly seeking to incite feelings of persecution. The High Court remarked that “allegations relating to inflammatory speeches, organising of chakka jaam (road blockades), instigating women to protest and to stock-pile various articles and other similar allegations, in our view, at worst, are evidence that the appellant participated in organising protests”. Police to appeal Following the order, a Delhi Police spokesperson said, “We are not satisfied with the interpretation of the provisions of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act by the Hon'ble High Court. We are proceeding with filing of a Special Leave Petition before the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-riots-3-student-activists-granted-bail/article34825865.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Twitter yet to appoint compliance officer||“Twitter continues to make every effort to comply with the new Guidelines. We are keeping the MeitY [Ministry of Electronics and IT] apprised of the progress at every step of the process,” says an emailed response from the company. In its latest communication to the MeitY on June 13, Twitter has only said that it has posted job descriptions to hire Chief Compliance Officer (CCO), Nodal Contact Person (NCP) and Resident Grievance Officer (RGO), and that it will endeavour to fill these roles as quickly as possible, the source said, adding that this is contrary to Twitter’s own promise and assurance. “They have not appointed a CCO even on an interim basis.” “Twitter has further conveyed a purported advice of a purported consultant that establishing a India office of Twitter Inc. is necessary for hiring Chief Compliance Officer on a permanent basis. No one prevented Twitter from appointing a CCO as an interim arrangement,” the source added. The source further added that in its email sent on June 2, Twitter told the government that they have appointed a lawyer working in a law firm — Dharmendra Chatur — as an interim Nodal Contact Person and Resident Grievance Officer. Mr Chatur was not an employee of Twitter as required by the Guidelines. The Rule 7, the source said, clearly states that where an intermediary fails to observe these rules, the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be applicable and the intermediary shall be liable for punishment under any law for the time being in force including the provisions of the Act and the Indian Penal Code. “Since, the Rules came into effect on May 26, and Twitter has not complied, the Rule 7 and the course suggested therein appears to have come into effect,” the source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/twitter-yet-to-appoint-compliance-officer/article34825869.ece
16 June 2021||Patna,||After LJP split, eyes on Congress legislators||After the split in the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), now speculation is rife in Bihar for a possible break among 19 State Congress legislators. Congress leaders, though, have strongly denied it and said “such rumours are being spread by leaders of a party to create confusion”. If some ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) party leaders are to be believed, as many as 10 out of 19 Congress MLAs in the State are in constant touch with them and ready to break away from their party “at any time”. “We now need the support of only three Congress MLAs to make a split in the party by two-thirds to avoid action under the anti-defection laws,” said a senior JD(U) leader, adding, “but, very soon these three too would come”. Party sources also told The Hindu that these 10 Congress MLAs include three legislators from the minority community, and two who have won elections in the 2020 Assembly elections from the Bhagalpur area. With its dismal performance in the 2020 Assembly elections — winning only 19 out of 70 seats — the Congress in Bihar has been agog with internal bickering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/after-ljp-split-eyes-on-congress-legislators/article34825872.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Comments sought on draft rules on compensation||The Union Labour and Employment Ministry on Tuesday said it had notified the draft rules relating to employees’ compensation under the Code on Social Security, 2020 and invited objections and suggestions. It said the draft rules were notified on June 3 and comments would be accepted for 45 days from the date of notification. “The Code on Social Security, 2020 amends and consolidates the laws relating to social security to extend social security to employees and workers in the organised and the unorganised sectors. The draft rules include provisions for application for claim or settlement and interest for delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/comments-sought-on-draft-rules-on-compensation/article34825857.ece
16 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Myanmar province CM in Mizoram||The Chief Minister of a province of Myanmar is the newest high-profile lawmaker to have taken refuge in Mizoram following a military coup in the country in February. Officials in Mizoram said Salai Lian Luai, Chief Minister of Chin State, crossed over to Champhai town on Monday night. Champhai is the headquarters of Champhai district bordering Myanmar. Mr. Luai is a leader of the National League of Democracy (NLD), the party headed by Aung San Suu Kyi, who has been detained by the military rulers. He became the Chief Minister of the Chin State in 2016 when the NLD came to power. He is one of 24 lawmakers of the country to have taken shelter in Mizoram. Among the more than 9,000 refugees are Army and police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/myanmar-province-cm-in-mizoram/article34825859.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||IICT inks pact with pharma firm for 2-DG||CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology Hyderabad (IICT) and Anthem Biosciences Pvt. Ltd., a Bengaluru-based integrated biopharmaceutical company, signed an agreement for technology transfer and manufacture of the anti-COVID drug 2-DG or 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose on Tuesday. Studies have shown that the oral drug 2- DG has demonstrated quick recovery and reduction in oxygen dependence among moderately and severely affected patients. This drug in the form of powder formulation was earlier launched by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. Under the agreement, Anthem Biosciences Pvt. Ltd. gets non-exclusive license for the process knowhow for synthesis of 2-DG . “The agreement is in-line with CSIR’s efforts to help people access various therapeutic options to combat COVID-19. CSIR labs have undertaken clinical trials of various repurposed drugs for the treatment of COVID-19,” said IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar. Anthem Biosciences Pvt. Ltd. is in the process of filing the application for getting the approval from Drugs Controller General of India, New Delhi, and will manufacture and commercialise 2-DG from their facilities located at Bommasandra and Harohalli in Karnataka. The firm has also developed domestic vendors for key raw materials for uninterrupted supplies to manufacture 2-DG.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/iict-inks-pact-with-pharma-firm-for-2-dg/article34825883.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||Probe racket into fake camps||On the COVID-19 vaccination scam came to light, Nanavati hospital said in a statement, “It was recently brought to our notice that residents of a Kandivali-based housing society were issued COVID-19 vaccination certificates in the name of Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital. We wish to clarify that we have not conducted any vaccination camp at the said residential complex.” Local Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Yogesh Sagar said he had wanted the Mumbai police to thoroughly probe and investigate if there was “a racket in fake vaccination camps”. When contacted, Sanjay Gupta, who acted as a co-ordinator for the camp, said that he was hired by Mr. Singh on daily wage. “I am at the police station right now, recording my statement.” Mr. Singh’s phone was switched off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-racket-into-fake-camps/article34826496.ece
16 June 2021||Lucknow,||Suspended BSP legislators meet Akhilesh, may join SP||At least five MLAs suspended by the Bahujan Samaj Party last year met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday, triggering speculation that they may join his party. Handia legislator Hakimlal Bind said he, along with Chaudhary Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hargovind Bhargav, Aslam Raini and Sushma Patel, met the SP chief. However, Mr. Bhargav told PTI that he was not present at the meeting. “I was in Sidhauli [his Assembly constituency] and did not go there [meeting]. I also saw my name being flashed on news channels,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/suspended-bsp-legislators-meet-akhilesh-may-join-sp/article34826135.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||EPFO extends Aadhaar seeding deadline||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Tuesday extended the deadline for mandatory seeding of Aadhaar numbers for filing of electronic challan-cum return by employers to September 1. In a circular, the EPFO modified its June 1 circular that said employers would only be able to file the ECR for those employees whose Aadhaar numbers are seeded and verified with effect from that date. However, on Tuesday, the EPFO modified the earlier circular to change the deadline to September 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/epfo-extends-aadhaar-seeding-deadline/article34825856.ece
16 June 2021||Kolkata,||TMC hits back as Governor questions “CM’s silence” on post-poll violence||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Tuesday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee questioning her “continued silence and inaction” over post-poll violence and urged her to discuss it in the Assembly. The Home Department, in its response, said the contents of the letter are “not consistent with real facts”. “With heavy heart I am constrained to observe your continued silence and inaction over post-poll retributive bloodshed, violation of human rights, outrageous assault on dignity of women, wanton destruction of property, perpetuation of untold miseries on political opponents — worst since Independence — and it augurs ill for democracy,” Mr. Dhankhar wrote to the Chief Minister. On Monday, a delegation of the BJP comprising 51 MLAs submitted a memorandum to the Governor on the violence. In a series of tweets, the Home Department said the communication format is violative of all established norms. “The letter has been written to Hon’ble Chief Minister & released to public media through tweets simultaneously, which disrupts sanctity of such communications,” the Home Department said in a tweet. The unusual step of going public in this manner abruptly and unilaterally has shocked the government of West Bengal all the more because the contents are fabricated,” the tweets said. In the two-page letter, the Governor touched on his visit to the violence-affected areas in Nandigram and Cooch Behar last month. He described the situation as “grave human tragedy” and questioned the Chief Minister’s “stunning silence”. The communication comes before he had left for a three-day visit to Delhi where he is likely to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah. TMC spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhendu Sekhar said Mr. Dhankhar is trying to convey that a war was on in Bengal like that between Palestine and Israel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tmc-hits-back-as-governor-questions-cms-silence-on-post-poll-violence/article34825866.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||HC to hear on June 25 Kangana’s plea on passport renewal||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it would hear on June 25 a plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut alleging that her passport is not being renewed because of an FIR against her. A bench of Justices P.B. Varale and S.P. Tavade was hearing an application filed by Ms. Ranaut contending that the Passport Authority had refused to renew her passport citing the FIR against her and her sister Rangoli by the Bandra police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-to-hear-on-june-25-kanganas-plea-on-passport-renewal/article34825868.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four engineering colleges in State get AICTE-IDEA labs||Four engineering colleges in the State will offer 24x7 laboratory facility where students can work on an idea and take it to the prototype stage. They are among the 49 institutions chosen across the country. The colleges chosen include three from the western districts of Coimbatore and Namakkal and one from Tiruvallur district. The All India Council for Technical Education launched IDEA (idea development, evaluation and application) labs to set up infrastructure to encourage students to experiment with the fundamental application of science, technology, engineering and mathematics, and enable product visualisation. The colleges chosen are Hindustan College of Engineering and Technology and Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College from Coimbatore; K.S. Rangasamy College of Technology, Tiruchengode; Muthayammal Engineering College, Rasipuram; and RMK Engineering College, Kavaraipettai, in Tiruvallur district. The labs will provide facilities under one roof to convert an idea into a prototype. According to the Council, the labs will be available round-the-clock to encourage students and faculty to take up creative work. Council chairman Anil Sahasrabudhe said that the labs were developed so that students get an experience akin to that found in industry. The aim was to ensure experiential learning on campus, similar to how medical students spent time in hospitals attached to medical colleges. The focus would be on training students to enable them be imaginative and creative and remain in the workplaces they join. Council vice-chairman M.P. Poonia said the labs must connect with schools in their vicinity to give students an opportunity to work on their ideas as projects. Rajive Kumar, member-secretary of AICTE, said the IDEA labs would be open 24 hours. “The labs in smaller cities will strengthen the innovation ecosystem in the country,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-engineering-colleges-in-state-get-aicte-idea-labs/article34826043.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro phase II work to begin in Madhavaram in a few weeks||In a few weeks, preparatory work for starting the underground work to build tunnels for phase II of the Chennai Metro Rail will begin in Madhavaram. Two contracts have been awarded for constructing an underground stretch from Madhavaram to Taramani in two parts — Madhavaram to Kellys and Kellys to Taramani. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited, the contractor will begin from Madhavaram since it is one of the important stations. “Also, the largest depot for this project is coming up at Madhavaram, and it is one of the terminal stations. Hence, we asked the contractor to start at this point. First, various machines will be assembled and then the diaphragm wall will be built. Only then will the tunnelling work be taken up,” an official said. Sources said that this time, it would be quite tough to construct the underground stretch since it is passing through very congested areas. “But we have the experience of doing this work in north Chennai, so they should ensure that the same issues do not occur again and the public do not suffer because of the construction,” the official said. Despite some delays because of COVID-19, phase II has been slowly moving forward. For the elevated section between Poonamallee and Porur junction, Hindustan Construction Company Limited and KEC International Limited, the contractors for this work, have begun putting up barricades at a few points to begin piling work in the coming weeks.  The largest depot for this project is coming up at Madhavaram, and it is one of the terminal stations An official Chennai Metro Rail Limited||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metro-phase-ii-work-to-begin-in-madhavaram-in-a-few-weeks/article34826031.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Toll crosses 30,000 even as fresh cases dip||On a day when fresh infections dropped to 11,805 in Tamil Nadu, the State’s toll due to COVID-19 surpassed 30,000, as another 267 people succumbed to it on Tuesday. Salem reported more deaths than Chennai. There were 24 deaths in Salem, 21 in Chennai, 20 in Thanjavur and 19 in Cuddalore. Coimbatore and Kanniyakumari reported 16 deaths each, while four districts — Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Tiruchi and Vellore — had 14 deaths each. This took the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 to 30,068. Of the 37 districts, six saw over 500 cases each, accounting for nearly 48% of the total cases. Coimbatore topped the table with 1,563 new cases, followed by Erode with 1,270. Chennai’s daily count dropped below 800, as 793 people tested positive for COVID-19, while there were 759 cases in Salem, 728 in Tiruppur and 541 in Thanjavur. The daily count remained under 100 in five districts — Ariyalur (67), Perambalur (53), Pudukottai (81), Ramanathapuram (82) and Sivaganga (77). With this, Chennai’s case tally touched 5,26,614 and Coimbatore’s 2,06,833. The State has so far reported 23,78,298 cases. The number of patients under treatment dropped to 1,25,215 in the State. Coimbatore has the most number of active cases at 15,449. On Tuesday, 23,207 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 22,23,015.  A total of 59,261 beds are vacant in COVID-19 hospitals and health centres. Vaccination update After vaccinating over two lakh people a day in the last three days, vaccination coverage dropped to 68,046 on Tuesday. This included 40,104 people in the 18-44 age group. Inoculation was held in 1,399 sessions. The State’s overall coverage stands at 1,06,65,464 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/toll-crosses-30000-even-as-fresh-cases-dip/article34826062.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fake listings on e-commerce platforms on the rise||Recently a few pharmaceutical shop owners received calls demanding the delivery of life-saving drugs like Remdesivir and liposomal Amphotericin from unknown customers, who claimed that they had paid money online. V. Alagappan, proprietor of a medical shop in Mambalam, said, “We had a flurry of calls enquiring about the delivery of drugs for which customers said they had paid online. Only then did we realise that something was wrong and found that fraudsters were cheating people on e-commerce portals using our identity.” “The fraudsters copied our GST numbers and addresses. They used them on an e-commerce portal, and made it seem like sufficient stock was available. The portal allowed them to post without verification,” said S. Balasubramanian, president of the Chennai Pharma Wholesalers’ Association. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Adyar, V. Vikraman said, “Whatever you see online, do not trust blindly. You have to make your own assessment or verify the authenticity before availing yourself of the services.” Experts said little attention had been shown to fixing accountability on intermediary e-commerce portals. S. Saroja, director, Citizen Consumer and Civic Action Group, said, “The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules have come into effect from July 2020, but there is no active enforcement yet.” The Central Consumer Protection Authority has to take cognisance of such frauds and address the issue. Unfair trade practices and frauds in the online space are rampant now, she added.  The Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules 2020, notified by the Consumer Affairs Ministry in July, directed e-commerce companies to display country of origin alongside the product listings. Senior Advocate N.L. Rajah said, “Under the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, we have a requirement that all e-commerce entities must have grievance redressal mechanisms. But their compliance remains in question, and no studies have been undertaken on this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-listings-on-e-commerce-platforms-on-the-rise/article34826027.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work apace on 11 medical colleges||Work is in full swing to construct 11 medical colleges across the State. The Public Works Department is planning to complete some of the projects by this year-end. The new colleges are coming up in Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Dindigul, Tiruppur, Udhagamandalam, Krishnagiri, Tiruvallur, Ariyalur, Kallakurichi and Nagapattinam. Each of these institutions is being built at a cost between Rs. 327 crore and Rs. 447 crore. Officials of the PWD said there were plans to complete some of the medical colleges with hospitals, including at Ramanathapuram, Namakkal, Tiruvallur, Virudhunagar and Nagapattinam, by the year-end. Nearly 60% to 65% of the work had already been completed, they claimed. Most of these projects were started between April and June last year. They were progressing at a fast pace this year as labourers engaged in the work remained in the respective districts. They were accommodated in the sites and COVID-19 protocols were being followed. Nearly 300-350 labourers were carrying out the work in each of these construction sites, said officials. The new institutions would have 150 MBBS seats each. The upcoming medical colleges with hospitals would have three sets of buildings. Most of the attached hospitals would be provided with a capacity of a minimum 500 beds. Besides hostels and quarters, there would be a separate facility for gymnasiums and post offices. These projects were being taken up with 60% funding from the Central government and the remaining from the State government. The total plinth area of the colleges would vary between 3 lakh and 10 lakh sq.ft. The Rs. 447 crore work at Udhagamandalam was one of the recent ones to be started owing to the delay during lockdown last year. “We are working to complete the projects on time to enable new admissions in the next academic year,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-apace-on-11-medical-colleges/article34826041.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘OPS had resigned voluntarily’||Former interim general secretary of the AIADMK V.K. Sasikala on Tuesday said the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, had resigned “voluntarily” as Chief Minister in February 2017. “Had he not done that, I would have retained him [as CM],” she said, in response to observations of her supporter, Sivanesan of Theni, who was heard telling her that “If Ayya [Mr. Panneerselvam] had not quit then, he would even have prevented you from undertaking vanavasam [her going to a Bengaluru jail to serve a four-year-long sentence].” An audio clip of the tele conversation between Ms. Sasikala and Mr. Sivanesan was released by her office. It was one of nine audio clips that were made available to the media during the day. [On February 7, 2017, Mr. Panneerselvam, a few days after announcing his decision to step down from the post and proposing Ms. Sasikala as leader of the AIADMK Legislature party, told reporters that he was “compelled” to quit.] In her conversation, Ms. Sasikala, referring to the AIADMK leadership expelling several of its members on Monday for having spoken to her, wondered what was “the point in going on sacking party workers” and whether this was the way to treat those “who have worked for the party sincerely”. In another conversation, she expressed surprise over the expulsion of V. Pugazhendhi, spokesperson of the party. During telephonic talks with others, she said she had decided to “step aside” from politics in March as “they [alluding to the camp of former Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami] felt that they could accomplish victory in the Assembly election on their own.” She likened the present situation to the one after the death of party founder M.G. Ramachandran in December 1987 when the cadres of the party, according to her, were completely behind Jayalalithaa and the rest functioned as a separate bloc [supporting Janaki Ramachandran].||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ops-had-resigned-voluntarily/article34826050.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against use of term ‘Devendrakula Velalar’||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the State government to explain the rationale behind a decision taken recently to use the common nomenclature Devendrakula Velalar to refer to seven different Scheduled Castes in Tamil Nadu, despite objections raised by people belonging to the Vellalar community, comprising Mudaliars, Gounders, Pillaimars and Saiva Chettiyars. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered that both the Union and the State governments should file their counter affidavits, indicating their stand, in three weeks. The order was passed on a writ petition filed by the World Vellalar Association, challenging a government order issued on June 1, instructing Collectors in the State to use the new nomenclature in official records. In an affidavit filed in support of the writ petition, association president W.B. Palani said about 2.7 crore people in the State belonged to the Vellalar community, and they did not like the name being used by any other community. However, in March 2019, the State government constituted a committee to group Kudumban, Pallan, Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Pannadi and Kalladi under a common nomenclature. The petitioner association said the committee, nevertheless, submitted a report in November 2020 and recommended that seven Scheduled Castes could be called Devendrakula Velalar. The State accepted the report and forwarded it to the Centre. The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Act of 2021 was passed by Parliament. The legislation received the President’s assent on April 13 and was brought into force from May 15, from when officials were expected to refer to the new nomenclature while issuing community certificates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-use-of-term-devendrakula-velalar/article34826058.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ekambaranathar temple takes over school in Poonamallee High Road||The Ekambaranathar temple in Kancheepuram has taken control of the Seetha Kingston School, located on the temple’s property in Poonamallee High Road. Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Minister P.K. Sekar Babu on Tuesday handed over the keys of the school to the principal after Chief Minister M.K. Stalin gave assent for the running of the school, considering the future of over 700 students. Mr. Sekar Babu said the 99-year lease taken by the charitable trust, that ran the school, came to an end in 1998. The institution had been functioning at the site since the 1960s. The trust had already expressed its inability to run the school. The temple took possession of 32 grounds of land that had remained with the school in July 2020. The school had previously taken over 44.5 grounds of land. It had handed over 12.5 grounds to the temple in 2010. The temple now owns a total of 110 grounds of land in the locality. Recently, the Minister said an amount of Rs. 1.7 crore had been allocated to improve basic amenities in schools and colleges run by the various temples under the control of the department. Annadhanam scheme The HR&CE Department will continue providing free lunch till June 21 to attendees and staff at hospitals under the Annadhanam scheme in 11 districts in the State, where COVID-19 numbers had still not fallen, a press release stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ekambaranathar-temple-takes-over-school-in-poonamallee-high-road/article34826035.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central Crime Branch deputes teams to trace YouTuber Madan||The Central Crime Branch of the city police has taken up the investigation into the alleged offences committed by YouTuber Madan. It has deputed special teams to trace him. From 2019, Madan alias Madhan OP, 29, ran a channel to showcase his gaming skills, including the banned PUBG, and has lakhs of followers. His viewers were aged 10-25, most of them school students who watched his videos to learn how to play PUBG. Explicit language While playing with teenage girls and boys, he had used abusive language. His videos contained explicit vulgar words uttered by him and encouraged adolescents to follow him while playing the games with him. The police received two complaints, which were forwarded by the Tamil Nadu Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. Initially, a complaint was entered in the community service register by the Pulianthope police, and the matter was taken up for investigation. Commissioner’s order On the order of Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal, the case was taken up for further investigation by the cyber crime cell of the Central Crime Branch on receipt of another complaint. Special teams have been deputed to trace him. Sources said preliminary investigation revealed that he committed offences under the Information Technology Act, and provisions of other laws would be invoked after investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teams-deputed-to-trace-youtuber-madan/article34826033.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin to leave for Delhi on June 17||In his first visit to the national capital after assuming office, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin is set to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening. The president of the DMK, which is part of the United Progressive Alliance, is also likely to call on its chairperson Sonia Gandhi on Friday morning, a source said. The DMK has 133 MLAs and the Congress 18 in the 234-member Assembly. During his visit, Mr. Stalin may call on some dignitaries, a few Union Ministers and leaders of alliance parties as well. When meeting Mr. Modi, the Chief Minister is expected to raise issues relating to vaccine supply and allocation of essential medicines for COVID-19 and mucormycosis patients in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Stalin is also expected to reiterate the State government’s stand against the conduct of NEET for medical admissions in the State. He is likely to visit the DMK party office in the national capital. Since his taking over as the Chief Minister on May 7, Mr. Stalin has requested the Prime Minister for oxygen allocation, cryogenic containers and trains to transport them to Tamil Nadu, over the phone and through official letters. His requests to the Prime Minister have also included a plea to operationalise the Integrated Vaccine Complex in Chengalpattu, among other things.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-to-leave-for-delhi-on-june-17/article34826060.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko seeks MGNREGS jobs for people above 55||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Tuesday requested Chief Minister M.K. Stalin not to exclude those who had crossed 55 years of age in works implemented under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). In a statement in Chennai, he said in the majority of villages, people’s livelihood depended on the rural employment scheme and excluding those who were above 55 would result in death by hunger. Therefore, he appealed to the government to lift the restrictions and engage those above 55 years in the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaiko-seeks-mgnregs-jobs-for-people-above-55/article34826046.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man wanted for rape arrested after 6 years||Personnel from the Chitlapakkam police station arrested a 53-year-old man, who was convicted of raping a young woman in 2007, and had gone into hiding since 2015 after the Madras High Court upheld the conviction of the trial court. On March 2, 2007, around 3 p.m., when the 23-year-old victim was home alone, she heard a knock on the front door. When she checked, A. Perumal, who was a friend of her father, asked her for a glass of water. When she went to get him water, he entered the house and raped her. Based on a complaint from her parents, the police arrested and remanded him in judicial custody. In 2009, the Mahila Court convicted Perumal for rape and sentenced him to undergo seven years rigorous imprisonment. On filing an appeal, the Madras High Court granted him bail. However in 2015, the High Court upheld the order of the trial court. The trial court also directed that Perumal be made to undergo the rest of his sentence. Though a non-bailable warrant was issued, he went into hiding. The police arrested him on Monday and lodged him in prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-wanted-for-rape-arrested-after-6-years/article34826032.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deaths under-reported at six hospitals: analysis||As against the 863 deaths due to COVID-19 declared at six government hospitals during April and May this year, the actual number is likely to be 13.6 times more, indicating under-reporting of deaths in the State, NGO Arappor Iyakkam claimed. It took up analysis of the death data at these hospitals and claimed to have found a total of 11,699 deaths during the period. The hospitals are Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai; Coimbatore Medical College Hospital; Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College Hospital, Tiruchi; Vellore Medical College Hospital; Karur Medical College Hospital; and Tiruppur Government Headquarters Hospital. Convener Jayaram Venkatesan said the report was based on the death certificate data released by the State government on a website, and necessitated a comparison with previous years. The NGO found that the data had been uploaded for 2019, 2020 and 2021. Data for the number of death certificates issued for men and women were collected for each day from January to May for each of these hospitals for 2019, 2020 and 2021. They were compared with the deaths declared in the daily bulletin released by the Health Department (April and May 2021). The number of deaths at the six hospitals was around 2,000 a month from January to March this year. The number of deaths was around 2,000 a month during April and May in the previous years. However, it increased to 3,009 in April 2021 and 8,690 in May 2021, according to the report. In total, there were 11,699 deaths in April and May this year at these hospitals — 3,152 in Madurai; 3,464 in Coimbatore; 1,806 in Tiruchi; 1,416 in Vellore; 960 in Karur; and 907 in Tiruppur — as against 4,437 in 2019 and 3,261 in 2020. In short, this was 7,262 more than the number of deaths in April and May 2019, and 8,438 more than the number in April and May 2020. In the absence of other major factors, these increased deaths were likely to be due to COVID-19 and its complications, Mr. Venkatesan said. The report said there seemed to be gross under-reporting of deaths at the Tiruchi hospital, while no COVID-19 death was declared at the Tiruppur hospital from April 1 to May 19. In fact, the total death certificates issued for these dates were 489. However, the overall deaths at these six hospitals declared in the media bulletin for April and May (as of June 13) was only 863, he said. The analysis concluded that mortality at these six hospitals was 13.6 times the reported COVID-19 deaths. Compared with the increased deaths over the previous years, the deaths due to COVID-19 and its complications were likely to be 8.4 to 9.8 times more. If the under-reporting factor of the six hospitals was applied to the entire State, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths might be between 1,08,721 and 1,26,841 as against the reported 12,943 deaths (April and May), he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deaths-under-reported-at-six-hospitals-analysis/article34826051.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DME issues instructions to paediatricians||The Directorate of Medical Education, anticipating that the next wave of COVID-19 could affect children, has said that a nodal officer, preferably a paediatrician, be appointed to prepare for the same. Medical college deans have been asked to set aside 100 beds with oxygen facilities and monitors in their hospitals to provide ICU care to children. No paediatrician or paediatric staff nurse should be posted for regular duty rotation. At least a fourth of the nurses in hospitals should be trained to attend to emergencies in the paediatric ward. The DME has directed that medical officers of general medicine and anaesthesia should be trained to handle paediatric emergencies in batches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dme-issues-instructions-to-paediatricians/article34826056.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to study admissions to professional courses||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday issued orders for constituting an 11-member commission to look into ways to increase the admission of students from government schools into professional courses (other than medicine), if their intake in such programmes was inadequate. The panel will look into the admission of students from government schools in professional programmes, such as engineering, agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and law, among others. It will be headed by retired Delhi High Court judge D. Murugesan, and it will submit its report to the government in a month, an official release said. The panel will look into the socio-economic conditions of students from government schools, their challenges, if any, and the quantum of their admission into professional courses in the past. It will then recommend ways to increase their intake. The government’s decision follows a representation that said only a few students from government schools were being admitted into such courses. It may be recalled that the DMK government had earlier constituted a panel to study the impact of NEET on medical admissions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-study-admissions-to-professional-courses/article34826059.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea against decision to cancel Class XII exams||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court, challenging a decision taken by the State government to cancel the Class XII public examinations this year due to the threat of COVID-19. The litigant claimed that the examinations could be conducted in a month or two since the second wave of the pandemic was on the wane, with the death rate and the number of new COVID-19 positive cases decreasing rapidly. The petition has been listed for hearing before Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy on Wednesday. Advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan of Thoothukudi had filed the case on the ground that the present batch of Class XII students were those whose Class XI exams got cancelled last year. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to let them clear higher secondary classes without appearing for the final year examinations, he said. According to him, only average and below average students would welcome the decision of the fourth respondent (Department of School Education) to cancel the examinations. “The meritorious students will always wish to write the examinations to score marks and prove their ability. At least for them, the fourth respondent has to conduct the examinations,” the affidavit said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-against-decision-to-cancel-class-xii-exams/article34826037.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ISRO’s free online courses||The Indian Space Research Organisation will be conducting free courses on Machine Learning, Web GIS Technology and Earth Observation for Carbon Studies in the coming weeks from June 21. The courses will be available upon registration on the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing (IIRS) website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isros-free-online-courses/article34826044.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New institute professor appointed at IIT-M||Former director of the Indian Institute of Technology-Ropar Sarit Kumar Das has been appointed institute professor at IIT-Madras. Mr. Das, an institute chair professor at the Mechanical Engineering Department, has more than 22,000 research citations. A recipient of the IIT-Madras’ Lifetime Achievement Research Award, he will focus on creating a roadmap for the institute’s research park.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-institute-professor-appointed-at-iit-m/article34826029.ece
16 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephants saunter out of forest, take a bath in village tank, return||Jaunting out of Siruvani forests, two tuskers walked close to human habitation without disturbing a single resident, and took a cool bath in a tank at Semmedu village on the city's outskirts. As the tank was located in the middle of villages, Forest Department staff were on their toes from Tuesday morning. After keeping them tense for hours however, the elephants sauntered back into the forests in the afternoon. Forest officials said the elephants entered the tank, Muttathuvayal, around two km away from the reserve forest areas of Boluvampatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division, early on Tuesday. After taking a bath in the tank, the tuskers moved to one of the islands inside the tank with lush vegetation and simply relaxed. Though rumours spread that the elephants were trapped in the waterbody, District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that the tank bed was not too muddy for the jumbos to get trapped. Though the frontline staff of the Forest Department tried to prevent the two elephants from venturing into human habitation late on Monday, the animals managed to came out through a tribal settlement, Dhanikandi early on Tuesday. The tuskers ventured straight into the tank before the frontline workers reached the spot, after being alerted by the villagers. Additional staff from two more Coimbatore and Madukkarai forest ranges were also deployed at the location to monitor the elephants. A drone was also kept ready for monitoring. Senior officials including the DFO and Forest Veterinary Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division camped at the location to ensure the safety of the tuskers and humans. As the tank is situated around two km off the nearest reserve forest and surrounded by farms and houses, the Forest staff waited patiently for the elephants to return to the forests. “To our joy, the tuskers came out from the island and walked off the tank around 12.30 p.m. and went back into the Boluvampatti reserve forest area,” said Mr. Venkatesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-saunter-out-of-forest-take-a-bath-in-village-tank-return/article34826093.ece
16 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Textbooks distributed to govt., aided schools in Coimbatore||Following the relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown for Coimbatore district, government and aided schools have been receiving textbooks to be distributed to students as per instructions from the State government. A school education official said on Tuesday that the textbooks were being sent to 1,386 government and aided schools across the district including primary, middle, high and higher secondary schools by the Chief Educational Office since Monday and the distribution process was expected to be completed in a few days. According to an official from the Corporation Higher Secondary School in Siddhapudur, the school received textbooks for classes 6 to 12 on Monday evening and that a few faculty members were called on Tuesday for sorting the textbooks to keep it prepared for distribution. “Whenever we are told to start admissions, we will distribute these books then,” he said. No guidelines from the Department of School Education regarding the distribution of textbooks to the students or commencing the admission works for Class 11 had come for Coimbatore district as of Tuesday, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textbooks-distributed-to-govt-aided-schools-in-coimbatore/article34826098.ece
16 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||All 28 captive elephants at ATR test negative||All the 28 captive elephants at the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) tested negative for COVID-19, said authorities of the tiger reserve on Tuesday. Rectal swabs collected from the elephants were sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Izatnagar, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, for tests on June 9. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR, told The Hindu that the results returned on Tuesday and all the 28 captive elephants tested negative. The Forest Department sent the samples for the test after nine Asiatic lions at the Vandalur zoo tested positive for COVID-19 and one of them died of the infection. Along with the rectal swabs for COVID-19 test, ‘trunk wash’ samples were also collected from the elephants to test them for herpes and tuberculosis. The trunk wash samples were taken using saline solution. A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, said that the results of the trunk wash samples were awaited. Of the 28 captive elephants at ATR, 22 are camped at Kozhikamuthi, Top Slip, and the remaining six at Varagaliar, a few km away.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-28-captive-elephants-at-atr-test-negative/article34826078.ece
16 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for possessing ganja||Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) in Coimbatore on Tuesday arrested a 44-year-old man who was found carrying 21 kg of ganja. The arrested has been identified as R. Ramesh, a native of Uthamapalayam in Theni district. The NIB-CID team headed by H. Manoharan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, NIB-CID, Salem, (in-charge of Coimbatore) and sub-inspector D. Sumitra stopped Ramesh near Singanallur bus stand when he came on a two-wheeler. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. Three booked for child marriages The Podanur police on Monday registered three separate cases against three persons for marrying minor girls. In the first case, the police booked Hari Harinathan (20) of Kurichi for marrying a minor girl in April this year. The case was registered based on a complaint given by Baladuraisamy, village administrative officer (VAO), Kurichi. Mr. Baladuraisamy lodged another complaint against Parameswaran (19) of Maduraiveeran Kovil Street at Podanur after the youth was found to have married a minor girl in December 2020. The police booked Parameswaran. In the third case, Vigneswaran (20) of Vallalar Colony, Vellalore, was booked based on a complaint lodged by Vellalore VAO Nagarajan after the youth married a minor girl in February this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-arrested-for-possessing-ganja/article34826070.ece
16 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient in home isolation distills arrack, booked||A COVID-19 patient, who was in home isolation. was booked by the Alandurai police in Coimbatore district after he was found distilling arrack. The police seized 10 litres of arrack, fermented wash, and distilling equipment from the patient identified as Sampathkumar (35) of Boluvampatti. According to the police, Sampathkumar tested positive on June 2 and was asked to remain in home isolation. Alandurai station inspector K. Baskaran received specific information about the illegal brewing and his team searched the house with precautions on Monday. “We handed over the seized liquor and materials to the Prohibition Enforcement Wing. The accused was not arrested as he was in home isolation due to COVID-19,” said Mr. Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-in-home-isolation-distills-arrack-booked/article34826083.ece
16 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Municipal Commissioner, three others booked for cheating||The District Crime Branch (DCB) in Coimbatore on Monday booked K. Paunraj, former Commissioner of Valparai Municipality, and three others for allegedly misappropriating local body funds to the tune of Rs. 35.78 lakh. The case was registered against Paunraj, municipality manager Nanjundan, proprietor of Green Park and contractor Manikumar based on a complaint lodged by S. S. Sureshkumar, the present Municipal Commissioner of the civic body. DCB inspector Yamuna Devi said the Municipality records showed that a total amount of Rs. 35,78,505 was paid to MIY Constructions that undertook various construction works for the civic body. “However, bank records showed that the amount was paid to the bank accounts of Manikumar and Green Park, which used to supply items such as bleaching powder to the municipality,” said Ms. Devi. The transaction records showed that Paunraj signed the checks for the payments – Rs. 17,91,112 to Manikumar and Rs. 17,87, 393 to Green Park. The DCB was yet to arrest the accused involved in the case. Paunraj, who worked as Municipal Commissioner from December 2019 to March 22, 2021, was suspended from the post after he was booked by the DCB in another case of cheating and graft in April. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by Saravanakumar, Regional Director of Municipal Administration and Regional Vigilance officer, who accused him of misappropriating funds to the tune of Rs. 15.62 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ex-municipal-commissioner-three-others-booked-for-cheating/article34826099.ece
16 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Oxygen Express arrives at Irugur||The 72nd Oxygen Express for the State arrived at the Irugur Container Siding in Coimbatore district from Rourkela in Odisha with a load of 77.78 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) on Tuesday. A With this, the total LMO delivered to the State through the Oxygen Express services was 5,434.14 MT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/oxygen-express-arrives-at-irugur/article34826077.ece
16 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Contribution to CMPRF||The Apparel Export Promotion Council chairman A. Sakthivel handed over Rs. 1,30,37,001 to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Tuesday. The APEPC had already given Rs. 30 lakh for the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. In total, the Council has contributed Rs. 1,60,37,001.   The Department of Posts continues to offer Speed Post, Speed Parcel and Logistics Post services, especially for delivery of essential goods such as PPEs and masks. The services are available at the Head Post office and branch post offices here. For details, the public can contact 0422-2395637 or 8946065828     The Coimbatore Compressor Industries Association has appealed to the government to include reciprocating compressor and screw compressor in the Wholesale Price Index commodity basket. Similarly, price data should be collected from MSMEs too, said the association in a press release regarding the draft technical report uploaded by the government on Wholesale Price Index.     The Coimbatore and Tiruppur district job working powerloom unit owners association has urged the State government to provide time for the powerloom units to pay the electricity consumption charges. Further, the wages paid by the textile producers to the job working units has not been revised for the last eight years, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contribution-to-cmprf/article34826069.ece
16 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine stock exhausted in Erode, Salem||The district’s vaccine stock exhausted as all the available 2,850 doses were utilised here on Tuesday. About 13,400 doses of vaccine arrived in the district and vaccination resumed at Primary Health Centers and vaccination centres on Monday for persons above 18 years. As of Tuesday morning, a total of 2,72,324 persons were vaccinated while the available vaccine, 330 doses at Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, 20 doses at Perundurai GH, 210 doses at Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs), 730 doses at Primary Health Centres and 1,890 doses at the District Vaccine Store were utilised. Since very few doses were available in corporation limits, vaccination was suspended for the day at all the 10 UPHCs and display boards were placed on Monday evening informing the public on the non-availability of stock. Officials at the Department of Public Health and Preventive Medicines said that fresh stock is expected by Wednesday. In Salem, people in large numbers thronged vaccination centres only to learn that stocks were not available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-stock-exhausted-in-erode-salem/article34826075.ece
16 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Traders want priority in allocation of shops||Traders at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) urged the State government to give priority to them in the allocation of shops at the modernised textile hub that is under construction. Members of both the daily and weekly textile traders association at the Erode Gani Market met Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy and submitted a petition here on Tuesday. They said that over 800 daily and weekly shops were functioning on the Gani market premises for the past 40 years where wholesale and retail trading of textile items were done. In the past five years, their business was affected completely due to demonetisation, implementation of Goods and Services Tax, increase in price of yarn and COVID-19 pandemic. But, they continued to pay all the taxes to the Corporation in all these years, they said. Under the Smart City Mission, the Corporation was constructing a modernised textile hub on the premises that was expected to be completed in a few months. “We are running shops for 40 years now and priority should be given to us while allocating shops,” they said and wanted the Minister to take up the issue with the State government and the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-want-priority-in-allocation-of-shops/article34826095.ece
16 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Project Director assumes office||Pratik Tayal assumed office as Additional Collector (Development) / Project Officer, District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), Erode, here on Tuesday. Earlier, he served as Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/project-director-assumes-office/article34826073.ece
16 June 2021||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Line inspector electrocuted in Hosur||A line inspector was electrocuted by a high tension line here on Tuesday. The victim, Nawabjan (40) of Shoolagiri, was employed in Bagalur sub-station. He had climbed to check lines in a transformer when he was electrocuted. The body was retrieved and sent to Hosur government hospital. Family members of the victim refused to accept the body alleging foul play. Assistant Engineer K. Kumar, Hosur division, told The Hindu the top lines were not cut of supply and the work was three feet below. “It is suspected that the victim inadvertently touched the top line.” An inquiry would be held under an AEE, Safety, Vellore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/line-inspector-electrocuted-in-hosur/article34826068.ece
16 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||CM to decide on extension of deadline to pay EB bills||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would take a call on extension of the last date for paying electricity bills by consumers, said Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji. He told reporters here on Tuesday that the State government extended the deadline of paying electricity bills in view of the intense lockdown. However, it had relaxed curbs on running various industries, offices and business houses. Many of them had been opened in 27 districts, where COVID-19 cases had come down. Mr. Stalin would take a decision on extending the deadline. Operations begin However, Mr. Senthil Balaji said that many export units and other industries had begun their day-to-day operations. Hence, he was of the view that there was no need for extending the deadline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-to-decide-on-extension-of-deadline-to-pay-eb-bills/article34826515.ece
16 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man killed for defaulting on loan in Krishnagiri, family alleges usury||The family of a man, who was killed on Saturday for allegedly defaulting on the repayment of Rs. 33 lakh, “borrowed at 10% interest” rate, has sought action against the practice of usury. Police had informed B. Brinda, of her husband Balaji’s murder by a man, Raghuram, hours after she was taken to the Hudco Station on Saturday. However, police say Raghuram himself was in dire straits and had no backing of any usurious gang. According to Balaji’s father Ramasamy, on Saturday morning, he had received a call from Balaji, who was at Raghuram’s house. He put Raghuram on the phone and asked his father to intervene asking for more time to settle the loan. “I asked Raghuram to wait till Monday. He kept repeating, ‘your son is lying’. Then I only heard a commotion followed by a ‘sit down’ thrice. The call was then disconnected,” says Mr Ramasamy. The family claimed that Balaji was held captive in his own unit in March by Raghuram, who too was under pressure from his creditors. In April, Raghuram brought his pregnant wife, who is due this August to insist on the repayment. “The wife said she would hang herself if we did not pay up, because they too were under pressure,” says Ms. Brinda. Raghuram, a collection agent at a private finance firm had come into contact with Balaji, when the latter had sought funds to repay his previous borrowings. The COVID-19 lockdown had led to delayed payments by vendors, forcing losses upon Balaji’s small scale unit, says Ms Brinda. On Monday, Ms. Brinda along with Hosur Small and Tiny Industries Association (HOSTIA) president K. Velmurugan, met Collector Dr. V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy seeking support for the family with a job for the wife and a solatium. They also demanded action against usurious money-lending. However, the Hosur police’s FIR does not mention usury. Deputy Superintendent of Police C. Murali insisted this was a case of murder over a loan default to a dire creditor, and not usury. But, asked if a 10% rate of interest would not technically qualify as ‘usury’, the DSP said: “A usurer has backing and the wherewithal to threaten. Raghuram lives in a 10-by-10 tenement and was in a dire situation himself. He was outraged by the fact that he was cheated.” According to Mr. Ramasamy, “Raghuram had met Balaji in his native town in Thirupathur during the lockdown and fell at his feet pleading for the loan to be repaid. He said that he rescued my son from a previous lender to whom Balaji was paying ‘meter interest’(compounding rate of interest on interest default.) ‘They would have killed your son, but for me’,” Raghuram had told Mr. Ramasamy. DSP Murali said Balaji offered to make Raghuram a partner for his share of capital of Rs. 15 lakh and also borrowed Rs. 33 lakh. Raghuram had sold a plot for his share of capital in Balaji’s unit and borrowed some money from his mother and a friend. “Raghuram got to know later that Balaji’s unit was in his wife’s name. All this angered Raghuram, who felt he was cheated by Balaji,” the DSP said, explaining why the case did not qualify for usury. “The FIR was only based on the first information given. We are conducting a detailed investigation into the complaint. We will look into all the allegations of the family and also find supporting documents so that they can be proved in court. We will ensure justice is provided for the victim,” said the Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-for-defaulting-on-loan-in-krishnagiri-family-alleges-usury/article34826091.ece
16 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Jamabandhi to begin today||The district administration is set to conduct Jamabandhi in various blocks in the district starting from June 16. Jamabandhi will be held at the taluk offices in Krishnagiri, Uthangarai, Bargur, Hosur, Pochampalli, Shoolagiri, Denkanikottai and Anchetti. According to the administration, in view of the pandemic and accompanying protocols, the public grievance petitions are sought to be received through online mode viahttps://gdp. tn.gov.in/ jama bandhhi/. According to the administration the standard operating procedures will be followed including wearing of masks, physical distancing and the petitions may be submitted online. Public may also contact the e-seva centres for online submission of their petitions. Jamabandhi will be held in Hosur under Collector V. Jayachandra Bhanu Reddy on June 16, 17, 18, 22 and 23; in Krishnagiri under District Revenue Officer R. Sathish on June 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, 25, 29, 30; in Shoolagiri under Special DRO (SIPCOT) V. Pavanandhi on June 16, 17, 18, 22, and 23; in Pochampalli under Special DRO P. Rathinasamy on June 16, 17, 18, 22, and 23; in Denkanikottai under RDO, Hosur P. Gunasekaran on June 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24 and 25; in Bargur under RDO, Krishnagiri, K. Karpagavallli on June 16, 17, 18, 22 and 23; in Uthangarai under PA to Collector (Land) on June 16, 17, 18, 22, 23 and in Anchetti under K. Gopu, DSO, on June 16, and 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jamabandhi-to-begin-today/article34826094.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Petty issues lead to clashes||Two incidents of petty quarrel on the road led to group clashes in Theni and Virudhunagar district in which few persons were injured on Monday evening. The police said that two youths from Chinna Chettikurichi had reportedly hit a pedestrian when they were riding a motorcycle at nearby Chettikurichi. When the victim asked them to go slow, a quarrel erupted. Later, the youths who went home brought back about 20 armed persons and attacked the people and houses in Chettikurichi. Asbestos roof of a house was damaged. The police said that seven persons, including three women, were injured. One Gengaraj has been admitted to the Government Hospital in Aruppukottai. Superintendent of Police M. Manohar inspected the spot. Police picketing led by Additional Superintendent of Police S. Marirajan was deployed in the village to prevent any further clash. Near Periyakulam Meanwhile, in another incident, people of two different communities clashed at Kullapuram under Jayamangalam police station limits near Periyakulam on Tuesday. The police said that when M. Manikandan, 21, of Kullapuram was proceeding to a hospital, one K. Ramasamy, 52, of Sindhuvampatti was herding some cattle on middle of the road at Kullapuram. When he asked him to guide the cattle on the margin of the road, it resulted in a quarrel. This resulted in a clash in which people from both sides hurled stones at each other. The police have picked up some suspects from both sides. Dindigul In yet another case, a drunken brawl among friends led to one person stabbing two persons at Achcharajakkapatti near Dindigul on Tuesday evening. The police said Karuppiah, 31, Gangadaran, 32, and two brothers - Siranjeevi, 30, and Murugesan, 35, were consuming liquor in a farm. When a quarrel erupted over disbursal of wages, Siranjeevi stabbed Karuppaiah and Gangadaran with a knife. While Karuppaih died on the way to the hospital, Gangadaran has been admitted to Dindigul Government hospital. Dindigul Taluk police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petty-issues-lead-to-clashes/article34826175.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled people get jab in Madurai camp||Madurai Corporation, Differently abled Welfare Association, and Democratic Youth Federation of India organised a COVID-19 vaccination camp for differently abled people at St. Britto Higher Secondary School here on Tuesday. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who inaugurated the vaccination camp, said that this was the first exclusive COVID-19 vaccination camp for differently abled people, organised in Madurai. Six buses, 20 autorickshaws and 40 volunteers with two-wheelers were engaged to pick up the beneficiaries from their residences and drop them back. “Since the contact numbers of volunteers were publicised, many beneficiaries used the service,” said Mr. Venkatesan. Earlier, the differently abled people faced difficulty in getting themselves inoculated at the COVID-19 vaccine centres for common people. But this vaccination camp at the school had proper infrastructure for their mobility,” he added. All differently abled persons aged above 18 were eligible for vaccination at the centre. A large number of beneficiaries were inoculated at the camp,” said Mr. Venkatesan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/differently-abled-people-get-jab-in-madurai-camp/article34826180.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life, claims torture by moneylenders in video footage||A 37-year-old man, Mohammed Ali committed suicide here on Monday night after leaving a video footage in which he said he took the extreme step due to harassment by moneylenders . In the video footage, he has appealed to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Madurai Commissioner of Police to take action against those who harassed him and protect his family and friends from the moneylenders. A father of two children, Mohammed Ali of Mahaboobpalayam was running a fast food stall. Claiming that he had paid more than what he had borrowed, he named few persons of having tortured him seeking more money. After he was found dead in his house, his body was taken to Government Rajaji Hospital in the night. M. Fatima, the wife of the deceased, said that one Selvakumar had abused her husband asking him to end his life if he could not repay the interest, leaving him dejected. She said the man had hung himself in her son’s cradle rope. She had named three others identified as Jeyandra Singh, Marimuthu and Kamatchi. S. S. Colony police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life-claims-torture-by-moneylenders-in-video-footage/article34826181.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Reclassification of areas is a policy decision: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court disposed of a petition that sought a direction for implementation of a resolution passed by Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner classifying certain areas in Palayamkottai as ‘continuous building area’ and ‘economically weaker section area’. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi observed that reclassification of areas was a policy decision to be taken by the government. There were several factors to be taken note of before such a decision was taken and the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act also called for a detailed procedure. The division bench was hearing a petition filed by S. Bala Vignesh of Palayamkottai. The petitioner said that Tirunelveli was witnessing various developments, which had resulted in Palayamkottai turning into a business centre. Taking into consideration these factors, the resolution was passed by the Corporation Commissioner. Unauthorised buildings The court wondered on what basis the resolution was passed by the Tirunelveli Corporation Commissioner and pointed out that it had come across cases of unauthorised construction in Tirunelveli. The Corporation Commissioner and the district administration had not taken any action in this regard, the division bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reclassification-of-areas-is-a-policy-decision-hc/article34826478.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Permit given for quarry on land allotted to poor’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has sought a response from the Thoothukudi district administration on a petition seeking action against officials who had granted permit to a gravel quarry on a land that was allotted to the landless poor under the Tamil Nadu Land Reforms Act. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi, taking a serious note of the issue, sought a counter affidavit from the district administration on the petition filed by S.M.A. Pon Gandhimathinathan. The petitioner sought direction to the Collector to take action against the erring officials. The petitioner sought a direction to the Collector to provide sanction under the Section 197 of CrPC (prosecution of judges and public servants) against those officials who had submitted a false report and bogus patta in favour of private individuals to carry out quarry operations. He said that many landless poor people in and around Thoothukudi were identified and the lands were allotted to them under the Act. But due to non compliance of certain conditions by the land holders, the lands were retained by the government. The case was adjourned till July 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/permit-given-for-quarry-on-land-allotted-to-poor/article34826477.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead with head injuries||A. Muthukumar of Anuppanadi was found dead with head injuries at Chinthamani on Monday night. Police said that the deceased was working in a welding workshop in Keeraithurai. Avaniapuram police are investigating. Stabbed to death M. Vigneswaran, 26, of Mullipallam near Sholavandan was stabbed to death in a farm near Kadupatti on Monday night. Police said that a wordy quarrel between Vigneswaran with one T. Velmurugan, 17, led to the death. The accused has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-found-dead-with-head-injuries/article34826182.ece
16 June 2021||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam on Tuesday stood at 131 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 1,724 cusecs and a discharge of 900 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.40 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 516 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,833 mcft. Rainfall recorded in Madurai region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday was (in mm): Periyar dam 25, Thekkadi 9.8, Gudalur 7.6, Shanmuganathi dam 5.8 and Uthamapalayam 5.2. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 131.85 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 1,909.72 cusecs and a discharge of 1,204.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 83.10 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 390 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34826184.ece
16 June 2021||MADURAI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Fresh positive cases fall in Madurai, Virudhunagar||Madurai on Tuesday recorded 192 new cases, which increased the total number of positive cases in the district to 70,503. The district had registered 219 fresh cases on Monday. A total of 901 persons were discharged from various hospitals and health care facilities. The district also reported six fatalities, with which its death toll went up to 1,043. Virudhunagar reported its 500th fatality after the death of three patients. Two of the victims – all aged above 50 – were women. Fresh cases, however, came down to 178 from 198 registered on Monday. A total of 425 people were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fresh-positive-cases-fall-in-madurai-virudhunagar/article34826476.ece
16 June 2021||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 5 deaths and 355 fresh cases||The test positivity rate fell below 4% as the Union Territory reported 355 new cases from 9,017 tests against 629 patient recoveries on Tuesday. The Union Territory also recorded five deaths, taking the cumulative toll to 1,696. All the deaths were reported in Puducherry. The patients, all women, were in the 60 to 85 age segment, and three of them had no comorbidity. The region-wise toll stood at 1,356 in Puducherry, followed by Karaikal (208), Yanam (100) and Mahe (32). Of the new cases, Puducherry accounted for 265 cases, Karaikal 77, Yanam eight and Mahe five. The test positivity rate was 3.94%, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 94.38%. The number of patients in hospitals dropped to less than 750 with the active cases coming down to 4,668, including 741 in institutions and 3,927 in home isolation. The Union Territory reported a cumulative aggregate of 1,13,192 cases against 1,06,828 patients recovered. Of an estimated 11.8 lakh tests, over 10.15 lakh returned negative. Meanwhile, 116 healthcare workers, 21 frontline staff and 6,446 members of the public took COVID vaccines in the last 24 hours. The total number of people vaccinated so far rose to 3,31,164, including 36,545 healthcare workers, 22,670 frontline workers and 2,19,266 members of the public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ut-records-5-deaths-and-355-fresh-cases/article34826045.ece
16 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restaurants, bars can reopen with 50% capacity||The Puducherry government has permitted restaurants and bars to function with 50% capacity up to 5 p.m. as part of certain relaxations allowed during the COVID-19 lockdown. In an order extending the lockdown till June 21 issued on Monday night, Secretary, Revenue, Ashok Kumar said restaurants and bar facilities within hotels, lodges, guest houses and standalone eateries were allowed to operate after putting in place precautionary measures. The managements of the establishments should ensure 100% vaccination of all staff within 10 days of re-opening, the order said. Government departments would also resume work as per guidelines/instructions of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms. Other curbs remain Private offices would operate from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Last week, the government allowed partial re-opening of shops, Big Market and IMFL outlets. The other restrictions, including on gathering in public places, would remain till further announcement.  The managements of the establishments should ensure 100 % vaccination of all staff within 10 days of the re-opening||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restaurants-bars-can-reopen-with-50-capacity/article34826048.ece
16 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Move to explore hydrocarbon at Karukakurichi Vadatheru flayed||Farmers affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam staged a demonstration at Keeramangalam on Tuesday opposing the proposed hydrocarbon exploration at Karukakurichi Vadatheru village in Karambakudi block in Pudukottai The demonstrators urged the Centre to withdraw the move immediately. If it failed to do so, there would be a mobilisation of farmers and the public, they said. About 45 members, wearing face masks and adhering to personal distancing, staged the stir for about 15 minutes in front of the Keeramangalam bus stand. They were led by the Sangam’s Tiruvarangulam union general secretary T. Selvaraj. The demonstrators said Karukakurichi Vadatheru village was a fertile area and that they would block any move that would destroy cultivable lands. The Centre’s “arrogant” attitude on this issue would not be tolerated, they said. Mr. Selvaraj pointed out that a series of protests resorted to by farmers and the general public of Neduvasal village and those residing in its vicinity for over 100 days in 2017 against exploration of hydrocarbons had already thwarted the earlier project. With the State government having already declared the entire delta region and parts of Pudukottai district as Protected Special Agricultural Zone, any move to carry out exploration of hydrocarbons now would be stoutly opposed. The Centre, he said, should heed the demand of the State government. The move would eventually affect the livelihood of the farming community and foodgrain production. It would also have an impact on groundwater table and cause pollution, Mr. Selvaraj said. The demonstration by the Sangam comes a couple of days after a section of villagers of Karukakurichi Vadatheru expressed their opposition by climbing on an exploratory well established by the ONGC. The protests follow an announcement by the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas inviting companies for exploration of hydrocarbons at various locations across the country, including at Karukakurichi Vadatheru, through international competitive bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-explore-hydrocarbon-at-karukakurichi-vadatheru-opposed/article34826039.ece
16 June 2021||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman murdered||R. Veerammal, 75, a widow who resided alone, was murdered in her house at Vadakku Imanampatti on Monday. Her son resides in a different place in the village and her three daughters had been married. She was found dead in the verandah. Police suspect that she could have been strangulated to death. Her ear and nose studs were missing. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, A. Radhika inspected the spot. The services of finger and forensic experts were utilised. The Ganesh Nagar police have registered a case under IPC section 302 (murder) and 380 ( theft in dwelling house). The identity of the accused was yet to be established.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aged-woman-murdered/article34826518.ece
16 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||1,200 kg of turmeric seized||Uchipuli police seized 1,200 kg of turmeric that was being smuggled in a van here on Tuesday. The police said that during a vehicle check, they saw a van parked at a distance and some people fleeing from it. The police found 50 bags of turmeric in the van. The turmeric and the van were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1200-kg-of-turmeric-seized/article34826479.ece
16 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Graduate gets job after petitioning CM||A Computer Science Engineering graduate, R. Sowmiya of Pottaneri in Mettur Taluk, who was assured of a job by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin after she submitted a petition to him at Mettur, was given an appointment order to work at a steel company in her area here on Tuesday. On June 12, Mr. Stalin visited Mettur to open the sluices of Stanley Reservoir during which she donated her gold chain to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund and also submitted a petition seeking a job in a private company to take care of her family. Later, Mr. Stalin appreciated her intention to offer help during the pandemic and assured her of a suitable job. On Tuesday, Minister for Electricity V. Senthil Balaji met Ms. Sowmiya at her residence and handed over the appointment order for a job at JSW Steel Limited – Salem Works at Pottaneri. Mr. Stalin also called her over the phone and congratulated her. Ms. Sowmiya told mediapersons that she did not expect a job within two days after submitting the petition to the Chief Minister. She was asked to join duty from July 1 at a monthly salary of Rs. 17,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/graduate-gets-job-after-petitioning-cm/article34826088.ece
16 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter found dead||Upset over a dispute with her paramour, a woman along with her daughter ended life here on Tuesday. The police said Sathya (40) of Kallakurichi was married to Boopathi (48) and had a 16-year-old daughter. Dispute Due to a dispute, Sathya and her daughter were living separately. Rajkumar (45) of Annathanapatti, a lorry driver, developed a relationship with Sathya. Rajkumar took the two to Salem and the three were living at Uthirapankadu in the city. Rajkumar left for Bengaluru 10 days ago without providing money to Sathya for managing household needs. When she asked for money, Rajkumar refused to send it, leading to an altercation between them. The police said that he switched off his mobile phone. On Tuesday morning, the front door was not opened and neighbours alerted the Annathanapatti police who broke open the door and found Sathya and her daughter dead. The bodies were sent to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-daughter-found-dead/article34826096.ece
16 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Case booked against GH nurse||The police have booked a case against the nurse of Government Rajah Mirasdar Hospital, Thanjavur, on charges of causing grievous injury to an infant during the first week of this month. The nurse, Sheela, had reportedly mishandled the process of removing a cannula from the left hand thumb of the infant at the hospital. The baby was born to Priyadarshini in a premature delivery during the last week of May. The cannula was fixed on the baby’s thumb in view of some health complications. When the nurse attempted to remove the cannula, profuse bleeding had occurred, but subsequently was arrested on the intervention of a surgeon. Both the mother and baby were retained at the hospital for observation. However, sources said that as the baby was less than a month old, the efforts put in by the doctors to treat the injury and restore the thumb to original condition failed. Based on a complaint from the baby’s father, Ganesan of Kattur, the Thanjavur West police have registered a case under section 338 of IPC against Sheela, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-booked-against-gh-nurse/article34826517.ece
16 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||50% of total funds released for assistance||The State government has released 50% of the total funds required for the distribution of the second instalment of Rs. 2000 as COVID-19 cash assistance to the rice family cardholders in Thanjavur district. According to an official release, Rs. 135.08 crore was released earlier for first instalment of Rs. 2000 out of the Rs. 4000 cash assistance to 6,76,436 rice cardholders. Recently, the government released 50% of Rs. 135.28 crore to disburse the second instalment as another 6006 family cards had been added to the total number of rice family cardholders. The disbursement of the second instalment of Rs. .2000 to 338218 rice family cardholders was launched at Kumbakonam by the Collector M.Govinda Rao and Government Whip and Thiruvidaimaruthur MLA Govi.Chezhian. Tiruvarur In Tiruvarur district, Rs. 75.89 crore will be distributed to 3,79,462 rice family cardholders as the second instalment of Rs. 2000 out of Rs. 4000 per family card.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-of-total-funds-released-for-assistance/article34826519.ece
16 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘DPC staff being victimised’||The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation AITUC Union has alleged that the staff members engaged for paddy procurement (Direct Procurement Centre) were being victimised on political grounds. In a memorandum addressed to the Minister for Food and Civil Supplies, R.Sakkarapani, the TNCSC AITUC State General Secretary, C.Chandrakumar, said that 16 workers attached to different direct procurement centres functioning in Tiruvarur district have been relieved from their duty over the last two weeks. Their engagement with the TNCSC as DPC staff was terminated for the reasons such as procurement of paddy with slightly higher moisture content and inferior quality of grains. Further, some of the workers who have served as DPC staff in the past had been denied the opportunity to continue as DPC staff for the simple reason that they owed their political allegiance to the Opposition parties, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dpc-staff-being-victimised/article34826508.ece
16 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive woman delivers triplets in Thoothukudi||A COVID-19 positive woman, who delivered triplets in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, has been discharged from hospital after recovering from the viral infection. J. Vidhya, 25, from Korampallam near here was under treatment for infertility and conceived through Assisted Reproductive Technology. She came to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for her first delivery on May 28 and underwent the mandatory RT–PCR test, which showed that she was positive. Since she developed HELLP (haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, low platelet count) syndrome, she had to be treated for that problem also. After radiological investigations showed that she was carrying triplets, she delivered the babies through cesarean section on May 30. The babies were underweight and had breathing issues though they tested negative for COVID-19. Special care was taken to save the babies after separating them from the infected mother. Meanwhile, efforts taken to contain the viral load of the woman yielded good results. “During the seven days of care, the babies gained weight and the breathing problems too subsided. After 15 days, the babies were handed over to the mother on Tuesday, when she was discharged from the hospital,” said Nehru, Dean, TKMCH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-positive-woman-delivers-triplets-in-thoothukudi/article34826481.ece
16 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Road being laid connecting Mukkombu with conservatory||The Public Works Department has embarked on the task of laying a new road connecting Mukkombu (Upper Anict) with Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam. The “formation of new bituminous road” has been taken up along the left side of the Cauvery bank. The new two-lane road covers a distance of seven km with the works having been entrusted with the multinational firm Larsen & Toubro at an estimated cost of around Rs. 20 crore funded by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. A new bridge is to be constructed along the seven km stretch for which pile foundation works have been completed, a senior PWD of ficial said on Monday. The preliminary work of clearing bushes along the present earthen stretch were on and the road formation work along the full stretch would commence shortly. The new bridge is being constructed as the existing bridge with lesser width was constructed over 40 years ago. The new bridge would be laid to a length of about 140 metres to handle two-way traffic. With the works proceeding in full swing, the entire project was expected to be completed in three months, the official said, adding that the new road would serve as a shortest route from Srirangam to Mukkombu. Further, it would be laid as per the Indian Road Congress guidelines. The new road would be useful for the PWD in transporting materials to Mukkombu during any emergency from Srirangam side besides helping the Forest Department in greening the stretch by planting saplings. Once it becomes motorable, the stretch would help the PWD officials in inspecting the Cauvery bank and the Srirangam Nattuvaikkal. The pace of the works was being monitored by Collector, Chief Engineer and Superintending Engineer of the PWD. The conservatory remains shut in view of lockdown so that the Forest Department was carrying out regular maintenance work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/road-being-laid-connecting-mukkombu-with-conservatory/article34826511.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cauvery water reaches Mukkombu||Water released in the Cauvery from the Stanley Reservoir in Mettur for irrigation in delta areas reached the Upper Anicut (Mukkombu) on the outskirts of Tiruchi on Tuesday. Chief Minister M.K.Stalin had lifted the shutters of the Mettur Reservoir on June 12, the scheduled date for annual opening of the dam for irrigation. Kuruvai paddy is expected to be raised on about 5.21 lakh acres, including in the core delta districts of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Mayiladuthurai and Nagapattinam districts, utilising the water. According to PWD sources, 2,000 water was realised at Mukkombu by Tuesday and the realisation is expected to rise gradually as 10,000 cusecs of water is being released from Mettur. The water is expected to reach Kallanai (Grand Anicut) later tonight. Water is scheduled to be released for irrigation from Kallanai on Wednesday by a clutch of State Ministers. As the water flowed past the Mukkombu regulator, a group of farmers showered petals on the river. Farmers have expressed happiness over the opening of the Mettur dam on the scheduled date and are hoping for sustained supply right through the kuruvai and samba seasons. A section of them urged the government to ensure that the Karnataka government released Tamil Nadu’s due share of water every month. “The government should press the Cauvery Water Management Authority to direct Karnataka to release Tamil Nadu’s monthly quota of water as per the final verdict of Cauvery Tribunal and the Supreme Court order,” said Koundampatti R.Subramanian, deputy secretary, Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cauvery-water-reaches-mukkombu/article34826524.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. not hiding COVID-19 deaths: Minister||Maintaining that the State government was transparent in declaring COVID-19 deaths, Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian on Tuesday said it would not hide the facts on the causes of the deaths. Answering a question on the alleged under-reporting of patients who died of COVID-19 complications, the Minister said there was no need for the government to hide the facts on COVID-19 deaths. The Collectors had been given clear instructions not to hide deaths and their causes. Except for claiming government assistance for children orphaned by the pandemic, the certificates [being given to the relatives of COVID-19 victims] would be of no use, he said. Mr. Subramanian said the patients being admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 symptoms would generally test negative for the virus after seven days. Some patients, who remained in hospitals with co-morbidities, died due to other complications. They were given death memos as per ICMR norms, he added. The Minister said a survey for identifying children orphaned by COVID-19 had been undertaken in all districts, adding that more than 100 such children had been identified so far. He said the State had so far received 1.1 crore doses of vaccines from the Centre. Of this, 1.05 crore doses had been administered. The State received a fresh consignment of 6.16 lakh doses on Tuesday, he noted.  On special camps The Minister clarified that the State government opted for special COVID-19 vaccination camps only to ensure that everyone gets inoculated. He was replying to mediapersons at the Thanjavur Collectorate, when asked for the reason behind decentralisation and adoption of the “first-come-first-served” method without prior registration for vaccination.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-not-hiding-covid-19-deaths-minister/article34826055.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Principals moot conduct of open book exam||College principals are open to the idea of orienting students to ‘open book’ examination for the ensuing academic year since online teaching-learning process has become a norm. They say the concept has to be explained thoroughly to students at the outset. The University Grants Commission had given its nod to Delhi and Calcutta universities to hold open book examinations for the final semester examinations of 2020-21 academic year and the Pondicherry University has conducted examinations under the system. The UGC’s emphasis was on uploading answers soon after the examinations. Its guidelines issued during April 2020 state ‘open book examination’ ensures fair and equal opportunity for students appearing in online/offline/blended mode. During the examinations, students will be allowed to refer to books, study materials and notes to answer the questions. ‘There is a misconception among a section of students that the online exam and ‘open book examination’ are the same. Open Book Examination is not a cakewalk. Answers cannot be copied verbatim. Questions will altogether be of analytical type for which students need to be trained to refer and chaff out the content,’ S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal, Jamal Mohamed College, said. Though it is possible to conduct online examinations without hassles, the concept of ‘open book examination’ has become the need of the hour. ‘There is no cause for hesitation since it warrants a certain level of intelligence on the part of the students,’ V. Sujatha, Principal, Cauvery College for Women, said. Implementation of Open Book Examination will prompt students to go through the entire content. ‘This is one way of making students who had all along been mostly dependent on class notes to read the entire textbooks,’ S. Albert Rabara, former Vice-Principal, St. Joseph’s College, said. However, teachers of government college of arts and science have their fears that students may not measure up to the requirement of the open book examination. ‘Even for direct questions, students struggle to locate the answers in the textbooks. Expecting students to interpret the textbook content and answer questions will be a tall order,’ zonal president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association David Livingston said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/principals-moot-conduct-of-open-book-exam/article34826513.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Stretch between Thiruvanaikovil, Panchapur to become six-lane||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) plans to convert the stretch from Panchapur to Thiruvanaikovil on the Madurai-Chennai highway into six lane. The move comes in the background of the Tiruchi City Corporation’s proposal to build an integrated bus stand at Panchapur on the outskirts of the city. There is also a plan to build an integrated market for vegetables and fruits at Panchapur. It is expected that the volume of vehicular traffic on the stretch would increase manifold once the bus stand and market came into being with the operation of buses to long and short distances. Lorries and other types of load carriers, which were currently transporting vegetables and fruits from different parts of the country to the Gandhi Market in the city, would shift their operations to the new market. “A slew of infrastructure projects including an integrated bus stand have been proposed at Panchapur. Though the proposals are in preliminary stages, indications are that they will move to the next stages shortly. We need to plan for developing the road infrastructure to cater to the need for future growth in volume of traffic,” said S. Sivarasu, Collector. He said that he had held discussions with the NHAI officials on converting the stretch from Panchapur to Thiruvanaikoil into six-lane from four-lane. Sources in the NHAI said that the expansion was a need of the hour if the bus stand was shifted to Panchapur. There were chances of manifold increase in volume of traffic. As per a latest Passenger Car Unit (PCU) survey on vehicle traffic, the Tiruchi-Chennai had about 40,000 vehicles a day. It was about 20,000 between Madurai and Tiruchi. The PCU rate was enough for lane conversion. The conversion of the existing Madurai-Chennai highway might be required for 15 to 18 km from Panchapur or Kallikudi. The land available with NHAI along the proposed route could be used. However, land acquisition was inevitable at a few places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stretch-between-thiruvanaikovil-panchapur-to-become-six-lane/article34826514.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,651 new cases in central region||The central region registered 1,651 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Fifty-six more deaths, due to complications arising out of the viral infection, were recorded, according to the bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Thanjavur district continued to record the maximum number of fresh cases and deaths. It recorded 541 fresh cases and 20 deaths, followed by Tiruchi with 360 new cases and 14 deaths. Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts registered 256 and 170 fresh cases respectively. Four more four deaths were accounted in Nagapatinam and three in Tiruvarur. Karur district reported 123 fresh cases and five deaths while Pudukottai 81 has positive cases and six deaths. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported 67 and 53 fresh cases respectively. Perambalur recorded three more deaths and Ariyalur one. Thanjavur had the maximum number of active cases with 4767 persons under treatment, including those under home treatment as on Tuesday. Tiruchi was close behind with 4,683 active cases. Nagapattinam had 2913 active cases, Tiruvarur 1,880 Pudukottai 1,307, Karur 1242, Ariyalur 784 and Perambalur 677 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1651-new-cases-in-central-region/article34826526.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||P. Balakrishnan, 47, of Rasaiyankoil, who sustained grievous injury in his chest after being allegedly stabbed by his neighbour at Rasaiyankoil in Manachanallur taluk on Monday, died on Tuesday. The Samayapuram police have arrested V. Thiagu on the charge of murder. Police said there was a dispute over petty issue between Balakrishnan and Thiagu.A quarrel broke out between the two on Monday night and Thiagu allegedly stabbed Balakrishnan. Balakrishnan was rushed to a private hospital from where he was referred to the GH here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered/article34826521.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bharathidasan University plans to publish UG, PG results by July-end||Bharathidasan University will be completing the process of even semester examinations for UG and PG students as per the re-scheduled dates, and has plans to publish the results before the end of July. It had to postpone the examinations it had originally planned to conduct from May 10 to June 1 after the lockdown was enforced. It rescheduled the examinations from June 15 as directed by the Department of Higher Education. Half of the examinations for PG students had been conducted before the lockdown took effect. Suitable instructions have been given to the principals of non-autonomous colleges to conduct the examinations. Students have been given the option of submitting their answer scripts through e-mail to the heads of the departments. ‘For every 50 students, one faculty coordinator has been appointed by the colleges,’ Srinivasa Raghavan, Controller of Examinations in-charge, Bharathidasan University, said. The faculty coordinators have been mandated with the task of guiding every student under their purview for smooth completion of the online exam, he said. Meanwhile, autonomous colleges had completed the process of online examinations for the UG and PG students during April-May. There was a mix of objective-type and descriptive type questions. There was a mixed response from the students for the pattern of question papers that combined the two methods, a principal of a leading autonomous arts and science college said. The students were required to send the soft copies of the descriptive type answers immediately, and the hard copies through post. However, the autonomous colleges are yet to conduct examinations for students with arrears.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bharathidasan-university-plans-to-publish-ug-pg-results-by-july-end/article34826528.ece
16 June 2021||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Trains cancelled||Southern Railway has announced the cancellation of Tiruchi- Chennai Egmore special (Rockfort express - Train No 02654) from June 16 to 30 due to poor patronage. The Chennai Egmore - Tiruchi special (Rockfort Express Train No. 02653) will be cancelled from June 17 to July 1. Similarly, the Chennai Egmore - Thanjavur special (Uzhavan Express Train No. 06865) will be cancelled from June 16 to 30 due to poor patronage. The Thanjavur - Chennai Egmore special (Uzhavan Express Train No. 06866) will be cancelled from June 17 to July 1, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trains-cancelled/article34826520.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at the Mettur dam stood at 94.74 feet on Tuesday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 580 cusecs and the discharge 10,000 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article34826522.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New treatment centre established for labourers at KKNPP site||After establishing a COVID Care Centre, Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) has now created a full-fledged treatment centre with oxygen support on its premises for the benefit of 7,000-odd labourers involved in construction of reactors 3 and 4. Since the KKNPP, operating 2 X 1,000 MWe nuclear reactors, is actively pursuing construction of reactors 3 and 4 with similar capacity by involving more than 7,000 labourers, mostly from other States, a COVID Care Centre was created recently at the instance of the district administration. When the viral outbreak began to spread in April and May last year and the total lockdown was clamped consequently, the district administration operated special trains to Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand after labourers from the States demanded that they be sent back. During the second wave, the KKNPP administration created a COVID Care Centre with 200 beds after several employees and labourers contracted the viral infection but showed mild symptoms. Moreover, all arrangements were in place to install an oxygen generator on its premises for the benefit of patients. Now, a full-fledged treatment centre had been created by KKNPP management to treat COVID-19 positive workers instead of sending them to the nearest government hospital. “When we lifted samples from 600 labourers on Monday, only two of them tested positive. Since they have mild symptoms, they are in our COVID Care Centre. If their health condition demands, they will be shifted to our treatment centre that has all facilities for treating patients with the viral infection,” said KKNPP sources. Apart from testing all labourers and treating COVID-19 positive patients, steps had been taken to vaccinate the labourers,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-treatment-centre-established-for-labourers-at-kknpp-site/article34826483.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Collector launches helpline for students in Tirunelveli district||Collector V. Vishnu on Tuesday launched a helpline to counsel students on handling pressure of attending online classes and tackling other issues in the absence of direct student-teacher interaction. According to Chief Educational Officer M. Sivakumar, the objective behind launching the helpline — 93420 33080 — was to assuage fear, anxiety and depression of students between classes 9 and 12 through telephonic counselling. “After undergoing comprehensive counselling sessions, the counsellor teachers are ready to handle students approaching them over the phone. The counsellors will guide the students as they seek help on preparing themselves for online classes, subject-related and psychological issues and other personal problems,” said the Chief Educational Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-launches-helpline-for-students-in-tirunelveli-district/article34826485.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Corona relief distributed||COVID-19 relief was distributed to about 530 non-salaried temple priests in Tiruvarur district on Monday. According to a press release, the assistance of Rs. 4,000, rice and other groceries were distributed to the ‘archakars’, ‘bhattacharyars’ and ‘pujaris’ conducting daily pujas at the temples coming under the ‘orukala pujai’ scheme of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department in the presence of the District Revenue Officer and Collector (in-charge) C.Ponnammal and Tiruvarur MLA Poondi K.Kalaivanan here. Already, the department was distributing 2,500 food packets every day to the people approaching the Government Hospitals, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corona-relief-distributed/article34826509.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid||Foundation stone for the construction of a new building for the Panchayat Union Office at Koradacherry was laid on June 14.   The building with a total plinth area of 17311 square feet with the ground and the first floor is to be constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.28 crore. The District Revenue Officer and Collector (in-charge) C. Ponnammal, Tiruvarur MLA Poondi K. Kalaivanan and others participated, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stone-laid/article34826529.ece
16 June 2021||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Distribution of relief in ration shop delayed||More than 100 people waited in queue for close to two hours after staff of the fair price shop at Consalpet in Vellore delayed distribution of COVID-19 monetary relief on Tuesday. The second instalment of Rs. 2,000, of the COVID-19 monetary relief amount of Rs. 4,000, and relief kits with grocery items were supposed to be given to ration card holders in the district from Tuesday. The relief is given to beneficiaries between 9 a.m and 12.30 p.m. and 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. There are close to 11 lakh beneficiaries in Vellore, Ranipet and Tirupattur districts and 1,821 fair price shops. The relief was given to over 1 lakh beneficiaries till noon on Tuesday. "We came here around 6 a.m. and started waiting in the queue. But the staff at the shop said that they were waiting for Vellore MLA P. Karthikeyan," said a woman waiting in the queue. There were also visually-challenged and elderly persons waiting in the queue since 8 a.m. Officials said that instructions had been given to all shops to start the distribution on time. "We will look into the issue," said an official. Meanwhile, officials from Mr. Karthikeyan's office said that they did not ask the fair price shop staff to wait for the MLA to arrive to start distribution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/distribution-of-relief-in-ration-shop-delayed/article34826047.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees 1,563 fresh cases, 16 deaths||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported 1,563 new cases of COVID-19 and 16 deaths. The Health Department said that the district had 15,449 active cases as on Tuesday. A total of 2,754 persons recovered from the disease on the day. The district’s toll increased to 1,778 after the death of 16 more persons. Tiruppur district reported 728 new cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 76,101.The Health Department reported four new deaths, taking the district’s toll to 646. The district had 12,738 active cases. A total of 2,377 recovered from the disease on Tuesday. Erode district reported 1,270 new cases, taking the tally to 78,820. While 1,639 persons were discharged, 10,589 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 497. Salem district reported 759 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 80,912. While 1,879 persons were discharged, 6,780 were under treatment. A total of 24 persons died, raising the toll to 1,290. Namakkal district reported 306 new cases, taking the tally to 40,750. While 624 persons were discharged, 3,620 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 308 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 26,246. The number of COVID-19 related deaths increased from 137 to 138 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. A total of 3,274 persons were under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 220 fresh cases and two deaths on a single day with 272cases discharged.The total number of cases in the district stood at 2,066 cases as of Tuesday. A total of 37,622 cases were reported in the district. Dharmapuri recorded 143 cases, and 338 cases discharged with no death registered. The total number of cases in the district was 1,988. As of date, a total 22,731 cases were reported in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-sees-1563-fresh-cases-16-deaths/article34826086.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Second instalment of relief, grocery products distributed||Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy distributed the second instalment of COVID-19 relief fund of Rs. 2,000 and a kit containing 14 grocery products to rice ration card holders at a school here on Tuesday. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Moorthy said that the previous government had promised to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 to rice ration card holders. But, in the end, the government distributed only Rs. 1,000. “But our government announced a financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 and has been distributing it in two instalments,” he said. In Madurai district, 8.72 lakh rice ration card holders will receive the second instalment of Rs. 2,000 and the grocery kit. He said that concerted efforts of officials had helped in bringing down the daily tally of COVID-19 positive cases from 1,500 to 200. Members of self-help groups had been deployed in rural areas for door-to-door screening of symptomatic residents. The government had also offered loans to SHG members at low interest rates. The Minister also distributed COVID-19 relief measures at Nilaiyur, Perungudi, and nearby areas. Collector S. Aneesh Sekar and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present. Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan distributed the relief measures on Dhanappa Mudali Street. Virudhunagar Minister for Revenue K. K. S. S. R. Ramachandran, and Minister for Industries Thangam Thennarasu distributed the money and materials in different parts of the district. Mr. Ramachandran said that the State government was forced to implement lockdown to contain the pandemic though affected the livelihood of people. The distribution of money and ration goods would help them to alleviate their sufferings, he said. A total of 5.83 lakh rice card holders will get the assistance in the district. Collector R. Kannan, MLAs A. R. R. Seenivasan and G. Ashokan were present. Dindigul Cooperation Minister I. Periyasamy distributed the assistance at Kannivadi and Pudukkottai area, and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani at Vayalur. Addressing mediapersons, Mr. Periyasamy said that the DMK government, by distributing Rs. 4,000, had fulfilled its poll promise. As many as 6.94 lakh ration card holders in Dindigul would receive the second instalment, for which Rs. 129.81 crore had been allocated to the district. The COVID-19 relief would be distributed through 1,035 ration shops in the district, he added. Sivaganga Minister for Rural Development K. R. Periyakaruppan distributed the assistance to family card holders at Tirupattur, Karaikudi, and Ilayankudi in Sivaganga district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-instalment-of-relief-grocery-products-distributed/article34826178.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Second instalment of relief package distributed to beneficiaries in districts||The second instalment of COVID-19 relief package of Rs. 2,000 and 14 essential commodities were distributed to beneficiaries in districts on Tuesday. In Coimbatore, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani inaugurated the distribution at a function held at Vadavalli.  Mr. Sakkarapani said though the government had promised to give the special package at one go on June 3, it chose to give it in two instalments to mitigate the plight of people suffering under the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown. In Coimbatore, the distribution of cash and the bag would be done through the 1,126 shops run by 163 Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies, 54 shops run by the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and 103 shops run by women self-help groups. The relief package was for ‘rice card’ holders, to whom the employees of fair price shops had distributed tokens last week. Every day, only 200 public distribution system (ration) card holders would be eligible to receive the package. In Tiruppur, Minister for Information and Publicity M.P. Saminathan and Minister for Adi Dravidar Welfare N. Kayalvizhi Selvaraj distributed the cash assistance and provisions kit.  In Erode, Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy inaugurated the distribution at a ration shop at Kasipalayam. Officials said the second instalment along with the kit would be distributed to the card holders between 8 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. In Salem district, Collector S. Karmegam inaugurated the distribution at a ration shop at Kannankurichi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-instalment-of-relief-package-distributed-to-beneficiaries-in-districts/article34826081.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||At least 1.41 lakh missed taking Covaxin 2nd dose in 6 weeks||Consequently, the total number of second doses administered till June 13 must be at least as high as the first dose administered till May 2. However, while the State administered the first dose to 6,46,408 people as on May 2, it administered the second dose to only 5,05,089 people as on June 13. The difference of 1,41,319 is, therefore, the minimum number of people who failed to get their second dose within the six-week period. The actual number could be higher as the total second doses administered till June 13 may include many persons who took their first dose after May 2. The progress of the administration of the second dose also showed that it was not proportionate to the sharp rise in the administration of the first dose in the past couple of weeks. This may mean the number of people missing their second dose could go up further as vaccination gains pace. Giridhara R. Babu, professor and head, Life Course Epidemiology, at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bengaluru, said that while no data were available on the efficacy of Covaxin, if the second dose was taken beyond six weeks, it was better still to take it even if it was delayed. He said the government must therefore prioritise second doses and do micro-planning to enumerate those in need of vaccination and link them to a vaccination centre so that they could be easily tracked. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said there were two categories of people who missed their second dose — those who did not turn up and those who were willing to take the dose but there was no stock at the vaccination centres. “To resolve both, we have asked all Deputy Directors [of Health Services] in the districts and the Greater Chennai Corporation to prioritise the second dose for those who missed out owing to the non-availability of the vaccine,” he said. “To trace those who did not turn up, we have asked [the authorities] to take the list of persons who missed the second dose and contact them. We are also doing awareness campaigns on the need for taking both doses,” he said. He added that with the gradual easing of vaccine supply anticipated in the second half of June, people in need of the second dose would not face any shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-least-141-lakh-missed-taking-covaxin-2nd-dose-in-6-weeks/article34826053.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Adhere to COVID-19 safety norms, traders told||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Tuesday asked traders in the MGR Wholesale Vegetable Market and Anna Retail Vegetable Market here to adhere to COVID-19 safety norms and ensure that all those who worked at the market were vaccinated, said a release from the civic body. He visited the waste collection system in R.S. Puram. The Commissioner also visited the site on D.B. Road where the Corporation was building a multi-level car parking structure. In Tiruppur, Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati inspected the fish market at Valipalayam and vegetable market at Thennampalayam. He said that those residing in the Corporation limits may contact the officials through social media platforms and register their grievances. The official accounts of Tiruppur Corporation arewww.facebook.com/ tirupurcorp/(Facebook),www.twitter.com/ tiruppurcorp(Twitter) andwww.instagram.com/ tiruppurcorp(Instagram). For COVID-19 related queries, residents of Tiruppur Corporation can contact the control room at 0421-2237852.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adhere-to-covid-19-safety-norms-traders-told/article34826084.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) stages protest||Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest here on Tuesday against increasing price of petrol and diesel. The cadres mounted a motorcycle on a pushcart and drew an autorickshaw with ropes to highlight the sufferings of the poor and middle class people to the high prices of petrol and diesel. The protest was staged in front of petrol pumps near railway bridge and old bus stand. The party’s town secretary, B. Mariappan, took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpim-stages-protest/article34826487.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Surgery performed||Doctors at the Sri Ramakrishna Hospital, Coimbatore, performed a surgery on a premature baby weighing just over 800 grams from Erode with the heart defect critical pulmonary stenosis wherein the valve sending blood to lungs was almost closed. The defect was corrected through a keyhole procedure namely Balloon Pulmonary Valvotomy in a catheterization laboratory when the baby was two-month-old, a release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/surgery-performed/article34826082.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||COIMBATORE  There will be no power supply in the following areas from June 16 to 18 from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m . as the electricity department personnel will have to trim tree branches before the monsoon sets in: Sri Vignesh Nagar and Thaneerpandal feeders under Vilankurichi sub-station and part of Vilankurichi under Kalapatty sub-station. Due to maintenance works at Peelamedu sub-station, there will be no power supply on June 16 Wednesday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the following areas: Nanjappa Nagar, Trichy Road (Part), Meena Estate, Vasantha Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Balasubramaniam Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Krishna Colony and Perks Arch Road.  Kallimadai sub-station (June 16 11 a.m. to 12 noon): Bharathi Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Kamarajar Road (Part) and Singanallur (Part).  ERODE  Due to maintenance work at Periyandipalayam sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 12 noon on June 17 at Thippampalayam, Vengamedu, Selamba Goundan Palayam, Sambamedu, Rasampalayam and Kodumanal areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34826071.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||Coimbatore   PSG Institute of Technology and Applied Research: Seventh Annual Day – Daksha 2021 (Online), 9.30 a.m.  D.J. Academy for Managerial Excellence: Virtual interaction on 'Ideation and Sustainability in Entrepreneurship’, 11 a.m.  Erode   RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Costume Design and Fashion, webinar on Pave your path to become a successful fashion designer, 10 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engagements/article34826072.ece
16 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Five booked for assaulting constable||The police have booked five persons on the charge of assaulting a police constable here on Tuesday. The beat constable received minor injuries when a group of youth attacked him over a trivial matter on Monday night. The constable was on his bike in Darbar Galli in the Old City at around 10 p.m. when he saw the youth sitting inside autorickshaws parked on the roadside and chatting. He asked them to go home, but they assaulted him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/five-booked-for-assaulting-constable/article34826103.ece
16 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Boy injured as he opens fire accidentally||A four-year-old boy was injured when he accidentally opened fire from his father’s loaded gun inside his house, in Chadachan town in Vijayapura district on Tuesday. Abhishek Sidram Gotyal found the gun and was playing with it. He opened fire from it accidentally. The bullet hit the wall and ricocheted to hit his thigh. The boy is in hospital, but out of danger, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-injured-as-he-opens-fire-accidentally/article34826104.ece
16 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Less than 100 cases in Belagavi district||For the first time in a month, the number of COVID-19 cases fell below 100 in Belagavi district on Tuesday. Officers recorded only 95 positive cases and three deaths on Tuesday. This takes the total number of active cases to 4,515.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/less-than-100-cases-in-belagavi-district/article34826114.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Slight rise in cadaveric organ donations||Although cadaveric organ donations had almost come to a halt during the first year of the pandemic in 2020, there is a slight improvement this year. However, the number of donations are still way below those that happened during the pre-COVID-19 days. While over 5,000 patients are waiting for various organ transplants in Karnataka, there have been hardly 61 cadaveric donations since last year. This is apart from one skin donation. Jeevasarthakathe, the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO), which is the nodal agency that facilitates cadaver organ donations, recorded 35 donations in 2020, retrieving 100 organs, while the State’s only skin bank in Victoria Hospital got just one donation. This year, 26 cadaveric donations have been recorded retrieving 65 organs so far. During the corresponding period in 2019, while 105 cadaveric donations were facilitated through Jeevasarthakathe (wherein 511 organs were retrieved) the skin bank had seen 40 donations. This has created a huge demand-supply gap in organ transplantation in the State. Jeevasarthakathe Chief Transplant Coordinator Lijamol Joseph, who attributed the poor donations to the fear of COVID-19, said many families were hesitant to allow a virus test to be conducted on the cadaver. “Also, their main concern is that the procedures that need to be followed before harvesting the organs are time consuming. Due to this, the handing over of the body to the family gets delayed. In actor Sanchari Vijay’s case there was total cooperation from all authorities including the police and hence the procedures were expedited,” she told The Hindu.   Hesitant recipients Ms. Joseph pointed out that the fear of COVID-19 has also made some organ recipients hesitant to undergo transplants. “At least five eligible recipients enrolled with us, who were contacted to come for pre-transplant tests, refused to take it up and said they will continue with medical management for some more time,” she said. “Although there are various tests done before the organs are retrieved, the pandemic has made us extra cautious. While the patient would have undergone an RT-PCR test once he/she is brought to the hospital, we check the viability of the organs by taking the opinion of various organ advisory committees before retrieving the organs. The fear of infection should not make recipients hesitant to undergo transplants,” she asserted. Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman, Manipal Hospitals, and member of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said there could be many reasons for the poor donations. “As the healthcare system, especially the ICUs have been overwhelmed by COVID-19 patients, other sick patients may not have been able to get admitted to the hospitals. Overall, organ donations have reduced to 20% of those that were recorded during pre-COVID days,” he said. “The fear of COVID-19 and the higher risk of developing any other infections in transplant patients are the main reasons why the transplant numbers have come down during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/slight-rise-in-cadaveric-organ-donations/article34825993.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land deal: HC puts a rider on Cabinet move||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday imposed a rider on the State government that the decision taken by the State Cabinet on April 26 to sell 3,667 acres of land to JSW Ltd., Ballari, at a meagre Rs. 1.22 lakh per acre, would be subject to further orders to be passed by the court. The court also made it clear that any action taken based on the April 26 Cabinet decision, the same also would be subject to its further orders. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by K.A. Paul, a resident of Bengaluru. The Bench passed the order after perusing documents submitted by the government indicating that though the Cabinet on April 26 had taken a decision to sell the land to the company, the said decision was “not confirmed” in the subsequent Cabinet meeting held on May 27. The court orally termed as “peculiarly worded” a communication by the Additional Chief Secretary of Commerce and Industries Department, who had stated that though approval was accorded the same was “not confirmed”. The court also permitted the petitioner, who questioned the Cabinet decision to sell the land at meagre price, to amend his petition after getting the copies of the documents submitted to the court by the government. The petitioner had alleged that the government was not giving him any documents under the RTI Act on proposed sale of land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/land-deal-hc-puts-a-rider-on-cabinet-move/article34826000.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC directs survey of Vrishabhavathi valley||As the CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) has recommended a complete survey of Vrishabhavathi river valley, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to take up the work through revenue authorities. The court said that the survey, as indicated in the report of the NEERI, should be of the whole stretch of the river to check for illegal constructions and encroachments on the banks from the Bengaluru urban area until the limits of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while hearing a PIL petition filed by Githa Misra, a resident, on disappearance of the Vrishabhavathi valley, and pollution of river water and connecting drains. The bench directed the Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development Department to convene a meeting of all the authorities concerned for taking steps to implement the recommendations of the NEERI, which was appointed on the direction of the court. “The survey should include complete details of illegal encroachments, buffer area to be maintained, stormwater drain, agricultural runoff, actual boundaries of all the lakes, and survey number of villages,” the NEERI has said in its interim report. Also, a buffer zone of 30 metres for the lake and 15 metres for the drains should be demarcated in the survey map to avoid any future encroachments. The map should also delineate the Full Tank Level boundary of the lake; and should be available for the common public, the NEERI had recommended. Garbage & effluents Pointing out that the entire river, including various drains, were filled with all types of solid waste, including plastic, the report said that ‘it is like that any waste that is too inconvenient to be thrown anywhere else finds its way into the Vrishabhavathi river’. The NEERI attributed this to poor infrastructure and waste management in Bengaluru. “In order to rejuvenate Vrishabhavathi river, the two main issues of disposal of effluents (both domestic and industrial wastewater) and solid waste are to be addressed on priority basis,” NEERI has said. Pointing out that there are about 145 industries, out of which 29 are under red category, 43 in orange and 72 in green category, on the river valley, NEERI has stated that these industries generate effluent of 8.23 MLD and hazardous waste of 2,680.152 tonnes per annum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-directs-survey-of-vrishabhavathi-valley/article34825980.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Working professionals experience webinar fatigue||Since the outbreak of the pandemic, private companies have started introducing webinars on a wide range of topics with the aim of improving productivity and boosting the morale of employees. However, after a year of working from home, employees are increasingly experiencing a phenomenon identified as ‘webinar fatigue’. S. Sooraj, who works in the marketing department of a private firm in Bengaluru, said his company organises at least two webinars a week. “Some of them do not add any value to our work, and often the line-up of speakers is very poor,” he said, adding that some day-long webinars go on for more than eight hours. When researchers from the Service for Healthy Use of Technology (SHUT) clinic at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (Nimhans) studied webinar fatigue they found that a systematic and multifaceted approach was required to mitigate its effects, which include burnout. Their paper, ‘Webinar fatigue: Fallout of COVID-19’, that was published recently in a peer-reviewed journal, made a case for webinar hosts to be trained in adopting best practices, promoting group interactions and breaking longer content. They noted that the 11th revision of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11) includes burnout as an occupational phenomenon rather than a medical condition and have said that there is a need for workplaces to mitigate webinar fatigue. Dr. Manoj Sharma, who heads the SHUT clinic, said that some of the ill effects of webinars include digital fatigue in the form of eye strain, pain in the neck, back and shoulders, more sensitivity to light and disturbed sleep. While a majority of the webinars hosted by firms are work-related, a few focus on health and wellness, mental health, COVID-19, and parenting. However, compared to other types of meetings, employers find webinars stressful as they demand continuous participation in the webinars. With a huge workload, many also have complained that they have lost time in what they consider an unproductive task. To break the tedium, guest speakers who participate in webinars say that using visual aids and limiting the time slot to 45 minutes or an hour will break the tedium and ensure audience participation. This ties in with the findings of the paper. According to the researchers, companies organising webinars should understand that “less is more” and focus on quality rather than frequency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/working-professionals-experience-webinar-fatigue/article34825989.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah urges govt. to fix concessional school fee||With the State government’s decision to reopen primary and secondary schools from July 1, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged the government to fix concessional fee to be paid by parents to end the stand-off between them and school managements during the 2021-22 academic year. In a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said the government should take steps for strict implementation of concessional fee to be paid by parents during the 2021-22 academic year and release of withheld salaries to teaching and non-teaching staff. Last year, the government announced a 30% fee cut but many managements collected full fees, including transportation fee, from parents owing to poor enforcement of the order. The government should not succumb to the lobby of private educational managements, the Congress leader said. With regard to loans borrowed by private school managements from banks, he urged the government to consider the issue of waiver of interest during he pandemic months. Owing to the pandemic, children had not gone to schools/colleges since the last academic year. Many private school and college managements had not paid salaries to teachers claiming that they had not conducted classes. Many teachers who have been facing severe financial difficulties started working as wage labourers under the MNREGA scheme and were selling fruits and vegetables, the former Chief Minister said. Till now, there was no clarity on concessional fee and this had led to protests by parents in front of schools in Bengaluru and other cities, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/siddaramaiah-urges-govt-to-fix-concessional-school-fee/article34825997.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why only repeaters and pvt. candidates have to appear for II PU exam? HC asks govt.||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday asked the State government whether it can justify its policy of promoting only regular/fresher students of second year pre-university (II PU) courses without holding exams and not applying the same policy for private candidates and repeaters, for whom the government proposes to hold exams when the COVID-19 situation improves. If the government can hold exams for nearly one lakh repeaters and private candidates registered for the II PU exams for 2021, why not the exams be held for the regular/fresher students also, the court asked. Issue of notice A division bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar made these observations orally while ordering issuance of notice to the government on a PIL petition, filed by S.V. Singre Gowda, the managing trustee of Gnana Mandira Education Trust, Bengaluru. The petitioner has complained that the policy adopted by the government to promote II PU students is discriminatory in nature as freshers/regulars registered for exams in 2021 were being promoted based on certain parameters, but the same benefit was denied for repeaters and private candidates registered for the exams. He has also questioned conducting of II PU exams only for repeaters and private candidates. Apply same standard If regular/fresher students can be promoted on the basis of SSLC and I pre-university marks, then why the same standard could not be applied to other categories of students, the Bench asked while asking the State government to clarify its stand on the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/why-only-repeaters-and-pvt-candidates-have-to-appear-for-ii-pu-exam-hc-asks-govt/article34825998.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Website to report abuse of elderly launched||The outbreak of the pandemic has been especially harsh on senior citizens. It is said that compared to 2019-20, the complaints on ill-treatment and abuse of the elderly in the State rose by a whopping 71.7%. On Tuesday (June 15), observed as World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, a website to create awareness on elder abuse, how it can be prevented, and how to report cases was launched by Praveen Sood, Director General and Inspector General of Police. The bilingual website - www.stopelderabuse.in - has been developed by Nightingales Medical Trust. After launching the ‘elder friendly and easy to use’ website, Mr. Sood said that in a Utopian situation, fewer people would have the need for the website. “However, the number of elders facing abuse is increasing by the day, with abusers mostly being family members. The worst part is that it happens within the four walls and often, doesn’t get reported,” he said. Reiterating the commitment of the police to act swiftly in case of physical abuse of the elderly, he said that elderly were also falling prey to many cybercrimes. “There is a need to educate, warn, guide and handhold the elderly about this. It is a big challenge to support them and this is where Nightingales Medical Trust also plays an important role,” he said. Radha Murthy, co-founder and managing trustee of Nightingales Medical Trust, said as the population of elders increases, so do the problems faced by them, particularly abuse that is in the physical or emotional form. Though it is a universal problem, it is mostly unreported as the abuse is often by family members. According to data on the newly-launched website, nearly 63% of elderly in the State are either abused verbally or emotionally, 43% face neglect, over 20% are financially exploited, while almost 18% face some form of physical abuse. Helplines There are three ways elders can get the help that they need. They may call the helplines – 1090 (Bengaluru Urban) or 14567 (Rest of Karnataka), or send details on WhatsApp (8095001090), or file a complaint on the website. All complaints will be treated confidentially and the public may also file a complaint anonymously, it is said. Visit www.stopelderabuse.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/website-to-report-abuse-of-elderly-launched/article34825987.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Run buses to industrial areas to help manufacturing, urge industries||Though the lockdown norms have been relaxed for industrial establishments, many issues such as non-supply of raw materials, poor attendance of workers, and transportation issues are haunting industrial units. K.B. Arasappa, president, Karnataka Small Scale Industries’ Association (KASSIA), said, “The MSME is going through a crisis due to the lockdown. Authorities have relaxed norms for industrial units, but the manufacturing process is moving at very slow pace due to various factors such as shortage of workers and raw material . The non-availability of public transport is a concern; at least they should run buses to industrial areas such as Peenya, Whitefield, Bommasandra and others.” The BMTC has maintained that resumption of city bus services will happen only after the State government gives the green signal. “We are operating essential and contract services. If any industries need buses on contract bases to ferry their employees, we will provide contract buses,” said an official. In relief to the people who were dependent on train services to commute between neighbouring districts to Bengaluru though, the Bengaluru Division of South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to resume suburban trainservices that were cancelled earlier citing poor occupancy. Divisional Railway Manger (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma said, “In a day or two, we will resume train services on routes such as Tumakuru to Bengaluru, Bangarpet to KSR Bengaluru and others. This will help people who commute on a daily basis for work.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/run-buses-to-industrial-areas-to-help-manufacturing-urge-industries/article34825990.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Support for chancellor’s decision on RGUHS VC||A day after Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said that the in-charge Vice Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) was ‘unfit to hold the post’, the academician Jayakara S.M. received support from different quarters. Many former Vice Chancellors pointed out that appointment of in-charge Vice Chancellor was the sole prerogative of the Governor who is the Chancellor of universities. K.S. Ravindranath, former Vice Chancellor of RGUHS and eminent cardiologist, said that as per the rules, the State government had no role in appointment of an in-charge VC and the Governor alone could decide this. Another former Vice Chancellor of RGUHS quoted the Act and said that the Governor had acted as per the rules, and there was no need for a controversy on this issue. According to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences Act 1994, when any temporary vacancy occurs in the office of the Vice Chancellor by reason of leave, illness or any other cause, the Chancellor can make arrangements for carrying on the duties of the Vice Chancellor as he may deem fit. Dr. Jayakara was the principal of AECS College of Dental Sciences prior to being appointed as in-charge Vice-Chancellor of RGUHS. Dr Sudhakar wants someone from government medical colleges or from the Medical Education Department to head the university.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/support-for-chancellors-decision-on-rguhs-vc/article34825983.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Issue comprehensive direction to police’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to issue comprehensive directions to the police against giving information on probe in criminal cases to the media before completion of the investigation. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on a PIL petition filed H. Naghabhushan Rao, retired officer of Grameena Bank. The petitioner, while citing several instances of “leak” of investigation details in criminal cases to media, particularly to television channels, contended that it was necessary to ensure absolute secrecy about investigation to maintain its sanctity and adjudication of justice. Though the government produced several circulars issued since 2013 to the police against providing details of investigation to the media during the course of the probe, the Bench said that a comprehensive directions has to be issued to the police against divulging nature of investigation and materials collected, etc before completion of the probe. Besides, the Bench said the direction should also have a provision to initiate disciplinary proceeding against erring police officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/issue-comprehensive-direction-to-police/article34826001.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protesting leaders of Left parties taken into custody||Several leaders of Left parties, who took part in a silent protest near the residence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa here on Tuesday, were taken into custody by the police. The protesters from seven parties had come together to highlight the problem of the commoners in the light of the COVID-19 situation. “Amid a critical juncture such as the pandemic, where the seven political parties’ intention was to draw the attention of the government in the form of a silent protest, the State government’s move of arresting the leaders and activists is highly condemnable,” said a statement released by Left and democratic parties. Among those arrested include Ananth Subbarao and Sati Sundaresh (CPI), M.N. Sriram of SUCI(C), K.N Umesh (CPI-M), Clifton D. Rozario and Appanna (CPI-ML), Mohan Raj from RPI, Chamarasa Mali Patil and Badagalapura Nagendra representing the Swaraj India. The protesters were seeking 10 kg of foodgrains and a monthly COVID-19 assistance of Rs. 10,000 for people who do not come under the ambit of income tax. They also raised their long-standing demand to withdraw the anti-farmers and anti-labour policies implemented by the central government last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protesting-leaders-of-left-parties-taken-into-custody/article34826006.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Murder attempt: Accused arrested in Nepal||A special team from South division police arrested 37-year-old Kariya Rajesh from a hotel in Pokhara, Nepal in connection with the attempt to murder Kannada film producer Umapathy and his brother in December 2020. Rajesh is one of the prime accused in the case and an associate of gangster Bombay Ravi. Harish Pandey, DCP, South division, said on Tuesday that Bombay Ravi and Rajesh wanted to have a hold on the film industry. They demanded Rs. 30 lakh from Umapathy and his brother Deepak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/murder-attempt-accused-arrested-in-nepal/article34825977.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Postpone polls’||B.M. Farooq, JD(S) MLC, has urged the Haj and Wakf Department to postpone election to the post of chairman of Haj Committee that has been scheduled for June 17, in the light of the pandemic. In a letter, he said not only had the lockdown curtailed movement of people, the Haj Committee was not fully constituted since the chairman of Karnataka State Board of Auqaf, who is also a member of the panel, was yet to be elected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/postpone-polls/article34826004.ece
16 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cultural fest at NMIT||‘Anaadyanta-2021’, a two-day annual national-level Techno Cultural Fest organised by Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology (NMIT), Yelahanka, was held virtually on June 12-13. The event was inaugurated by Ajit Rampure, President and Managing Director, Canadian Health and Educare Ltd., Ontario, Canada. As many as 40 colleges from across the nation participated in the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cultural-fest-at-nmit/article34825975.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Teachers in locked down districts can work from home||The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has exempted teachers who work in districts that are still under lockdown from reporting to schools. An earlier circular had stated that all teachers should report to work from June 15 and begin conducting admissions. On Monday however, the department had said that the teachers can start attending school after the lockdown ends in their respective districts. Many teachers had complained that they do not have access to public transport. At a meeting chaired by S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, it was decided that there is a need for a robust assessment method for the 2021-22 academic year. The department had to conduct SSLC examinations for students as they did not have internal assessment marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/teachers-in-locked-down-districts-can-work-from-home/article34825986.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases fall below 1k in Bengaluru||For the first time after the second wave hit Karnataka in March, Bengaluru Urban reported less 985 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. It was last on March 18 that this district had reported 925 cases. Overall, the State reported 5,041 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,77,010. With 115 deaths, the toll rose to 33,148. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 14,785 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total recoveries to 25,81,559.  COVID-19 in Karnataka on June 15  Cases: 5,041  Deaths: 115  Discharges: 14,785   Tests: 1,32,600   Vaccinations: 1,59,426  Test Positivity Rate: 3.80%  Case Fatality Rate: 2.28%||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cases-fall-below-1k-in-bengaluru/article34825994.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru/hassan,KARNATAKA||Actor’s organs give new lease of life to many||Kannada actor ‘Sanchari’ Vijay’s organ donation is the 26th this year. His vital organs - kidneys, liver, heart valves and corneas - gave a new lease of life to many waiting patients. While one of his kidneys and his liver were transplanted in two patients in Apollo Hospital, where the organs were retrieved, the other kidney was given to M.S. Ramaiah Hospital, heart valves to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, and corneas to Minto Eye Bank. Vijay was laid to rest at Panchanahalli, in Kadur taluk of Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday afternoon. The mortal remains were brought to his native place as per the wish of his family, around 2.30 p.m. With police honours, he was laid to rest on a farm belonging to his friend Raghu. The police fired three rounds into the air as a mark of respect.  Last rites Vijay’s brother Siddesh performed the last rites, under the guidance of Yathishwara Swamy of Kuppur Gaddige Mutt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/actors-organs-give-new-lease-of-life-to-many/article34825995.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,KARNATAKA||Karnataka legislature finishes on top in sitting days, reveals study||The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, which affected the functioning of the legislature of several States last year in the country, had an apparently marginal impact on the working of the Karnataka legislature, if the number of sitting days is an indication. Compared to its average number of sitting days of 32 during 2016-19, the Karnataka legislature, which is bi-cameral, met on 31 days last year, the highest for any State in 2020, according to a study that covered 19 States. Other States The southern State was followed by Rajasthan (29 days) and Himachal Pradesh (25 days). For comparison, Parliament met for 33 days last year. In 2020, the average number of sitting days for the 19 States was 18, which was 11 less than the four-year (2016-19) average of 29. Kerala, which had the distinction of remaining at the top in the four years with an average of 53 days, had only 20 days of sittings of the legislature last year, stated the study’s report, Annual Review of State Laws 2020, which was prepared by the PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based think tank. As regard with other southern States, Tamil Nadu had met on 23 days against its four-year average of 35, Andhra Pradesh – 12 (26) and Telengana – 17 (25). After the lockdown, Karnataka’s figure of sitting days of the legislature was 10, Telengana – 9, Andhra Pradesh – 7, Tamil Nadu – 3, and Kerala – 2. However, the highest for any State, post-lockdown, was 11 in Chhattisgarh followed by 10 in Himachal Pradesh. Rajasthan, which was the number two State in terms of the overall number of sitting days, had met only on five days after the lockdown. As for the number of Bills passed last year, Karnataka again topped the list with 61 Bills, followed by Tamil Nadu (42) and Uttar Pradesh (37). For this purpose, Appropriation Bills had been excluded. Among poor performers under this category, Delhi had passed only one Bill; West Bengal – two and Kerala – three. Time taken On the duration of time taken to pass Bills, the previous year saw 59% of the Bills getting passed by the legislature of the States on the day of introduction. A further 14% was adopted within a day of being introduced. Only 9% of the Bills was passed more than five days after introduction, some of which were referred to committees for further examination. In respect of ordinances, data from the 19 States showed that, on average, 14 ordinances were promulgated last year. This number was skewed by Kerala which had issued 81 ordinances, nearly one half of which pertained to re-promulgation. Karnataka came next with 24 ordinances followed by Uttar Pradesh with 23. A total of 13 ordinances was promulgated by Tamil Nadu, the report added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-legislature-finishes-on-top-in-sitting-days-reveals-study/article34826010.ece
16 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Of letters and human niceties||Geetha H.K., a teacher of Government Lower Primary School at Yelagudige near Aldur in Chikkamagaluru taluk, has won many a heart by writing letters to her students enquiring about them during lockdown. Her gesture has been well appreciated by many, including Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar. She posted letters to all her 16 students on May 31, 2021. The letters reached the students on June 1. “Within minutes after they received my letters, students and their parents started calling me over phone. For many students, it was the first letter addressed to them in their life. They were all thrilled and thanked me for writing to them,” Ms. Geetha said. The teacher was impressed when Deekshith, a class II student, called her over phone after receiving her letter and enquired about her health. “I was moved by his call. That day, I was on phone for nearly three hours as every student called me one after the other,” she said. Ms. Geetha has been teaching for the last 19 years. Earlier, she worked in Bhadravati and Mudigere taluks before joining the school at Yelagudige 10 years ago. She teaches 16 students in the village of 45 households. She got this idea of writing letters at a review meeting chaired by Mr. Suresh Kumar, during his visit to Chikkamagaluru on May 17. He had suggested that teachers in high schools write letters to students in SSLC and motivate them to keep studying, without wasting time during the lockdown. “I got the idea from his suggestion and wrote letters to my students. In each letter, I enquired about their health and their parents health, besides advising them on their studies. I had pointed out the special quality of each student in each letter,” she said. The teacher wrote on inland letter. Besides, she sent empty cards to all so that they could reply. Mr. Suresh Kumar has, in his Facebook account, posted that the State was fortunate to have such a kind-hearted teacher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/of-letters-and-human-niceties/article34826106.ece
16 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Virtual meeting on Vision 2050 draws several suggestions||In an attempt to put the Kalaburagi Vision 2050 programme on track, Minister for Mines and Geology and Kalaburagi district in-charge Murugesh Nirani on Monday held a meeting in virtual mode with the Deputy Commissioner, senior officials, subject experts and former bureaucrats. As the meeting began, the Minister told the participants that Kalaburagi Vision 2050 is a programme aimed at ushering in overall development in the district for the next 30 years to ensure that the district gets rid of the backward tag and urged experts and former bureaucrats to share their ideas and views on the endeavour. Additional Chief Secretary (retd.) V. Balasubramanian, who was invited to the meeting, made several suggestions to lift the district from backwardness. He said that the government should give thrust to sericulture and other crops to help farmers boost the rural economy. He urged the Minister to send the Sericulture Department chief to Kalaburagi and assess the condition for mulberry cultivation and cocoon production. “Kalaburagi is in the 30th position in economic indicators, including per capita income, agriculture and industries, in the State. We need to bring the district close to the State average and for that, we need to attract investments, encourage sericulture, concentrate on commercial crops and set up auxiliary units of major factories and industries functioning in the district,” Mr. Balasubramanian suggested.  The Minister said that a similar Vision 2050 programme will be extended to the entire Kalyana Karnataka region for overall development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/virtual-meeting-on-vision-2050-draws-several-suggestions/article34826102.ece
16 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two Nilgai herds spotted in grasslands of Bidar district||With two herds of antelopes called Nilgai being spotted in Bidar, the border district has become home for the first time to all the four major types of antelopes found in the country. As per information provided by Deputy Conservator of Forests Sivasankar S., 37 Nilgai in two herds, one with two males, 11 females, two calves and the other with nine males, 10 females and three calves, have been spotted in the district. The district has been host to the other three types of antelopes, the Chinkara, the Four-horned Antelope and the Blackbuck, he added. Naturalist and wildlife photographer Vivekanand Baburao and his niece, Jyoti Biradar, a zoologist, spotted the Nilgai in the grasslands of a forest track in Aurad taluk recently. The two were visiting Murkhi, Nandi Bijalgaon, Hokrana, Babban Tanda and surrounding villages on the Karnataka-Maharashtra border for a survey when they came across the herds. Ms. Jyoti Biradar photographed the animals and confirmed the movement of the Nilgai. “We also spotted the Chinkara and the Four-horned Antelope in the Aurad and Humnabad forest ranges. We have photographed them too,” Mr. Baburao said. Apart from the Humnabad range, the Blackbuck are found in abundant numbers in the Jamistanpur forest near Bidar. “In fact, we spotted the animals a couple of months ago. But, we thought that they must have arrived from neighbouring Maharashtra and that they might return to their native place after a while. But, they appeared to be native of Bidar as they continued to stay here. We have, therefore, reported their presence. One or two Nilgai were earlier found in the State. But, for the first time, we have spotted herds,” Mr. Sivasankar told The Hindu .  The district has been host to the other three types of antelopes, the Chinkara, the Four-horned Antelope and the Blackbuck||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-nilgai-herds-spotted-in-grasslands-of-bidar-district/article34826110.ece
16 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Doctor served notice for dereliction of duty||Sanghmesh Takkalki, an orthopaedician posted at the Azfalpur Taluk Hospital, was served a show-cause notice on Monday after being caught working in a private clinic run by him. Dr. Takkalaki, who was absent from duty since May 25, failed to respond to any call from Chief Medical Officer of the taluk hospital Shushil Kumar. On Monday, Afzalpur Tahsildar Yellappa Subedar and Dr. Shushil Kumar conducted a raid on his private clinic and caught him red-handed while he was treating patients. Though Dr. Takkalaki was on COVID-19 duty, he neglected infected patients at the taluk hospital and was practising in his private clinic. Dr. Shushil Kumar served him the show-cause notice seeking an explanation within 24 hours, for dereliction of duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/doctor-served-notice-for-dereliction-of-duty/article34826112.ece
16 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Vital road connectivity to airport cut off as Maravoor bridge sees damage||The vital direct road connectivity between the city and Mangaluru International Airport has been cut off after the foundation of one of the pillars of the major bridge built across the Phalguni river at Maravoor, near the airport, on Mangaluru-Bajpe-Kateel Road sunk early on Tuesday leading to the closure of the road. According to Yashwant Kumar, Executive Engineer, Mangaluru Division of the Public Works Department the foundation has sunk by about two ft. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary, who visited the bridge. said that the foundation of pillar No. 8 has sunk. However, alternative routes provided connectivity to the airport. In addition to the airport at Kenjar, the more than 50-year-old bridge which was constructed in 1969 on the State Highway No. 67 (Mangaluru-Athrady) provided shortest and direct road connectivity from the city to Bajpe and Kateel areas. The bridge is 300 mts long. Reason not known The Executive Engineer said that the exact reason for the sinking of the foundation part is yet to be ascertained. There could be many factors. A new parallel bridge is being constructed near the existing bridge since past three months at an estimated cost of Rs. 50 crore. Chances of its piling and pillar construction works damaging the foundation of the existing bridge are less, he said. “We are confident of rectifying the damage. A two-member expert team of engineers from Bengaluru will examine the bridge and guide on the restoration,” Mr. Kumar said. The Minister said that a decision on whether the pillar should be repaired or reconstructed will be taken based on the recommendation by the team of experts. It will submit its report in two days. The officials have been instructed to complete the new bridge by February, 2022. Police Commissioner N. Shashi Kumar who visited the bridge early on the day asked flight travellers to use alternative roads to reach and depart from the airport. He said that travellers from the city and Kasaragod (Kerala) areas can take Nanthoor, Vamanjoor, Gurupura, Kaikamba and Bajpe route to the airport. Those coming from Udupi areas will have to take diversion at Mulki to arrive at the airport via Kinnigoli, Kateel and Bajpe. “Till the experts give their opinion on the safety of the bridge it will not be re-opened for traffic,” he told presspersons. Tweet from airport In an advisory to passengers Mangaluru Airport tweeted: “…Traffic has been disrupted due to a crack in the bridge near the airport. Passengers are advised to take an alternate route via Baikampady. Please leave early for your flights from the airport.”  Driver notices damage A car driver who drove across the Maravoor bridge from the city at about 2.30 a.m. noticed the damage and informed the police control room. Soon, the police closed the bridge for traffic. The bridge had been constructed by Vijayavada-based firm Nagabhushanam and Co Engineers and Contractors. This granite masonry bridge with RCC piers has nine spans and each span is 21 meters width. The width of the carriageway (road part) is 7.5 meters. The National Highway division of the Public Works Department had inspected the bridge on May 13 when experts from the PWD’s Planning and Road Asset Management Centre (PRAMC) used bridge inspection crane vehicle to check all the piers and abutments. The PRAMC team had noticed displacement of grider in pier No.2, sources in the PWD said stating that another inspection had been scheduled in a few days before which the damage has occured. Prior to the inspection by PRAMC team, a professor of the Civil Engineering Department at the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka, had inspected the same bridge for its strength.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vital-road-connectivity-to-airport-cut-off-as-maravoor-bridge-sees-damage/article34826116.ece
16 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NMPT achieves a milestone||New Mangalore Port Trust on Tuesday achieved a milestone when it handled the largest parcel-size container vessel, SSL Brahmaputra-V.084, calling on the port. It was also the largest in terms of the number of containers handled at the port. A release from the port here said the 260 m long and 32.35 m wide vessel with a dead weight tonnage of 50,900 tonnes, arrived at NMPT with 1,142 boxes or 1,521 TEU (twenty-foot equivalent) of containers. The vessel has a draught of 11.7 m. It carried 25,864 tonnes of raw cashew nuts and had a scheduled export plan of 300 TEUs. Shreyas Shipping is the vessel operator and Amogha Shipping, Mangaluru, represented it locally. NMPT said that container traffic at the port has steadily increased from less than 2,000 TEUs handled in 2000 to 1.5 lakh TEUS handled in 2020-21. So far, containers have been handled at various general cargo berths of the port. Port Trust Chairman A.V. Ramana expressed happiness over the achievement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nmpt-achieves-a-milestone/article34826113.ece
16 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six deaths, 589 new cases in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||As many as six COVID-19 patients died and 589 new cases were reported in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Tuesday. Dakshina Kannada saw five COVID-19 deaths and 482 new cases. With 651 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 6,780. As many as 6,372 people received their vaccine. One patient died and seven were discharged taking the number of mucormycosis cases to 38. A fine of Rs. 84.17 lakh has so far been collected in 69,731 cases of people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms, said a bulletin from the district administration. In Udupi district, one COVID-19 patient died and 107 new cases were reported. With 306 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 2,683. As many as 6,043 persons received their vaccine. There are seven cases of mucormycosis. A fine of Rs. 46.68 lakh has so far been collected in 41,323 cases of norms violation, said a bulletin from the district administration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-deaths-589-new-cases-in-udupi-dakshina-kannada/article34826117.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All universities instructed to conduct semester examinations soon||Universities have been directed by Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan to conduct semester examinations soon. The semester examinations were put on hold owing to the second wave of COVID-19 infections. As a result, most universities had not conducted examinations for the odd semester and had begun even semester courses. The UGC had asked universities to keep offline examinations in abeyance during May 2021. On Tuesday, the Minister, after a meeting with Vice Chancellors, said they were in the process of planning how the examinations would be conducted. He also said that colleges and Vice Chancellors have a social responsibility to ensure that all students above the age of 18 are vaccinated. “This would help start the next academic year normally. Academic work has to go on, and we have to find solutions,” he added. Universities in Karnataka have been directed to start new undergraduate courses for the 2021-22 academic year, said Dr. Ashwath Narayan. The next academic year will commence in October 2021. This year, all class 12 and second year pre-university students have been declared as ‘pass’ by their respective boards, and this would increase the number of students eligible for higher education. The Minister said that universities should start four-year undergraduate courses to accommodate more students. Universities have been told to work towards starting undergraduate courses from the current academic year as per the National Education Policy. The calendar of academic activities for the next two years has already been set, he said. Vice-Chancellors have been asked to begin admissions for first-year degree courses in the first week of October as per the calendar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-universities-instructed-to-conduct-semester-examinations-soon/article34825984.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Intensifying factional feud irks BJP high command||The scheduled arrival of BJP State in charge Arun Singh in Bengaluru on Wednesday has intensified factional politics in the saffron party with the rival camps of those loyal to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and those opposed to him getting ready to plead their case before him. This is believed to have irritated the party high command which is sending Mr. Singh on a troubleshooting exercise. The central leadership is said to be particularly concerned about the timing of the development when the State is yet to come out of the clutches of COVID-19. “The high command is not averse to initiate disciplinary action against legislators who violate discipline if they fail to desist from issuing public statements that show the party in poor light,” said a leader, who is in touch with the central leadership. While the rival camps are getting ready to plead their case before Mr. Singh, party sources said that nothing much will happen during his stay in Bengaluru as he is expected to only relay inputs collected here to the central leadership. Legislators close to the Chief Minister said they will meet Mr. Singh on June 17, and that they were yet to decide on handing over the signatures of legislators collected earlier. Last week, in a show of strength, CM’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya said they had signatures of 65 legislators who expressed solidarity with the veteran BJP leader. Ahead of Mr. Singh’s arrival, seers of various Lingayat mutts across the State have also expressed support to Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership. The camp opposed to the Chief Minister has been trying to convince the central leadership over the alleged interference of B.Y. Vijayendra, son of the Chief Minister, and the functioning of the State administration, and has been pushing for a legislative party meeting. However, sources said that though legislators have been asked to meet Mr. Singh, no such meeting is on the agenda. Eshwarappa reacts Meanwhile, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said the confusion in the party was due to the entry of 17 Congress-JD(S) legislators. “The confusion would not have been there if the BJP had majority on its own. Confusion is also there because of statements of C.P. Yogeshwar, Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, and Mr. Renukacharya, and the visit of Arvind Bellad to Delhi. Based on this, the leadership has sent Mr. Singh to hear the legislators and Ministers within the four walls,” he told reporters at Sirsi in Uttara Kannada district. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil in Mysuru hit out at Mr. Eshwarappa and reminded him that the BJP government came to power only due to the “sacrifice” made by the 17 legislators, who joined the saffron party after resigning their seats in the Legislative Assembly. “Mr. Eshwarappa is a senior member of the party. I don’t know why he has said so. But, it is because of the 17 MLAs (new entrants) that the BJP has come to power in Karnataka. Mr. Yediyurappa is the Chief Minister and Mr. Eshwarappa is the Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj because of our contribution and sacrifice,” said Mr Patil, flanked by Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar, who was also among the 17 new entrants to the BJP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/intensifying-factional-feud-irks-bjp-high-command/article34826003.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No Common Entrance Test for B.Sc. courses||The Karnataka government has decided not to make the Common Entrance Test (CET) mandatory for candidates hoping to secure admission to B.Sc. courses. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the decision was taken on Tuesday as many second year pre-university (II PU) and college principals had pointed out that candidates who wanted to pursue Pure Sciences did not prepare for CET this academic year, and it would be unfair to expect them to start preparations now. The Higher Education Department was mulling over making CET mandatory for admission to undergraduate science courses as the II PU examinations were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Colleges and universities must now consider the class 12 or II PU marks allotted by the respective boards to admit students,” an official added. Though this brings relief to students, college managements and universities are confused about how to admit students as this year, all students have been deemed as pass and there will be more pressure on colleges for seats. “We are not sure how II PU students will be graded. We want to ensure that our children get justice and a fair method is adopted during admissions,” said Sreekanth S., the parent of a II PU student. T.M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers' Association, wants the government to issue strict instructions to private college managements to not conduct their own entrance tests. “If this happens, many students will be forced to appear for multiple entrance tests,” he said. But many colleges have already completed admissions based on their own entrance test or marks secured in class 10 and class 11 as well as internal assessment scores in class 12 or II PU, if made available by the respective colleges.  Colleges and universities must now consider the class 12 or II PU marks allotted by the respective boards to admit students An official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-cet-for-bsc-courses/article34825981.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||E-Office software||The Unified University College Management System, a web portal-based software developed by the department of E-Office, has been given permission for a trial run from June 25. The Higher Education Minister has directed all Vice-Chancellors to carry out all correspondence with the government only through ‘E-Office’ mode. They were informed that implementing E-Office is mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-office-software/article34825985.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mask up||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mask-up/article34826008.ece
16 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Minister under fire over ‘Save Kuttanad’ remarks||Fisheries Minister Saji Cherian has come under heavy criticism from various quarters for hitting out at the 'Save Kuttanad' campaign. On Tuesday, Youth Congress activists drowned the Minister's effigy in water at Nedumudi in Alappuzha. Earlier in the day, BJP activists burnt an effigy of Mr. Cherian at Mankombu Thekkekara in protest against the Minister's statement. Mr. Cherian had said the 'Save Kuttanad' campaign was trying to instil fear in the people and drive them away from the region. The Minister said that he doubted conspiracy and political intentions behind the campaign. Congress leader M. Liju was among those who condemned the Minister's statement. "The LDF government has done nothing in the last five years to prevent flooding in Kuttanad. Instead of taking steps to protect Kuttanad, the Minister has insulted people who have expressed their voice to save the region from another deluge," he said. M.V. Antony, a member of the campaign, said their only aim was to protect Kuttanad. "We do not possess any political ambitions or ulterior motives. The campaign was launched to seek the attention of authorities towards the issues plaguing the region. The government should implement the second Kuttanad package with people's participation," Mr. Antony said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/minister-under-fire-over-save-kuttanad-remarks/article34826501.ece
16 June 2021||KANNUR,KERALA||‘Network’ initiative bridges digital gap in tribal areas||An initiative called “Network”, started with an aim to narrow the digital gap and to provide learning equipment for less socially and economically advanced children, especially in the tribal areas, is receiving a huge response in Kannur. V. Sivadasan, Member of Parliament, who is heading the initiative, said it was started after people began complaining about the difficulties faced by children who were unable to attend classes regularly due to damage in their smart phones, tab or even TV. He said the number of children experiencing these difficulties was relatively high in densely populated areas where there were socially and economically backward families. “Network” was started to address the problem faced in tribal areas, especially in Iritty and Peravoor blocks. As the first step, it was decided to distribute smart phones and tabs to all the disadvantaged children in the area, as part of their learning activities on digital platforms. “No child should be left alone and lose an opportunity to learn or stray from the path of learning,” Mr. Sivadasan said. Soon after the launch, the NGO union had stepped in to hand over a television and mobile phones to children from Payam Kondabra colony. The union announced that learning materials would be provided to another colony in the tribal area. More participation Mr. Sivadasan said more and more people and organisations were becoming part of “Network”. He observed that one of the dangers of digital education was that it reduced education to personal responsibility, freeing society and State of any major role. The State government was trying to fill this gap by providing study rooms, distributing lunch kits, and free textbooks. This was to underline that education was a social responsibility even in times of epidemic, he said. The MP said Aralam, Muzhakkunnu, Peravoor, Kelakam, Kottiyoor, Payam, and Ayyankunnu panchayats and Iritty municipality had most backward sections of the tribal community. K. Sudhakaran, president, Peravoor block panchayat, who is coordinating the initiative, said they were encouraging everyone to join hands in the effort. Mr. Sudhakaran said that a joint account in his name and in the name of Iritty municipality Chairperson had also been started to collect funds to purchase digital devices. Many people had come forward to donate funds and the initiative is getting a good response, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/network-initiative-bridges-digital-gap-in-tribal-areas/article34826214.ece
16 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Work on bridge completed||The construction work of Thadiyan Valappu bridge, which was undertaken after including it in the Kasaragod Development Package in Kodom-Bellur grama panchayat in Kanhangad Assembly constituency, has been completed. An amount of Rs. 2.75 crore was allocated for the construction of the bridge, which is on the Erumangalam-Thoniyati road. It was a long-pending demand of the people in the area to construct a new and wider bridge after replacing the unused and damaged vented cross bar cum bridge. The bridge, which is 21.56-metre-long, has one span and was constructed with an open foundation. It has a 7.5-metre carriageway and 1.5-metre pathways.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/work-on-bridge-completed/article34826215.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Digital divide affects schooling of special children in State||Every morning for over a year now, Meenakshi (name changed), a 16-year-old special child with cerebral palsy from Pachalam, has been putting on her uniform when it is time to go to school. And when it eventually dawns on her that there is no school to go, she turns violent. While last year the recorded class sessions engaged her for the time they lasted, this year she is even stripped of that little privilege as classes turned live. “We don’t have a smartphone to help he access online classes. So it is now more idleness for her leading to even more violence,” said her father Varghese. Similar scenes in varying degrees are getting played out in the families of special children. Organisations working in the field estimate that nearly 50% of 25,000 special children across 300 special schools in the State could be outside the ambit of online education for want of digital devices. “We are conducting a survey to estimate the exact number of students without digital devices. We will pass on that list to the State government seeking help. We will also try to find sponsors to bridge that digital divide,” said Susheela Kuriachan, vice-chairperson, Association of the Intellectually Disabled (AID), a combine of special schools. Ancy Sebastian, mother of a 10-year-old special child from Varapuzha, with a faulty phone, has to depend on her mother’s phone for sporadic access to assignments given by her school. “My son’s education is now largely reduced to occasional calls from his teachers and assignments have not been submitted. He loves to interact with his teachers and not being able to do it regularly saddens him,” she rued. K.M. George, State president of Parents’ Association for the Intellectually Disabled (PAID), observed that often the families had access to only one smartphone. “If the special child has a normal sibling, then her education may get priority. Also, the parents may need phone for their own work. The State government will have to step in to address the digital divide faced by these special children,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/digital-divide-affects-schooling-of-special-children-in-state/article34826225.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Cooperative wants govt. to include milk powder in free food kits||The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union has appealed to the State government to include milk powder produced by the cooperative in the free food kit being supplied by the government as part of COVID-19 relief measures. Chairman of the regional milk cooperative John Theruvath said on Tuesday that the cooperative had about 150 tonnes of milk powder already in stock. The stock has piled up since the cooperative began converting excess milk procured by the union into powder as part of its efforts to help dairy farmers. Mr. John said that the milk cooperative has been procuring all the milk that was arriving at its primary centres with a view to helping farmers. ERCMPU comprises primary dairy societies and farmers affiliated to them in Ernakulam, Thrissur, Kottayam and Idukki districts. The daily procurement is to the tune of 3.90 lakh litres to 3.95 lakh litres per day. The cooperative is also converting about 50,000 litres of milk into powder after using around 30,000 litres for making value-added products. The Ernakulam region is the second of the three regional cooperatives, after Malabar region, to become self-sufficient in milk production. Mr. John said that the regional cooperative comprised 933 Anand Pattern Cooperative Societies at the primary level, in which around 46,000 dairy farmers are members. The cooperative had recently submitted a memorandum to Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development J. Chinchurani appealing for support. The cooperative, the appeal said, was incurring extra expenditure on conversion of milk and that a package of support should be extended so that the dairy sector would not reel under the economic crisis induced by the COVID-19 lockdown. The State government had declared that the entire quantity of milk produced by farmers under the cooperative would be procured despite the constraints in selling the produce due to COVID-19 restrictions and lockdown imposed to contain the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cooperative-wants-govt-to-include-milk-powder-in-free-food-kits/article34826222.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Administrator spends Rs. 23 lakh for a single Lakshadweep trip||The Lakshadweep administration is coughing up lakhs of rupees for each trip made by Administrator Praful Khoda Patel to the Union Territory. Mr. Patel took a Coast Guard Dornier aircraft to travel to Agatti on Monday amidst protests by the islanders seeking his recall and withdrawal of the ‘unwieldy orders’ issued by him. The Lakshadweep administration had sanctioned Rs. 23,21,280 by way of rent for a return trip from Daman undertaken by Mr. Patel and three officials in a Coast Guard Dornier aircraft on February 21. This was in response to an invoice that was raised by the Ministry of Defence. “This has given rise to widespread resentment in Lakshadweep, as Mr. Patel is on a splurging spree even as he took steps to terminate hundreds of temporary workers and those on contract citing the need to reduce expenditure. Farms are also being closed citing the same reason,” said K.I. Nizamuddin, member of the Village (Dweep) panchayat, Kavaratti. BJP out of SLF Meanwhile, the multi-party Save Lakshadweep Forum (SLF), which is on the warpath against the controversial draft notifications and orders issued by the administration, has ousted the BJP from its committee. “The voice clip of Abdullakkutty, BJP in-charge of Lakshadweep, asking the partymen not to cooperate with the SLF and their general stand on a range of issues including the case against filmmaker Aisha Sultana made us decide in unison that they shopld not be a part of the Forum,” said a Save Lakshadweep Forum member.  The Save Lakshadweep Forum, which is on the warpath against the draft notifications and orders issued by the administration, has ousted the BJP from its committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/administrator-spends-rs-23-lakh-for-a-single-lakshadweep-trip/article34826228.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||MG university rejects college’s proposal for autonomous status||The Mahatma Gandhi University has rejected one among the three proposals submitted by its affiliated colleges for granting autonomous status. The applications of the three colleges were submitted to the varsity after the government had promulgated an ordinance in February amending the law governing autonomous colleges in the State. The amendment to the University Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2014 permitted the colleges to apply for autonomy at any time of their choice by submitting applications to the respective university. It had rendered the Autonomy Approval Committee chaired by the Higher Education invalid. “The proposal submitted by Bharata Mata College, Thrikkakara, was rejected by an expert committee appointed by the Syndicate. The team, which had carried out a detailed assessment, found that the college lacked the facilities required for achieving the autonomous status,” pointed out people concerned. The other two applications were submitted by the Union Christian College, Aluva, and MES College, Marampally. An expert panel will soon visit the Union Christian College, Aluva, for inspection of the academic and infrastructural facilities. The application submitted by MES College, Marampally, is being processed before submitting it before the Syndicate. Of the 19 autonomous colleges in the State, 10 are affiliated to the Mahatma Gandhi University. As per the amendment, the Syndicate must entrust the applications for autonomy to an expert committee within seven days upon receipt of the application. The Vice Chancellor can recommend for autonomy to the University Grants Commission or turn down the application after informing it to the commission, the government, and the college. The institution can then re-apply for autonomy after a year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mg-university-rejects-colleges-proposal-for-autonomous-status/article34826224.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||When a rodent spoiled the ‘spirit’||Necessity is the mother of invention and a man from Kochi craving liquor almost pulled it off outrageously, only for a rat to kill the ‘spirit’ of it. A parcel from Bengaluru that landed at the head post office here on Tuesday would have passed off among hundreds of others. Only, this one was torn and the postal officials were taken aback by its contents. Protruding were three liquor bottles, which were apparently sent to a recipient here left “dispirited” since the liquor outlets were shut down in April-end. Postal authorities duly alerted the excise officials who took custody of the bottles. “The sender had kept a packet of mixture inside the parcel and that seems to have lured the rat that cut through the pack,” said T.A. Ashokkumar, deputy excise commissioner, Ernakulam. While narcotic drugs being couriered is, by now, a somewhat common practice and enforcement officials are keeping a tab on courier companies to monitor them, this is perhaps the first time that liquor bottles were sent as a parcel. Serious offence Possession of illicit liquor is considered a serious offence under Section 58 of the Abkari Act for and entails a punishment of up to 10 years. “Liquor made in other States are not supposed to be sold or consumed here. So, we have registered a case,” said K R. Ramprasad, assistant excise inspector. With the addresses and even phone numbers of the sender and the recipient so forthrightly inscribed on the parcel, the enforcement officials perhaps need to do little to track them down. Whether they were friends helping each other or it was a purely commercial transaction remains to be investigated. Enforcement The incident comes close on the heels of the Excise Department cranking up enforcement against illicit brewing in view of the prolonged shutdown of liquor outlets in the State. The team that seized the parcel included preventive officer Jayalal and civil excise officers Fredy Fernandez, Ranjith, and Vimal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/when-a-rat-scuttled-plan-to-smuggle-liquor-bottles/article34825902.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,702 fresh COVID cases recorded in Ernakulam||A total of 1,702 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday, leaving the test positivity rate at 12.6%. For testing, 13,432 samples were sent. With 2,027 recoveries on the day, the active caseload has fallen to 14,175. Valakom, near Muvattupuzha, recorded the highest number of new cases with 103 people testing positive from the area. Thrikkakara saw 76 new cases, Elamkunnapuzha 55, Chellanam and Thripunithura 53 each, Maradu 47, and Kalamassery 42. Palluruthy recorded 38 new cases, while Fort Kochi saw 37. Eight health workers have tested positive. The source of infection could not be traced in 30 cases. As many as 39,137 people remain in quarantine. A total of 142 people were admitted to hospitals and other treatment centres and 305 were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1702-fresh-covid-cases-recorded-in-ernakulam/article34826226.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Anticipatory bail plea in HC||The Kerala High Court has sought the views of the State government on the anticipatory bail applications moved by three accused in the Muttil tree felling case. The accused, Anto Augustine, Josekutty Augustine and Roji Augustine, submitted that the cases booked against them by the Forest Department were legally untenable and they were victims of a media trial. Considering the case, the government pleader submitted that the appeal of the State government against the decision of a single judge granting interim bail for Mr. Roji be also considered. The court posted the case for Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/anticipatory-bail-plea-in-hc/article34826233.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Water metro to be extended to Silver Line terminal||The water metro will be extended to the proposed semi-high speed rail Silver Line terminal at Kakkanad-Infopark. The proposed jetty will come up near Silver Line station at Inforpark as an integrated hub, sources said. The water metro has completed the terminal at Vyttila and Kakkanad (Chittethukara) and is getting ready for operations. The high speed boats will take only 20 minutes from Vyttila Hub to Kakkanad. The transport hub at Vyttila that integrates metro, water metro, and bus terminal will be connected to the Silver Line at Kakkanad station where rail and water metro will also meet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-metro-to-be-extended-to-silver-line-terminal/article34826220.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Middleman in drug racket held||The Special Investigation Squad has arrested one more person in connection with the seizure of 2 kg of MDMA from Karukutty near Angamaly earlier this month. The arrested man was identified as Suresh, 36, of Thiruvalloor in Tamil Nadu. He is suspected to be the main middleman of the Chennai-based drug racket. Money towards the consignment was reportedly deposited by clients in his account. So far, the police have made four arrests in the case. He had links with the other three arrested and was nabbed from Madurai on the direction of K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/middleman-in-drug-racket-held/article34826223.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Gynaecologist gets 1-year jail for negligence||A gynaecologist of the Ernakulam General Hospital was sentenced to imprisonment for one year and a fine of Rs. 3 lakh for causing the death of a newborn by negligence. Dr. Kalakumari of Ernakulam was awarded the punishment by the Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, Ernakulam. Passing the order, magistrate S. Shamnad directed that the convict should undergo simple imprisonment for a further period of six months on default of payment of the fine. If the accused remitted the fine, Rs. 2 lakh should be given to Suja Rajesh, the mother of the deceased child and Rs. 1 lakh to Rajesh, the father, the court ordered. E. K. Sheeja, Assistant Public Prosecutor, contended that the accused negligently prolonged the delivery of Ms. Rajesh beyond the expected date of delivery, thereby causing the baby in the womb to aspire meconium-stained fluid and die after three days of its birth. The death of the newborn was due to the lack of reasonable skill and care of the accused, it was contended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/death-of-newborn-doctor-gets-1-year-jail/article34826221.ece
16 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC to hear anticipatory bail plea today||The Kerala High Court will consider on Wednesday an anticipatory bail application by film personality and activist Aysha Sulthana who moved the court apprehending that she might be arrested and detained in a sedition case charged by the Kavarathy police. The case was registered against her for allegedly making some statements against the Central government while taking part in a channel discussion on the Lakshadweep issue. Ms. Sulthana submitted that she was innocent and was falsely implicated in the case with ulterior motives and vexatious intentions. She submitted that the case charged against her did not qualify to be one of sedition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-to-hear-anticipatory-bail-plea-today/article34826227.ece
16 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Treatment cost: High Court seeks report||The State government should inform the Kerala High Court about the implementation of its earlier order to display the price of medicines and treatment charges for COVID-19 at hospitals in the State, directed a Division Bench of the court. The Bench consisting of Justice Devan Ramachandran and Justice Kauser Edappagath issued the directive while considering a review petition filed by the Kerala Private Hospitals Association on an earlier judgment of the court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treatment-cost-high-court-seeks-report/article34826231.ece
16 June 2021||Kollam,KERALA||1,597 cases in Kollam, 31 deaths in Alappuzha||Kollam district reported 1,597 new cases of COVID-19 and 598 recoveries on Tuesday. While 1,586 patients contracted the virus through direct contact, the others include four persons from another State and seven health workers. Kollam district currently has 33,516 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 15,07,226. As many as 3,056 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 2,61,348 primary and 16,777 secondary contacts of the cases. Alappuzha Alappuzha district reported 887 new cases on Tuesday. It recorded 31 COVID-19-related deaths. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 8.91%. Of the fresh cases, 884 people contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of three others remains unknown. Meanwhile, 1,054 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in Alappuzha stands at 10,893. Pathanamthitta As many as 480 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of this, 477 persons contracted the virus via local transmission. The TPR for the day was 12.5%. The disease, meanwhile, claimed 11 more lives in the district. With 459 recoveries on the day, Pathanamthitta has 4,724 active cases. 442 cases in Kottayam As many as 442 persons tested positive in Kottayam. Of the fresh cases, 437 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. The TPR in the district reported a further declined to 7.9%. As many as 605 persons recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,650. Meanwhile, 31,500 persons remain in quarantine for suspected symptoms of the disease.  (with inputs from Alappuzha, Pathanamathitta and Kottayam bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1597-cases-in-kollam-31-deaths-in-alappuzha/article34826505.ece
16 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Olabs opened in Maldives schools||Online Labs for Schools (Olabs), developed by Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham in association with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, has been launched in schools in the Maldives. "Due to limitations, it is difficult for the island country to conduct experiments directly in the physical labs. Olabs is a system that allows school teachers and students anywhere in the world to conduct lab tests online at low cost," said Amrita officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/olabs-opened-in-maldives-schools/article34826502.ece
16 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani-Kappan rivalry rages on in Pala||The charged political atmosphere of Pala, which witnessed an acrimonious Assembly election between the Nationalist Congress Kerala led by Mani C. Kappan and the Jose K. Mani-led Kerala Congress (M) in April, continues to boil over with the raging rivalry between the two. Setting the stage for the latest round of battle is a three-decade old proposal to establish the Neeloor potable water project for the Meenachil Taluk. The scheme, which had received a budgetary allocation of Rs. 3 crore nine years ago, was revived by Mr. Kappan during his previous term as the legislator of Pala. Alongside, he had also sought to rename it as Ramapuram project by including more areas under the scheme – all with the support of the previous LDF government. But the abrupt reshuffle in political equations ahead of the Assembly elections and the ensuing appointment of KC(M) leader Roshy Augustine as the Water resources Minister in the incumbent government appear to have ushered in yet another twist. Blame game While Mr. Kappan claims to execute the project with equal assistance from the Centre and State governments in a period of two years, the KC(M) accuses him of holding publicity stunts in the name of imaginary projects. None of the projects announced by him, including the drinking water project and the regulator-cum-bridge project at Arunapuram, have received approvals from the State government, it said. Mr. Kappan, however, has sought to highlight these allegations as an attempt by the KC(M) to halt the development of Pala so as “to wreak vengeance on the voters of Pala who handed a defeat to Jose K. Mani.” “The people of Pala have a clear idea as to who raised money from them in the name of fanciful projects like the Palazhi Tires and Marangattupalli Spinning Mill,” he retorted. Welfare schemes Earlier, the sparring leaders were also seen vying with each other to claim the credit for a couple of welfare schemes rolled out by the LDF such as the allocation of ration card to Christian convents and raising the support price for natural rubber (NR) by Rs. 20. “Mr. Mani is preparing for yet another battle for Pala after five years and will be leveraging the administrative gains of the LDF government as well as the position as the KC(M) chairman to wrest back the party's citadel. Mr. Kappan, on the other hand, will be keen to counter these by asserting his position as the legislator of Pala. This is definitely going to be an interesting battle to watch in the coming years,” observed a veteran Kerala Congress leader.  The scheme was revived by Kappan during his previous term as Pala legislator||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mani-kappan-rivalry-rages-on-in-pala/article34826503.ece
16 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam KSRTC station to undergo makeover||The KSRTC bus station in Kottayam, which has remained in a dilapidated condition for several years now, is finally set to get a facelift. According to Transport Minister, works on the bus yard, a toilet block and a canteen building at the KSRTC depots in Kottayam would soon begin using a fund of Rs. 1.80 crore allotted by Thiruvanchur Radhakrishnan, MLA. Of this, Rs. 91.69 lakh will be spent on yard development while a toilet block will be constructed using Rs. 8.82 lakh. The project management consultant of KSRTC has already completed the soil testing at the project site while the proceedings for floating e-tenders too have begun. The project is scheduled to be completed in one and half years. The renovation of the bus station, after demolishing the five decades old building at the 4.8-acre property has been in limbo since December 2014. The works at the location had hit a blockade following a dispute over land excavation and removal of mud. Renovation in Pala The existing building at the KSRTC station, with its dirty toilet block, pools of stagnant water, poor seating arrangements and garbage, remains an eyesore and an ordeal to the passenger. The State government has also allotted Rs. 40 lakh for renovation of the KSRTC bus station in Pala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kottayam-ksrtc-station-to-undergo-makeover/article34826498.ece
16 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rs. 680-crore blueprint for Beypore port development||The State government has finally set the ball rolling for the development of Beypore port, one of the oldest ports in Kerala, into international standards. In connection with this, a blueprint for the project — ‘Beypore, the gateway to Malabar’ — was released on Tuesday. The Rs. 680-crore proposal is aimed at implementing a comprehensive package for Beypore, integrating multiple sectors including port and harbour development, responsible tourism and community development. Focus will also be given to dredging activities and establishment of an ocean training centre. Rail connectivity and a container terminal will be part of the package. Tourism Minister P.A. Mohamed Riyas, who represents Beypore Assembly constituency, Ports Minister Ahammad Devarkovil and Fisheries and Harbour Engineering Minister Saji Cherian visited the Beypore port. Master plan Mr. Cherian said steps would be taken to coordinate different departments for the purpose while Mr. Riyas said a master plan would be prepared after soliciting suggestions from the public. Mr. Devarkovil said further meetings would be held to execute the project in a time-bound manner. New committee A committee led by District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao will be constituted to prepare the master plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-680-crore-blueprint-for-beypore-port-development/article34826203.ece
16 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Lack of planning led to shortage of drugs during COVID second wave’||Health Minister Veena George on Monday asked the State-owned Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSCL) to procure enough drugs and equipment to counter a possible third wave of COVID-19. If the government had foreseen a similar crisis earlier this year, their current shortage in the ongoing second wave of the infection could have been avoided, some Health officials say. Right now, around 3,000 people are in intensive care units and over 1,000 are in ventilators in various hospitals. There is, however, a severe shortage of sedation drugs, ventilator filters, surgical caps, and various vitamin tablets used for treatment in government medical college hospitals, which a majority of the patients depend on. KMSCL is reportedly unable to provide even half of the required demand. According to sources in the Health Department, the government hospitals procure the drugs and other articles directly from KMSCL. Order for the purchase is normally given in advance. Hence, the order for the stock required at present should have been given before the beginning of the financial year itself. The corporation then procures the required drugs and other articles, and supplies them to hospitals. A senior official, who did not wish to be named, told The Hindu that the department had not been prepared for the virulent second wave and even the gloves required for health workers had not been stocked up earlier. Various local bodies had set up first-line treatment centres across the State when cases peaked in the first wave. When the number of infected persons declined, most of them were closed. Vaccination The initial approach to vaccination too was lax. “When the Centre launched the vaccination drive in January, Kerala was one of those States which recorded low use. This continued till March,” the official said. While around 6.3 million doses were made available, only 3.4 million were utilised. A source in the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, said that there had been a shortage of drugs and equipment even earlier. The second wave of COVID-19 and the subsequent rise in number of patients aggravated the situation. “There had been days when we had to treat the infected persons without personal protection equipment,” he added. Now, it is learnt that the government is planning to bring drugs and other articles from abroad to meet the emergency situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lack-of-planning-led-to-shortage-of-drugs-during-covid-second-wave/article34826206.ece
16 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Running Durban marathon, from Kozhikode||A Kozhikode native has completed the 90-km ultramarathon ‘Comrades Centenary Hope Challenge’ in the second year it has gone virtual. Known as the ‘Ultimate Human Race’, the marathon is usually held at Durban in South Africa. This year was the centenary of the race and thousands of people had taken part in it virtually from all over the world. Naseef Ali from Feroke in Kozhikode, Kerala, took part in the race by running 90 km within the district on June 13. “This race is one of the toughest challenges among marathons as it is usually held in Durban where the topography is quite uneven. While around 30,000 people take part in it every year, only half of them complete it due to the difficulty level,” said Mr. Ali. Several challenges He was spared the difficult topography, but Mr. Ali had several other challenges to face, including the lockdown in the State and heavy rain. “Due to the rain, I had soaked feet and after around 60 km, I couldn’t run any more. I completed the race walking and it took three hours more than the permissible one hour to complete the race. However, the organisers approved it, this being a virtual race,” he said. Mr. Ali also had a hard time convincing the police and getting permission to carry out the mission during the intense lockdown on Sunday. A former expatriate, Mr. Ali had taken part in the race with his six friends from the Kerala Riders UAE, a triathlon club in Dubai. All the others took part in the race at Dubai. Only two of them completed it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-man-completes-90-km-comrades-marathon/article34825900.ece
16 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||819 cases in Kozhikode||As many as 819 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. According to the District Medical Officer, 809 people acquired the infection through local transmission while the source of eight others was not known. Two persons had returned from other States. A total of 9,129 samples were tested and the test positivity rate is 9.23%. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 200 locally acquired infections, Puthuppady and Payyoli 33 each, Kunnamangalam 28, Koyilandy 27, Kakkodi 26, Olavanna 25, and Chelannur 23 and Vadakara 23 each. As many as 1,117 people recovered from the infection and the active caseload is 11,469.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/819-cases-in-kozhikode/article34826207.ece
16 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML to continue fight against CAA||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) said it would continue its fight against the Central government’s alleged discrimination against Muslim community in giving citizenship to people from some neighbouring countries. IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MLA, said here on Tuesday that the Narendra Modi government was attempting to push the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) through the backdoor. “The Modi government cannot be trusted. “Even though they said in the Supreme Court that they were not implementing the CAA while giving powers to certain States to give citizenship to people of certain communities from certain countries, the Centre was trying to implement their discriminatory agenda,” said Mr. Kunhalikutty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iuml-to-continue-fight-against-caa/article34826217.ece
16 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Confinement: panel expresses dismay||The Kerala Women’s Commission expressed dismay and concern over 11 years of confinement that a woman underwent in a tiny room with her lover at Ayiloor, near Nenmara, in the district. “Confinement or captivity cannot be accepted even if she was well fed and taken care of,” said commission Chairperson M.C. Josephine after meeting the couple at their current residence at Vithanassery, near Nenmara. Ms. Josephine and commission members Shahida Kamal and Shiji Sivaji visited the couple on Tuesday. Rahman, son of Mohammed Khani, had reportedly kept his lover Sajita hidden in his tiny room for 11 years. Although Rahman and Sajita said they lived in “self-imposed captivity” for fear of his family and the people, Ms. Josephine and colleagues could not digest their story. Their incredulity was buttressed when Rahman’s parents told them that it was highly unlikely for Rahman and Sajita to have lived for 11 years in the tiny room. “It is unbelievable,” they said. However, they said they would not recommend any action against Rahman. The commission members said they would not jump into a judgment until they examined the police report. Problem of police probe Apart from the local police, the Crime Branch too was asked to submit a report about Sajita’s life in Rahman’s room. “Such a freak and weird thing should not have happened in Kerala. Let them live a happy life together and we will monitor them,” said the members. However, the commission said that it was the fault in the police investigation into Sajita’s disappearance in 2010 that led to the current developments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/confinement-panel-expresses-dismay/article34826247.ece
16 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Online market for fruit and veggie farmers||In a major relief to the farmers who are struggling to find markets for their produce, the Department of Agriculture, Horticorp, and the Vegetable and Fruit Promotions Council of Kerala (VFPCK), have jointly opened Nammude Market , an online home delivery marketing initiative for fruits and vegetables, in Pathanamathitta. M.S. Rajasree, Vice Chancellor, Kerala University of Technology, inaugurated the project that envisages procuring locally grown vegetables through the Horticorp and the VFPCK and delivering kits containing all major vegetables to the household units at a price of Rs. 200 per packet. People can book their orders through the sitenammudevipani.inand make payment on delivery. Upon booking an order, the officials with the Agricultural Department will reach out to the customers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-market-for-fruit-and-veggie-farmers/article34826499.ece
16 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Another seizure at Konni||The police on Tuesday seized 96 gelatin sticks from an isolated property along the forest fringes of Konni in the district. The Konni police have lodged a case. According to officials, the explosives were found in the property near Vayakkara during a patrolling by the field staff of the Kokkathodu forest station, carried out in view of the recovery of explosives from Pathanapuram in Kollam. The gelatin sticks were handed over to the police. “The location from where the explosives were seized is about 30 km from Pathanapuram, but if one takes the forest route, the distance comes down by 10 km,” said an officer. The police are yet to ascertain whether the incident has any connections with the Pathanapuram case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-seizure-at-konni/article34826236.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pension process on fast track||The welfare standing committee of the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation has begun taking measures to speed up processing of welfare pension applications and cut down the backlogs. Instructions have been issued to Revenue Inspectors to process all pending pension applications within June 20, to be submitted to the council for clearance. The officials have also been asked to clear all new applications within one month of applying. According to welfare standing committee chairperson S.Salim, as many as 4,500 new pension applications were cleared since the new administration took charge at the Corporation. “New applications for pension usually remain pending for months due to various issues. At times, this could be due to small issues in applications, for instance when the beneficiaries might not have submitted identity cards or account details. There are cases where notices have been issued for rectification already. Early this month, we convened a meeting of all Revenue Inspectors and asked them to take steps to speed up all pending applications. Once the lockdown is over, we plan to hold a pension adalat too,” says Mr.Salim. At present, the city Corporation has a total of 92,804 welfare pensioners across various categories. Out of this, 59,636 are women, while 33,164 are men. Old age pension beneficiaries come to a total of 53,177, while 28,839 beneficiaries draw pension for widows. The remaining beneficiaries draw either the pensions for differently abled or agricultural labourers or for unmarried women. In every council meeting, the names of hundreds of applicants for the various welfare pensions are cleared. After the COVID-19 outbreak, the processing of pension applications had slowed down, reducing the number of applications which are cleared in council meetings since the past one year. Waiting list This has led to a considerable backlog. A couple of years back, the waiting list had gone up to 15,000 after the online window for inclusion of new beneficiaries remained closed for months, around the time when the process for weeding out ineligible beneficiaries and those drawing double benefits began. The welfare pension beneficiary list was cleaned up in 2019 after 1,699 ineligible beneficiaries were identified and removed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pension-process-on-fast-track/article34826166.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Second wave may be prolonged||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the second wave of COVID-19 is likely to be prolonged in the State as Kerala still has a huge population of susceptible individuals who are yet to be exposed to the virus. It was quite possible that when lockdown is relaxed, many of these people might get infected, keeping disease transmission a continuous process. He appealed to the people to take the collective responsibility of preventing an upsurge in COVID-19 cases, a third wave and future lockdowns in the State by maintaining all COVID-19 protocols strictly as lockdown restrictions are being relaxed. Crowding should be avoided on the streets and public places at all costs. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said that no country had been able to totally wipe out or stop COVID-19. The only strategy that the governments could adopt was strengthening health system infrastructure and ensuring that disease transmission was kept to a certain level so that health systems were not stressed. This had been managed very well in Kerala, he said. Even at the peak of the second wave, only 63% of ICU bed strength and only 32% ventilators had been used. Mucormycosis, a fungal infection which seemed to flare up for a while during the pandemic, had been brought under control in the State. The average test positivity rate in the State for the past three days was 12.1%. In all districts, except Thiruvananthapuram, the TPR was less than 15%. 5% increase likely Mr. Vijayan said that according to projections, Thiruvananthapuram was likely to see an increase in new cases by 5% in the next week. However, Statewide, a 16% reduction in new cases was expected. It was important to know ahead if and when the third wave was upon the State and hence disease surveillance and genomic surveillance studies would be strengthened, Mr. Vijayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/second-wave-may-be-prolonged/article34826242.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM alleges threat by BJP leader||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday accused Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State vice president A.N. Radhakrishnan of crossing a line by threatening to endanger him and his family. Responding to questions from reporters on Tuesday, he said Mr. Radhakrishnan had strayed outside the bounds of acceptable civic behaviour. Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Radhakrishnan had threatened to “attack me at my home and jail my children” on account of an ongoing police investigation. Without mentioning the probe into the Kodakara hawala heist case, which revolved primarily around the BJP district leadership in Thrissur, Mr. Vijayan said: “I have never intervened in police probes or expressed an overt interest in their progression or outcome.” The BJP could not say the same given its history of using Central agencies as a political tool to denigrate the previous Left Democratic Front (LDF) government and its leadership, he said. ‘Disturbing message’ The Chief Minister said he was not new to threats and did not take them personally. He had faced many in his lifetime. But, as a democratic polity, Kerala could not ignore that Mr. Radhakrishnan had threatened to harm its constitutionally elected Chief Minister, he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan’s words held an ominous and disturbing message for democratic Kerala, Mr. Vijayan said. They betrayed the BJP’s political mindset. The controversy had its provenance in a sit-in protest convened to express solidarity with BJP State president K. Surendran in Thrissur. Mr. Radhakrishnan, who inaugurated the demonstration, said democratic Kerala would revolt against Mr. Vijayan’s “authoritarian inclinations and penchant to impose criminal charges against his political opponents.” Neither the BJP nor Mr. Radhakrishnan responded to Mr. Vijayan’s charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-alleges-threat-by-bjp-leader/article34826243.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Sathyan remains in the hearts of people’||Actor Sathyan was Kerala’s contribution to Indian and world cinema, Minister for Food and Civil Supplies G.R. Anil has said. Online meet He was speaking after inaugurating online a memorial meeting organised by the Kerala Cultural Forum in connection with Sathyan’s 50th death anniversary. The Minister said the characters played by Sathyan remained in the hearts of people. At a time when attaining popularity through social media was not an option, he achieved success by playing very realistic characters. Filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan said Sathyan had a distinct acting style through his gestures and movement and symbolised masculinity in Malayalam cinema. This won him legions of fans. He was a leading light in the Malayali’s cultural life and very popular with movie aficionados. If he was remembered decades after his death and continued to live on in people’s hearts, he should be seen as someone very special, the director said. Sathyan’s movies released during his school and college days, Mr. Gopalakrishnan recalled, adding that film lovers used to think the movies he acted in were good. Kerala Cultural Forum president Shaji Wilson presided over the function. Flowers were offered at Sathyan’s grave by the forum members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sathyan-remains-in-the-hearts-of-people/article34826160.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rethink plans for offline exams, varsities urged||The Save University Campaign Committee has urged State universities to refrain from holding offline examinations for undergraduate courses in view of the threat posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Holding examinations in the online mode or deducing marks on the basis of previous semesters’ marks have been suggested as alternative methods. A webinar that was inaugurated by former Mahatma Gandhi University and Central University of Kerala Vice Chancellor Jancy James proposed restricting offline examinations for postgraduate courses that have comparatively low number of students. For UG courses, the online examinations should be held in a manner than enabled students to refer textbooks. The forum also welcomed the decision by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University to hold online examinations. Committee chairman R.S. Sasikumar presided over the meeting. The All India Democratic Students Organisation has called for cancelling the final-year UG and PG exams.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rethink-plans-for-offline-exams-varsities-urged/article34826161.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,567 new cases in capital, 1,451 recover||Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 1,567 COVID-19 cases and 1,451 recoveries as the number of active cases stood at 12,491. The test positivity rate has fallen to 13.9% when 11,268 were subjected to tests. The death toll rose to 2,421 when 20 more recent deaths, reported between May 24 and June 14, were attributed to the disease. The district administration has currently placed 50,778 people in quarantine. District Collector Navjot Khosa has said a vaccination drive is under way for bedridden patients who were being inoculated in their homes. The facility is being extended for palliative patients who are aged above 18 years. As many as 2,223 people out of the 31,146 members of the Palliative Care scheme in the district have been vaccinated thus far. These include residents of Kuttichal, Chemboor, Aryancode, Karavaram, Poozhanad, Karakulam, Palode, Vellarada, Malayinkeezhu and Kadakampally panchayats. The district has achieved cent per cent coverage of the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in old-age homes. As many as 1,591 people resided in 66 old age homes in the district. Among them, 332 people have received the second dose too. The vaccination drive is also progressing among tribal communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1567-new-cases-in-capital-1451-recover/article34826163.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Small portion of Corporation building caves in||A Janakeeya Hotel, which has been functioning at the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation’s golden jubilee building near the Overbridge Junction, was closed down temporarily after a small portion of the building caved in. It is one of the 17 Janakeeya Hotels run by the Corporation with Kudumbashree volunteers, to provide food at affordable rates to the public, especially during the COVID-19- induced lockdown. On Tuesday, no cooking happened at the hotel, which is located on the ground floor of the four-storeyed building. Due to the high demand at this centre, more than 900 food packets were brought here from two other Janakeeya hotels and sold off in no time. As many as 1,400 food packets, each costing Rs. 20, are sold from here on usual days. Early on Monday morning, a section of the building, which was being used as a storage area by the Kudumbashree workers, caved in. The walls inside the kitchen too are in a dangerous state, with large cracks appearing at some parts while some other areas are almost separated from the roof. The 10 women who run the whole enterprise, including purchasing, cooking, packing and sales, spend most of their day here, with work for the breakfast beginning at 2 a.m. daily and that of the dinner finishing by 7 p.m. Repair works “The hotel was closed down temporarily since there are chances of it further caving in. Repair works will be carried out immediately. The estimates have been prepared and we are moving ahead with the tender proceedings. We are looking for alternate spaces,” says S. Salim, chairperson of the Corporation’s Welfare Standing Committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/small-portion-of-corporation-building-caves-in/article34826168.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,246 cases, TPR at 11.76%||Kerala reported 12,246 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 1,04,120 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate (TPR) on the day was 11.76%. The State’s active case pool declined to 1,12,361 patients now, with 13,536 patients reported to have recovered on Tuesday. 166 deaths The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality in the State has reached 11,508, with the State adding 166 recent deaths to the official list on Tuesday. On Tuesday, new COVID-19 patients admitted to hospitals were 2,161. The total number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe COVID-19 in hospitals stands at 29,225. Total ICU admissions are also on its way down and on Tuesday, stood at 2,952. Those requiring ventilator support went down to 1,183.  Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 1,702, Kollam 1,597, Thiruvananthapuram 1,567, Thrissur 1,095, Malappuram 1,072, Palakkad 1,066, Alappuzha 887, Kozhikode 819, Kannur 547, Idukki 487, Pathanamthitta 480, Kottayam 442, Kasaragod 301 and Wayanad 184 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12246-cases-tpr-at-1176/article34826240.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Academic passes away||G. Padma Rao, 62, former Head of the Malayalam Department at Kerala University, who had met with an accident in the city a week ago, succumbed to his injuries in a hospital in Kollam on Tuesday. He had served in various capacities including Dean of the Faculty of Oriental Studies, Malayalam Lexicon chief editor, Director of the UGC Human Resource Centre and the International Sree Narayana Guru Studies. The cremation will be held in the native place in Pezhumthuruthu in Munroe Thuruthu on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/academic-passes-away/article34826165.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||34 special trains to run||Railways have decided to resume service of 34 special trains from June 16 and 17 and extend the cancellation of 30 other trains for another 15 days. 02075/02076 Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Central- Kozhikode Janshatabdi Specials, 06305/06036 Ernakulam Junction- Kannur- Ernakulam Junction Daily Specials, 06301/06302 Shoranur Junction- Thiruvananthapuram Central- Shoranur Junction Daily Specials are the trains being restored. 06303/06304 Ernakulam Junction- Thiruvananthapuram Central- Ernakulam Junction Daily Specials, 06307/06308 Alappuzha- Kannur- Alappuzha Daily Specials will also resume. 06327/06328 Punalur- Guruvayur- Punalur Daily Specials, 06341/06342 Guruvayur– Thiruvananthapuram Central- Guruvayur Daily Specials, 02082/02081 Thiruvananthapuram Central- Kannur- Thiruvananthapuram Central Janshatabdi Specials, 06347/06348 Thiruvananthapuram Central- Mangaluru Junction- Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Specials have got the nod to commence services. 06791/06792 Tirunelveli Junction– Palakkad - Tirunelveli Junction Daily Specials, 06321/06322 Nagercoil Junction– Coimbatore Junction- Nagercoil Junction Daily Specials, 02627/02628 Tiruchchirappalli Junction – Thiruvananthapuram Central- Tiruchchirappalli Junction Daily Specials, 06188/06187 Ernakulam Junction – Karaikal- Ernakulam Junction Daily Specials, 06316/06315 Kochuveli– Mysuru- Kochuveli Daily Specials will resume services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/34-special-trains-to-run/article34826229.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Held for mobile phone theft||The Vizhinjam police arrested a 20-year old man for allegedly stealing a mobile phone. The accused, identified as Akhil Raj of Chiravilakam in Venganoor, was arrested in connection with the incident that occurred on June 9. He has been accused of stealing a mobile phone that belonged to a migrant worker at a chicken store near the NH-66 bypass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/held-for-mobile-phone-theft/article34826162.ece
16 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||SIT to visit Muttil||The special investigation team (SIT) formed to investigate illegal tree felling will look into all such cases across the State, SIT head ADGP S. Sreejith has said. “An FIR has been registered and cases, including that for theft, will be charged against those involved in illegal tree felling. A control room has been opened to receive complaints,” he told mediapersons after a meeting here on Tuesday. The SIT will visit Muttil in Wayanad district on Wednesday. The team will visit sites where large-scale tree felling has been reported, if needed, he added. Along with the SIT, the Forest Department will continue its investigation in cases under its limits, Mr. Sreejith said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-to-visit-muttil/article34826238.ece
16 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Trackman hit by train, dies||A railway trackman was fatally hit by a train near Ollur on Monday night. The deceased was Harshakumar, 27, of Alappuzha. Another trackman, Vineesh, who was critically injured, is undergoing treatment. The accident occurred around 9.30 p.m. between Thrissur and Ollur. Harshakumar and Vineesh, who moved to the second track when they saw Rajadhani Express coming through the first track, were hit by a train engine, which came though the second track. Harshakumar died on the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/trackman-hit-by-train-dies/article34826216.ece
16 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Kodakara case: SIT submits report in court||The special investigation team (SIT) investigating the Kodakara black money robbery case submitted its report at the Irinjalakuda court on Tuesday. The judicial first class magistrate court had sought the report a petition filed by RSS worker Dharmarajan to get back the stolen money recovered by the police. In the report, the police urged the court not to return the money as investigation in the case was progressing. Dharmarjan in his petition claimed that of the Rs. 3.5 crore, Rs. 3.25 crore belonged to him and Rs. 25 lakh to Sunil Niak, former State treasurer of the Bharatiya Janatha Yuva Morcha. Dharmarajan and Sunil Naik argued that the money was meant for business purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kodakara-case-sit-submits-report-in-court/article34826237.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cautious easing of curbs||Mr. Vijayan did not discount the possibility of a third wave catalysed by more contagious versions of the fast mutating virus. The key to defeating the pandemic was to show no complacency in observing COVID-19 regulations, he reminded. Liquor sale to resume The government permitted legal alcohol as a takeaway from liquor stores and bars between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. Indoor drinking and dining in bars and hotels were prohibited. The government would use a mobile phone-based booking system to assign time slots for liquor buyers. There would be no sale of liquor in containment localities or on the weekend. Schools, colleges, temples, mosques, churches and places of worship would remain shuttered. So would shopping malls, cinema theatres, indoor stadiums, gymnasiums and beauty parlours. Outdoor sports, only games with reduced scope for close physical interaction, were allowed. Walking circuits, parks, and weekend destinations would remain shut. The government lifted the restrictions on retail trade in localities where the weekly average TPR hovered below 8%. Shops could remain open between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. on weekdays. Only shops selling essentials would be allowed to open for business in localities where the weekly average TPR was above 8% but below 20%. Other shops and banks could open on alternate days on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. In such regions, government and private offices could function with half the workforce reporting for duty on alternate days. Buses, autorickshaws, and taxis could operate minimal services. Not more than 20 persons should attend weddings, funerals or other social functions. The tourism sector would remain closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cautious-easing-of-curbs/article34826239.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Another round of checks||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-round-of-checks/article34826213.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Raging protest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/raging-protest/article34826219.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Let the battle begin||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-the-battle-begin/article34826507.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Gone with the sea||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gone-with-the-sea/article34826473.ece
16 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps to tackle FMD in Alappuzha||The Animal Husbandry Department has ramped up measures to tackle the spread of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) in Alappuzha. Around 3,000 head of cattle have been affected by the outbreak in the district in the last one-and-a-half months. At least 193 cattle died of the disease during the period. Around 550 head of cattle have contracted the disease and 100 perished in the worst affected Ambalapuzha South and Ambalapuzha North grama panchayats. The disease has also been reported from Thakazhi, Thalavady, Edathua, Chettikulangara, Aryad, Pandanad and Chengannur. 140 teams deployed Treatment and vaccination are being carried out to check the spread of the disease. The department has deployed 140 teams in the affected areas. Special teams with doctors have been deployed to the worst affected Ambalapuzha South and Ambalapuzha North grama panchayats. Doctors have been appointed to Chengannur, Ambalapuzha and Veliyanad blocks to deal with emergencies during night. Minister of Animal Husbandry J. Chinchurani said the department had taken measures to bring the outbreak under control. District Animal Husbandry Officer A.G. Geo said that the department had started a vaccination drive on April 22 soon after the FMD cases started to report in the district. As many as 6,140 cattle in 51 grama panchayats have so far been vaccinated against FMD. The outbreak of the disease was attributed to missed rounds of vaccination owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The disease outbreak is attributed to missed rounds of vaccination owing to the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steps-to-tackle-fmd-in-alappuzha/article34825897.ece
16 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur to construct 1.11 lakh Jagananna houses||A coordinated effort among all stakeholders and implementing departments is essential for the timely completion of the government’s prestigious ‘Jagananna Illu’ scheme in the district that has an ambitious target of constructing 1,11,099 houses in the first phase in 407 layouts, said Joint Collector (Housing) T. Nishanthi. At a review meeting with the officers of the implementing departments here on Tuesday, she said that sand was available at eight reaches, while infrastructure facilities were in various stages of creation. About Rs. 21 crore was being spent on 246 layouts of 355 in the AHUDA region for taking up water supply works by the Rural Water Supply Department and Rs. 27.05 crore for creating similar facilities in 50 layouts in 12 Urban Local Bodies by the Public Health Engineering Department. Additional amounts needed for taking up the project in all other layouts were also sent to the APSHCL Managing Director for sanction, she said. The electricity department had been asked to energise all the 189 borewells sunk in the layouts so far within the next 10 days. Right now sand was available in eight sand reaches and that would be utilised for this purpose. Meanwhile, Project Director DWMA had been asked to create job cards for all the housing beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-to-construct-111-lakh-jagananna-houses/article34825953.ece
16 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks White Paper on COVID-19 deaths||Accusing the State government of hiding the deaths caused due to coronavirus infection, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Tuesday demanded that a white paper be released on the actual number of fatalities. Quoting the figures from the Central government’s Civil Register for May this year, Mr. Ramakrishna said the data suggest of the 1.30 lakh fatalities reported from the country 11,000 were from Andhra Pradesh when compared to 2,938 deaths shown by the State government. Ex gratia sought “In my estimation, at least 30,000 deaths related to COVID-19 had taken place in the State in May when compared to the Central government’s figures of 11,000. The government must release a white paper on the fatalities caused by the virus and give an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of all deceased,” Mr. Ramakrishna told the media here. He said there were long queues at burial grounds and crematoriums in the State during May, but the government claimed them as natural deaths.  Meanwhile, Mr. Ramakrishna felicitated S. Mahboob Basha of the IMM Organisation for his services in performing the final rites of the unclaimed bodies in Anantapur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cpi-seeks-white-paper-on-covid-19-deaths/article34825947.ece
16 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 Maoists surrender in Telangana||As many as 19 militia members and village committee members of the CPI (Maoist) Charla Area Committee surrendered before the police in Kothagudem on Tuesday, police said. Three women militia members were among those who gave themselves up before Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials of the 141 Battalion in the district headquarters town. This is the second biggest surrender after 33 Maoist militia and village committee members surrendered before the district police in November last year, police sources added. Of these 19 surrendered Maoist militia and village committee members, 10 hail from interior Puligundala village and seven from Bakkachinthalapadu in Charla mandal and the remaining two from Mulakanapalli in Dummugudem mandal. Presenting them before the media in Kothagudem on Tuesday evening, Mr Sunil Dutt said regular community policing and the government’s developmental activities in the Maoist affected areas coupled with a desire to lead a better life prompted the militia and village committee members of the banned outfit to surrender. The Superintendent of Police reiterated his appeal to all Maoist leaders, cadre and militia members to join the mainstream.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/19-maoists-surrender-in-telangana/article34825908.ece
16 June 2021||DOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Water released to Godavari delta for kharif||The State government on Tuesday released the Godavari water to the Eastern, Central, and Western deltas from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage here with a view to providing 10,000 cusecs for the kharif operations in the East and West Godavari districts. The water that had been released from the spillway channel of the Polavaram irrigation project on June 11 was stored at the barrage, from where it would be released to the entire Godavari delta based on requirement. On Tuesday, Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat and Godavari Delta System Chief Engineer N. Pulla Rao performed puja and released 1,000 cusecs into the Eastern Delta. Addressing the media later, Mr. Pulla Rao said, “The Godavari delta spread over East and West Godavari districts requires 10,000 cusecs for the kharif season. This year, there is a possibility to draw up to 20,000 cusecs from the Polavaram project.” The Western Delta alone would get 1,500 cusecs from the barrage. “There has been a pressure on the Sileru irrigation project till now to meet the water requirement for the rabi season in the Godavari delta. Given the availability of water at the Polavaram project, there is no need to rely on Sileru from the next rabi,” said Mr. Pulla Rao. Mr. Bharat said the government had succeeded in completing the cofferdam works, which helped in the release of the Godavari water from the spillway channel on time. “The government is committed to completing the Resettlement and Rehabilitation exercise on a war-footing,” Mr. Bharat said, and recalled the role the former Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, had played in convincing the Centre on the Polavaram project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/water-released-to-godavari-delta-for-kharif/article34826545.ece
16 June 2021||Eluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||200 kg ganja seized||Police on Tuesday seized 200 kg of ganja being smuggled from Visakhapatnam to Tamil Nadu in two trucks. Two persons were arrested in this connection. The accused, identified as M. Manoj Raj, a resident of Dindigul in Tamil Nadu, and Manikyam Kondaiah of Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam district, were transporting the ganja, said Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik. The team led by Eluru Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dileep Kiran intercepted the two vehicles near Ashram Hospital junction and found the contraband packed in bags. The accused reportedly confessed that a man named Prasad was purchasing ganja from villages in the Agency area and transporting the same to Tamil Nadu. “Police are trying to find out the destination of the seized contraband in the neighbouring State. Two others from Tamil Nadu are involved in the racket,” Mr. Narayan Naik said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/200-kg-ganja-seized/article34826539.ece
16 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan releases Rs. 248.47 crore under YSR Vahana Mitra||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday released Rs. 248.47 crore for the beneficiaries of the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme. The benefits was credited to the accounts of the beneficiaries directly. As part of the scheme, the government is providing a financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to eligible auto-rickshaw and taxi drivers. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that Rs. 10,000 is being provided to the drivers for the recurring expenses such as insurance and maintenance of the vehicle to procure fitness certificate for the third time in three years. “In May 2018, I promised this while addressing a public meeting in Eluru during my padayatra. Considering the difficulties of auto-rickshaw drivers, who hardly earn Rs. 500 a day but have to pay Rs. 10,000 towards insurance and other expenses required for getting a fitness certificate, the government has come up with this initiative. Almost 84% of the beneficiaries are from SC, ST, BC and minority categories,’’ Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. So far, Rs. 759 crore has been credited directly into the accounts of beneficiaries under the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme, and Andhra Pradesh is the only State in the country to have launched such a scheme, he said. “As many as 42,932 more beneficiaries have applied for the scheme this year, while 2.48 lakh people will be receiving the benefits. Those who are left out can apply at their respective village, ward secretariats and their applications would be considered, if they are eligible,” said the Chief Minister. People can dial 9154294326 or 1902 to know the details of the scheme or lodge a complaint. The government has formed a task force for the smooth implementation of the scheme, he said. Accusing the oppositition leaders of spreading falsehood about the scheme, the Chief Minister said that auto and taxi drivers were burdened by taxes and penalties by the previous governments. Taxes and penalties In total, Rs. 7.39 crore has been collected as compounded fees, tax and penalties from auto-rickshaw drivers in the 2015-16 fiscal year, which went up to Rs. 9.68 crore in 2016-17 fiscal and Rs. 10.19 crore in the next financial year. In 2018-19 financial year, Rs. 7.09 crore was collected as fees, taxes and penalties, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy pointed out. During the YSRCP’s tenure, only Rs. 68.44 lakhs was collected in 2019-20 fiscal year which reduced just Rs. 35 lakh in 2020-21 fiscal. ‘94% promises fulfilled’ Referring to a book published by Telugu Desam Party leaders that highlights 94 ‘mistakes’ of the government, Mr, Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government had fulfilled more than 94% of the promises made to people in the last two years. “The opposition leaders are describing the YSR Vahana Mitra as one of the 94 mistakes. But in reality, taxes and penalty fees have come down significantly during the YSRCP tenure,” said the Chief Minister. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swamy, Ministers Perni Venkataramaiah, Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna, Principal Secretary (Transport) M.T. Krishna Babu, Transport Commissioner P.S.R. Anjaneyulu, and other officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-releases-rs-24847-crore-under-ysr-vahana-mitra/article34825901.ece
16 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lands in Visakhapatnam reclaimed , says Ambati||Asserting that the State will protect government lands and reclaim them from encroachers, YSRCP MLA Ambati Rambabu said that Rs. 5,082 crore worth lands in about 430 acres have been reclaimed in Visakhapatnam alone. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the MLA revealed that the former Collector of Visakhapatnam Praveen Kumar had openly stated that land records of 379 villages, 16,735 FMB copies of one lakh acres in Visakhapatnam district were missing. Former Minister Ayyanna Patrudu also said that many people were involved in the land scam with the support of those in TDP government. He alleged it was clearly evident that TDP leaders under the guidance of N. Chandrababu Naidu have been involved in land scam by grabbing assigned and Wakf board lands. Mr. Rambabu said the previous government had leased out most expensive lands to private people at low prices, and even after the completion of lease period, they were not handing them back to the government. In such cases, officials were reclaiming lands that were illegally occupied, but the Opposition leaders were terming it vindictive politics, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lands-in-vizag-reclaimed-says-ambati/article34825950.ece
16 June 2021||HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IndiGo flight reports tyre burst at Hubballi||Passengers of an Indigo aircraft from Kannur to Hubballi had a narrow escape after the flight reported a tyre burst on landing at Hubballi airport on Monday night. The Bengaluru-bound flight 6e-7979 was grounded on the runway and was subsequently towed away. A statement from Indigo Airlines confirmed that the flight reported a tyre burst on landing, but all the crew and passengers were safe.“The aircraft is under maintenance checks at Hubballi,” the release said. Director of Hubballi Airport Pramod Kumar Thakre said the flight was scheduled to land at 8 p.m. “The pilot made the first attempt to land at 8.03 p.m. but did not succeed due to bad weather and heavy wind. The plane went around and landed at 8.34 p.m. Soon after landing, the pilot reported to the ATC that he suspected suspected a tyre burst and stopped the aircraft on the runway itself. The technical team went there, inspected and found that there was a tyre burst. There were seven passengers and four crew members. All of them were safely deboarded and brought to the terminal. All were safe,” he explained. There was no damage to the aircraft except the tyre burst. It took nearly four hours for the technical staff and crew of the Indigo flight to remove the aircraft from the runway and bring it to the old apron. “We made use of disaster management equipment and managed to bring it to the apron, around 500 metres from the runway. We cleared the runway at 2.20 a.m. so that the morning flights could resume services as scheduled.” Mr. Thakre said that the technical staff of Indigo Airlines reached Hubballi on Tuesday and they were running maintenance checks on the aircraft. According to sources, 18 passengers from Hubballi were supposed to board the Indigo flight to Bengaluru from Hubballi, but the flight was cancelled following the mishap. In March 2015 , passengers of a SpiceJet aircraft had a narrow escape after the aircraft skidded off the tarmac at Hubballi airport. Subsequently, a DGCA team visited the airport for inspection and inquiry. Thereafter, in the last few years, various upgrades have been taken up, including the widening of the runway to accommodate Airbus-like aircraft to land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/indigo-flight-reports-tyre-burst-at-hubballi/article34825898.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Global arbitration centre in Hyderabad is my dream: CJI||An International Arbitration Centre (IAC) in Hyderabad will be a reality if the Telangana government is ready to provide infrastructural facilities, said Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Tuesday. The CJI, in an informal chat with Telangana High Court legal correspondents at Raj Bhavan here, said bringing IAC to Hyderabad was his dream. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao had agreed to create all facilities required to set it up in Hyderabad. One such centre is already operational in Singapore. The CJI, who was in Hyderabad on a three-day visit to the State, explained that he had held consultations with Singapore Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon during the latter’s recent visit to Delhi. It would require the constitution of a panel of international arbitrators. The reputation of the international arbitrators would be an important ensuring the successful operation of the Centre, the CJI said. A Supreme Court judge would be asked to coordinate with the international arbitrators, the Singapore Chief Justice and the Telangana government in establishing the IAC at Hyderabad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/global-arbitration-centre-in-hyderabad-is-my-dream-cji/article34825894.ece
16 June 2021||Kadapa,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man shoots dead relative, self||One person was shot dead allegedly over a property dispute, while the accused too reportedly shot himself dead in Kadapa district on Tuesday. According to sources, Parthasarathy Reddy (48) allegedly had a protracted property battle with his relative Sivaprasad Reddy (62), a resident of Nallapureddypalle village, falling under Pulivendula Urban police limits. Both the families were reportedly involved in brawls in the past owing to the dispute. On Tuesday, Parthasarathy Reddy, who has been reportedly nursing a grudge against the family, lunged at Sivaprasad Reddy’s son and allegedly tried to attack him with a sickle. Retaliating swiftly, Sivaprasad Reddy fired at him with his licensed pistol, killing him on the spot. Within 30 minutes of the incident, Sivaprasad also allegedly shot himself dead. Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan told the media that the two families not only had family disputes, but also vied for the coveted MPTC post in the recent past. The Pulivendula Urban police rushed to the village and launched an investigation. The bodies were sent for post-mortem. Apart from property dispute, political oneupmanship between the two families is allegedly said to have led to the crime.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-shoots-dead-relative-self/article34826535.ece
16 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viveka’s daughter seeks police protection||Y.S. Sunitha Reddy, first cousin of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the daughter of former Member of Parliament Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, has sought police protection, citing threat to her and her family members. A medical practitioner by profession, Ms. Sunitha Reddy met Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan in Kadapa on Tuesday and submitted him a formal request. “The district administration has received a request seeking police protection from Ms. Sunitha Reddy and has agreed to look into it positively,” Mr. Anburajan confirmed to this newspaper. This assumes significance in the wake of the ongoing probe into the murder of Vivekananda Reddy by the CBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vivekas-daughter-seeks-police-protection/article34826549.ece
16 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested for trying to hand over money to Maoists||Three persons were arrested on Tuesday while they were allegedly on their way to handover nearly Rs. 4 lakh to the Maoists in the Pillavai forest area of Konta in Chhattisgarh. The accused were allegedly couriers of the Konta, Kistaram and Gollapalli area committees of the banned CPI(Maoist), which were active on the Andhra-Chhattisgarh border. “The accused have been identified as Shaik Shamauddin, Sode Raju and Sonde Mudranu belonging to the Chintoor Agency. They have confessed that they collected the money from a tendu leaf contractor on the directions of the Maoists,” Chintoor DSP Khadar Basha said in a release. Based on an Intelligence report, they were caught while they were on the way to their destination on three bikes on the State border in Chintoor mandal. “The money collected from the contractor is reportedly meant to procure explosives. Cases have been registered against the accused. Investigation is on,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-arrested-for-trying-to-hand-over-money-to-maoists/article34826540.ece
16 June 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATS recovers one more gelatin stick from Pathanapuram||The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Kerala Police on Tuesday recovered one more gelatin stick from a cashew plantation in Pathanapuram where explosives and detonators were found. The Pathanapuram police have been combing the area since the stash was discovered by forest beat officers on Monday. The rain-drenched explosives were found inside a cashew plantation under the Forest Development Corporation at Padam, near the Kollam-Pathanamthitta border. Deputy Inspector General of Police Sanjay Kumar Gurudin, who visited the site on Tuesday, said the police were investigating all possible angles. “A thorough search was conducted in the area with the help of the dog squad and the Bomb Disposal and Detection Squad (BDDS),” said Mr. Gurudin. Search planned The Pathanapuram police had recovered two gelatin sticks, detonators, battery and wire from the plantation. According to them, these types of explosives are usually used for blasting operations in quarries. “But currently we have no idea how the explosives ended up in the forest. We have already initiated a probe to track the manufacturers of the gelatin sticks. We are planning to search the entire forest region in the coming days,” said Punalur Deputy Superintendent of Police Santhosh Kumar. Though there are unconfirmed reports about the forest areas in Kollam-Pathanamthitta border being used by some extremist groups to conduct training camps and the Kerala Police receiving information regarding the same from the Tamil Nadu Q Branch, the officials said they could not find any evidence to corroborate that. “We had received such information during the Assembly elections and we verified it. We could not find any evidence of any such training, but we are not totally overruling it,” said Mr. Gurudin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ats-recovers-one-more-gelatin-stick-from-pathanapuram/article34825903.ece
16 June 2021||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP demands scrapping of SSC, Intermediate exams||Telugu Desam Party leaders on Tuesday demanded immediate cancellation of the proposed SSC and Intermediate examinations as they said it would put not only the students but also their families at risk. They feared that with over 15 lakh students writing examinations in closed rooms, the event might turn into a super-spreader. At a press conference here on Tuesday, TDP-affiliated student wing Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) said at a time when the State government was implementing curfew and penalising people for coming onto the streets, how can the State government go ahead with conducting examinations, questioned TNSF Kurnool General Secretary Boggula Praveen. How can students in such large numbers be allowed to come onto the streets and assemble in large numbers at examination centres, he questioned.  “Experts from the medical field are expressing their apprehension that children could be the worst-affected, should there be a third wave. We demand cancellation of both the examinations and declaring all students to have passed the examination,” Mr. Praveen said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-demands-scrapping-of-ssc-intermediate-exams/article34825949.ece
16 June 2021||Madurai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Honoured for ending period poverty||On Saturday, 21-year-old Amika George was honoured as a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) for services to education. As her extended family, spread across Kumplampoika, Kozencherry and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, celebrated the news, she told The Hindu that the honour was a brilliant indication that young people were being taken seriously as players with real power to enact change when they see injustices. Ms. George, who crusades for free hygiene products for girls living in poverty with no access to menstrual products, is from Edgware in North West London, and is currently pursuing the study of Indian colonial history at Cambridge University. At 17, she read a newspaper article about young school and college girls in the U.K. missing up to a week’s classes every month because they could not afford to buy sanitary products. “It seemed unfair that a natural biological process was responsible for girls falling behind. To imagine being absent from school hit me,” she said in an e-mail interview. The thought that these girls were no different from her except for their financial circumstances made Ms. George start a ‘Free Periods’ petition in April 2017, seeking government intervention. It met with an unexpected response. She was flooded with emails from girls from Asian communities and other ethnic backgrounds, who told her their families struggled to afford two square meals and they knew there wasn’t money for sanitary napkins. In particular, she remembered one girl who wrote that every month, she searched her parents’ wallets or behind boxes and sofas for coins to buy pads and felt embarrassed asking for help or talking about periods to her friends. “The taboo was still deeply entrenched and I felt angry that girls were being overlooked. It fuelled my determination to take the campaign to a meaningful completion,” she said. When her petition attracted 1,80,000 signatures, Ms. George was inspired to lead a protest outside the British Prime Minister’s residence on Downing Street on December 20, 2017. She kept demanding change through media interviews and school visits, even though nothing tangible happened. She then launched a not-for-profit organisation, Free Periods, in January 2019 to persuade the U.K. government to pay for menstrual products. Last March, the Chancellor announced special funds for every school and college in England for period products for all students, with monitoring of supplies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/honoured-for-ending-period-poverty/article34825912.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC closes trial against Italian marines||The Supreme Court on Tuesday ordered the closure of court proceedings in India against the two Italian marines who allegedly killed two fishermen off the Kerala coast after mistaking them for pirates in 2012. A Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M.R. Shah agreed to the Union government’s plea to stop the criminal trial and other proceedings against Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre, detailed on vessel Enrica Lexie, following a decision of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS) in May last year that the duo would be tried in Italy. The court recorded that Italy had transferred Rs. 10 crore to India as compensation to the fishermen’s families. The families have given their consent. The money has already been transferred to the Supreme Court Registry by the Ministry of External Affairs. “We are satisfied that the compensation of Rs. 10 crore, over and above the ex-gratia amount already paid to the heirs of the deceased fishermen, can be said to be a reasonable amount of compensation...”, the court recorded in a 11-page order. Justice Shah, who read out the order, concluded that this was a “fit case to close all proceedings in India”. The Bench ordered the amount to be transferred from the Supreme Court Registry to the Kerala High Court. The apex court asked the Chief Justice of the Kerala High Court to nominate a judge to hear the fishermen’s families and disburse/invest Rs. 4 crore each to their rightful legal heirs. It said care should be taken that the money reached the heirs and was not “diverted” into wrong hands. “While disbursing the amount of compensation to the heirs, i.e., Rs. 4 crores each, their [heirs] interest is required to be protected so that the amount of compensation paid to them is not frittered away,” the court noted. It suggested investing the money in the name of the dependents/heirs of the deceased in a fixed deposit in a nationalised bank for some time. The balance Rs. 2 crore, the court ordered, would be paid to the owner of the fishing boat that came under attack from the marines. It urged Italy to resume the criminal proceedings against the marines in compliance with the U.N. tribunal. The court also asked Italy, India and the State of Kerala to cooperate with each other to bring justice in the case. On April 9, the court told the Union government that it would consider passing an order to quash the criminal proceedings only after Italy deposited Rs. 10 crore as compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sc-closes-trial-against-italian-marines/article34825910.ece
16 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||729 new cases in South Coastal A.P.||After reporting 389 cases on Monday, the daily tally doubled on Tuesday as 729 persons tested positive in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh. But as recoveries continued to outnumber new infections, the active caseload came down by about 700 when compared to the previous day. The overall coronavirus case tally increased to more than 2.39 lakh. Six more patients succumbed to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. The toll crossed the 1,750-mark as 878 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 873 in Prakasam district died of COVID so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As many as 1,432 patients recovered in the region during the period as against over 1,800 patients who got cured on the previous day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/729-new-cases-in-south-coastal-ap/article34826533.ece
16 June 2021||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic curve flattening in the district, says Collector||The district recorded fewer than 350 COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Tuesday, with Collector V. Vinay Chand saying that these are indications of the pandemic curve flattening in the district. “Since June 1, the district has been seeing a sharp decline in cases, which was witnessing a daily average of over 2,000 cases in May. We are expecting a sharper decline in cases,” Mr. Vinay Chand told The Hindu . “As of now, the positivity rate, which soared above 25%, is around 5-6% and we are expecting it to drop to 1% by June 20,” he added. Meanwhile, over 10,000 people are being tested every day.“In the district, we are currently operating around 160 testing centres, including 36 in the Agency, 47 in rural, 72 in GVMC limits and six in Narsipatnam and Yelamanchili,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. As part of the focussed testing, the district administration has reportedly scaled up testing in areas where positivity has been high. “The goal is to test and isolate all who are being identified through the fever survey, those who are symptomatic and contacts of all those who have tested positive or have died due to COVID. While in rural and Agency areas the testing is being done through rapid antigen, RT-PCR is being used in urban areas. The testing is followed by a closely-monitored isolation process,” he said. While a large number of hospitals have been de-notified, the district is still maintaining 3,400 oxygenated beds with 800 ICU beds.  Black fungus To tackle black fungus cases, the district administration has identified 1,000 beds, including 500 in the private sector. The entire ENT hospital with 150 beds has been earmarked for black fungus cases, said Mr. Vinay Chand. Meanwhile, in the last 24 hours, the district recorded 339 fresh COVID-19 infections, taking the total cases to 1,46,137. The district also recorded four deaths, taking the total death toll to 992. During the same period, 686 persons who were earlier infected by the virus and were under treatment at various hospitals, COVID Care Centres and at homes, have recovered, taking the recoveries to 1,39,945. Active cases have further dropped to 5,200.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pandemic-curve-flattening-in-the-district-says-collector/article34826564.ece
16 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala to wind down curbs cautiously||Kerala reported 12,246 new cases on Tuesday when 1,04,120 samples were tested. The days’s test positivity rate (TPR) was 11.76%. The State’s active cases dropped to 1,12,361. The cumulative COVID-19 case fatality touched 11,508, with 166 recent deaths added to the official list. Ernakulam district reported the maximum new cases with 1,702, Kollam 1,597, Thiruvananthapuram 1,567, Thrissur 1,095, Malappuram 1,072, Palakkad 1,066, Alappuzha 887, Kozhikode 819, Kannur 547, Idukki 487, Pathanamthitta 480, Kottayam 442, Kasaragod 301 and Wayanad 184 cases. Restrictions eased Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said a cautious winding down of lockdown restrictions would take place from June 17. The relaxation would depend on the TPR in the concerned ward, panchayat, Municipality or Corporation. Mr. Vijayan said the State would shut down entirely on the weekend. He did not discount the possibility of a third-wave from a fast-mutating virus. The key to defeating the pandemic was to show no complacency in observing regulations, he said. Schools, colleges, temples, mosques, churches and places of worship would remain shut. So would shopping malls, cinema theatres, indoor stadiums, gymnasiums and beauty parlours. Outdoor sports, and games with low scope for physical contact were allowed. Walking circuits, parks, weekend destinations would remain closed. The ban on inter-district travel would continue. The government lifted curbs on retail trade-in localities where the weekly average TPR hovered below 8%. Transport buses, autorickshaws and taxi cabs could operate minimal services. Not more than 20 persons should attend weddings, funerals or social functions. Tourism would not open. Andhra Pradesh reported 53 deaths and 5,741 new infections on Tuesday, raising the death toll to 12,052. The last 1,000 deaths occurred in the past two weeks. During the second wave, over 4,880 deaths occurred. Active cases were 75,134. The daily TPR of 96,153 samples was 5.97%. Chittoor reported 12 new deaths, and other districts not more than six. Telangana recorded 1,556 new cases after 1,20,043 tests on Tuesday. Another 14 deaths were also reported. The highest number of 182 cases were from Greater Hyderabad. In Karnataka, Bengaluru Urban reported a low 985 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. Overall, the State reported 5,041 new cases. With 115 deaths, the toll rose to 33,148.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-set-to-wind-down-curbs-cautiously/article34825906.ece
16 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UAE extends flight ban till July 6||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has prolonged its suspension of flight services from India to seven emirates till July 6. The movement of passengers, excluding UAE nationals, diplomats, and holders of the UAE golden visa, to Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Umm al-Qaiwain, Fujairah, Ajman, and Ra's al-Khaimah from India has also been suspended till July 6 for now. “The General Authority of Civil Aviation, UAE, has suspended all inbound passenger movement to the UAE from India, (excluding UAE nationals) till 6th July 2021,” Air India Express said in a tweet. Air India Express has said passengers who had booked to travel in that period can reschedule their tickets.The extension of the ban on fight operations to India is in view of the prevailing situation due to COVID-19. The ban is applicable to major UAE carriers Emirates and Etihad. The ban was initially imposed on April 25 after a surge in COVID-19 cases in India and later extended to June 30. The extension of the ban has disappointed Non-Resident Indians working in the seven emirates, their families, and transit passengers moving via the hubs in the UAE. Exemption to cargo Exemption has been given to cargo flight operations between the two countries. Foreign carriers operating to India have scaled down inbound flights, as those coming will not be able to return to the UAE. Hundreds of Non-Resident Keralites working in the U.S. and the U.K., their families, students , and others will have to wait to fly via the hubs in the UAE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uae-extends-flight-ban-till-july-6/article34825895.ece
16 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to use SriVani funds for renovation of temple||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams will utilise the funds derived from Sri Venkateswara Alaya Nirmana (SriVani) Trust in the renovation of Sri Venu Gopinadha Swamy temple in Purushotamapatnam in Chilakaluripet in Guntur. The cost of the renovation works is put at Rs. 1.50 crore. The temple, more than 300 years old, is in a highly dilapidated condition demanding immediate repairs. The Endowments Department, which took cognizance of the pathetic state of the temple in a letter addressed to the TTD, authorised its Executive Officer for the release of funds under section 111 (4) (xiii) of AP Charitable and Hindu Religious institutions & Endowments Act 1987. Chilakaluripet MLA Rajini Vidadala also contacted TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and requested him for the urgent release of funds for the temple which held great significance for the local people. Initially, TTD deferred the proposal expressing its inability to entertain such recommendations at a time when the institution was wading through a severe financial crisis, but later decided to grant funds from its SriVani Trust which has seen over Rs. 100 crore donations. TTD suffered a calamitous loss in the income when the temple was closed for the public for 80 days last year due to rise in COVID cases. The TTD imposed a rider that the funds would be released to the Endowments Department in suitable installations after obtaining utilisation certificates periodically.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-to-use-srivani-funds-for-renovation-of-temple/article34826534.ece
16 June 2021||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mangoes pile up in Chittoor, even as prices remain low||Mango stock meant for pulp units is steadily piling up at regional markets in Chittoor district. The mango plantations are spread across 1.1 lakh hectares in the horticulture-rich district, where around five lakh metric tonnes of the fruit is ferried to juice and pulp-making units. Though the ‘end of season’ for table varieties like Benishan, Khader and Sindhura is fast approaching, the Totapuri variety is ready for harvest, which goes on till mid-July. The sale of table varieties has taken a severe beating, thanks to the partial lockdown and the curfew prevalent in various States due to the COVID-19 situation. The government has conducted four rounds of meetings with farmers as well as the consortium of pulp units so far this season. Collector M. Hari Narayanan visited Puttur and Bangarupalyam markets to interact with the ‘mandi’ traders as well as the farmers. “We are closely monitoring the situation and there is no sign of distress sale as of now. Farmers need not get jittery and resort to knee-jerk harvest of unripe fruits. We urge them to wait for the right time by consulting their horticulture officer,” Mr. Hari Narayanan told The Hindu . Bulk buyers visiting Tirupati are also encouraged to buy from hinterland markets like Pakala and Puttur, he said. Though farmers who are part of the Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) have a collective bargaining power while dealing with the units, individual farmers depending on mandis stand to lose out. “Mandi owners trading for just three months get richer every year, but the farmers toiling for an entire year end up as paupers,” rued M. Vijayababu, a senior journalist and founder of voluntary organisation ‘Sahachara’. He squarely blamed the system where farmers are kept in the dark vis-a-vis the procurement price at the factories, resulting in exploitation by the middlemen. Factories offer Rs. 10.60 at their gate, but farmers are paid a mere Rs. 8 per kilo. “Akin to the poultry industry, the government should announce the prevailing rate on a daily basis,” he suggested. What makes the unprepared farmers shy away from factories is the compulsory registration and other procedural hassles, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mangoes-pile-up-in-chittoor-even-as-prices-remain-low/article34825945.ece
16 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Student reaps rich harvest of Vedic knowhow||The harvest is huge not only in terms of quantity, but also in the use of ancient practice adopted by this young farmer. Kautilya Krishnan, a student of M.A. Yajurveda at National Sanskrit University, Tirupati, has achieved the rare distinction of mastering his studies as well as Vedic agricultural practices. The founder of ‘Krishi Bharatham’ has successfully harvested a bumper yield of 40 quintals of black rice (Krishna Vrihi) in two acres by undertaking farming experiments mentioned in the Vedas. Endowed with nutritional values, the rice variety is in great demand in the national and international markets. The young farmer has been successfully doing Vedic farming for several years now without using chemicals. His method stands as an example of clean farming practice, which has left his two-acre black rice field in Kasimpeta village of Karimnagar district (Telangana) pristine and fertile.  ‘Agnihotra’ ashes “Milk, honey, manure, along with ‘Agnihotra’ ashes were used to fulfil the norms of achieving Krishna Vrihi crop as per the method mentioned in Yajurveda”, says Mr. Krishnan. The seed was selected based on the yardstick prescribed in ‘Sushruta Samhita’ and the farming methodology was implemented in tune with ‘Vrukshayurveda’ and ‘Krishi Parashara’, considered the doctrine of ancient plant sciences. While Telangana’s Department of Agriculture had been extending assistance to the young farmer, Karimnagar Collector K. Shashanka also visited his farm to express support to the agricultural practice employed by him. The central university’s Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma, who encouraged him to pursue the ancient farming method, showered laurels on him and the Department of Veda Bhashyam for the accomplishment. Mr. Krishnan propagates the time-tested technique to the local farmers not just to keep the ancient practice alive, but also to boost their morale and improve their economic standing, as this premium variety fetches higher returns. “The price of black rice on Amazon retail portal ranges from Rs. 800 to Rs. 2,000 per kg”, he adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/student-reaps-rich-harvest-of-vedic-knowhow/article34825943.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA to protest violence against doctors in State||As part of the nationwide protest, the Indian Medical Association, AP chapter and its members will protest the violence against doctors on June 18 across the State. IMA-AP president Dr. N. Subrahmanyam, president-elect, IMA COVID Task Force convener Dr. C. Srinivasa Raju and State secretary Dr. G. Nanda Kishore in a release on Tuesday stated that all medical personnel will stage demonstrations in protest against attacks on doctors and a verbal tirade by Baba Ramdev against government-sponsored pandemic programmes like vaccination, COVID management and demeaning of modern medicine. “We will gather in front of our hospitals along with our staff wearing a black dress, black flags with placards reading 'save the saviour,” they said. However, considering the pandemic crisis, no services would be affected or withdrawn due to the protest, they said. IMA appeals to State and Central governments to recognise the doctors who died of COVID-19 after contracting the virus in the line of duty and award solatium to their families under PMGKP and stop violence against doctors by the promulgation of Health Services Personnel & Clinical Establishments (Prohibition of Violence & Damage to Property) Act, and mandatory security structure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-ap-to-protest-violence-against-doctors-on-june-18/article34825946.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID death toll crosses 12,000 in State||The State reported 53 deaths due to COVID and 5,741 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. The death toll crossed the 12,000-mark and reached 12,052 with a death rate of 0.66%. The last thousand deaths occurred in the past two weeks and during the second wave since March 1, over 4,880 deaths occurred in the State. The death rate in the second wave was 0.52% and the same in the first wave was 0.80%. The cumulative infection tally reached 18,20,134 and the number of active cases came down to 75,134.  The recovery rate crossed 95% after two months as the total recoveries increased to 17,32,948 including 10,567 recoveries in the past day.   The daily positivity rate of the 96,153 samples tested in the past day was 5.97% and that of 2.06 crore samples tested so far was 8.82%. Chittoor reported 12 new deaths, the highest toll, while all other districts reported not more than half of the former’s toll. East Godavari reported six deaths in the past day while Kadapa, Krishna, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported four new deaths each. Anantapur, West Godavari and Guntur reported three new deaths and Kurnool, Nellore and Vizianagaram reported two new deaths. East Godavari and Chittoor reported 831 and 830 new infections the past day respectively. They were followed by West Godavari (703), Krishna (463), Prakasam (463), Srikakulam (428), Guntur (385), Anantapur (353), Visakhapatnam (339), Kadapa (325), Nellore (266), Vizianagaram (225) and Kurnool (130). The cumulative tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,49,297), Chittoor (2,09,808), Guntur (1,57,948), West Godavari (1,52,890), Anantapur (1,50,219), Visakhapatnam (1,45,625), Nellore (1,23,778), Kurnool (1,19,833), Prakasam (1,15,748), Srikakulam (1,15,125), Kadapa (1,02,352), Krishna (96,316) and Vizianagaram (78,300).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-death-toll-crosses-12000-in-state/article34826542.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tardy pace’ of works under Jal Jeevan Mission irks Minister||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has expressed his dissatisfaction over the tardy progress of works under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Addressing a workshop on Tuesday, he said it was planned to take up works at a cost of Rs. 7,251.72 crore. “But, the officials have failed to prepare action plan for the same,” the Minister said. “The inordinate delay in inviting tenders is creating problems at many places. Negligence is hampering the process. It is also alleged that delay in the execution of works immediately after finalisation of tenders is leading to suspension of works. The contractors are not taking up the works due to rise in diesel, steel and cement prices ,” he said. Lack of planning was evident, the Minister said, and advised the officials to approach the sarpanches and MLAs to address problems if any. “The onus of utilising the funds in an optimal way lies on the Rural Water Supply officials,” Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said, and added that a review would be conducted once in three months hereafter. “Officials neglecting their duties would be taken to task”, he warned. The Minister said that the RWS department should supply water for construction works in the Jagananna colonies. “For the first time in the country, 30 lakh house site pattas have been distributed and 15 lakh houses are being built. It is the responsibility of the RWS officials to supply water for the construction work. About 8,000 Jagananna Colonies are being developed across the State. Of these, 3,772 layouts have water facility. Steps have to be taken to supply water to the rest,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tardy-pace-of-works-under-jal-jeevan-mission-irks-minister/article34826551.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. believes English medium at UG level will help students||The State government has decided to make English medium compulsory in all degree colleges from 2021-22 academic year. According to a release, the Department of Higher Education is of the view that introduction of English medium at the undergraduate level will enhance the career prospects of the students. Only 65,981 of the total 2.62 lakh students admitted in degree colleges in the State in 2020-21 were from the Telugu medium background. Among them, 24,007 students enrolled themselves for B.Com, 16,925 for BA, and 24,960 for B.Sc courses. Citing a 2016 report of Cambridge University titled ‘Findings of English at Work: Global Analysis of Language Skills in Workplace’, the authorities say that it highlights that around 90% of employers in India say that English language skills are important to work in their organisation. Career growth The statement points out that a majority of the B.Sc students take up jobs across the country and abroad. Proficiency in English language will open up new avenues for them. Besides journalism and research, a large number of BA graduates prefer sales and marketing fields. As the firms prefer multi-lingual candidates, with an emphasis on English, it is essential for students to pursue their UG in English medium, say the officials. In the case of B. Com students, the job industry has become highly dynamic, and algorithm/software-oriented. Knowledge of English language will serve as a powerful tool for a successful career, they say. The public sector recruitment process held through the UPSC, APPSC, SSC, BSRB also tests the language proficiency. Transition from Telugu to English medium at the degree level will be easier than at the PG level, and studying market-oriented programmes in degree in Telugu medium is difficult as the reference material is available in English. Revised curriculum To facilitate a smooth transition, the Department of Higher Education has introduced courses in personality development and leadership, and human values and professional ethics. The curriculum has been revised with mandatory internship for 10 months and spoken English courses at levels 1, 2 and 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/english-medium-at-ug-level-to-be-compulsory/article34825907.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drivers given Rs. 759 cr. under Vahana Mitra||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao said that the YSRCP government has disbursed Rs. 759 crore towards the YSR Vahana Mitra scheme in three phases benefiting lakhs of auto-rickshaw and cab drivers across the State. Mr. Rao, along with Collector J. Nivas and other elected representatives, attended the launch programme via video-conference and handed over cheques amounting to Rs. 26.35 crore to the district administration for disbursal of Rs. 10,000 each to 26,358 drivers in the district on Tuesday. The Minister said that the government launched the scheme in 2019 to fulfil the promise of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy made to drivers of cabs and auto-rickshaws during his padayatra. He said the financial aid of Rs. 10,000 to the drivers will help them meet requirements like vehicle maintenance and insurance. Collector Mr. Nivas said that there are 26,358 beneficiaries in the district and 4,622 of them are new beneficiaries. He said the Gannavaram Assembly constituency has 2,522 beneficiaries, the highest in the district. He asked drivers to make the best use of the financial aid by maintaining their vehicles and following traffic rules mandatorily.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drivers-given-rs-759-cr-under-vahana-mitra/article34826531.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Selected candidates’ list on APPSC website||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has displayed on its website www.psc.ap.gov.in the list of candidates provisionally admitted for verification of original certificates and oral test (interview) for the posts of Assistant BC Welfare Officer in AP BC Welfare Service, Assistant Social Welfare Officer in AP Social Welfare Service and Assistant Tribal Welfare Officer in AP Tribal Welfare Service. In a statement on Tuesday, Commission Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the verification of original certificates followed by the interview would be held in the Commission office located opposite Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in Vijayawada. The exact schedule and dates of the interview would be placed on the Commission website on a later date. Individual call letters also would be sent to the candidates, Mr. Anjaneyulu said in the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/selected-candidates-list-on-appsc-website/article34825952.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Drop in COVID cases gives hope for holding exams’||Education Minister A. Suresh on Tuesday said going by the subsiding COVID cases, conducting Intermediate exams in the first week and 10th Class Board exams in the last week of July seemed like a possibility. Speaking to reporters, the Minister pointed to the fact that Iintermediate marks were given weightage in EAMCET exams and said, “It takes no time and effort to declare the exams cancelled. But we are more concerned about the students' future.” The Minister said the issue would be discussed with the Chief Minister on Thursday before arriving at a decision.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drop-in-covid-cases-gives-hope-for-holding-exams/article34826552.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-day protest against tax hike||The Andhra Pradesh Urban Citizens Federation (APUCF) would organise two-day Statewide protests against the hike in property taxes from June 16. Federation State convener Ch. Babu Rao, on Tuesday, said that the protests were being organised against the State and Central governments. Drinking water, drainage cess, and user charges on garbage collection are issues that would be highlighted in the protests. The government issued GOs 196, 197, and 198 hiking the taxes. The federation said it will organise protests near all ward secretariats in cities and towns demanding that the government withdraw the GOs. In view of the COVID pandemic, the government is requested to roll back the hike, he said. Plans have been chalked out to create awareness through social media platforms. People irrespective of political affiliation are urged to take part in the agitation, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-day-protest-against-tax-hike/article34825951.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna logs 463 new COVID cases||Krishna district reported 463 new COVID-19 infections and four deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning. According to a bulletin issued by the district administration, Nuzvid division reported 170 cases while the Vijayawada division excluding VMC limits reported 104 cases. As many as 79 cases were reported in Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits and 63 were reported from Bandar division. During the past three days, the district saw 1,113 infections of which 421 were reported from Nuzvid division while Vijayawada reported only 165 cases. There are 6,251 active cases in the district as of Tuesday and the total caseload is 95,853. The death toll stands at 1,041.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krishna-logs-463-new-covid-cases/article34826530.ece
16 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commercial Taxes officer selected for national award||Commercial Taxes Department Deputy Assistant Commissioner B.B. Venkateswara Rao has been selected for the prestigious ‘Dr. B.R. Ambedkar National Award 2020-21’ by the Central government in the Social Services category on Tuesday. Mr. Rao was involved in many social service activities in Bodapadu, a village in Krishna district, through Yuva Chaitanya Sports, Games and Cultural committee which was founded by him in 1990s. Mr. Rao said with the help of political leaders and officers, community hall, function hall, pucca houses and basic amenities were developed in the village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commercial-taxes-officer-selected-for-national-award/article34826532.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC second council meet on June 23 likely to be stormy||As the number of COVID-19 cases have been gradually declining in the city, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has decided to organise the corporation's second council meeting on June 23. Amid COVID-19 situation, the officials are planning to take additional precautions at the venue, GVMC Council Hall, and also reduce the duration of the meeting from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. The GVMC is preparing a 125-point agenda for the meet, including renewal and extension of various outsourcing staff. The agenda also includes proposals of works related to sewage treatment plants (STPs), Underground Drainage (UGD) works, development works at Arilova and procurement of stationery for various departments. The first council meet of the GVMC, which was held on March 9, was a stormy affair as all the Opposition parties, including the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Jana Sena Party and Left parties, raised voice and demanded that the council adopt a resolution against privatisation of the Visakahapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The second meet is likely to be more intense as the Opposition parties have been planning to protest against the proposal to levy property tax according to the market value. “We will strongly demand that the council cancel the draft notification regarding property tax hike which was released by the GVMC recently. First of all, the GVMC should not release such a notification without even discussing in the council,” said Corporator of Ward No. 78, and CPI(M) leader B. Ganga Rao. He said that ahead of the council meet, the CPI(M) would submit a representation to the Mayor regarding it. Telugu Desam Party(TDP) leaders are also planning to oppose the move at the meet. “First of all the government should give a clarity on quantum of the hike. Moreover, it is not at all good to introduce such hike during the COVID-19 pandemic when people are suffering,” said Corporator of Ward No. 86, L. Koteswara Rao, from the party. The Opposition parties will also be seeking discussion on the proposed charges on garbage collection in the corporation. Several corporators are likely to ask officials to prepare for the anticipated COVID-19 third wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gvmc-second-council-meet-on-june-23-likely-to-be-stormy/article34826558.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steel plant trade unions to go on 24-hour strike on June 29||All trade unions of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant(VSP) have served a strike notice on the management of RINL-VSP on Tuesday threatening to go on 24-hour strike on June 29 for the achievement of their demands. In a statement on Tuesday, the trade union leaders noted that the wage revision of the workers of SAIL and RINL have fallen due for more than 46 months and they had waited patiently for the bipartite wage revision talks to commence. Workers, both permanent and contract, had contributed to the economic turnaround when the national economy was down due to the COVID-19 pandemic, they said. The other demands of the workers include: stoppage of strategic sale of RINL-VSP, the Minimum Guaranteed Benefit (MGB) should not be less than 15%, payment of full arrears of wage revision of January 1, 2017, treatment of death due to COVID-19 as death in the course of employment for both permanent and contract workers and compassionate recruitment should be provided and full implementation of all the provisions of the last wage agreement on pension contribution from January 1, 2012.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/steel-plant-trade-unions-to-go-on-24-hour-strike-on-june-29/article34826557.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||United struggle will prevent privatisation of steel plant: CITU||The unity among trade unions, people’s organisations, youth, women and intellectuals and the support being extended by all political parties, will save Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) from the privatisation plan of the Centre, said Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Pendurthy zone president Sankar Rao. Addressing the participants on the 75th day of the relay hunger strike organised at the Gandhi statue here on Tuesday, the CITU leader alleged that a lot of false propaganda was being done on the VSP. He said that despite non-allocation of captive mines, the VSP was now getting profits. Allocation of captive mines would help it in getting much higher profits, he added. Mr. Sankar Rao alleged that the Centre was deliberately not allocating captive mines with the intention of privatising the plant. The VSP, which has 32,000 employees, was producing 7.3 million tonnes of steel. On the other hand, the South Korean steel company POSCO was producing 40 million tonnes, employing a mere 4,000 persons. Handing over of the VSP to corporate groups would result in employees losing their jobs and future generations would lose their employment potential, he said. CITU Pendurthy zone leaders Babu Rao, Ramu Naidu, Bangaru Naidu, D. Krishna and Srinu were among those who participated in the protest. Meanwhile, Mayor Golagani Hari Venkata Kumari visited the relay hunger strike camp being organised by various trade unions and workers, seeking continuation of the VSP in the public sector, at Kurmannapalem on Tuesday and expressed solidarity with the striking workers. CPI(M) leader and 78th Ward Corporator said in a statement that the Mayor had announced that a protest would be held along with all the 98 corporators of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/united-struggle-will-prevent-privatisation-of-steel-plant-citu/article34826555.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Contract workers’ stir hits garbage collection||Door-to-door garbage collection and clearing of garbage in colonies were severely affected at many parts of the city as the sanitary staff/workers (contract) of the corporation continued their strike on the second day demanding that the government address their demands, here on Tuesday. The sanitary workers with the support of members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) have been staging protests at various parts of the city in the form of rallies. After staging a protest near GVMC building on Monday, the workers conducted an agitation at the Collectorate here on Tuesday. The sanitary staff demanded that the government release their pending salaries and health allowances immediately. Due to the COVID-19, they also demanded that the State government provide safety gear and also sought jobs to the family members of those workers who have lost their lives. They alleged that despite submitting representations to the officials a number of times, their demands were never solved. Meanwhile, dumper bins at many colonies were seen overflowing and emanating bad odour in surroundings. The protesters have also tried to stop GVMC sanitary vehicles near Zone VI and asked permanent workers to support their cause. As situation turned tense, GVMC Additional Commissioner V Sanyasi Rao reached the spot and convinced protesters to allow the vehicles. “Yes there were a few issues, but the GVMC has made alternative arrangements to ensure that people are not put to discomfort. About 1,000 permanent workers have been clearing the dumper bins from most of the areas,” Mr. Sanyasi Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/contract-workers-stir-hits-garbage-collection/article34826562.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to former AU Prof.||Rich tributes were paid to Ila Rao (91), former Head of the Department of English, Andhra University, who passed away on Monday night by several academicians and her former students. She is survived by her daughter Gayatri Rao and son Naren Rao. Her husband Col. T.V. Rama Rao died more than a decade ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-former-au-prof/article34826556.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||17-year-old ‘ends life’ after mom refuses to buy pet dog||A 17-year-old youth allegedly ended his life due to depression after his mother refused to buy him a pet dog, at Venkateswara Metta area in Allipuram under II Town police station limits, here on Monday evening. The deceased was identified as K. Shanmukh Vamsi (17), an Intermediate second-year student. According to the police, Shanmukh Vamsi allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in a room when his mother was not in the house. Family members of the victim are shocked as Shanmukh Vamsi's father had passed away about a week ago, due to some health issues. Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/17-year-old-ends-life-after-mom-refuses-to-buy-pet-dog/article34826559.ece
16 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VARWA, NIVAS stage protest against tax proposal||Members of Visakhapatnam Apartment Resident Welfare Association (VARWA) and Visakha Residential Colony Associations’ Federation (NIVAS) staged a protest at Alluri Seetarama Raju Statue, Seethammadhara, here on Tuesday, against the proposed property tax hike. The members alleged that the property tax will be increased by five to six times if the contents of the draft notification of the GVMC which was recently released are implemented. They also demanded a debate on the issues of property tax and garbage tax at the GVMC council meet slated on June 23. VARWA president N. Prakash Rao, General Secretary B.B. Ganesh, NIVAS leader from KRM Colony, J.P. Sarma and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/varwa-nivas-stage-protest-against-tax-proposal/article34826560.ece
16 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ashok prays at Pydithalli temple||P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju is expected to take over as chairman of the Maharaja Alak Narayan Society of Arts and Science (MANSAS) Trust soon after studying the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s order and taking the lawyers’ opinion. Along with his daughter Aditi Gajapathi Raju, the senior TDP leader offered prayers at the Pydithalli Ammavari temple here on Tuesday. Mr. Ashok had not visited the temple in the last 14 months after his removal as chairman/ hereditary trustee of the MANSAS Trust and the Pydithalli temple, Simhachalam temple, Ramateertham temple and others. Addressing the media, Mr. Ashok said he would reveal his future plan after studying the court copy. TDP MLCs Dwarapureddi Jagadish and Gummadi Sandhya Rani, and former Saluru MLA Bhanja Deo, were with Mr. Ashok during his visit to the temple. “It is a victory for democracy and the people of the Fort City,” said party leader K. Venkata Narasinga Rao. All the institutions under the MANSAS Trust, including MR College, would soon be brought on track, said TDP leader C. Kutumba Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ashok-prays-at-pydithalli-temple/article34826547.ece
16 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCS: APCC chief wants govt. to move apex court||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath on Tuesday dared the State government to challenge the Special Category Status (SCS) issue in the Supreme Court, instead of ‘indulging in legal battles over unwanted political issues’. Mr. Sailjanath demanded that the government must drop the idea of challenging the Andhra Pradesh High Court’s decision with regard to the MANSAS Trust and Simhachalam temple in the apex court. Taking part in a programme organised to celebrate the birthday of AICC leader Rahul Gandhi, Mr. Sailajanath claimed that the then UPA government at the Centre had granted the SCS to Andhra Pradesh, but it was not implemented by the successive NDA government. “People are fed up with the skyrocketing prices of essential commodities, petrol and the misrule of the State and Union governments. The YSRCP government has ignored the real issues pertaining to the State. It should fight legally for the SCS, delay in sanctioning of funds and other issues,” said Mr. Sailajanth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scs-apcc-chief-wants-govt-to-move-apex-court/article34826548.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Starving for a break||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/starving-for-a-break/article34826554.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seeking divine help||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seeking-divine-help/article34826566.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bringing home nutrition||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bringing-home-nutrition/article34826537.ece
16 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Transformer explodes at sub-station||A major fire broke out after a transformer exploded at the Transmission Corporation of Telangana Limited (TSTRANSCO)’s 220 KV sub-station at Seetharampatnam in Palvancha mandal on Tuesday. An old transformer at the sub-station suddenly exploded with a deafening sound around 6.30 am. Fire tenders from Palvancha, Manuguru and Bhadrachalam rushed to the spot and the fire brigade personnel doused the flames after a three-hour operation, sources said. No one was injured in the incident the transformer and some other equipment at the sub-station were gutted, resulting in huge damage. Officials launched an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transformer-explodes-at-sub-station/article34826468.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Long COVID a major cause of concern’||Long COVID symptoms could be a challenge which needs to be focused on, said Randeep Guleria, director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS)-Delhi. Fatigue, dyspnea (shortness of breath), joint pains, persistent cough and chest pain were listed as some common symptoms of long COVID (post-COVID effects). Some people might suffer from extensive lung damage, stroke or myocardial damage, and need long-term rehabilitation. Delivering the keynote address at a virtual session on ‘COVID-19: Lessons learnt and future strategies’ organised by Telangana State Medical Council on Tuesday, Dr Guleria spoke about vaccines, genome sequencing and reasons for second wave among other topics. Speaking further about long-COVID, he said that it is becoming a major cause of concern. Recovery from fatigue is a slow process which needs planning, prioritisation and pacing: plan work, pace it, and prioritise so that one can return to normalcy slowly, he said. People were suggested not to get back to normal life aggressively. “Sleep hygiene is important. Some patients would need physiotherapy, rehabilitation such as deep breathing exercise, smoking cessation and dietary changes,” the AIIMS director said who added observations about Mucormycosis. He also said that mass gatherings and new Delta variant fuelled the second wave in India, and COVID management has to be aggressive since India has the second highest number of cases. Regarding vaccines, he said that future vaccines may need to be tweaked in order to provide potent protection against variants. AIG Hospitals chairman D. Nageshwar Reddy, who also took part in the session, spoke about managing long-COVID, ongoing research to know how long antibodies against coronavirus can last among people who are vaccinated, and weekly meetings to take stock of effective COVID management strategies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/long-covid-a-major-cause-of-concern/article34826437.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown: MGNREGS sees drastic drop||Workers registered for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) are a disappointed lot this year during the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. A study by the NGO Libtech India for the months of April and May this year has concluded that there was drastic drop in person-days generated by way of employment guarantee when compared with last year’s first wave. There has been a drop of 30 per cent in the work generated, as visible from the person-days coming down from 8.27 crore of last year to 5.85 crore corresponding to the two months. Only three out of the 31 districts, Medchal, Gadwal and Asifabad, clocked increase in the person-days during the two months, the study noted citing statistics from the government website. When viewed separately, the month of April showed higher employment generation when compared to the corresponding month last year. Around 17 lakh households received employment during April this year, while 15 lakh households were covered during the same month last year. A total of 3.2 crore person-days were generated in the month this year, as against 2.2 crore last year. However, the figures dropped steeply for the month of May. Only 2.6 crore person-days have been generated in the month this year, as compared to six crore person-days last year for the corresponding period. Number of households employed came down from 10 lakh to mere 4.3 lakh. More than 85 per cent village panchayats have seen a decline in person-days generated when compared with last year, the study analysed, attributing it to the local governments unilaterally halting the works. As the government laid off field assistants two years ago, there was nobody to persuade and counsel them for the works to continue. Last year during initial days of the lockdown financial schemes by the State and Central government moderated the impact of the economic crisis. This year, no such schemes have been announced, which made the employment guarantee works the only fallback option for the poorest and most vulnerable rural population, the study noted. Telangana has about 1.2 crore registered workers from 54.2 lakh families, most of whom migrate to neighbouring States for work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-mgnregs-sees-drastic-drop/article34826448.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State ready to tackle third wave, says CS||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has asserted that the government was all geared up to tackle the third wave of COVID-19 pandemic. The innovative steps taken by the State government have resulted in lower number of active cases of COVID-19 in the State as also less fatalities as compared to several other States in the country. The State had been in the forefront in the fight against COVID-19 with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao monitoring the measures that had been initiated to check the spread of the virus. He recalled how the Chief Minister had personally visited Gandhi and MGM hospitals and interacted with patients, a step that instilled confidence among the patients as well as medical fraternity. The Chief Secretary participated in a webinar organised by the Telangana State Medical Council on Tuesday. The webinar “Lessons learnt and future strategies on COVID-19” was attended among others by AIIMS-Delhi Director Randeep Guleria, Health Secretary S.A.M. Rizvi and Nageswar Reddy. He said the government had equipped the Health department with human resources, infrastructure and other systems needed to tackle the coronavirus. Tenders for LMO Steps had been initiated to equip all the beds in government hospitals with oxygen facility and sufficient tankers to move liquid medical oxygen had also been put in place. Tenders were invited for setting up LMO plants in all the government hospitals. On the vaccination drive, he said the State government had decided to vaccinate the high exposure group persons on priority with a view to ensure optimal utilisation of the vaccines provided by the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-ready-to-tackle-third-wave-says-cs/article34826441.ece
16 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Families desperate to find vaccine slots for house-helps||The race to get vaccinated against COVID-19 has moved to a more desperate phase as families hunt for slots to get house-helps, attenders, and drivers vaccinated. With limited slots available in the 18-45 age group at camps organised by the government, large drives by private hospitals have emerged as a more viable option. “In urban health centres, no slots are available and most of them are conducting vaccination for the 45+ age group. I helped book a slot for my neighbour’s house-help. Her employer paid Rs. 1,000 for it. We had to find a nearby centre,” says Sanjay Chowdhury, who lives in Anand Bagh Colony. If the vaccination camp organised by one hospital was at an international school in Gandipet, another hospital organised a camp with similar pricing at a function hall in Secunderabad. Higher rates However, the Rs. 1,000 per person for a Covishield shot is much higher than the permissible Rs. 780 that can be charged, including the maximum service charge. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had capped the rates of the vaccines on June 8 for vaccination at private centres. The highest priced vaccine was Rs. 1,410 for Covaxin, Rs. 1,145 for Sputnik-V and Rs. 780 for Covishield. To dodge the price control, hospitals are organising camps outside their premises where the recipients are ending up paying more than the fixed price. These camps don’t pop up on the CoWin app and the data is being fed after the vaccination is done as the app has an automatic price resetting mechanism in place. According to a notification by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, “The CoWin system will also reset the prices declared by private CVCs to the maximum value indicated for respective vaccines wherever the price declared by a CVC exceeds the maximum value”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/families-desperate-to-find-vaccine-slots-for-house-helps/article34826443.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Report on expired medicine at RIMS-Adilabad submitted||A report based on inquiry into the issue related to expired medicines at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, was submitted to the district collector on Tuesday. The inquiry was conducted to identify persons responsible for not discarding the expired medicines, and those who had placed the drug to be administered to the patients at the hospital. Names of people responsible were mentioned in the report. Officials were, however, tight-lipped about the names citing confidentiality.  On Monday, family members of a 68-year-old male patient admitted at the hospital alleged that a medicine vial which expired in January 2021 was placed beside the patient’s bed. They read the expiry date before it could be administered to the patient. The expired medicine vials were reportedly found beside beds of at least five more patients. Following complaints, a probe was launched by a team that included a drug inspector. Hospital Superintendent B. Balram Naik said that action against the people responsible will be taken as per government rules. In light of the embarrassing incident, the pharmacy unit at RIMS was directed to check if any more medicines which are past its expiry date were not discarded. The Superintendent said that there are no more such medicines. Heads of other government hospitals have also been directed to cross check the expiry dates of medicines in stock.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/report-on-expired-medicine-at-rims-adilabad-submitted/article34826439.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Active cases fall below 20,000 after 66 days||Telangana recorded 1,556 new cases after 1,20,043 tests were conducted during the 24-hour period till 5.30 pm on Tuesday. With this, the infection tally has reached 6,06,436. Another 14 deaths were also reported on Tuesday taking the toll to 3,510 till date. The case fatality rate in the State remains at 0.57% against 1.3% at the national level. The cumulative positivity rate in the State so far is 3.58%. According to a bulletin issued by the public health department on the status of COVID-19 infection in the State, another 2,070 infected persons were declared recovered during the day. This has pushed up the total number of recoveries so far to 5,82,993. The State’s recovery rate is now 96.13% against 95.6% at national level. Of the cases reported on Tuesday, a highest of 182 were from GHMC area followed by 135 from Nalgonda, 131 from Khammam and 114 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem districts. In 25 other districts, the positive cases were in two-digit numbers with a highest of 90 in Rangareddy and in the remaining four districts, they were in single-digit numbers with the lowest of three infections in Nirmal district. The active cases came down below 20,000 mark to 19,933 for the first time after a gap of 66 days with a total of 8,083 persons undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Active cases were below 20,000 at 17,791 last on April 10. Of those admitted in hospitals, 2,770 were occupying ventilator/ICU beds and 3,879 being assigned to oxygen beds. There were a total of 312 active micro containment zones based on the active cases in a particular area with a highest of 111 in Nalgonda district followed by 56 in Mahabubabad, 29 in Jagityal, 18 in Bhadradri-Kothagudem, 15 in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, 12 in Siddipet and 11 each in GHMC/Hyderabad and Rajanna-Sircilla. In another 10 districts, they were in single-digit numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/active-cases-fall-below-20000-after-66-days/article34826435.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water Board clarifies about 20,000-litre free water scheme||The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board has, through a press release on Tuesday, sought to issue clarification over several issues users are facing with regard to 20,000 litres of free drinking water supply. Through the note, the water board has reminded that the free water supply is applicable only to the consumers within GHMC and not to those from adjacent municipalities and corporations. A few more users are complaining about bills being issued without rebate even after linking their Aadhaar numbers with the Customer Account Number for water supply. In relation to this, the Board has clarified that only functioning meters will be given the supply. Even if there is a meter, if it is not functional, bills will be issued. With regard to multi-storied buildings and complexes, unless all the flat owners establish Aadhaar linkage, the full rebate will not be applicable to the complexes. Free supply will be given only to the extent of the flat owners who have linked their Aadhaar. As the government has allowed opportunity to link the Aadhaar between December 1 and April 30, bills for five months have been issued without penal component since May 1 for all the connections without Aadhaar linkage. Mobile app After May 1 too, the consumers with functional meters may link their Aadhaar with CAN, but the scheme will be applicable from the day of the linkage, and not before that. The board has also informed about a mobile application ‘HMWSSB 20KL Free Water Registration’ for Aadhaar linkage online, which can be downloaded from the Google Play Store.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-board-clarifies-about-20000-litre-free-water-scheme/article34826450.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Saving a Mumbai heritage tree from Hyderabad||Nearly a month after the giant 110-year-old Banyan tree was uprooted when Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai and the suburbs there are signs of fresh life with new leaves sprouting on the tree in the translocated spot in a Bandra reclaimed land. The shoots have brought a smile on the face of Vata Foundation’s founder-trustee P. Uday Krishna after a while, as he has been fighting a legal battle to save the trees marked for felling on the Gandipet road here. “Sign of new leaves in the first translocated tree has been a source of happiness for all the volunteers. We have been able to save eight trees, all of them more than 50 years and some are up to 100-years-old, with the help of the local people and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). We have another 20 identified as ‘heritage’ trees for translocation. Work has been halted because of recent rains,” he says. Citizens from Mumbai contacted him after they read about how he and his fellow volunteers successfully saved of a giant tree after it got uprooted in the Arambol beach in Goa last year. “With COVID travel restrictions I was in a dilemma, but luckily I had two volunteer friends who have moved to Mumbai — Marc Francis and Jaryd — and with their active participation, we have been able to save the huge decades--old trees,” explains Mr. Krishna. The tricky issues where some roots got cut and another tree which got arched onto a dangerous angle were successfully tackled with help of video calls. Banyan, Peltophorum, Peepal and the likes were taken up for translocation but Gulmohurs were left since roots were found to be brittle. Donations were accepted from the citizens this time as the Foundation had to employ labour and contract machinery there though permissions from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation were “quick and prompt”. “We have also been contacted by the Nagpur railway authorities to shift 4,000 trees to alternate site either of the railways or private lands as construction of a building is due. Most of the trees are 50 years or more, currently we are trying to enumerate them and our plan is to save a majority of them, if not all,” adds Mr. Krishna.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/saving-a-mumbai-heritage-tree-from-hyderabad/article34826461.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UST to hire 1,000 more for Hyderabad centre||Digital transformation solutions company — UST — plans to double the headcount at its Hyderabad centre to 2,000 within the next two years. Announcing that its workforce number here crossed the 1,000-mark, the company said it will be adding 1,000 more associates by end of 2023. UST opened a centre here, spread across 35,000 sq ft and equipped with 400 seats, in 2018 with a team of 250 employees. In 2020, the company recruited more than 500 employees through a virtual onboarding process in view of the pandemic, a release said. The company will continue to hire “rapidly and also expand the facility once the COVID-19 situation eases and associates can return to the office,” it said. Over the next 12-18 months, the Hyderabad centre will continue to add people for various roles focusing on products and services for healthcare, retail and manufacturing clients. This year, UST plans to hire professionals, including full-stack developers and automation engineers, the release said. Global head of Delivery Center Operations Sunil Balakrishnan said the Hyderabad centre is a key factor in the company’s global delivery model. Operations and the Centre Head in Hyderabad Harilal Neelakantan thanked the State government for its support and cooperation as well for enabling a harmonious environment for technology development and growth. IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said: “We are thankful for UST’s contributions to the local communities, generating employment in and around Hyderabad and its commitment to the wider State economy”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ust-to-hire-1000-more-for-hyderabad-centre/article34826440.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three arrested for murder of youth||Three persons were apprehended in connection with the murder of a 22-year-old man, Syed Zubair Ali alias Kachra Ali, a fruit vendor, on suspicion that he was a police informer. Hussaini Alam police, who are investigating the case, identified the accused as Salam Bin Abdullah Basloom (23), and Md Muzaffer Ali Khan (19), both residents of Qazipura. The third accused is Tariq Ali (19) of Chandrayangutta. Murder accused held Bahadurpura police on Tuesday apprehended Md Abdul Gaffar, one of the six accused in the alleged murder of a 24-year-old history sheeter Mohd Aijaz, a resident of Chiragalli Nagar. Police said that Aijaz attempted to kill Gaffar last year after which a case was booked, and pending trial. Holding a grudge against Aijaz, the accused attacked and killed him. Man murdered A 32-year-old man S Javeed, a daily wage earner, was murdered near his house in Dawood basti, Jagadgirigutta police said on Tuesday. Around 6.30 p.m. on Monday, Javeed and the accused, identified as Srihari alias Osman (25) had an argument. “It was a trivial issue over which Osman stabbed the victim 10 to 11 times. Neither the victim nor the accused are rowdy-sheeters,” a police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-arrested-for-murder-of-youth/article34826453.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS continues its rant against Eatala||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has alleged that former minster Eatala Rajender who joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday had prepared his script of switching loyalty six years ago itself and his oversight of issues concerning the State during his meeting with national leaders of BJP was an indication of it. Government Chief Whip D. Vinay Bhaskar observed here on Tuesday that Mr. Rajender’s fight was not for self-respect but for his existence and an attempt to safeguard his properties acquired illegally. Stating that people of Telangana were unable to digest Mr. Rajender’s switch to BJP, he said the way he was admitted into party itself, in a lukewarm manner, was an indication of his stature there. Speaking to news persons, Mr. Vinay Bhaskar sought to know why Mr. Rajender who joined BJP in the presence of Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan did not even raise the issue of skyrocketing price of petrol and diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-continues-its-rant-against-eatala/article34826462.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Summer holidays extended||The State government has extended the summer holidays for all schools and DIET colleges across the State by five days till June 20 in view of the pandemic. The Director of School Education said orders were issued earlier extending the summer holidays in schools and DIET colleges till June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/summer-holidays-extended/article34826465.ece
16 June 2021||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Oxygen concentrators donated||Haryana-based Sehagal foundation donated 15 oxygen concentrators to Medak district on Tuesday. They were handed over to Collector S. Harish by foundation representatives Shankar Naik, Aslam and Ramulu Naik. Thanking the foundation representatives for the kind gesture, Mr. Harish said that these concentrators would be shifted to Primary Health Centre (PHC) for use.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxygen-concentrators-donated/article34826467.ece
16 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Journalist Raghu out on bail||Ganji Raghu, a reporter with an online news portal, who was picked by policemen in plainclothes earlier this month, was released from Nalgonda district jail on conditional bail on Tuesday. A resident of Malkajgiri in Hyderabad, Raghu was seen on CCTV footage being forced into a car by unidentified men on June 3, and following the incident his whereabouts remained unknown. The Suryapet police later said Mr. Raghu was picked up by its personnel for his alleged involvement in a riot situation and related violations at Gurrambodu Tanda under Mattampally police limits in February. The ‘arrest’ caused an uproar and witnessed strong reaction from association of journalists, backward classes, political parties and voluntary organisations.  “I will respect the Court’s directions, but I am not stepping back. As a journalist, people issues are my agenda and my 13-day experience in the jail has increased that responsibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/journalist-raghu-out-on-bail/article34826459.ece
16 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||KTR lays stone for a string of projects||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao laid the foundation for a 100-bed hospital at Nakrekal, among a string of projects, during a whirlwind tour on Tuesday. Apart from the proposed hospital and an integrated market, Mr. Rao along with local legislator C. Lingaiah and District Collector Prashant J Patil inaugurated the Rythu Vedika.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-lays-stone-for-a-string-of-projects/article34826458.ece
16 June 2021||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Medical resources donated||Kirby Building Systems and Structures India Pvt Ltd handed over oxygen concentrators, Auto BiPAP machine, multipurpose monitors, along with PPE kits worth Rs. 65 lakh to Finance Minister T. Harish Rao on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/medical-resources-donated/article34826444.ece
16 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Give us land that is unused instead of compensation’||The latest statement by the State Government that it would sell off useless/unused lands in auction to make additional revenue has generated a ray of hope among oustees of Mallannasagar who wish that their demand be considered by the government. The second schedule of Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013) states: “In case of irrigation project, as far as possible and in lieu of compensation to be paid for land acquired, each affected family owning agricultural land in the affected area and whose land has been acquired or lost, or who has as a consequence of the acquisition or loss of land, has been reduced to the status of marginal farmer or landless, shall be allotted, in the name of each person included in the records of rights with regard to affected family, a minimum one acre of land in the command area of the project for which the land is acquired. Provided that in every project those persons losing land and belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes will be provided land equivalent to land acquired or two and one half acres, whichever is lower.” Referring to this Schedule, the oustees recalled the statement of Finance Minister T. Harish Rao that they would sell lands that were useless or unused. “LA Act -2013 states that the oustees shall be provided land, a minimum of one acre in the command area of the project. We are the oustees of Etigaddakishtapur and Vemulaghat that are going to be submerged. We have filed cases for right compensation under LA Act. The government may propose some lands in the district for sale. Let the government allot those lands to us and we are ready to withdraw cases filed in the court,” Md. Hayatuddin, a oustee said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/give-us-land-that-is-unused-instead-of-compensation/article34826466.ece
16 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||KTR unveils Col. Santosh Babu statue at Suryapet||Minister for Municipal Administration K. T. Rama Rao unveiled the statue of Maha Vir Chakra Col. B. Santosh Babu, the ‘Galwan martyr’ from Telangana, here on Tuesday. Remembering him on his first death anniversary and paying rich tributes, Mr. Rao also named the site of the statue, which was popularly known as court chowrasta, as Col. Santosh Babu chowrasta. Col. Bikumalla Santosh Babu of the 16th Bihar Regiment was killed in the Indo-China skirmishes on June 15 last year at Galwan valley in Ladakh. The Central government posthumously awarded the Maha Vir Chakra, the second highest wartime gallantry award. Speaking after unveiling the statue and the new junction name board, Mr. Rao said the sacrifice of the colonel would never be forgotten. He recounted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s relief announcement to colonel’s bereaved family last year. “Telangana government’s assistance to colonel’s family sent a message of inspiration to the rest of the States. And the message is that every Indian would stand by the families of Army employees. The way the last procession evoked sentiment among people, from Hakimpet till the martyr’s remains reached Suryapet, also reflects CM’s message,” he said. Sharing her thoughts, Santosh Babu’s wife Santoshi said the State government had accorded appropriate honour to her husband’s sacrifice. She thanked KCR, Mr. Rao and Mr. Reddy for assuring her children’s future, giving her a respectable job and being supportive in all circumstances. At the event, Mr. Rao felicitated artist Srinivas Reddy who designed the 10-foot-tall bronze statue of the colonel. Santosh Babu’s parents B. Upender and Manjula and legislators from the district were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-unveils-col-santosh-babu-statue-at-suryapet/article34826456.ece
16 June 2021||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||CJI offers prayers at Yadagirigutta temple||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana along with his wife offered prayers at the hill shrine of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy here on Tuesday. The couple was offered a ‘Poornakumbham’ welcome amid chanting of vedic hymns by the temple’s high priests, as Minster for Endowments Indrakaran Reddy and Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy, on behalf of the State government, received them. Special prayers were held in Balalayam, the makeshift temple that houses the deity, since the main temple was closed for redevelopment in 2016. Justice Ramana and family, in double masks and surrounded by priests, senior officials and leaders, spent about an hour in the darshan of the Pancha Narsimha (the deity in five forms) and later participated in Swarna Pushparchana. Extending courtesies, Mr. Indrakaran Reddy presented them a memento and temple Executive Officer N. Geeta handed over traditional silk robes. After the recital of blessings, the couple made their offerings in the temple hundi. Yadadri Temple Development Authority vice chairman and CEO G. Kishan Rao and the temple’s architect Ananda Sai later escorted the CJI and his family for a tour of the finished main temple which is now in the trial stage for electrical and lighting works, in the annex. Justice Ramana, according to officials, was all praise for the sculptors and the project team, for the intricate carvings, the gopurams and the embellished themes inside the temple. And he opined that the temple was ideally constructed to encourage devotion for generations to come, an official said. The Chief Justice of India, who was on a three-day visit to the State, spent at least three hours on the hill shrine, admiring the temple work and also inspected the under-construction temple city, presidential suites, pilgrim cottages and the landscape gardens, before leaving for Hyderabad at around 11.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cji-offers-prayers-at-yadagirigutta-temple/article34826455.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Police step up outreach to tribals||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the district police have scaled up the outreach activities by distributing water filters and mosquito nets to Adivasis in remote tribal pockets. The district police have so far distributed more than 2500 water filters and hundreds of mosquito nets and over 65 television sets in several Gutti Koya tribal habitations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-step-up-outreach-to-tribals/article34826469.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||All terrorists criminals but not all criminals terrorists: HC||Notwithstanding the fact that the definition of ‘terrorist act’ in Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) is “wide and even somewhat vague”, the phrase ‘terrorist act’ cannot be permitted to be casually applied to criminal acts that fall squarely within the definition of conventional offences, the Delhi High Court remarked on Tuesday. A bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhanbhani said the word ‘terrorism’ or ‘terror’ has nowhere been defined in the UAPA. Hence, the court must be careful in employing the definitional words and phrases used in section 15 (of the UAPA that defines ‘terrorist act') in their absolute literal sense or use them lightly in a manner that would trivialise the extremely heinous offence of ‘terrorist act’, without understanding how terrorism is different even from conventional, heinous crime, the bench said. The High Court’s observation came while granting regular bail to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. UAPA’s origin The ‘terrorist act’, including conspiracy and act preparatory to the commission of a terrorist act, were brought within the purview of UAPA by an amendment made in 2004, on the heels of Parliament repealing Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA). POTA’s precursor, the Terrorist & Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) was repealed in 1995. The High Court said the phrase ‘terrorist act’ must get its colour and flavour from the problem of terrorism as was earlier addressed by the Parliament under TADA and POTA.  Defining ‘terrorism’ To understand the concept and construction of 'terrorism', the High Court referred to various judgments of the Supreme Court where the issue has already been dealt with. “Terrorism is one of the manifestations of increased lawlessness and cult of violence... A ‘terrorist’ activity does not merely arise by causing disturbance of law and order or of public order. The fallout of the intended activity must be such that it travels beyond the capacity of the ordinary law enforcement agencies to tackle it under the ordinary penal law,” the Supreme Court had said in Hitendra Vishnu Thakur versus State of Maharashtra case . In the same judgment, the Supreme Court said, “Every ‘terrorist’ may be a criminal but every criminal cannot be given the label of a ‘terrorist’ only to set in motion the more stringent provisions of TADA.” The High Court said, in its opinion, “The intent and purport of the Parliament in enacting the UAPA, and more specifically in amending it in 2004 and 2008 to bring terrorist activity within its scope, was, and could only have been, to deal with matters of profound impact on the ‘Defence of India’, nothing more and nothing less.” “Foisting extremely grave and serious penal provisions engrafted in sections 15, 17 and 18 UAPA frivolously upon people, would undermine the intent and purpose of the Parliament in enacting a law that is meant to address threats to the very existence of our Nation,” the court cautioned. It reminded that a sacrosanct principle of interpretation of penal provisions is that they must be construed strictly and narrowly, to ensure that a person who was not within the legislative intendment does not get roped into a penal provision. “Also, the more stringent a penal provision, the more strictly it must be construed,” the High Court remarked pointing at the use of the stringent provision under UAPA against the three students in the north-east Delhi riots case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/all-terrorists-criminals-but-not-all-criminals-terrorists-hc/article34826417.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Bail for riots accused holds mirror to govt.’||Students, activists and some political parties on Tuesday welcomed the Delhi High Court order granting bail to the three students, who were arrested under the UAPA in connection with the north-east riots, which took place in February last year. Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha and Jawaharlal Nehru University students — Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita — were granted regular bail by the Delhi High Court. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) said through the order, the court had “shown a mirror to the government”. “It is a step towards undoing the gross injustice committed by the Home Ministry in manufacturing cases against activists protesting against the unconstitutional CAA [Citizenship Amendment Act]. The court has shown the mirror to the government. This applies to numerous cases in which any form of dissent is termed anti-national and individuals are bullied, intimidated, threatened and imprisoned under UAPA and laws of sedition,” a statement by the CPI (M) read. Further, it added that similar standards should be applied to all the “false cases” and all political prisoners should be released. Delhi University professor Apoorvanand, who was also questioned by the Delhi Police last year in connection with the riots, on social media said: “None of them should have been charged or arrested in the first place. All others must be freed. This whole exercise is a conspiracy to shield the real conspirators and perpetrators of the violence of Feb 2020 in Delhi. They are out and ruling us. Spreading hate, planning violence [sic].” The All India Students’ Association (AISA) said the order had exposed the “legal and moral corruption” of the government. It added: “While the bail has been granted, the struggle against UAPA and release of all political prisoners must continue. AISA demands immediate release of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and other anti-CAA protestors arrested in Delhi violence case under UAPA.” Stating that it was one of the happiest days of her life, Safoora Zargar, a Jamia Millia Islamia scholar — who was also arrested last year and later granted bail — tweeted: “...Let more follow. Let justice prevail...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/bail-for-riots-accused-holds-mirror-to-govt/article34826420.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Speeding car kills two in Daryaganj||Two persons were killed when a speeding car hit an e-rickshaw in Central Delhi’s Daryaganj, the police said on Tuesday. Two persons have been arrested in connection with the case, they said. A senior officer said a PCR call was received on Monday night at 10.30 p.m. regarding a road accident near Delight Cinema. On reaching the spot, an e-rickshaw was found damaged. The police learnt that the injured were taken a hospital. Further inquiry revealed that a couple and their two children were travelling in the e-rickshaw when they were hit by the car. All five occupants of the e-rickshaw, including the driver, were injured. However, the driver and the woman passenger were declared brought dead at the hospital. The condition of the others is said to be stable. The driver of the offending vehicle tried to escape but was chased by a man on a bike and nabbed near Jama Masjid. Next, two involved in the crime were held. A case under relevant sections has been lodged and further investigation is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/speeding-car-kills-two-in-daryaganj/article34826422.ece
16 June 2021||new delhi,||AAP MP says nameplate defaced at residence, blames BJP ‘goons’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh said the nameplate of his North Avenue residence was allegedly defaced by a few persons on Tuesday afternoon. The MP blamed the BJP for the attack. Two persons have been arrested in connection with the case, said DCP (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav. “My house in North Avenue — around 100m from the President’s house — has been attacked just now. I want to tell the BJP government and their goons, you can launch attacks or murder me, but I will keep talking about theft of money collected from the public for Ram Mandir. The people who steal money collected for Ram Mandir should be put behind bars,” AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said in a video on Tuesday. Mr. Singh said the incident happened when he was sitting on the lawns of his residence with a few persons at 12 p.m. He told the police that at that time, a few men came to the spot and started raising slogans against him. They then tried to damage the nameplate and threw ink on it before fleeing the spot. Mr. Singh added that the people, who were with him at that time, managed to nab two of the accused and handed them over to the police. The Aam Aadmi Party has been alleging that there is a “big scam” involving BJP leaders in the land bought for Ram Mandir by Ram Janmabhoomi Trust. Mr. Singh tweeted: “The pace of construction of the temple of Lord Shri Ram has been stalled due to ‘donation thieves’. The construction of Ram temple is not being done because thieves stole the money for the construction. I request crores of Ram devotees to demand back the money for the temple from the ‘donation thieves.” A scripted drama: BJP Reacting to the alleged attack, Delhi BJP Spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said in a tweet that it a scripted drama. “Yesterday, he tried to malign Ram Mandir’s construction. Today, he claimed an attack on house, everything is a scripted drama,” Mr. Kapoor said. Mr. Yadav said an FIR has been registered under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and Sec 3 of Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act 2007. He added that further probe is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/aap-mp-says-nameplate-defaced-at-residence-blames-bjp-goons/article34826424.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Serving liquor in hotels, eateries not allowed yet’||The Capital is in the middle of its second week of unlocking but serving of alcohol in bars in hotels, clubs and restaurants has yet to be given nod by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the Excise department has clarified. With a significant improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the city, liquor shops and restaurants that were closed as per DDMA order since April have reopened. “Bars in the hotels, clubs and restaurants are not allowed to open till further orders,” stated a clarification issued by the Excise Department issued Monday. All liquor shops in markets, malls and market complexes (outside containment zones) are allowed to operate between 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., it said. The clarification was issued in view of queries related to serving alcohol in bars at hotels, clubs and restaurants after the govt. allowed restaurants to reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/serving-liquor-in-hotels-eateries-not-allowed-yet/article34826415.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Teenager on joyride rams autorickshaw, kills driver||An autorickshaw driver died after he was allegedly hit by a luxury car being driven by an 18-year-old boy in west Delhi’s Moti Nagar on Saturday morning, the police said on Tuesday. The victim, Brindeshwar Mahto, used to reside in Trilokpuri with his family. The Class XII accused, from Punjabi Bagh, has been arrested. The victim’s brother, Chandeshwar Mahto, told the police that along with Brindeshwar, he had gone to Khyala with passengers in their respective autorickshaws at 6 a.m. He said the accident happened when they were going towards Ramesh Nagar. The accused, who was driving his father’s car, was coming from the wrong direction when he hit Brindeshwar’s autorickshaw. The impact was such that the autorickshaw turned turtle. Chandeshwar, who was driving behind the victim’s auto, rushed to the spot and nabbed the boy. Brindeshwar was declared dead at a nearby hospital. The accused was with his three other friends at that time. A case on charges of rash and negligent driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered and the accused has been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/teenager-on-joyride-rams-autorickshaw-kills-driver/article34826412.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||5 arrested for cheating people with offers, gifts||Five persons, including four women, have been arrested for allegedly duping people on the promise of providing attractive offers and gifts, police said on Tuesday, adding that they were running a fake call centre. DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the accused have been identified as Rahul Rathore (30), a resident of Saraswati Vihar; Muskan (21) and Kajal (22), residents of Burari; Sonam (26), a resident of Rohini; and Babita (22) of Mukundpur. Police said that on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday, they received information regarding a fake call centre running at Sector-16 in Rohini. “A raid was conducted and the accused were arrested,” Mr. Tayal said. During probe, Rathore allegedly told the police that he obtained contact and credit card details of people from Brijesh and Dinesh after which he made calls to dupe them. He gave them false assurances of providing attractive offers, gift cards, VIP money saving cards etc. by posing as credit card service provider.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5-arrested-for-cheating-people-with-offers-gifts/article34826414.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||NCRTC plans to harness blended renewable energy for RRTS project||The National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) on Tuesday signed an MoU with SECI (Solar Energy Corporation of India) to harness blended renewable energy for the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project. According to the NCRTC, the MoU has provisions to explore possible opportunities in electric/transformative mobility, Hydrogen based economy, and other alternative sources of fuels and energy. The MoU was signed in the presence of Jatindra Nath Swain, Secretary (Fisheries), Vinay Kumar Singh, Managing Director NCRTC along with other senior officials of the NCRTC and SECI. “NCRTC, as part of its Energy Management Policy, intends to maximize the use of blended renewable energy such as solar power for meeting full energy requirement of NCRTC. SECI, being an industry leader, will help in arranging blended renewable energy to NCRTC round-the-clock at affordable rates for Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Corridor and cooperation to extend the same for other future corridors,” it said. According to the NCRTC, 40% of the total energy requirement of the Delhi Meerut RRTS corridor is targeted to be procured or generated from renewable energy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ncrtc-plans-to-harness-blended-renewable-energy-for-rrts-project/article34826418.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Monsoon may be delayed by a week: IMD||A westerly trough has impeded the rapid progress of the monsoon in northwest India and it will take 7-10 more days for the wind system to reach the Capital, the India Meteorological Department said on Tuesday. “The situation will be more clear on Wednesday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional forecasting centre. IMD had earlier predicted that the wind system may reach Delhi by June 15 — 12 days early. Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/monsoon-may-be-delayed-by-a-week-imd/article34826413.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man opens fire at Jamia Nagar resident||A man was arrested and a juvenile apprehended for allegedly opening fire at a man in south-east Delhi’s Jamia Nagar, the police said on Monday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the accused has been identified as Saidul Zafar. He has criminal records, including an attempt to murder. The incident happened on the intervening night of June 7-8. The juvenile involved in the case has been sent to observation home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-opens-fire-at-jamia-nagar-resident/article34826421.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||No need for prior sanction to prosecute Deshmukh: CBI||The CBI told the Bombay High Court that it did not need prior sanction to prosecute former Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Mr. Deshmukh had moved the court to quash the FIR registered against him by the Central agency. He said the CBI needed sanction to prosecute him as he was a public servant. He also contended that the case against him was dubious. The CBI affidavit said, “The offence of an attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty is not covered under the purview of recommendation made or decision taken by such public servant in discharge of duties.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-need-for-prior-sanction-to-prosecute-deshmukh-cbi/article34826152.ece
16 June 2021||Nagpur,||‘CET may be held by first week of Aug.’||The CET or the common entrance test for professional courses after Standard XII in Maharashtra could be held in the last week of July or first week of August, Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he also said that in-person classes in colleges would not start as of now, considering the pandemic situation. “The CET can be held in July last week or the first week of August,” he said. The State government had already filled up around 1,200 of 4,084 college teachers’ posts but the process halted due to COVID-19, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cet-may-be-held-by-first-week-of-aug/article34826153.ece
16 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||‘Sexual dating’: JNPT official cheated of Rs. 41.87 lakh||The cyber cells of the Navi Mumbai and Nhava Sheva police are looking for a gang including women for cheating an official of Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust of Rs. 41.87 lakh in the name of ‘sexual dating’. The 52-year-old complainant had in February received a call from a woman named Preeti asking him that if he became a member of Mariana Web Solutions by paying Rs. 10,200, he would get enrolled in friendship and nature clubs, other than being eligible for ‘sexual dating’ with interested women in his area. Days later, another woman named Kirti, who introduced herself as the profile manager of the firm, offered him a Mariana web dating card for dating women and getting paid for it by them. The complainant paid Rs. 10,200 following which Preeti gave him the mobile number of a woman named Shreya Sharma. The complainant and Ms. Sharma indulged in vulgar chats on WhatsApp and exchanged obscene photos. Ms. Sharma made him believe that she was eager to meet him after which Kirti asked the complainant to pay Rs. 23,600 to date her. Ms. Sharma requested him to pay her fees as well on the promise of returning it, following which the complainant paid Rs. 47,200. On February 24, the duo was supposed to meet, but Ms. Sharma cancelled it citing that her mother had died. For the second date, the complainant paid Rs. 1.44 lakh, but the meeting was again cancelled after Ms. Sharma said she had fractured her hand. The complainant then asked Kirti to cancel his membership and refund his money to which Kirti said he would have to pay Rs. 2.93 lakh towards cancellation charges. After that payment, the complainant was asked to pay another Rs. 7.47 lakh to block his profile. Later, Kirti started blackmailing the complainant that she would make his chats with Ms. Sharma viral and kept on extorting money till April. “After realising that he was being cheated, he gave an application to the Navi Mumbai cyber cell which forwarded it to us, and a case was registered last week. The bank accounts where the money was transferred were in West Bengal. Investigations are on,” an officer from Nhava Sheva police station said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sexual-dating-jnpt-official-cheated-of-rs-4187-lakh/article34826154.ece
16 June 2021||Pune,||Seeking hike in milk price, AIKS to protest tomorrow||Demanding an increase in the per litre price of milk for dairy farmers, the Left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) has alleged that milk farmers were given a raw deal by private and co-operative milk unions who cut costs by claiming a low demand for milk during the pandemic-induced lockdown. The AIKS has said that private and co-operative milk unions had slashed the purchase price of milk by Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 per litre, while keeping the selling rate unchanged for consumers. To protest this, the outfit has planned a Maharashtra-wide agitation on June 17. It has demanded that farmers be given the pre-lockdown rates of Rs. 35 per litre. “We demand that the State government audit all private and co-operative milk unions, which have reduced the purchase price of milk, claiming that the demand for milk has decreased during the lockdown period. It must take stern action against these cooperatives and recover the amount looted by them and return it back to the farmers,” said Dr. Ajit Nawale of the AIKS. He urged the government to make the anti-looting law applicable to private and co-operative milk unions so that milk producers could not be looted in future. “Like sugarcane growers, milk producers, too, should be given fair and remunerative price (FRP),” said Dr. Nawale. In their list of demands to the State government, the AIKS has urged the government to adopt a one-brand strategy to prevent undesirable ‘brand wars’ in which ordinary milk farmers always lost out. “The government should also ban toned milk and ensure that adulteration is stopped by strictly enforcing anti-adulteration laws. They must provide legal guarantees that pure milk will be available to consumers at reasonable prices,” said Dr. Nawale.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/seeking-hike-in-milk-price-aiks-to-protest-tomorrow/article34826155.ece
16 June 2021||Pune,||CM aspirations: Pawar takes a dig at State Congress chief||Taking a jibe at Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole over the latter’s alleged Chief Ministerial aspirations, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said that while there was nothing wrong in someone expressing their desire to become CM, the magic figure of 145 MLAs was needed to become one. Mr. Pawar said that as per the formula worked out by the heads of the Congress, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Shiv Sena, Uddhav Thackeray would remain the State’s Chief Minister, leading the tripartite ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ (MVA) government. “Even if all three parties are together in this government, all three have the right to increase their strength. The ‘Maha Vikas Aghadi’ has been formed by the agreement of Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray and Sonia Gandhi and under the formula, Mr. Thackeray will head it… While there is nothing wrong with anyone expressing a desire to become Chief Minister, he must realise that the magical figure of 145 is required to become the CM,” said Mr. Pawar. Earlier this week, the Congress chief had reportedly remarked that if his party’s high command gave him the responsibility of the Chief Ministerial post, he would take it up. A video clip of Mr. Patole shows him exhorting new party workers to begin working with the aim of getting the Congress on the top in the 2024 Assembly elections while positioning himself as a possible future CM. Hitting out at the BJP over the Maratha reservation issue, Mr. Pawar said the Opposition had no work but to stoke fumes of resentment between communities. Meanwhile, in a bid to send out a message of social harmony, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar is said to be joining BJP Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati’srally on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cm-aspirations-pawar-takes-a-dig-at-state-congress-chief/article34826156.ece
16 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. moves to tackle domestic terrorism||The U.S. government on Tuesday unveiled its “national strategy” to fight domestic terrorism, an issue that is a priority for President Joe Biden after the assault on Congress in January and the rise of white nationalist extremists. “Domestic violent extremists motivated by a range of ideologies pose an elevated threat to our country in 2021,” a senior administration official told mediapersons, speaking on condition of anonymity. “Racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists, and specifically those who espouse the superiority of the white race and anti-government militia violent extremists, [pose] the most lethal threat,” the official said. The government’s plan is, however, “ideologically neutral” and consists of four pillars that focus on “prevention, interruption and dissuasion”, while preserving individual freedoms. The Biden administration wants first to improve information sharing on extremist groups or individuals at the federal and local level. For this, the Justice Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation have set up a nationwide system for reporting terrorism-related cases. The government also wants to thwart the recruitment of violent extremists and calls for violence in collaboration with large technology platforms and social media networks. Washington announced in May that it was joining the Christchurch Call, an international movement against the online dissemination of extremist content, which former president Donald Trump had refused to join. The government will also improve the system for prosecuting extremists by recruiting analysts, investigators and prosecutors. The fourth pillar is based on countering “long-term drivers and enablers of domestic terrorism, including economic inequality, those who feel left behind by the 21st-century economy, structural racism and the proliferation of guns,” the official said. Mr. Biden promised in his January 20 inauguration speech that the country would confront and defeat “the rise of political extremism, white supremacy, domestic terrorism” after a string of deadly racist attacks in recent years. In March, FBI chief Christopher Wray told Congress that the number of federal investigations working on “domestic terrorism” had doubled from 1,000 to 2,000 since he took office in 2017. The U.S. was shocked by the deadly January 6 assault on Congress by Trump supporters. Nearly 500 people have been arrested for their roles in the attack, according to the FBI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-moves-to-tackle-domestic-terrorism/article34825850.ece
16 June 2021||Washington,||‘Trump pressed Justice Dept. to probe poll fraud claims’||During the last weeks of his presidency, Donald Trump and his allies pressured the Department of Justice (DoJ) to investigate unsubstantiated claims of widespread 2020 election fraud, despite his former Attorney-General declaring there was no evidence of it, newly released emails show. The emails, released Tuesday by the House Oversight Committee, reveal in new detail how Mr. Trump, his White House chief of staff and other allies pressured members of the U.S. government to challenge the 2020 election over false claims, even though officials at Homeland Security and Justice, as well as Republican election leaders across the country, said there had been no pervasive fraud. Former Attorney General William Barr, a long-time Trump loyalist, was among those who said there was no evidence of such fraud. The emails also show the extent to which Trump worked to enlist then-acting Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen in his campaign’s failing legal efforts to challenge the election result, including suggesting filing a brief with the U.S. Supreme Court. The ones sent to Mr. Rosen include debunked conspiracy theories and false information about voter fraud. Mr. Trump's chief of staff, Mark Meadows, asked about investigating allegations of voter fraud caused by satellites from Italy. Mr. Meadows tried to have Mr. Rosen investigate the conspiracy theories and pushed the acting Attorney General to meet with an ally of Trump lawyer Rudy Giuliani who was pitching unfounded election conspiracies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-pressed-justice-dept-to-probe-poll-fraud-claims/article34825844.ece
16 June 2021||Moscow,||U.S.-Russia ties are at an impasse: Kremlin official||A top aide to Vladimir Putin said U.S.-Russia relations are at an “impasse” but this week’s summit with Joe Biden in Switzerland could help ease tensions. Mr. Putin and Mr. Biden are to meet at a villa in Geneva on Wednesday with tensions high over a long list of disputes, from cyberattacks and election meddling to human rights violations. “Russian-U.S. relations are now at an impasse, the situation is close to critical. Something needs to be done,” Yuri Ushakov, Mr. Putin’s foreign affairs adviser, told mediapersons ahead of the summit. “I view this meeting with practical optimism, but not much. It is a first meeting under difficult circumstances,” he said. Ambassadors’ return Mr. Ushakov said the Russian and U.S. ambassadors, who returned home this year amid tensions over sanctions, could go back to their posts immediately if the summit goes well. “It will be a tremendous achievement if the ambassadors return to work.” Mr. Ushakov said the two leaders would discuss cybersecurity, climate change, the Arctic and regional conflicts, among other issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-russia-ties-are-at-an-impasse-kremlin-official/article34825847.ece
16 June 2021||Beijing,||Statement by NATO is slander: China||The Chinese mission to the European Union denounced a NATO statement that declared Beijing a “security challenge”, saying China is a force for peace but will defend itself if threatened. The Chinese news release said the NATO statement was a “slander on China’s peaceful development, a misjudgment of the international situation and [NATO’s] own role, and a continuation of the Cold War mentality”. NATO allies joined the U.S. on Monday in formally criticising Beijing as a “constant security challenge”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/statement-by-nato-is-slander-china/article34825841.ece
16 June 2021||Washington,||China scientist denies Wuhan lab leak theory||The Chinese scientist at the centre of theories that COVID-19 originated with a leak from her specialised lab in the city of Wuhan has denied that her institution was to blame for the pandemic. “How on earth can I offer up evidence for something where there is no evidence?” Dr. Shi Zhengli told The New York Times . “I don’t know how the world has come to this, constantly pouring filth on an innocent scientist.”  Dr. Shi is an expert in bat coronaviruses, and some scientists have said she could have been leading so-called gain-of-function experiments, in which scientists increase the strength of a virus to better study its effects on hosts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-scientist-denies-wuhan-lab-leak-theory/article34825842.ece
16 June 2021||Dubai,||UAE-backed troops at Yemen base||A militia leader has acknowledged that his Emirati-backed troops are stationed on an island in a crucial maritime chokepoint where a mysterious air base is now under construction. The comments by Tariq Saleh come as ship-tracking data show that at least two Emirati-owned vessels have travelled to Mayun Island in the Bab el-Mandeb Strait since May. The UAE has not responded to repeated requests for comment about the base. Yemen's internationally recognized government has demanded a formal investigation into the base. Speaking in an interview, Saleh acknowledged the presence of troops from his National Resistance Forces militia on Mayun Island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/uae-backed-troops-at-yemen-base/article34825846.ece
16 June 2021||Berlin,||‘COVID-19 feeding extremism in Germany’||Germany’s far-right has grown more radical during the COVID-19 pandemic, Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said on Tuesday while presenting a report. The 2020 report from the Office for the Protection of the Constitution found a 3.8% rise in the number of people considered right-wing extremists last year, to around 33,300 people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/covid-19-feeding-extremism-in-germany/article34825845.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||America’s mistakes in the ‘forever war’||President Joe Biden has set the September 11 deadline for all American troops to leave Afghanistan, winding up 20 years of the invasion by the United States. Military officials say the withdrawal would be complete about two months ahead of the schedule. The peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban that started in Doha last year have been frozen for months. The bid by the U.S. to hold a summit in Istanbul between the warring parties has been a non-starter. On the ground, the Taliban are making steady advances. Since May 1, the Taliban have seized eight districts in four different regions. At least six provisional capitals, including Kabul, Lashkar Gah (Helmand) and Kandahar, have the insurgents at their gates. As of now, about 22% of Afghanistan’s 398 districts are in the Taliban’s control and 24% with the government, while more than half of the country’s territories are contested. A neocon war The longest war in America’s history is also turning out to be one of its most disastrous. After 20 years of war, when the world’s mightiest military is exiting Afghanistan, the Taliban, which it sought to perish, are at the height of their influence since they were driven out of power. Terrorist networks, which the U.S. vowed to destroy when it launched its global war on terror in Afghanistan, are now scattered across Asia and Africa, from eastern Afghanistan to the Sahel region. What went wrong for the U.S.? The U.S. made three fundamental mistakes, which led to the superpower’s humiliating exit from this clichéd ‘graveyard of empires’. First, the U.S. went into Afghanistan without learning anything from the country’s history, or was blindsided by the unipolar hubris. Afghanistan was invaded by great powers in the 19th and 20th centuries as well. The British empire, which feared a Russian invasion to India via Afghanistan, sent troops to the country in 1839, ousted its ruler Dost Muhammad and established a client regime of its ally, Shah Shujah. But the British had to withdraw in the face of Afghan resistance, mostly by Pashtun warriors; while retreating in 1842, all of the British and Indian troops, except one doctor, were massacred by Afghans. In 1979, the Soviet Union sent troops to Afghanistan to salvage the country’s nascent communist regime, orchestrated a coup and established a friendly regime. The Soviets, faced with a bloody Mujahideen resistance (which was bankrolled and trained by the U.S., Saudi Arabia and Pakistan), had to pull back in 1989 in ignominy. The U.S. might have thought that history would have been kinder to them when they launched the Afghan invasion in October 2001. It wasn’t. Once they invaded Afghanistan, the U.S., given the mistakes the British and the Soviets committed, could have had a strategically focused campaign, targeting its enemy, al-Qaeda, which was behind the September 11 attacks. It should have gone after the terrorists, destroyed their networks and then withdrawn. That is what a realist power would do. But the U.S., driven by the neoconservative globalism of the Bush administration, had set more ambitious goals for itself. It wanted to topple the Taliban and rebuild a centralised “democratic” state in Afghanistan. How did building democratic institutions in Afghanistan from top-down serve America’s foreign policy interests? The neoconservatives in Washington might have found it fascinating, but the move made little strategic sense. And now, the U.S. is retreating, practically leaving Afghanistan to the mercy of the Taliban, in return for assurances from them that they would not assist the terrorists such as al-Qaeda and the Islamic State. Strategic failure After the Taliban regime was toppled and al-Qaeda driven back into the caves and mountains, the U.S. still had a chance to stabilise the country with help from its different factions and leave. In December 2001, Taliban spokesperson Mullah Abdul Salam Zaeef had offered to surrender. The Taliban sought modest terms — Mullah Omar, their leader, should be allowed to return home. But the Americans rejected the offer and promised to destroy the Taliban in every corner of the country. The Taliban are an indigenous militancy with deep roots in Afghanistan’s Pashtun majority. Toppling them from power was easy, but defeating them in their country was not. And after vowing to defeat them, the U.S. launched the Iraq invasion to topple Saddam Hussein and export democracy there. This was the second mistake. The U.S. took Pakistan’s tactical support for its war on terror for granted, overlooking the fact that Pakistan had deep strategic ties with the Taliban. Pakistan played a double game by supporting the U.S. campaign in Afghanistan while at the same time offering refuge and support to the Taliban. For Pakistan, the Taliban have been their wild card to check India’s influence in Afghanistan. When the U.S. declared victory in Afghanistan prematurely and went on to invade Iraq in 2003, it became easier for Pakistan to assist the Taliban’s regrouping, at a time when the Afghan government was grappling with corruption and infighting on ethnic lines. For the ordinary Afghans living outside the provincial capitals, life did not change much under the new government. When the U.S. got stuck in the morass of the Iraq war, the Taliban were steadily making a comeback in Afghanistan’s hinterlands. By the time the U.S. shifted its focus back to Afghanistan, after defeating the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria and amid growing calls at home to end the “endless wars”, the Afghan war had already been lost. Surrender to the Taliban Granted, there is a realist case for the U.S. to leave Afghanistan. It seems to have reached the conclusion long ago that the war was one that could not be turned around. The war was also becoming increasingly unpopular at home, prompting Presidents, from Barack Obama to Donald Trump and Joe Biden, to promise to wind it up. The U.S. has also been shifting its focus to East Asia where China is rising. And given the foreign policy challenges the U.S. is facing now elsewhere, continuing troops and commitments in Afghanistan makes little sense. But the U.S. could have opted for a more orderly withdrawal. Instead, it surrendered to the Taliban’s terms to pull back its troops. This was the third mistake. The Taliban have not defeated the Afghan troops yet. The Afghan government has about 200,000 battle-hardened soldiers, including the U.S.-trained elite special forces. The government still controls most of the country’s population centres. The Taliban’s efforts to take over provincial capitals were successfully thwarted in the recent past, with air power help from the U.S. With the U.S. being present in Afghanistan, the conflict has been in a stalemate — the government not being able to defeat the insurgents and the Taliban unable to overrun the cities. The U.S. should have used this stalemate, coupled with mounting pressure on Pakistan, to extract concessions from the Taliban. Instead, the Trump administration went for talks with the Taliban on their terms. The Afghan government was kept out of the whole process because the Taliban do not recognise them as being legitimate. And the U.S. struck a direct deal with the Taliban, without addressing any of the Afghan concerns. The American exit would now decisively shift the balance of power in favour of the Taliban. The insurgents have always known this. They have stepped up attacks and carried out targeted killings aimed at weakening the Afghan government and terrorising society immediately after signing the agreement with the U.S. in February 2020. And ever since the remaining U.S. troops started pulling back from Afghanistan on May 1, the Taliban have started capturing more territories. The war may be winding down for the Americans. But for Afghans, it will continue in one form or another. stanly.johny@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/americas-mistakes-in-the-forever-war/article34825828.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Needed: full disclosure on electoral bonds||In 2014, the Delhi High Court held that both the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) were guilty of illegally accepting donations from two companies registered in India but whose controlling shareholder was Vedanta, a foreign company. The court held that this was in contravention of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA), 1976, as the donations accrued from “foreign sources” within the meaning of law. Following this indictment, the two parties came together in the last memorable bipartisan move. In 2016 and 2018, the government amended the FCRA through the annual Finance Bills, to retrospectively legalise the violations. The amendments and subsequent changes brought in by the current government enabled new and regressive pathways that afford full anonymity to corporate and foreign political donors. A new form of anonymity While recently hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) by the Association of Democratic Reforms (ADR), the Supreme Court downplayed the concerns of the corrupting influence of anonymous corporate and foreign money. It offered us voters the suggestion of “match the following”. Earlier, only profit-making domestic companies could contribute to political parties; now loss-making companies can too. Earlier, foreign companies or companies where the controlling stake was held by a foreign company couldn’t contribute; now they can. India’s political parties could theoretically be fully funded by a foreign company operating in India or by a foreign entity through a shell company. In 2017, the then Finance Minister said anonymous cash donations to political parties would be reduced from Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 2,000 to ensure greater transparency in political funding. However, the concurrent introduction of electoral bonds brought a new form of anonymity to thousands of crores of donations. It drastically reduced public and legislative oversight. Only the ruling party via the State Bank of India (SBI) has a full account of all donations being made via electoral bonds, to itself and to Opposition parties. Parliament, the Election Commission and the Opposition parties do not have this information, nor do the public. The ADR PIL challenges electoral bonds as unconstitutional. In March 2021, the Supreme Court refused to stay the sale of electoral bonds before the West Bengal elections. Instead, the judgment listed several documents which supposedly establish a paper trail on donations — “all that is required is a little more effort to cull out such information from both sides (purchaser of bond and political party) and do some ‘match the following’.” This is impractical and plainly incorrect. The Right to Information (RTI) Act of 2005 enables easier access to information held by public authorities. No ordinary person has the resources to navigate documents on obfuscating government websites or pore over income tax returns. The few civic and non-profit organisations that attempt to simplify information to enable accountability have been systematically delegitimised.  Suggesting a “match the following” is incorrect for three reasons. If we set aside individual donors and focus just on registered entities, we will find that the full scale of registered entities is unknown. Even if registered companies filed annual financial statements, many do not disclose political donations. Crucially, political parties do not need to disclose their electoral bond donors either. According to back-of-the-envelope calculations, there are close to 25 lakh potential donors comprising just companies and firms. This includes about 12.6 lakh active private limited companies as of January 31, 2021. Unlike what is stated in the judgment, the annual reports of all these companies are not readily accessible on the website of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs. More than 12 lakh firms filed income tax returns for the assessment year 2018-19. Firms, unlike companies, have no regulatory mandate to submit their annual reports except for filing their annual tax returns, since their functioning is regulated by Acts other than the Companies Act of 2013. Even if these documents are indeed filed and available in the public domain, they will not specify donations to parties. Conveniently, the Finance Bill of 2017 amended Section 182 of the Companies Act of 2013 to remove the requirement for declaring disaggregated donations to political parties. At best, company statements might have a total aggregate amount of all donations, including philanthropic ones. If we are lucky, these might be sub-categorised as “political contributions through electoral bonds.” Nowhere are donations to specific political parties required to be mentioned. Even if one combs through these documents to find an actual political donation, there is nothing to match it with. Political parties do not need to disclose their electoral bond donors. Strictly speaking, political parties are not even supposed to know their electoral bond donors. The only requirement is the annual audit reports with a total of all donations received via electoral bonds. These reports are submitted with great delays. For instance, the audit reports for 2019-20 of major national parties were made available on the Election Commission’s website only a few days ago. The BJP’s report is not yet available as the Election Commission extended the deadline for the submission of Annual Audit Reports for 2019-20 to June 30, 2021. Even if these reports are submitted on time, there is no way to match a donation of a company to that received by a political party as only aggregate amounts are available. Hence, the “match the following” suggestion of the Supreme Court falls flat on its face. It is impossible for an average voter to pore over documents of lakhs of entities and track potential company and firm donors. Further, recipient-wise information is unavailable. Unlike the tall claims of electoral bonds enabling transparency, it is only RTI applications with the SBI that offer a glimpse into the crores of money funding political parties, and therefore influencing public policies. If they chose to, the Supreme Court or the legislature could order full and real-time disclosure, to the actual benefit of transparency and accountability. Instead, meagre civil society resources are expended in filing PILs and RTI applications, at significant personal risk. Winners and losers In effect, electoral bonds give political power to companies, wealthy individual donors, and foreign entities, thus diluting the universal franchise of one voter-one vote. Every vote is not equally valuable if companies can influence policies through hidden donations. The winner of this arrangement is the ruling party, whether at the Centre or in a State, and the loser is the average voter. Companies and political parties could exercise moral leadership and voluntarily disclose the identity of recipients and donors, as the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha recently did. Till then, voters are stuck with a ruling party with war chests of resources, being subject to relentless election campaigns, while donors surreptitiously and directly influence policy. Rakesh Dubbudu is the founder of @FactlyIndia; Inayat Sabhikhi is associated with the National Campaign for People's Right to Information||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/needed-full-disclosure-on-electoral-bonds/article34825839.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||An acquittal with no good, but the bad and the ugly||The recent judgment of a trial court acquitting Tarun Tejpal, a former editor of a newsmagazine, who was charged, in 2013, of having sexually assaulted an employee, a young woman journalist, during an event the newsmagazine had organised in Goa, has created a furore and raised many questions about the law. The investigating officer has also been pulled up not only for the lapses in investigation but also for gaps in her knowledge of technology. The Goa government filed an appeal against Mr. Tejpal’s acquittal in the Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court requesting an immediate hearing. The Solicitor General of India, Tushar Mehta, during the hearing, said that the lower court’s judgment lacked sensitivity regarding crimes against women and awareness of the sections of criminal laws. “The law has evolved. The entire judgement proceeds as if the victim is on trial,” he added. Key changes Back in 2002, based on the recommendations of the 172nd report of the Law Commission of India, two major changes were made in the Evidence Act (https://bit.ly/3xpoE1k). First, the Act was amended to prohibit the defence counsel from asking questions to the prosecutrix in a rape case about her general character to impeach her credibility. Second, the defence was not permitted to put questions to a witness in the cross-examination about the general immoral character of the prosecutrix and adduce evidence. Even if it is hypothetically assumed that the survivor had had sexual relations with someone, it does not give any person the licence to sexually assault her. The Supreme Court of India has repeatedly said that the purpose of cross-examining a survivor of rape is not to humiliate her but to get to the truth of the case. Therefore, questions about the past sexual life of the survivor should not have been permitted to be asked by the defence counsel as they violated the survivor’s right to a fair trial. The law does not permit the character assassination of a victim any more. Stereotypical evaluation Second, the conduct of a survivor of sexual assault cannot be cast in a straitjacket formula. Every individual behaves differently under the given circumstances. When in this case, the survivor had been entrusted with an important task/s by her boss during the event and was afraid of losing her job by exposing her boss’s crime, her dual behaviour (i.e., in the public gaze and with acquaintances) cannot be termed unnatural. It would be too stereotypical and patriarchal to expect a survivor to be seen traumatised all the time in front of everyone. The Supreme Court, in Aparna Bhat and Ors. vs the State of Madhya Pradesh & Ors. (2021) specifically said that courts should desist from expressing any stereotype opinion, in words spoken during proceedings, or in the course of a judicial order’ about women. Stereotyping excludes any individualised consideration of a person’s actual circumstances and their abilities. It affects women’s right to a fair trial. Therefore, the judiciary must be careful not to create inflexible standards based on preconceived notions. Details and omissions Third, every omission does not amount to a contradiction; omission which by necessary implication leads to conflicting versions between the statements made before the police and the court would amount to contradiction. It is trite law that the previous statements of the prosecutrix and witnesses can be used to shake their credibility. However, it is quite natural for a survivor to share the incident in different words and details to different individuals. She is not expected to share the same graphic details of the sexual assault on her to every individual she meets or wishes to reveal the details to. Therefore, if the statement given during the trial is substantially consistent with the statement given to the police and judicial magistrate during the investigation, the difference of details given to other individuals through email or otherwise in the form of written statements, cannot be rejected by terming them as untrustworthy. The High Court, therefore, must clarify on this vital question of the law keeping in view the nature of the offence. Protection of identity The Indian Penal Code was amended in 1983 and disclosure of identity of the survivor of rape by anyone was made punishable under a newly added Section 228-A. The publication of name or any matter which may make known the identity of the survivor since then is thus prohibited. The Supreme Court in State of Punjab vs Ramdev Singh (2003) held that the name of the victim should not be mentioned in the judgments, be it of that Court, High Court or lower court, and she should be described as ‘victim’ in the judgment. It therefore implies that anything such as the survivor’s husband’s name, her email address, etc which could reveal her identity, should not have been mentioned in the judgment. It is against the spirit of the law. Sensitisation is a must It is true that the investigation must be unbiased, honest, just and in accordance with the law. The entire emphasis on a fair investigation has to be to bring out the truth of the case before the court. However, some lapses in investigation and ignorance about technical terms such as ‘hash-value’ with regard to electronic evidence, should not lead to a total rejection of the prosecution case. Many amendments have been made in the criminal laws since 1983 with regard to crimes against women. The police must pull up their socks to improve investigation skills, and the application of the law should not elude justice due to a lack of proper sensitisation among other stakeholders in the criminal justice system. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer in Chhattisgarh. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/an-acquittal-with-no-good-but-the-bad-and-the-ugly/article34825830.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||A paradigm shift in vaccination||In his address to the nation about the new vaccination policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “If you look at the history of vaccinations in India... you will see that India would have to wait decades for procuring vaccines from abroad. When vaccination programmes ended in other countries, it wouldn’t have even begun in our country.” His remark reflected the harsh reality of the past. Further, indigenous manufacturing of vaccines not only started late but also fell short of the demand for long. This forced the government to continue relying on imports. Delay in vaccination Infectious diseases have been an enormous challenge for independent India. Innumerable lives were lost due to delayed response or government apathy. The best example for this is the case of polio. The Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV) and Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV) were licensed abroad in 1955 and 1961, respectively. But it took two decades since international availability for India to initiate mass vaccination. The OPV was introduced through the Expanded Programme on Immunisation (EPI) in urban and rural populations in 1978 and 1981, respectively. Prior to the launch of mass vaccination, India was witnessing more than 10,000 officially recorded cases of polio annually, a severe underestimate due to poor official records. India could have saved lakhs of people from the disease if governments had been vigilant and started vaccination earlier. Moreover, India had to rely on imports for both OPV and IPV. The OPV was produced by the Pasteur Institute of India, Tamil Nadu, but the Health Ministry closed down this unit in 1974. The IPV could not be manufactured as it was licensed only in 2006. Similarly, India started mass vaccination for Hepatitis B two decades after commercial availability of the vaccine in the U.S. in 1982. The Hepatitis B vaccination was introduced in India’s Universal Immunisation Programme in 2002. And even then, it was only introduced in merely 14 cities. Earlier, the shortage of indigenously manufactured vaccines led to international dependence and delayed smallpox eradication in India. In 1962, almost a decade after North America and Europe had eradicated smallpox, India launched the National Smallpox Eradication Programme. Most countries had shifted to the highly potent freeze-dried vaccine for better results. While India had adequate stock of domestically produced low-potency liquid vaccine, there was no production of the freeze-dried vaccine. The country depended almost entirely on the Soviet Union and the World Health Organization (WHO) for supply of the freeze-dried vaccine. Domestic production started in the early 1960s with assistance from the WHO and UNICEF. However, it took the country more than a decade to gradually expand domestic production. This might have been too late. States like Bihar and West Bengal witnessed a smallpox outbreak in 1974 which led to the death of close to 31,000 people. This could have been avoided if the Indira Gandhi government did not neglect smallpox eradication and augmented indigenous manufacturing of the freeze-dried vaccine. India also had to rely on the WHO for bifurcated needles required for the smallpox vaccine as these were not manufactured domestically. In sharp contrast now, Indian companies not only fulfill the domestic demand but are also supplying syringes for COVID-19 vaccination to countries.  A remarkable achievement As Mr. Modi noted, the COVID-19 vaccination drive demonstrates that India has become Atmanirbhar in vaccination against infectious diseases. One must appreciate the scale of mass vaccination happening in the country; in a single day, up to 4.3 million beneficiaries received the COVID-19 vaccines. It is a remarkable achievement that India is conducting the world’s largest vaccination drive ever and has already administered more than 25 crore doses. Moreover, rather than starting from selected areas, citizens across the country are simultaneously getting vaccinated. Indians did not have to wait longer than the developed world to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. Covishield and Covaxin, manufactured in India, have been available to the people since January 16, 2021. India is one of the few countries across the globe with an indigenously developed vaccine. It is expected that a few more COVID-19 vaccines manufactured in India will be available in the second half of 2021. The government’s decision to make the vaccine available free of cost for the public shows a strong commitment to public health. There is little doubt that the COVID-19 vaccination drive marks a paradigmatic shift for the country. Dr. Vijay Chauthaiwale is a Molecular Biologist and In-Charge of the Foreign Affairs Department of the BJP. Views are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-paradigm-shift-in-vaccination/article34825834.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Embracing cryptocurrency||On June 9, El Salvador became the first country in the world to adopt bitcoin as legal tender. This is illustrative of the rising global trend of embracing cryptocurrencies with all its attendant risks. While not every country’s approach has been as open as El Salvador’s, the dominant theme has been to permit the growth of the cryptocurrency market subject to certain safeguards. As India finds itself at a crossroads of prohibition and regulation in its tryst with cryptocurrencies, globally, the inclination towards permissive regulation recognises the freedom of choice given to people for using a medium of exchange other than a central bank-backed fiat currency. Swinging between extremes The cryptocurrency market in India has developed in a largely laissez-faire regulatory space since the first recorded cryptocurrency transaction in 2010. Between 2013 and 2018, the government’s response to the rise of virtual currencies was cautionary, alerting users to the potential risks posed by cryptocurrency transactions. These fears were legitimate and stemmed from cryptocurrencies’ volatility, their susceptibility to hacking, and the fact that they could potentially facilitate criminal activities such as money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion. Instead of developing a regulatory framework to address these issues, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), in April 2018, effectively imposed a ban on cryptocurrency trading. This ban was overturned by the Supreme Court in 2020. The court reasoned that there were alternative regulatory measures short of an outright ban through which the RBI could have achieved its objective of curbing the risks associated with cryptocurrency trading. While the court had an opportunity to put a label on the legal nature of cryptocurrencies, it stopped short of doing so. After swinging between the extremes of non-interference and prohibition, a clue as to India’s next move lies in the draft Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021. The draft Bill proposes to criminalise all private cryptocurrencies while also laying down the regulatory framework for an RBI-backed digital currency. The Minister of State for Finance, in response to a question in Parliament, stated that regulatory bodies do not have a legal framework to directly regulate private cryptocurrencies owing to their imprecise legal nature in India. As the draft Bill is yet to be tabled in Parliament, there is some hope that his concerns will be addressed in the form of a tailored regulatory approach rather than another ban. Lessons from other countries There are lessons in this regard from the U.K., Singapore and the U.S. The U.K. has classified cryptocurrency as property and this has paved the way for cryptocurrencies to be encompassed within a regulated legal framework in the country’s economy. The U.K. has sought to regulate the functioning of crypto-businesses while still imposing some restrictions to protect the interests of investors. On the other hand, while there is no exact legal classification of cryptocurrency in Singapore, the amenability of cryptocurrency transactions to the contract law framework of the country has been firmly established and there is now a legal framework for cryptocurrency trading. In the U.S., the open approach taken by the authorities has resulted in the trade in cryptocurrency being both taxed and appropriately regulated. While the approaches are specific to the countries’ economic realities and cannot be blindly implemented in India, the global regulatory attitude towards cryptocurrencies offers valuable insights into the alternative ways to achieve balanced regulation. In India, the absence of an existing legal classification of cryptocurrency should not be the impetus to prohibit its use. The government should use this as an opportunity to allow private individuals the freedom to harness a powerful new technology with appropriate regulatory standards. Nakul Dewan is Senior Advocate, Supreme Court of India and was the lead counsel who argued against the RBI’s cryptocurrency ban;Rohan Andrew Naik is Advocate, Supreme Court of India, whoassisted in the case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/embracing-cryptocurrency/article34825835.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The invisible tax||The pandemic’s second wave may have subsided but hopes of a smooth rebound in the economy in tandem with easing restrictions remain muddled, with the inflation numbers for May compounding the problem. The soaring pace of rising prices, both retail and wholesale, in the month that saw widespread lockdown-like restrictions, has come as a negative surprise. Inflation based on the Wholesale Price Index is reckoned to have hit a 25-year record of nearly 13%, while retail inflation touched a six-month high of 6.3%. While runaway fuel prices, that include high excise duties and taxes, were a key factor in driving up both the inflation indices, they were not the only ones at work. Retail inflation in food hit a six-month high of 5%, from barely 2% in April, with pulses and eggs as well as edible oils leading the surge. ‘Fuel and light’ inflation hit 11.6%, the highest in over nine years, and no respite is in sight on this front as pump prices for petrol raced past Rs. 100 a litre in even more parts of the country this month. Diesel has also crossed the century mark in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar, where freight costs add up on top of State and central taxes. Even if one were to discount food and fuel prices, core inflation has crossed the 6% mark for the first time in 31 months and is estimated at 6.6%. Reacting to the April retail inflation print of 4.3%, after averaging a steep 6.2% through 2020-21, the RBI Governor had remarked earlier this month that it brought some relief and ‘elbow room’ for sticking with growth-supportive policy. If anything, May’s inflation prints leave no such room for manoeuvre. Though the bank’s Monetary Policy Committee may not switch away from its dovish policy, no further easing of interest rates can be expected at these price levels. Most economists expect inflation to remain higher than the average 5.1% estimated by the central bank for this year. If the Government wants the RBI to persist with its accommodative approach to facilitate growth, it must take some actions of its own to curb price rise, including meaningful cuts in fuel taxes that the RBI Governor has been advocating since February. So far, it has only obfuscated the issue with arguments ranging from ‘the States should cut taxes first’ to ‘let’s bring petroleum products under GST’, and the latest claim by the Petroleum Minister who admitted that the prices are problematic, but the Government is ‘saving money to spend on welfare schemes’ and buying vaccines. For a population already reeling from job and income losses and higher medical costs since the pandemic’s onset, the persistently high inflation is untenable. No welfare scheme can offset its disproportionately adverse impact on the poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-invisible-tax/article34825822.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bracing for a threat||An emerging form of the Delta variant called AY.1 is raising global concern. Five of India’s leading laboratories, since May, have submitted data to the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) on its presence in India. Public Health England, a body in the United Kingdom, has said that of the 63 genomes in its repository as of June 7, six were from India. AY.1, or B.1.617.2.1, is a variant of Delta (B.1.617.2) and has all its characteristic mutations along with one called K417N. This particular one has previously been identified in the Beta variant (first detected in South Africa), which is an international variant of concern as it is highly infectious and known to reduce vaccine potency. The Delta variant is reportedly the most prevalent coronavirus variant in India and comprises close to a third of the genome samples, sourced from those with no international travel history, processed until late May. An additional concern with the K417N mutation is that some studies have found that it was associated with resistance to a newly developed monoclonal antibody treatment drug cocktail, Casirivimab and Imdevimab, for those assessed with a moderate to severe disease risk. Scientists have said that AY.1 marks the continued evolution of the Delta variant. The Delta variant has become globally prominent in the same way as a mutation, D614G, increased the infectivity of coronavirus in March and April last year. Coronaviruses are marked by ‘convergent evolution’; some defining mutations that emerge in different strains from around the world start to become more common in subsequent variants. These mutations are beneficial to the virus and, through a process of natural selection, help it infect human cells more efficiently as well as thwart defensive antibodies. Evolution is an incessant process, and it is impossible to forecast if SARS-CoV-2 will become a part of the human ecosystem — less contagious, and manifesting in sporadic outbreaks but ever present or buckling into oblivion under the force of counter-offensive measures such as vaccines, masks, lockdowns. As the virus and people continue to be engaged in a dialectical battle, humanity has a tool that has been absent in previous global pandemics — that of rapid genome sequencing. Several countries, including India, have the infrastructure and the resources to track threatening mutations. Unfortunately, the potency of a mutation to increase infectivity in a region can only be known retrospectively. However, this knowledge can help improve vaccines and enable researchers to perform quick tweaks, or in the parlance of software, develop upgraded patches that can blunt the threat from emergent variants. India has chosen to restrict genome sequencing studies to 10 government labs and not involve private labs, some of which have the capability and the expertise. Time and again, the country has suffered the consequences of a lack of preparedness. It is important not to downplay the seriousness of the threat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bracing-for-a-threat/article34825823.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Ceylon and the Civil Service.||We understand that under the new rules made by the Ceylon Government to regulate the admission of Ceylonese to the Civil Service, the door has been shut against Indians. The Service in Ceylon will be recruited in future on a percentage basis, two-thirds being Britishers and one-third Ceylonese. The Ceylon Daily News comments thus on the change: “When the Government minute giving effect to this arrangement was published, we early warned the Government that this is bound to provoke India to retaliate. India, as soon as it becomes aware of the ban placed on her own, will effectively bar her doors against the admission of Ceylonese into the Indian Civil Service. Thus, under the plea of enlarging opportunities for Ceylonese in Ceylon, the Government is going about the best way of depriving the Ceylonese of the splendid and more profitable opportunities they have enjoyed in India... It would be well for the Government to remember while there is still time that not in the Civil Service alone are Indians employed. Quite a good few of them are employed in other places.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ceylon-and-the-civil-service/article34825831.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Bangla Desh solution receding: PM||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, told the Rajya Sabha to-day [New Delhi, June 15] that with each passing day the possibility of a political settlement in Bangla Desh was becoming more remote. She dismissed fears that India would acquiesce in a political settlement at the cost of democracy and the rights of the people fighting there and said that any settlement “must be arrived at with those people who are to-day being suppressed.” The Prime Minister who was replying to a four-hour debate on the situation caused by the influx of six million refugees, assured the House that this nation would make all the sacrifices and even “go through hell” to look after the refugees. Stressing the responsibility of the international community in a situation which not only resulted in a colossal refugee influx, but also involved the question of democracy and human rights, Mrs. Gandhi said India’s Ministers and other emissaries who had gone abroad had some successes in bringing home the reality of the situation to those countries. “We are not going to allow the international community to get away with it. They have to realise it is their responsibility,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/bangla-desh-solution-receding-pm/article34825832.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Covaxin at Rs. 150 to Centre not sustainable: Bharat Biotech||Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech has said the price of Rs. 150 per dose at which the vaccine is being supplied to the Centre is a non-competitive price and ‘clearly not sustainable in the long run’. A higher price in private markets is thus required to offset part of the costs, the Hyderabad-based vaccine maker said on Tuesday amid questions on the differential pricing followed for supplies to various sectors. Vaccine pricing depends on several factors, from cost of goods and raw materials, product failures, at risk product development outlays, product overages, capital expenditure for setting up manufacturing facilities, sales and distribution expenses, procurement volumes and commitments, the firm said. It added that it had so far invested over Rs. 500 crore ‘at risk’ for product development, clinical trials and setting up of manufacturing facilities for Covaxin. Observing that less than 10% of the Covaxin output had been supplied to private hospitals, the company said the weighted average price of Covaxin for all supplies realised by it was less than Rs. 250 per dose. Unlike most medicines, vaccines were provided free of cost by the Centre to all eligible citizens. Hence, procurement of vaccines by private hospitals was optional and not mandatory, the company contended. “In our view, the question of product pricing is only of extraneous interest to all concerned, especially when the same vaccine is made available free of cost,” Bharat Biotech said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covaxin-at-rs-150-to-centre-not-sustainable-bharat-biotech/article34825804.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||U.S. arbitrator tells DRL unit to pay $46.25 mn||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) on Tuesday said one of its subsidiaries had been asked to pay $46.25 million, under an arbitration award, to Hatchtech Pty Ltd., the Australian firm with whom it had entered into an asset purchase pact in 2015. Stating that the award was issued by the International Centre for Dispute Resolution, U.S., the pharmaceuticals company said it was exploring all legal options to challenge the award. The subsidiary had been asked to make the payment towards milestones, interest and fees to Hatchtech in connection with the asset purchase agreement, DRL said in a regulatory filing. Citing a July 2020 filing on the USFDA approving its New Drug Application pertaining to Xeglyze (abametapir) lotion, 0.74%, the drugmaker said that the approval triggered the contractual pre-commercialisation milestone of $20 million payable to Hatchtech, which had been included in the arbitration award. Also, the sum had been already accounted for and charged off in the company’s financial statements for 2020-21, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories said in the filing to the stock exchanges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/us-arbitrator-tells-drl-unit-to-pay-4625-mn/article34825806.ece
16 June 2021||MUMBAI,||RBI restrains DHFL from taking deposits||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has revoked the deposit-taking status of Dewan Housing Finance (DHFL), the first financial services firm to go for bankruptcy proceedings. The central bank had reclassified DHFL as a non-deposit taking housing finance company, before approving the Piramal Group’s bid to take over it towards the end of the resolution process. This was revealed in the June 7 order of the NCLT Mumbai approving the Rs. 35,250-crore bid by Piramal Capital & Housing Finance, forcing a more than 65% haircut on creditors and just Rs. 1 to NCD holders to whom the firm owes more than Rs. 45,000 crore. The changes were made in February 2021, after the banking regulator gave a no-objection to the January 25, 2021 application by R. Subramaniakumar, the DHFL administrator, citing Rule 5 of its FSP (financial services providers) Rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-restrains-dhfl-from-taking-deposits/article34825816.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Retail sales decline 79% from two years earlier||Retail sales in India slipped 79% in May compared with pre-COVID sales in the same month in 2019, as businesses across States were closed due to the second wave of the pandemic, a survey by Retailers Association of India (RAI) showed. The decline in sales was the steepest in West and North India, which witnessed an 83% dip last month as compared with May 2019, RAI said in a statement. Eastern region saw a decline of 75%, while South was relatively better with a contraction of 73% as compared to the same month in 2019. On a sequential basis, the decline in May was much steeper compared to the previous month, when overall sales across India were down 49% as compared with April 2019, the survey showed. “Retailers are looking forward to some improvement in June with gradual unlocking. However, the industry needs the collective support of various government bodies to tide over the present situation,” RAI CEO Kumar Rajagopalan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/retail-sales-decline-79-from-two-years-earlier/article34825818.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adani Group shares close on a mixed note||A day after seeing a sharp plunge, shares of Adani Group companies closed on a mixed note on Tuesday. On Monday, the group said that accounts of three Mauritius-based funds that own the conglomerate’s stocks were not frozen amid reports to the contrary. Six Adani Group companies, including the flagship Adani Enterprises, are listed on the bourses. On Tuesday, Adani Enterprises gained 2.45% to Rs. 1,538.05 and Adani Green Energy jumped 2.79% to Rs. 1,208.75 on the BSE. Amid bullish sentiments, the 30-share Sensex on Tuesday touched fresh lifetime closing and intraday highs. In contrast, Adani Transmission tumbled 5% to Rs. 1,441.40 while Adani Total Gas tanked 5% to Rs. 1,467.35. Shares of Adani Power slumped 4.97% to Rs. 133.90 and that of Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone declined 0.94% to Rs. 761.45. Shares of Adani Group firms plunged on Monday after reports that the National Securities Depository Ltd. froze the accounts of the three foreign funds that were among the top stakeholders in the firms. While the group said all the accounts of its top shareholder funds were active, NSDL, in an email to the group, had also confirmed their ‘active’ status.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/adani-group-shares-close-on-a-mixed-note/article34825819.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Govt., Infosys to discuss I-T portal glitches||Top Finance Ministry officials, while acknowledging that the new income tax filing portal has been ‘fraught with several technical glitches/issues leading to taxpayer inconvenience,’ said they will hold an interaction on June 22 with the service provider Infosys, along with chartered accountants, auditors and taxpayers. “Written representations on the problems, difficulties faced in the portal have also been invited from the stakeholders,” the Revenue Department said in a statement. “Representatives from Infosys team will be present to answer queries, clarify issues and receive inputs on the working of the portal, to remove glitches and sort out issues faced by the taxpayers.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-infosys-to-discuss-i-t-portal-glitches/article34825807.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Exports surge 69%, trade deficit widens||India’s exports rose by 69% to $32.3 billion in May, driven by healthy growth in sectors such as engineering, petroleum products and gems and jewellery, even as the trade deficit widened to $6.3 billion, according to government data released on Tuesday.  Imports grew by almost 74% to $38.6 billion — leaving a trade deficit for the month at $6.3 billion.  Exports during April-May this year jumped to $62.9 billion, from $29.4 billion in the year-earlier period. Imports were recorded at $84.3 billion, an increase from $39.3 billion in the same two months of 2020. The trade deficit came in at $21.4 billion, as against $9.9 billion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/exports-surge-69-trade-deficit-widens/article34825813.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Canara Bank to buy 12% stake in bad bank||Canara Bank said it will be the lead sponsor of National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd. (NARCL), or bad bank, with a 12% stake in the entity. Bad bank refers to a financial institution that takes over bad assets of lenders and undertakes resolution. “The board of Canara Bank has given in-principle approval for taking stake in NARCL,” Canara Bank said in a regulatory filing. Following the board nod, the bank has sought the approval from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for participating in NARCL as a sponsor contributing 12% stake.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/canara-bank-to-buy-12-stake-in-bad-bank/article34825808.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Max Life settles 33% more death claims||Max Life Insurance on Tuesday reported a 33% jump in death claim settlements to more than Rs. 885 crore for FY21. The private sector insurer said its claim settlement ratio also touched an all-time high at 99.35% during the year. It represents the ratio of the number of claims paid against the number of claims filed during a particular time-frame. Max Life Insurance has paid 19,922 death claims worth Rs. 885.57 crore during the financial year 2020-21. With this, the company said it had achieved an all-time high individual death claims paid ratio of 99.35.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/max-life-settles-33-more-death-claims/article34825814.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland’s arm buys out SMAL||Ashok Leyland’s subsidiary Switch Mobility Ltd. of U.K. has acquired the entire shareholding in EV maker Switch Mobility Automotive Ltd. India (SMAL) on Monday, resulting in the latter becoming a step-down subsidiary of the company. SMAL was incorporated in December last year with a paid up capital of Rs. 1 crore to manufacture and sell electric vehicles (EVs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ashok-leylands-arm-buys-out-smal/article34825809.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||TVS cuts EV price by Rs. 11,250||TVS Motor Company has reduced the prices of its electric scooter TVS iQube Electric by Rs. 11,250. The new pricing is in line with the revision in subsidy under FAME II scheme. The incentive would increase the reach of electric two-wheelers in the country, the company said. The revised price of iQube Electric in New Delhi will be Rs. 1,00,777 and Bengaluru Rs. 1,10,506.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-cuts-ev-price-by-rs-11250/article34825811.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Authum Investment and Infrastructure emerges as highest bidder; set to acquire Reliance Home Finance||Authum Investment and Infrastructure Ltd. has emerged as the highest bidder for Reliance Home Finance, a group company of the debt-ridden Anil Ambani-promoted Reliance Group, with Rs. 2,887 crore offer. Sources said lenders led by Bank of Baroda would receive Rs. 2,887 crore of which Rs. 2,587 crore, or 90%, would be paid upfront and Rs. 300 crore within a year.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/authum-investment-and-infrastructure-emerges-as-highest-bidder-set-to-acquire-reliance-home-finance/article34825812.ece
16 June 2021||Mumbai,||Care, Acuité form AIRA to develop debt market||Two credit rating agencies (CRAs) have established ‘Association of Indian Rating Agencies’ (AIRA). AIRA is expected to work closely with the regulator and government for debt-market development, the agencies said. While Care Ratings Ltd. and Acuité Ratings & Research Ltd. are the founding members, two more CRAs may join soon, Care and Acuite officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/care-acuit-form-aira-to-develop-debt-market/article34825802.ece
16 June 2021||Rio De Janeiro,||Messi is brilliant, Argentina is not||Lionel Messi scored a stunning free kick, repeatedly dribbled through the Chilean defence and created opportunities regularly for his Argentina teammates. Despite Messi’s intense performance, Argentina was held 1-1 by Chile in its Copa America opener. Coach Lionel Scaloni’s line-up wasted three clear opportunities between the 16th and 18th minutes, one from Lautaro Martinez and two for Nicolas Gonzalez. And then Messi opened the scoring in the 33rd after a free kick that Chilean goalkeeper Claudio Bravo couldn’t stop despite getting a touch on the ball to his left. Transformation But Chile transformed into a more attacking team in the second half and earned a penalty after video review. Arturo Vidal’s shot from the spot was stopped, but Eduardo Vargas nodded into the empty goal to level the scores in the 57th. Messi continued to create opportunities until the end of the match, but his teammates showed the same difficulty to deliver goals as they did in the 2-2 draw at Colombia in a World Cup qualifier in Barranquilla last week. Meanwhile, Diego Maradona’s life was honoured in a tribute featuring lights and projections onto the pitch before the match. It was organised by South American football body CONMEBOL. Maradona died at age 60 last November. The 3-minute video, which was shared by CONMEBOL's social media channels, had “Live is Life” by Opus as its soundtrack. Meanwhile, Paraguay leads group A after a 3-1 win over Bolivia at the Olimpico stadium in Goiania. Bolivia scored first via Erwin Saavedra’s first-half penalty, but Paraguay changed its fortunes after the break with goals by Alejandro Romero and a brace by Ángel Romero. Argentina’s next match is against Uruguay on Friday. Chile will face Bolivia on the same day. Paraguay returns to action next Monday against Argentina.  The results:   Group A: Argentina 1 (Messi 33) drew with Chile 1 (Vargas 57); Paraguay 3 (Romero Gamarra 62, Angel Romero 65, 80) bt Bolivia 1 (Saavedra 10-pen).    By The Numbers   1 - Messi scored off a direct free kick for Argentina after 1672 days after the one against Colombia, on 15 November 2016, in the WC Qualifiers  2 - Angel Romero is the first Paraguayan to score a brace in the Copa America since the 2007 edition  10 - The goal chances created by Romero Gamarra, a record in a Copa America match since 2007||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/messi-is-brilliant-argentina-is-not/article34825965.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||The race is not always to the swift nor the battle to the strong||When do you play your best team in a series? It’s a question modern captains and coaches have to answer. This, just after they have answered a more important one: Which is your best team? Two recent series victories, India’s in Australia, and New Zealand’s in England have shown that the World Test Championship (WTC) final this week will be played between the two best teams in the world. And that’s as it should be. Test cricket is a funny beast, however. How do you decide which is the best team in the world when it is difficult to tell which is the best team a country possesses? New Zealand won the final Test and the series after making six changes. Some owing to injury, and some for a reason we shall come to shortly. Captain and best batsman Kane Williamson decided to rest his elbow and not aggravate the injury ahead of the WTC final. So New Zealand won comfortably with their next-best team. In Australia earlier, only two Indians, Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara, played all four Tests. India’s bowling attack in the final Test was possibly their weakest of the series. It wasn’t even their next-best team. Yet India won that Test and with it the series. Their best batsman and captain Virat Kohli had flown back home after the first Test. Predicting victories in cricket — fraught at the best of times — has just got more difficult. The race is not always to the swift, nor battle to the strong. New Zealand might think they are strengthening their team for the WTC final with the return of Williamson, B-J. Watling, Tim Southee, and others, but are they really? England might believe that once Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler, Moeen Ali, Chris Woakes, and Sam Curran make the eleven against India, they have a superior team. But will they? The pandemic, and possibly the bubble associated with it, is causing us to reassess the apparently obvious. An X-factor has entered the calculations, making it all very exciting. Bench strength is vital. Teams travel now with 24 or more players. They carry their own ‘net’ bowlers (one of them, T. Natarajan made his debut in all three formats in Australia). The competition is tougher, and no player on tour can afford to take his place for granted. Whatever it is, the manner in which teams have made huge changes from match to match, and still succeeded, is an interesting development. Not yet a trend, but it might graduate into one. Changes are made for a second reason too, and there might be issues with that. Again, owing to the pandemic, teams have had to rotate their players, ensuring they get sufficient rest and are fresh for each match. England have made a fetish of this, resting Moeen, Bairstow, Buttler, Curran, and Woakes for the New Zealand series. Woakes had bowled just 21 overs in competition in nine months previously, so ‘rest’ was hardly what he needed. The rotation policy is lauded as a masterstroke when the team wins, but seen as foolish and counter-productive when it loses. England’s problem was their inflexibility, the refusal to change plans when the IPL was shortened and players flew home, giving themselves more rest than they originally expected to have. Team priorities Teams have different priorities too, and the selections are made accordingly. For England, it is the Ashes series at the top followed by International Cricket Council tournaments like the World Cups. The suspicion that they used the New Zealand series as ‘nets’ before the Ashes cannot be shaken away. That is hardly fair to the No. 1 Test team in the world. New Zealand have the right to expect the best team to take them on, for beating a second XI is deeply unsatisfying. But you can only beat the team that turns up. When Roger Federer pulled out in the middle of the French Open, it seemed as if he was merely testing the waters ahead of Wimbledon to see if his knees could take the strain after surgeries. Federer’s largely unblemished record meant he was given the benefit of the doubt; in any case, the stakes are different in individual sport. Both New Zealand and India should, and probably will, play their best teams in the WTC final commencing on Friday. A final cannot be a stepping stone to something else. Lessons from history History has shown that after India won the 1983 World Cup (50-over), that format got a huge shot in the arm, and drew more people to the game. Similarly post-2007 when India won the World T20, the IPL was born, and the format threatened to take over the game. If India win the inaugural WTC, perhaps something similar will happen with Test cricket. No pressure at all, Virat Kohli!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-race-is-not-always-to-the-swift-nor-the-battle-to-the-strong/article34825957.ece
16 June 2021||Bristol,||Indian women return to the Test arena today||A favourable record in England and a “positive mindset” despite inadequate time for preparation will spur the Indian women’s team when it takes on England in its first Test engagement in nearly seven years here from Wednesday. After multiple quarantines in India and the UK, the Mithali Raj-led squad got little over a week, that too only in the nets, to prepare for its first red-ball game since November 2014. Mithali is among the seven players who were part of that victorious XI against South Africa in Mysuru. Seventeen-year-old Shafali Verma is expected to make her debut and open the innings with Smriti Mandhana. The experienced trio of Mithali, Harmanpreet and Punam Raut follow. On the bowling front, veteran pacers Jhulan Goswami and Shikha Pandey will have to shake off the rust of the long hiatus. The spinners, who had a forgettable time at home in the limited-overs series against South Africa, will be itching to make amends. In England, India has not lost in eight Tests and won two.  The squads: India: Mithali Raj (Capt.), Smriti Mandhana, Harmanpreet Kaur (Vice-Capt.), Punam Raut, Priya Punia, Deepti Sharma, Jemimah Rodrigues, Shafali Verma, Sneh Rana, Taniya Bhatia (wk), Indrani Roy, Jhulan Goswami, Shikha Pandey, Pooja Vastrakar, Arundhati Reddy, Poonam Yadav, Ekta Bisht and Radha Yadav.   England: Heather Knight (Capt.), Nat Sciver (Vice-Capt.), Emily Arlott, Tammy Beaumont, Katherine Brunt, Kate Cross, Freya Davies, Sophia Dunkley, Sophie Ecclestone, Georgia Elwiss, Tash Farrant, Sarah Glenn, Amy Jones, Anya Shrubsole, Mady Villiers, Fran Wilson and Lauren Winfield-Hill.   Match starts at 3.30 p.m.   India has played 36 Tests, won five, lost six. drawn 25 India’s last Test was against South Africa in 2014 at Mysuru. The host won by an innings and 34 runs The victory helped India equal Australia’s record of most successive Test wins (three) India’s final Test against England was played at Wormsely in 2014, where it won by six wickets In bilateral Tests between India and England, Mithali tops the charts with 505 runs (avg. 63.12). Jhulan is the leading bowler with 29 wickets (avg. 14.93).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-women-return-to-the-test-arena-today/article34825916.ece
16 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Lack of match practice a disadvantage, but we are ready: Pujara||Cheteshwar Pujara, the senior batsman, has admitted that lack of a warm-up fixture ahead of India’s inaugural World Test Championship (WTC) final versus New Zealand is a bit of a disadvantage. “It is (a disadvantage), but this is something we can’t control. These are challenging times in the world because of the pandemic, and you can’t have the luxury of extra preparation time. But the most important part is the game is still going on and that we’re playing a final,” Pujara said from Southampton in a virtual media interaction on Tuesday. “Yes, preparation time is a bit of a disadvantage maybe, but if you are ready for the challenge, even if circumstances aren’t favourable, you would do well. We are confident as a team. Maybe a few extra days of preparation would have helped, but we can’t complain. We are ready.” India will face New Zealand at The Ageas Bowl from Friday. While New Zealand will enter the game having defeated England in a two-Test series, India has had to make do with intra-squad match besides net sessions after serving mandatory quarantine in Southampton. Pujara insisted that India had made the most of the “centre-wicket simulation”, with batsmen trying to “spend time in the middle” and bowlers “getting used to workload”. The veteran batsman, who is one of the leading Test-match specialists for India, stressed the WTC final is as big as a World Cup final for him. “Personally, it means a lot to me. This is the first time we are in a WTC final. We have worked hard over a period of time. It’s just like playing in a 50-over or T20 World Cup final,” he said. “Test cricket needs to survive, and a WTC format helps where every Test, every series is important. If we win, then many youngsters would want to play the Test format and be part of the final when the next cycle comes around.”   Meanwhile, India has omitted Shardul Thakur from the 15-member squad for the WTC final. The pruned squad was announced on Tuesday as per the ICC regulations. The team management has preferred the experience of Umesh Yadav ahead of the Mumbai pacer.  The squad:   Virat Kohli (Capt.), Ajinkya Rahane (Vice-capt.), Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Rishabh Pant (wk), Ravindra Jadeja, Hanuma Vihari, Umesh Yadav, Ravichandran Ashwin, Mohammed Shami, Ishant Sharma, Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Siraj, Wriddhiman Saha (wk) .   It was an ideal preparation to play two Test matches with guys getting match preparation. I couldn't think of anything better. Ross Taylor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/lack-of-match-practice-a-disadvantage-but-we-are-ready-pujara/article34825926.ece
16 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Administrator CRV passes away||C.R. Visswanathan (85), a well-known football administrator in Tamil Nadu, passed away here on Tuesday morning. CRV, as he was affectionately called, is survived by wife, daughter and son. CRV was the president of the Tamil Nadu Football Association (TFA) and vice-president of the All-India Football Federation (AIFF). He was also the president of the Chennai District Football Association (1984-2009) and Coimbatore District Football Association (1972-74). CRV was instrumental in the construction of the Nehru Stadium in the City and played a crucial role in the State hosting the Nehru Gold Cup International tournament at the stadium in 1993 and the SAF Games in 1995. He also held various posts in AIFF. He was its vice-president (2004-08), member of the Executive Committee (2008-12) and chairman of the Technical Committee (2008-12). AIFF’s condolence The AIFF condoled CRV’s death. In a message, federation president Praful Patel said: “He will be remembered for his contribution to Indian football, and sports. My thoughts lie with his family. We pray for his soul to rest in peace,” he said. Ravikumar David, who served as TFA secretary and treasurer during CRV’s time, said: “He was always encouraging. Thanks to him, I went as manager of the Indian youth (u-21) team to Sri Lanka in 2007-08.” In a release, TFA offered its condolences. “On behalf of office-bearers, Executive Committee members and affiliated members, we offer our heartfelt condolences to his bereaved family members.”  He will be remembered for his contribution to Indian football— Praful Patel,AIFF president   CRV was the TFA president He held various posts in AIFF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/football-administrator-crv-passes-away/article34826012.ece
16 June 2021||Chennai,||A career highlight for Niranjana, Thirush Kamini||The last time the Indian women’s side played a Test in England back in 2014, two players from Tamil Nadu played a vital role in the team’s six-wicket win over the home team. For both, N. Niranjana and Thirush Kamini, it remains a highlight of the career. Kamini made 28 in a crucial 76-run stand opening with Smriti Mandhana in that match in 2014 in the second innings chasing 182. Speaking about Wednesday’s match in Bristol, Kamini said, “I would say India will have an edge going into the game. Better prepared “We are a better-prepared side compared to seven years back and we have a more experienced side.” While England plays the multi-day format regularly, the Indian women’s team have not had the chance to play the longest form of the game in recent times. However, both Kamini and Niranjana felt it won’t matter much considering the quality of the side. “Both teams have not played a lot in the last year and a half, so the experience will come in handy,” added Kamini. Right blend “Our team has the right blend of youth and experience and it will be a close and well-fought contest,” said medium-pacer Niranjana who set up the match in 2014 with her four-wicket haul in the first innings. The duo, though not part of the current team, feel they still have it in them to make a comeback.  While Kamini was the third-highest run-scorer in the recently concluded senior women’s one-dayer playing for Railways, Niranjana scalped 14 wickets from five matches and was the only medium-pacer in the top ten on the charts. Despite being overlooked, both of them felt Test cricket will help in the overall development of the players across formats and hoped Wednesday’s one-off Test can spark a revival of more such games for the women’s team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-career-highlight-for-tamil-nadus-niranjana-and-thirush-kamini/article34826015.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sports minister felicitates Sai Praneeth||Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud felicitated Olympics-bound shuttler B. Sai Praneeth and presented the World championship bronze medallist with a cash incentive of Rs. 5 lakh here on Tuesday. The Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy was among those who were present. Great pride The minister, who also honoured Sai Praneeth’s parents, said it was a matter of great pride and prestige that four athletes from the State are representing India in next month’s Olympics and hoped they will bring laurels. “I would like to stress here that the State government had so far presented cash incentives of Rs. 25.87 crores to athletes from the State who have excelled at the national and international levels,” said Mr. Goud. “We are in the process of finalising a Sports Policy, under the patronage and guidance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao, which should be the best in the country catering to the needs and aspirations of the entire sports fraternity,” the Minister added. He also said that the government had been implementing a 0.5 per cent sports quota in admissions to professional courses and Government jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sports-minister-felicitates-sai-praneeth/article34826426.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NRAI achieves its primary objective||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has achieved its primary objective of preparing 15 shooters as a team in a professional and safe environment as they get ready to compete in the Tokyo Olympics. It has already been well documented the way 13 rifle and pistol shooters, along with coaches and support staff were sent in a chartered aircraft to be based in Zagreb in the run-up to the Games. Angad Vir Singh Bajwa had set the tone by reaching Italy immediately after the World Cup here in March. Much later, Mairaj Ahmad Khan moved to Italy for a sanctioned training stint with coach Ennio Falco. The NRAI was able to draft Angad into the camp, even though he had different plans of preparation with coach Tore Brovold. While Angad had planned to shoot at the World Cup in Osijek, Croatia, from June 24, Mairaj had left it to the coach to take a call. Falco decided that the two Indian shooters would skip the World Cup so as to prepare better and reach their peak in Tokyo. “I have been training in the camp at Ennio’s range with Mairaj for about a month now. The coach decided that we would not shoot in the World Cup as it will be close to the Olympics,” said Angad. There were other factors that led to the decision. “Safety is also an issue. Owing to COVID-19, we had to keep in mind a secure environment and not take a chance. Also, competing in Croatia would have meant two days of travel. That apart, many days of training would be disrupted if we compete in the World Cup,” reasoned Angad, who keeps in touch with coach Brovold as well. Flexible Despite being firm with its plans of preparation and stressing on the sense of solidarity as a team, NRAI has been flexible in allowing the coaches, to a great extent, to decide the best way forward.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nrai-achieves-its-primary-objective/article34826194.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Little clarity on doubles qualification for the Games||The ranking cut-off for entry to the Tokyo Olympics was reached on June 14, but there was no hint about a doubles slot for the Asian Games champions Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan. Despite reaching the quarterfinals at Roland-Garros, Bopanna could only improve his ranking from 40 to 38. There was no remarkable slip for Diivj, who moved from 73 to 75. The International Tennis Federation (ITF) will first work on the list of 56 direct entrants in singles for men and women. It will also award the final eight ITF qualification places to the eligible continental performers. The ITF is scheduled to inform the respective national federations about their eligible singles players by Wednesday. Thereafter, the process will continue for the doubles teams. For a draw of 32, there will be 31 direct acceptances, on the basis of combined world rank of singles or doubles, of the two players in each team. Doubles players ranked in the top-10 will have automatic entry into the Olympics, as long as their partners have a top-300 rank. Each country can enter a maximum of 6 men and 6 women players. There will be a restriction of a maximum of four singles players, and two doubles teams each, for the men’s and women’s events. The mixed doubles teams will be accepted on site in Tokyo on July 27 with an 11 a.m. deadline, from the players assembled for the Games. The mixed doubles event will be limited to a draw of 16 teams. A country can field a maximum of two mixed doubles teams. The rankings for the entry of mixed teams will also be June 14, the cut-off date for tennis entry for the Games. The National federations will be required to confirm the entry of eligible players and submit doubles nominations for men’s and women’s events on June 22. The National Olympic Committees have a deadline of July 5 to submit the entry forms to the Tokyo 2020 organising committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/little-clarity-on-doubles-qualification-for-the-games/article34826196.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Bhagyashree and Pranesh claim titles||In a thrilling finale, Tamil Nadu’s M. Pranesh and Maharashtra’s Bhagyashree Patil won the National (under-16) online rapid chess titles on Tuesday. Leader after the 10th and penultimate round, Pranesh drew with Manish Kumar to reach an unsurpassable tally of 9.5 points from 11 rounds. A little later, Delhi’s Aaryan Varshney defeated TN’s Suresh Harsh to catch up with Pranesh. Later, the tie-break favoured Pranesh and Varshney finished runner-up. In the girls section, Bhagyashree finished first among equals following a three-way tie at 9 points. After 10th-round leaders Delhi’s Khuaana Kapoor and Gujarat’s Riddhi Patel drew quickly on the top board, Bhagyashree, playing black, defeated Statemate Aahana Pachchigar to reach nine points. As it turned out, Bhagyashree’s tie-break was superior to those of Khuanna and Riddhi. The three-day National under-14 championship begins on Wednesday.  Final standings (after 11 rounds):   Open: 1-2. M. Pranesh (TN), Aaryan Varshney (Del) (9.5 each); 3-5. Manish Kumar (Odi), Jimmy Jubin (Ker) and Akshay Posina (Tel) (9 each).   Girls: 1-3. Bhagyashree Patil (Mah), Khuanna Kapoor (Del), Riddhi Patel (Guj) (9 each); 4-5. Dhyan Patel (Guj) and K. Ratnapriya (TN) (8.5 each) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bhagyashree-and-pranesh-claim-titles/article34825958.ece
16 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Hawks rally past Sixers to level series||Trae Young poured in 25 points and added 18 assists as Atlanta Hawks rallied to beat Philadelphia 76ers in game four of their second-round Eastern Conference playoff series on Monday. Young shot eight of 26 from the floor and drained three threes and had plenty of help from his supporting cast as all five Hawks starters finished in double figures to level the best-of-seven series at 2-2. His 18 assists equalled a career high, but he also busted out from under the watchful eye of Sixers’ defensive specialist Ben Simmons. Simmons finished second this year in NBA defensive Player-of-the-Year voting to Utah's Rudy Gobert. Bogdan Bogdanovic scored 22 points for Atlanta.  Meanwhile, Kawhi Leonard and Paul George combined for 62 points as Los Angeles Clippers breezed to a 118-104 win over the top-seeded Utah Jazz in game four of their Western Conference series.   The results (semifinals): EC: Atlanta Hawks 103 bt Philadelphia 76ers 100 (Series tied 2-2); WC: Los Angeles Clippers 118 bt Utah Jazz 104 (Series tied 2-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hawks-rally-past-sixers-to-level-series/article34825961.ece
16 June 2021||MUMBAI,||‘It would’ve been nice to represent the country in WTC’||Sachin Tendulkar, former India captain, is excited ahead of the inaugural WTC final. He shared his views ahead of the contest in a brief conversation. Excerpts:  What would your preferred bowling combination be for India? It depends on the surface and I am sure the groundsman will be watering it till the 17th. I haven’t had a look at the wicket but I know there are three options. One is to play with seven batters, three seamers and one spinner. The second option is to play with four seamers and one spinner. And the last is to play three seamers and two spinners. It’s too early to figure out the combination. The advantage with India is both the spinners can bat. What do you make of the contrasting preparation for both the sides? It is actually a coincidence that New Zealand and England have played a series just before the WTC final. But they obviously have that advantage of having played two practice matches in the form of Tests. We haven’t had that advantage but I would much rather focus on having done whatever best we could, given the circumstances. It is important to think of the next step rather than the last one. The next step matters and that’s where the focus should be. Would you have liked to be a part of a concept like WTC? It would have obviously been nice to be representing the country in the Test Championship final. As a player, yes. But am not too sure as a spectator. It’s too spaced out, I feel. There were multiple series happening in between, so it was difficult to follow. But as a player, it would have been exciting. The gaps in series make it difficult to follow. For instance, we played New Zealand early in 2020 and now after 16 months, we’ll be playing them in the final. It’s a long time.  It would have obviously been nice to be representing the country in the Test Championship final||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/it-wouldve-been-nice-to-represent-the-country-in-wtc/article34825920.ece
16 June 2021||BUDAPEST,||Ronaldo’s brace powers Portugal past Hungary||Portugal began the defence of its title at Euro 2020 with a 3-0 victory over Hungary on Tuesday as Cristiano Ronaldo struck twice to become the all-time leading scorer in European Championship history. Raphael Guerreiro's deflected shot broke Hungary's resistance on 84 minutes and Ronaldo smashed home a penalty before he added a third in stoppage time. Ronaldo, the first player to appear at five different Euros, has now scored 11 goals in the tournament, surpassing the record of nine set by France's Michel Platini. Poor finishing Spain tried to pass Sweden into oblivion in its 2020 opener on Monday but had to settle for a 0-0 draw as it was let down by poor finishing and might have even lost had it not been for a glaring miss by opposing striker Marcus Berg. Alvaro Morata spurned Spain’s best opportunity in a dominant first half display from Luis Enrique’s side on a scorching evening at Seville’s La Cartuja stadium in Group E when he missed the target from inside the area after a defensive slip. But Sweden’s Berg was equally wasteful when he somehow missed the target after a sensational piece of skill and cross from fellow forward Alexander Isak, who had manoeuvred his way past four Spain defenders to put the chance on a plate. Spain ran out of steam in the second half before rallying again late on but still failed to beat Sweden keeper Robin Olsen, who thwarted substitute Gerard Moreno in stoppage time. The lively Dani Olmo created three promising chances in the first half but the best chance fell to Morata, who failed to cash in on a lapse of concentration by Sweden’s Marcus Danielson but slotted wide of goal with only Olsen to beat.   The results: Group E: Spain 0 drew with Sweden 0.   Group F: Hungary 0 lost to Portugal 3 (Guerreiro 84, Ronaldo 87-pen, 90+2) .   By The Numbers 5 - Dani Olmo equalled Rober Lewandowski as the player to have made the most shots without scoring in a single game in this edition 17 - Spain’s total shots, its highest tally in a major tournament without scoring since the 25 attempts against Switzerland at the 2010 World Cup 917 Spain broke a competition record with 917 passes while keeping 85% possession but still failed to win||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ronaldos-brace-powers-portugal-past-hungary/article34825931.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Players want to figure in longer format’||When Mithali Raj made her international debut, the third millennium hadn’t dawned yet. She was only 16 when she made an unbeaten 114 against England in an ODI at Milton Keynes to announce her arrival, in 1999. More than two decades later, she is still the mainstay of the Indian women’s team, that takes on England in the one-off Test at Bristol from Wednesday. The captain sounded confident on the eve of the match. She, however, isn’t thinking of the record that beckons India — most successive Test wins. India has won its last three Tests and no country has won four in a row. “I am not looking at the record,” Mithali, who became the second woman to score 10,000 international runs three months ago, said at a virtual conference on Tuesday. “For us, the first thing is to get out there in a confident frame of mind. Let us see how it goes from there,” she said. Debutants Since India’s last Test was played seven years ago, a few youngsters are bound to make their debut at Bristol. With hardly any red-ball cricket on India’s women’s domestic circuit, they could find the long format particularly challenging. “You don’t want to burden them with expectations and responsibilities,” said Mithali. “As a team we would support them on the field and they should just enjoy playing this format.” She hopes the current tour could be a new beginning as far as women’s Test cricket is concerned. “This — and the pink-ball Test in Australia later on — opens the channel to have a three-format bilateral series,” the skipper said. “Cricketers still want to play the longer format. Because... that is the format that tests the skills of the players. Maybe in the coming years, it might also lead to a World Test championship.” After making her Test debut in 2002, she has played only nine more. None of those Tests had attracted as much attention as the one that is about to get underway as it will be telecast live.  India has thus far played 36 Tests, won five of them, lost six and drew 25. India’s last Test was against South Africa in 2014 at Mysuru, with the host winning by an innings and 34 runs to equal Australia’s record of most successive Test victories (three). India’s last Test against England was played earlier that year at Wormsely, where the visitors won by six wickets. In bilateral Tests, Mithali Raj is the highest scorer with 505 runs (average 63.12) and Jhulan Goswami is the leading bowler with 29 wickets (14.93).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-want-to-figure-in-longer-format/article34825914.ece
16 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Sumeeth to launch IBA next month||One of India’s leading doubles shuttlers B. Sumeeth Reddy will formally launch his Indian Badminton Academy (IBA) at Manikonda here next month with the objective of “providing a platform for youngsters to showcase their talent and dream big”. Sumeeth, who feels his best moment was when he represented India in the 2016 Rio Olympics along with Manu Attiri, said no one can match the Gopi Chand Academy but feels there is need for more professional academies to take care of the young talent and be something like feeder centres to the main centre. Dream “I love to portray my patriotism whenever it is possible and that’s why I named it after my country. “I always felt that if one has a chance to give something back to the sport which offers everything to them, it should be the first priority and I am glad to realise this dream,” said the 28-year-old Income Tax officer. “The ultimate goal is to produce international medallists. We will have five international standard courts to start with and have expansion plans for the future. “There will be a full-fledged qualified coaches panel,” Sumeeth told The Hindu on Tuesday. Results first “Since I am still playing, I will be involved only in scheduling, monitoring and planning other off-court aspects of training. We didn’t look for any sponsors to start with. I want to produce results first so that we can have something to boast about.” On his own career, the four-time National doubles champion said there is lot of uncertainty right now around the world. “We can only hope for the best.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sumeeth-to-launch-iba-next-month/article34826428.ece
16 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Consistent India starts favourite, says Laxman||V.V.S. Laxman backed India to overcome a lack of match practice and win the ICC World Test Championship final against New Zealand. Former India batsman Laxman, Ian Bishop and Shane Bond spoke in a virtual press conference organised by official broadcaster Star Sports. “India starts as favourite. India has been the most consistent team, both home and away, in this two-year Test cycle. There is so much depth and experience in this Indian line-up. New Zealand may have an advantage having just played a Test series in England, but this Indian team is capable of overcoming any challenge,” Laxman said. The Hyderabad stylist stated that the Indian openers, Rohit Sharma in particular, should avoid fishing outside off. “It is very important for every opener to know where his off-stump is. Leaving balls outside off, in the channel of uncertainty, is something which Rohit should focus on. Rohit has another challenge in the form of Trent Boult, who brings the ball in. He also knows that against Boult, he cannot take his left leg across. Rohit has to play with the full face of the bat. These are two things that Rohit needs to address at the start of his innings,” Laxman said. Banter in the nets Former New Zealand speedster Bond recalled witnessing a preview of the Rohit-Boult battle in the Mumbai Indians nets. “Boult was swinging the ball, hitting Rohit on the pads, and telling him, ‘That’s what is going to happen in the WTC final’. So Boult was talking about it four months in advance. There was banter going on, which was just brilliant. Those two were very aware that they were going to come up against each other,” Bond, MI’s bowling coach, said. Given New Zealand’s recent 1-0 Test series win over England, Bond picked his home nation to win the WTC final. “I think New Zealand is going to win. New Zealand’s match practice and confidence gives them the edge. The toss will be crucial. If New Zealand wins the toss and bowl as well as they have in recent matches, they can dismiss India cheaply. They can then aim to put up a big score,” Bond said. Former West Indies pacer Bishop stated that India’s ideal bowling attack should consist of three pacers — Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami and Ishant Sharma — and two spinners, R. Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja. Umesh Yadav and Mohammed Siraj are the two other bowling options available for India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/consistent-india-starts-favourite-says-laxman/article34825924.ece
16 June 2021||Southampton,||Williamson cleared to play, will lead the Kiwis||New Zealand has cleared captain Kane Williamson and wicketkeeper B-J Watling to play in the inaugural World Test Championship final against India, while retaining Ajaz Patel as a specialist spinner in the 15-man squad. Doug Bracewell, Jacob Duffy, Daryl Mitchell, Rachin Ravindra and Mitchell Santner will miss out after being part of the original 20-player touring squad. “Kane and BJ have certainly benefited from their week of rest and rehabilitation and we expect them to be fit and available for the final,” New Zealand coach Gary Stead said on Tuesday. “We’ve gone with Ajaz as our specialist spinner after an impressive outing at Edgbaston (against England) and we believe he could be a factor at the Ageas Bowl,” added Stead.  The squad: Kane Williamson (Capt.), Tom Blundell, Trent Boult Devon Conway, Colin de Grandhomme, Matt Henry, Kyle Jamieson, Tom Latham, Henry Nicholls, Ajaz Patel, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor, Neil Wagner, B-J. Watling (wk), and Will Young .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/williamson-cleared-to-play-will-lead-the-kiwis/article34825928.ece
16 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,||Anand wants closure to controversy||“It’s time to move on and get closure on this.” That is the quote from five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand, referring to the controversy following his online simultaneous chess games against celebrities on Sunday. It had become obvious that some players had used the aid of the computer during their matches. The organiser of the COVID-19 fund-raiser event, chess.com , had closed the account of three players for unfair practices. On Tuesday, however, it reopened those accounts because of — according to chess.com — “...the forthcoming cooperation of the players and the clarification that not all the rules were properly understood...Anand...has expressed no interest in further pursuing the matter. “While he wants clearly expressed that he does not endorse the use of the non-approved assistance in chess, he agrees fully that the games were played in good faith...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-wants-closure-to-controversy/article34825959.ece
16 June 2021||Aix en Provence (France),||Nagal loses in first round||Eighth seed Sumit Nagal was beaten 4-6, 7-6(5), 6-1 by Tristan Lamasine in the first round of the €132,280 Challenger tennis tournament on clay on Tuesday. In the ATP-500 event in Halle, Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan defeated Radu Albot and Nikoloz Basilashvili 7-6(6), 6-4 in the doubles first round.  Other results:   €132,280 Challenger, Nottingham: Qualifying (second and final round): Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Kacper Zuk (Pol) 6-3, 6-7(1), 6-1.   $100,000 ITF women, Nottingham: Qualifying (first round): Nuria Parrizas-Diaz (Esp) bt Ankita Raina 6-4, 6-0.   €88,520 Challenger, Prostejov, Czech Republic: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Hugo Dellien & Federico Zeballos (Bol) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 7-5, 6-4.   $25,000 ITF women, Figueira Da Foz, Portugal: First round: Riya Bhatia bt Sara Lanca (Por) 6-2, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nagal-loses-in-first-round/article34825962.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Dravid confirmed as coach||Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) secretary Jay Shah has confirmed that former India skipper Rahul Dravid will coach the team for the limited-overs series against Sri Lanka. The Shikhar Dhawan-led team will play three ODIs and three T20Is at the R. Premadasa International Cricket Stadium in Colombo. “Rahul will be coaching the team for the Sri Lanka series,” Shah said. The team assembled on Monday and is undergoing seven days of hard quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dravid-confirmed-as-coach/article34825918.ece
16 June 2021||Doha,||India advances to next round||India benefitted from an own goal by the Afghanistan goalkeeper as it ended its World Cup qualifying campaign with a 1-1 draw to book a berth in the next qualifying round of the Asian Cup on Tuesday. A howler by Afghanistan custodian Ovays Azizi handed India a 1-0 lead in the 75th minute but Hossein Zamani equalised in the 81st minute in a match marred by poor refereeing. The two sides had also played out a 1-1 draw in the first leg match in Dushanbe in 2019. It was an open and fast-paced game with the Afghans playing a more physical game in a contest which witnessed several fouls.  With seven points from eight matches, India finished third in Group E behind toppers Qatar and Oman, and ahead of Afghanistan (fourth with six points from eight matches).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-advances-to-next-round/article34825921.ece
16 June 2021||BERLIN,||Medvedev ousted||World No. 2 Daniil Medvedev, the top seed here, was a first-round casualty at the ATP grass court tournament in Halle on Tuesday as he suffered a shock 7-6(6), 6-3 defeat to Germany’s Jan-Lennard Struff. Fourth seed Andrey Rublev beat his doubles partner Karen Khachanov 6-3, 7-6(5) in the first round.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/medvedev-ousted/article34825922.ece
16 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Ankeet Chavan cleared to play||Ankeet Chavan, the left-arm spinner from Mumbai who was involved in the 2013 IPL corruption scandal, has been formally cleared by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to resume competitive cricket. The life ban, imposed in September 2013, had been converted into a seven-year suspension by the BCCI ethics officer last month. “It’s a huge sigh of relief for me and everyone in the family to havegot the formal communication,” the former Rajasthan Royals bowler told The Hindu on Tuesday. “I am thankful to the BCCI and my parent body, Mumbai Cricket Association. I am eagerly looking forward to getting back on the field once the pandemic subsides.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankeet-chavan-cleared-to-play/article34825960.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sandeep hits century||Southpaw B. Sandeep scored a century (100, 41b, 10x4, 6x6) to help St. John’s CA record a 43-run win over Budding Stars in the league phase of the Co-Win Trophy T20 invitation cricket tournament here on Tuesday.  The scores:   St. John’s CA 209/5 in 20 overs (Mickil Jaiswal 30, B. Sandeep 100) bt Budding Stars 166 in 19.4 overs (B. Punnaiah 3/36, Abhinav Tej 3/23).   Gemini Friends 164/9 in 20 overs (Aman Rao 33, G. Rahul Singh 30, Maruthi Reddy 30, Diwesh Pathania 36) bt Sporting XI 149 in 19.4 overs (Tanay Tyagarajan 61 n.o., Md. Taha Sheikh 3/24).    Former volleyball coach of the then united Andhra Pradesh and also vice-president of Telangana Olympic Association V. Narasingam Reddy passed away here. He was 72 and survived by wife and two daughters. Narasingam was the coach of the State team which won the gold in the Cuttack national championship in the 80s and also the Deputy Director of Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh. Telangana Olympic Association general secretary K. Jagdishwar Yadav, former secretary of Telangana Athletics Association Prof. K. RangaRao, Hyderabad Carrom Association founder president B.K. Haranath were among those who expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sandeep-hits-century/article34826431.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Doing Karma without pride||Lord Krishna was not only charioteer and Acharya on the battlefield, but also showed His divinity, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. At the end of each day, the warriors would retire to their camps to rest, and to tend to their wounds. But Krishna, who took hits from many arrows to save Arjuna, did not think of rest or sleep. As a charioteer, His duties did not end with merely driving Arjuna around the battlefield. He had to care for the horses. In the evening, He would bathe the horses, and would attend to their wounds. Krishna knew asva sastra. He knew how to treat horses of different kinds — war horses; horses used in chariots other than war chariots; and race horses. Not only did the Supreme One take orders from Arjuna when the fighting was on, but spent the remaining hours of the day also serving Arjuna by looking after his horses. He showed us that we must do our duties without fail. In the Gita, He says that He had already taught karma yoga to Vivasvan. Vivasvan, in turn, taught karma yoga to Manu, who taught Ikshvaku. Krishna says we must do our Karma without pride. And He demonstrates how this is to be done, when He takes care of Arjuna’s horses. At the same time, He is also an Acharya to Arjuna, and His discourse to Arjuna is the invaluable Gita. He shows His Supremacy to Bhishma on the battlefield. Krishna had vowed that He would merely drive Arjuna around, but would not Himself pick up a weapon. Bhishma vowed that He would ensure that Krishna picked up a weapon. To make sure that Bhishma’s vow was fulfilled, Krishna picked up the discus during the war. Thus He showed that He was the loving God, who cared so much for His devotees that He would make sure their words came true.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/doing-karma-without-pride/article34825880.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 08:25 IST,||Sudoku — June 16, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-16-2021/article34826692.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Sonic identity:||A couple of weeks ago, fast food chain McDonald’s launched the BTS meal, driven by the K-Pop superstars’ latest hit ‘Butter’, an uptempo, refreshing summer hit. The meal is available in 50 countries, including India, along with BTS merchandise such as T-shirts and hoodies. This is not the first time that McDonald’s has cashed in on a music celebrity meal; in 2020, they signed up American rapper-singer Travis Scott. This is just one of the many ways sound as a property is finding innovative applications today. Last December, Swedish home furnishing major IKEA did away with print catalogues. Instead, for 2021, they launched the entire catalogue as a podcast, spanning 13 chapters, available on YouTube, Spotify and other streaming services. Over the last few years, international brands have been placing emphasis on the sonic identity that defines them, and rightly so. Similar to visual branding, here the idea is that a sound triggers brand recall. Think Netflix’s simple, two-beat ‘Ta dum’, one of the most iconic sound logos of today, or McDonald’s five-note ‘Ba da ba ba ba’ signature. At a time when the way we live, shop and pay continues to change (voice shopping, for instance, via Amazon Echo or Google Home), sound adds a new dimension to a brand’s identity. In India, sonic branding is slowly taking root. As recently as last year, bands such as Indian Ocean have revisited the jingle for brands such as Dhara Cooking Oil to put a new spin on its music and to bring the brand into the spotlight again. “Sonic branding is a signature for your brand through the facet of sound,” explains Ajit Varma, CEO, BrandMusiq, one of the pioneers of it in India. BrandMusiq has scored the MOGO® (musical logo) for companies such as HDFC bank, Vistara, Raymond and Myntra. “You can hear HDFC’s MOGO over 12,000 ATMs and 80 content videos on YouTube,” he says. And the reach of ‘sound’ is expanding. Many brands today want to associate with bands for other branding opportunities, such as events. Like Tinder India that organised a #PrideFromHome virtual event last year, with electronica whiz Ritviz’s track ‘ Raahi ’.            Preetha Menon teaches Advertising & Branding, and Lalitha Suhasini teaches journalism at Flame University.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sonic-identity/article34826123.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘50% of jab centres for 18-44 age group shut, rest will close today’||AAP MLA Atishi on Tuesday said that half of the government-run vaccine centres for the people of 18-44 age group were shut down on Tuesday and the rest will be shut down on Wednesday due to vaccine shortage. “Only 31,000 doses of vaccine are available for the youth in Delhi. For 18-44 age group, less than one day’s stock is available. Half the centres in Delhi are closed today and the rest of the vaccination centres will be closed tomorrow,” she said. Vaccine stocks Both Covishield and Covaxin stocks for the age group will last for less than a day, as per the bulletin released by the government on Tuesday. “Delhi is being unlocked and the vaccination of youth is most important at such a time. The youth are going back to their office. That is why our appeal to the Central government is to provide the vaccine to the youth of Delhi at the earliest,” Ms. Atishi said. She said that the pace of vaccination of youth in Delhi has started slowing down again due to the shortage. Meanwhile, the downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in the national capital with 228 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,31,498, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 12 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,851. A total of 71,291 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,03,569 people have recovered and there are 3,078 active cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.32%, which means that less than one person out of 300 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus. The TPR was as high as 36% on April 22 and has been coming down since then.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/50-of-jab-centres-for-18-44-age-group-shut-rest-will-close-today/article34826148.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||Delhi prisons see only single COVID-19 case this month||Delhi prisons on Tuesday stated that only a single inmate had tested positive for COVID-19 this month so far. According to the prison administration, the last inmate to have tested positive for COVID-19 was reported on June 8 and the last staff member tested positive for the virus on May 29. “COVID-19 cases have decreased but we are taking all the precautions. COVID-appropriate behaviour, including social distancing among the inmates, is being strictly followed. The new inmates are initially isolated and later shifted to barracks,” Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said. According to the data from prison administration, the number of active COVID-19 cases in Delhi prisons till June 8 stood at 12, which includes two staff members. Till Tuesday, a total number of 1,139 inmates above 45 years of age and 680 below 45 years lodged at Tihar jail have been vaccinated; 132 inmates above 45 years and 200 below 45 years have received the vaccine at the Rohini jail. At the Mandoli Jail, 412 inmates aged above 45 years and 132 below 45 years have been vaccinated, according to the data. Since March this year, 382 cases of COVID-19 infection have been reported among inmates. Of them 364 have recovered while there are 10 active cases, according to data. Eight inmates have succumbed to the virus too. Among the prison staff members, 221 have been infected since March and of them, 219 have recuperated while two are still undergoing treatment. Interim bail According to officials, over 2,000 undertrial prisoners were released on interim bail and around 700 convicts released on emergency parole under the department’s decongestion drive. The first COVID case was reported from Rohini jail on May 13 while two COVID-19 positive inmates lodged at the Mandoli jail, both senior citizens, had passed away on June 15 and July 4. Jail officials have maintained that the Prisons Department remained vigilant and instructed its staffers to not only maintain hygiene and social distancing but also spread awareness about the infection .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-prisons-see-only-single-covid-19-case-this-month/article34826150.ece
16 June 2021||Mohali,||Akali-BSP protest over ‘vaccine scam’||Punjab police on Tuesday resorted to the use of water cannons to disperse Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) workers and leaders as they marched to gherao the residence of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh at Siswan in Punjab’s Mohali over an alleged “vaccine scam”. The protesters were demanding the arrest of Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu. Police detained the protesters, including SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal. They were later released. Mr. Badal said it was not just the Health Department, corruption was rampant across all Ministries under the ruling Congress government. “All Congress Ministers who have indulged in corruption will be taken to task and booked as per law once the SAD-BSP alliance is voted to power in 2022,” said Mr. Badal, accusing Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of shielding corrupt Ministers. Mr. Badal alleged there have been “a number of scams in the current government”. He said they included the “drug deaddiction tablet scam, the PPE kit scam, the vaccine scam and the Fateh kit scam”, apart from the “Scheduled Caste scholarship scam and seed scam”. “Not only this, patronage is also being extended to the sand and liquor mafia, which had looted the State with several crores of rupees,” he alleged. “In their latest vaccine scam, the Congress government sold COVID-19 vaccines at a hefty profit to private institutions,” Mr. Badal said. Rejecting and terming the Opposition’s allegations on supply of vaccines to some private hospitals and procurement of Fateh kits as “politically motivated”, Capt. Amarinder Singh said there was no question of the State government making profits amid the pandemic. Accusing the Akalis and the Aam Aadmi Party of spreading misinformation to further their political ambitions and weakening the State’s war against COVID-19 by raising non-issues, the Chief Minister charged the two parties with “motivated hue and cry” to push their electoral agendas with an eye on the 2022 Assembly elections.  ‘No wrongdoing’ Asserting that the State government had not indulged in any wrongdoing, the Chief Minister said quick and unusual decisions had to be taken in an emergency war-like situation. All protocols were strictly followed and emergency rules were invoked to meet the crisis [of the pandemic], he added. All decisions were taken in the interests of the people of the State and all due procedures followed, he said, terming media reports on the alleged scams as nothing but sensationalism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/akali-bsp-protest-over-vaccine-scam/article34826409.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||In last 30 days, over 50 tested positive for virus every hour||Over 52 residents in the Capital tested positive for the novel coronavirus every hour during the last month out of which at least two were children below the age of 14. Over half were aged between 30 and 60, and a quarter were below 30 years of age. According to Delhi government records, more than 1,500 people found COVID-19 positive between May 15 and June 15 were below 14 years of age. Senior citizens accounted for over 17% of recorded infections. Statistics related to COVID-19 collated by the Delhi government state that 40,470 citizens tested positive over a 32-day interval – an average of more than 1,264 per day. As the city enters its third week of the ‘unlock’ process with more activities allowed and new cases dipping on a daily basis, records state that the population most engaged in these activities was among the most vulnerable. A majority of those who tested positive – 20,672 – were aged between 30 and 60 years, while 11,427 were aged below 30. Together, they accounted for 32,099 of total cases and constituted over 79% of total COVID-19 positive caseload. According to records, over 1,589 COVID-19 patients were aged less than 14 years and 6,782 were aged above 60. Males more vulnerable More males were found to have been infected compared to women in each age group, according to the data. Men accounted for 3,904 of the total caseload for those above 60 compared to 2,878 women. In the 30-60 age group, 12,308 men were found to have been infected against 8,364 women and, in the below 30 category, 6,548 men tested positive compared to 4,879 women. For the below 14 category, 909 male children were infected as opposed to 680 female children.  District-wise data The data also posited that most infections were found in the South West district of the Capital which reported 1,292 cases in the 60+ category, 4,091 cases in the 30-60 age group, 2,147 cases in the less than 30 years category and 337 cases in the below 14 group. The North West district accounted for 786 cases in the 60+ group, New Delhi district had 2,769 cases in the 30-60 category, the South district for 1,463 cases in the less than 30 years of age group and the New Delhi district, again, for 209 cases in the below 14 category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-last-30-days-over-50-tested-positive-for-virus-every-hour/article34826141.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||AAP govt. yet to fufil its 2015 poll promise of water supply, says BJP||The BJP on Tuesday accused the AAP-led Delhi government of not being able to fulfil its initial poll promise of providing safe and pure water through every tap in the national capital over the last seven years. “The government claims to have laid pipelines in 93% of the colonies. When there was a Congress government in Delhi before 2014, Rs. 1,109 crore used to be spent on water tankers as most of the colonies had no water supply, now Rs. 1,783 crore is being spent on water tankers,” Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta alleged. “The CM had declared employees of the DJB ‘Corona Warriors’ and even promised that if they died in the line of duty their families would be given Rs. 1 crore compensation. But, over 100 of them have died so far, and their families are still making rounds of Mr. Kejriwal’s house but to no avail,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. In a related development, the Rohini MLA said Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal had informed him that a three-member fact-finding committee had been formed to look into allegations of graft in the procurement of 1,000 buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aap-govt-yet-to-fufil-its-2015-poll-promise-of-water-supply-says-bjp/article34826139.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||North corporation Mayor inspects Kishanganj ahead of monsoon||North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday inspected the Kishanganj Rail Under Bridge (RUB) and its vicinity to check the preparations of the corporation before the monsoon onset. Mr. Prakash was accompanied by Municipal Commissioner Sanjay Goyal along with engineer-in-chief K.P Singh and other officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. During the inspection, the Mayor directed the officers of the Engineering Department to ensure that the desilting work was completed from all the drains. Water stagnation Mr. Prakash also directed the officials to ensure that all arrangements had been made to ensure that water does not stagnate inside the RUB and residents do not face any inconvenience. “The Railways’ work on a part of the Kishanganj Railway Under Bridge is under way which is almost 90% complete. The corporation has passed a Rs. 10-crore budget for the construction of roads on both sides of the RUB,” he said. According to Mr. Prakash, the construction work of the RUB would be completed by December after which there will be much relief from traffic problems in the area. The Mayor said the North body would also start the work of beautification of the Azad Market Chowk very soon. Plantation work and paintings are among the components of the beautification program, he said. “The North Corporation is working at its best level to provide all possible facilities to the residents,” Mr. Prakash said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/north-corporation-mayor-inspects-kishanganj-ahead-of-monsoon/article34826143.ece
16 June 2021||FARIDABAD,||150 people booked for meeting at Khori Basti||Nirmal Gorana, general secretary of Bandhua Mukthi Morcha, was on Tuesday arrested by the Faridabad Police on charges of instigating the mob at a public meeting in Khori Basti, flouting the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, and not adhering to COVID-appropriate behaviour. The Supreme Court had on June 7 ordered demolition of the structures on 170-acre Khori Basti on the forest land within six weeks. Social activists and politicians have been demanding that Khori Basti residents be rehabilitated before carrying out of the demolition drive and compensated. The police, in a press statement, claimed that around 150 people were holding a meeting at Khori Basti, making provocative speeches and were hatching a conspiracy to attack police team during the demolition drive. They also did not not adhere to COVID-19 guidelines. A case was registered against around 150 people and the prime accused Gorana was arrested. Various social groups expressing solidarity with the residents, in a press statement, said Mr. Gorana had gone to Khori Basti to examine the situation. He was arrested from his car on his way back. “The police have been terrorising the residents and ignoring official notices which grant the villagers of Khori another three days before eviction....They are beating people as soon as they exit their houses,” said a joint statement by Basti Suraksha Manch, Working Peoples’ Charter, Bandhua Mukti Morcha and National Alliance of People’s Movements. Faridabad Police spokespersons Sube Singh denied the allegations made by the solidarity groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/150-people-booked-for-meeting-at-khori-basti/article34826149.ece
16 June 2021||Chandigarh,||SAD-BSP alliance may not deliver in Punjab Assembly polls||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) recently decided to jointly contest the Punjab Assembly elections, due early next year. The announcement has set the tone for the upcoming polls, even as keen political observers feel the alliance may not yield the “desired” results for either party. In Punjab, which has the highest percentage of Dalit population among the States at close to 32%, the BSP used the Dalit vote as a political plank for the first time in 1992. However, since then, the party has received a declining response in the State. In 1992, it secured over 16% votes winning nine seats in Punjab, but that dropped to around 4% in the 2012 Assembly polls. In 2017, the BSP’s vote share percentage hit a further low of 1.5%. Now, with the new alliance, the BSP is attempting to remain “relevant” in State politics. On the other hand, the SAD has faced wrath of farming community, its key support base, which is demanding the repeal of the the three farm laws. The party is hoping to neutralise its negative political impact through the newly formed alliance, hoping to win over the votes of the Scheduled Castes.  Crucial Dalit votes Parties are aware of the importance of Dalit votes and have been making all efforts to garner it. The newly formed alliance is being seen as critical for the SAD, especially after it broke its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the farm laws issue. The SAD has already announced it would appoint a Dalit as Deputy Chief Minister if it forms the next government. Ashutosh Kumar, Professor of Political Science at Panjab University and author of Electoral Politics in Punjab: Factors and Phases believes that the SAD-BSP alliance is nothing more than a poll optic, which is going to be insignificant in the upcoming polls. “This alliance is not going to have a major impact on the electoral outcome. The BSP has an almost negligible base in the State. It has been losing its support base. Its last win was one Assembly seat in 1997. SCs are divided on not only caste lines but also on religious lines. The BSP hardly has a base that the Akali Dal could capitalise on,” he told The Hindu . “On the other hand, the SAD is in trouble of even losing the traditional support base surrounding the 2015 Bargari sacrilege and subsequent police firing incident. Akalis supporting Jats (the farming community) is unlikely to go for Dalit candidates. Eventually, there would hardly be any significant gain for either of the two parties,” added Mr. Kumar. On June 6, the SAD-BSP inked an electoral alliance for the 2022 Assembly polls, in which the SAD will contest 97 seats and the BSP 20 — including eight seats in the Doaba region, seven in Malwa and five in Majha region of the State. There are a total of 117 Assembly constituencies in Punjab. Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair Professor of Political Science at Panjab University, pointed out that both the SAD and the BSP are currently entangled within their respective adverse political circumstances. “If the SAD is finding it difficult to maintain its heritage status — being a Panthic party of the Sikhs — for not defending the interests of the farmers of the State, who mostly happen to be Jat Sikhs, the BSP has been struggling hard at least to keep itself alive in its birth place,” he said.  Divisive factor “Moreover, given the divisive factor of the caste divide in the State, it seems quite unlikely that the SC votes would be transferred to the SAD. Besides, the SCs of Punjab, like their counterparts in other parts of the country, are not a homogeneous category. They are sharply divided into 39 castes among themselves and got further fragmented into different religions and syncretic faiths, which metamorphosed into dera s. The SAD-BSP alliance may not fetch SC votes for SAD across the socio-religious divisions within Dalits. Similarly, the BSP may also have to pay the price for signing the alliance with the SAD. Those SC affiliates of the BSP who were not comfortable with the SAD may like to dissociate themselves from the former for its political marriage of convenience,” said Mr. Ram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sad-bsp-alliance-may-not-deliver-in-punjab-assembly-polls/article34826406.ece
16 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||7 arrested in Assam rape-murder case||The police in western Assam's Kokrajhar district have arrested seven persons in connection with the “rape and murder” of two minor tribal girls. The bodies of the two girls from the same family were found hanging from a tree in a forest in the Kokrajhar district on the night of June 11. They were aged 16 and 14 years. “The rape and murder of two minor tribal girls have been solved... Feeling extremely a sense of satisfaction that the culprits have been identified,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who visited the girls’ house after the incident, tweeted. Inspector-General of Police in charge of Bodoland Territorial Council, L.R. Bishnoi said a special investigation team had probed the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/7-arrested-in-assam-rape-murder-case/article34826410.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||L-G speaks to U.P. CM over Delhi water supply||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has spoken to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and will be speaking to Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal with regard to the supply of water to the Capital, administrative source said here Tuesday. According to sources, the L-G has been monitoring the situation of water supply in the Capital and had sought detailed reports from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) after incidents of shortage, especially in jhuggi colonies, were reported over the last few days. “It is felt that apart from the issue of supply of water, its management and distribution in terms of limiting leakage and wastage, as also addressing the issue of unequal distribution per person per day in different localities needs to be addressed at the earliest,” a source said. In this regard, the source added, Mr. Baijal has sought a comprehensive status report from the DJB that will be followed by a detailed time-bound action plan over the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-speaks-to-up-cm-over-delhi-water-supply/article34826142.ece
16 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||NGT dismisses review plea alleging environmental violations in Aravali||The National Green Tribunal has dismissed a plea which alleged violation of environmental norms by construction of illegal roads and unauthorised mining in the Aravali in Gurugram district. While dismissing the plea which sought a review of an earlier order, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that the grounds taken by the review applicant, that he was not an encroacher was not the issue for consideration before the tribunal.  “The matter in issue in the original application was illegal mining and encroachment of forest land and on the basis of the [forest department] report, the statutory authorities were directed to take further action in accordance with the law...no substantial ground for maintainability of the review application is made out,” the Bench said. The tribunal added, “The review application is devoid of any merit and deserves to be dismissed. For the determination of the right title and interest of any party, the aggrieved may approach the appropriate forum if so advised.” Earlier, the NGT had sought a report from the forest department on the allegations of illegal construction in a forest area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-dismisses-review-plea-alleging-environmental-violations-in-aravali/article34826144.ece
16 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Curbs eased in Punjab as positivity rate drops to 2%||With the positivity rate coming down to 2%, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced easing of the restrictions including allowing restaurants and other eating joints as well as cinemas and gyms to open at 50% capacity beginning June 16. He said now 50 persons can attend weddings and funerals. Under the new guidelines which will remain in effect till June 25 when they will be again reviewed, night curfew from 8 p.m. to 5 a.m. and weekend curfew from 8.00 p.m. on Saturday up to 5.00 a.m. on Monday will be in place. All essential activities, including those covered under existing ‘Exemptions’, will remain exempted from curfew restrictions. Chairing a virtual review meet, the Chief Minister ordered opening of all restaurants (including in hotels), cafes, coffee shops, fast food outlets etc., cinemas, gyms at a maximum 50% of capacity, subject to all their employees having received at least one dose of vaccination. AC buses can also ply with 50% occupation. Bars and pubs shall, however, continue to remain closed. All educational institutions i.e. schools and colleges will also continue to be closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/curbs-eased-in-punjab-as-positivity-rate-drops-to-2/article34826137.ece
16 June 2021||June 16 2021 00:00 IST,||Ready for visitors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ready-for-visitors/article34826146.ece
16 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘BJP-led civic bodies failed to clean drains’||The AAP on Tuesday claimed that the BJP-led municipal corporations have failed to clean drains, which has resulted in increased waterlogging. “The BJP-led civic bodies is playing with the lives of Delhiites by not cleaning the drains,” AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said. “The AAP demands that the civic bodies should immediately start cleaning all the drains under their jurisdiction. On behalf of the AAP, I also want to appeal that the work should be done immediately and later they should not blame others for their failure,” he added. He said monsoon can arrive in Delhi anytime soon now and every year the national capital faces a massive waterlogging problem. “Last year, a child died due to waterlogging and in Karol Bagh, many jhuggis were washed away due to waterlogging. The reason behind this repeated waterlogging is that the BJP-ruled civic bodies does not clean the drains. In Delhi, around 90% of drains are under its jurisdiction,” Mr. Pathak said. He claimed that only 20% of the drains have been cleaned before the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-led-civic-bodies-failed-to-clean-drains/article34826151.ece
16 June 2021||srinagar,||Budgam’s ‘killer’ leopard captured||The elusive “man-eater”, which killed a four-year old student of the Delhi Public School after dragging her from the lawns of the house in an urban locality in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on June 3, was captured alive on Tuesday. “Scat samples of the leopard will be collected for DNA sampling. It will be matched with the samples taken at the site where the minor was found dead, to establish if the animal is the same,” Chief Wildlife Warden, Kashmir, Rashid Naqash said. The leopardwas spotted and captured on Tuesday morning inside the premises of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Budgam. On June 3, the animal pounced on the UKG student who was riding a bicycle on the lawns of her house and dragged her away. Her mutilated body was found in a nursery the next day after several hours of search.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/budgams-killer-leopard-captured/article34826407.ece
16 June 2021||Guwahati,||Foodgrain ‘scam’ hits Meghalaya||An alleged foodgrain scam involving the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has added to the embarrassment of the Meghalaya government facing flak for poor management of the COVID-19 crisis. Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma has denied his government’s involvement in the “scam” detected in adjoining Assam a few days ago. But the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), a constituent of his coalition government, and the Opposition Congress, have demanded a probe. NGOs in the State have also slammed the government for shielding the supplier-official nexus and giving a long rope to “tainted companies”.  1 lakh rice bags seized The police in Assam’s Kamrup district had last week seized an estimated 1 lakh bags of rice, each weighing 50 kg, from a warehouse in Boko, west of Guwahati. Officials said the rice was procured by FCI, Shillong but the owner of the warehouse had repackaged the rice to be supplied to the Assam Rifles. Mr. Sangma insisted the rice bags seized had no connection with the public distribution system (PDS) in Meghalaya. He said the State had already received its quota of PDS rice for May and June. “We have no idea if rice belonging to Meghalaya is lying in Assam,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/foodgrain-scam-hits-meghalaya/article34826411.ece
