17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Delhi Police move SC against bail to 3 students in riots case||Twenty-four hours after getting bail, student activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Iqbal Tanha are yet to taste freedom as the Delhi Police quickly moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday against their release. The virtual court of sessions judge Ravinder Bedi heard the students’ lawyers press for their immediate release, saying they could not be made to spend another night in jail after getting bail. ‘Addresses not verified’ But the police objected, saying they should not be released until the outstation addresses of the three students and their sureties were verified. In short, the police sought more time to file its verification report. Sessions judge Ravinder Bedi recorded that he had heard both sides at “considerable length” and put up the case for orders at 4.45 p.m. However, at 6 p.m., the judge said his court had to go through a rather “heavy board” of bail applications and thus could not pass orders in the case. The judge went on to post the case for orders on Thursday at 11 a.m. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta is likely to mention the appeal against the bail order in the Supreme Court on Thursday. The police, in their appeal in the top court, claimed the High Court had lost sight of the evidence in the case. It was “not a simple protest by students”. There was “evidence of terrorist activity”. Seeking an immediate stay of the High Court order, the police said it would otherwise affect all other cases registered by the National Investigation Agency under the UAPA. The HC had made particularly sharp observations in its June 15 order, accusing the government of blurring the line between rightful dissent and terrorism. The police arrested Jawaharlal Nehru University students and Pinjra Tod members Ms. Narwal and Ms. Kalita last year. Mr. Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia University student, was taken into custody in May 2020. They were booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in connection with the Delhi riots that broke out last year after protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) turned violent. “It appears that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the State has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’,” the High Court said on June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-police-move-sc-against-bail-to-3-students-in-riots-case/article34835765.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Soon, drones might ferry vaccines||Drones could soon be used for delivering COVID-19 vaccines in remote and hard to reach geographies in the country. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has invited expression of interest from drone operators to “develop a delivery model”. Pilot project ICMR’s Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases Dr. Samiran Panda said the aim was to develop a model through a pilot project that could be emulated and adopted by the State governments. The ICMR had conducted a feasibility study in collaboration with the IIT-Kanpur. “We need smart vaccination instead of mass vaccination to stem an epidemic. For this, we need to focus not only on areas where the infection is intense but also on places where there are indications that the test positivity rate is still low and that if you saturate the priority groups there through innovative vaccine delivery mechanism, you can stop a surge. This is known as ring-fencing,” Dr. Panda told The Hindu . The tender document lays down the technical specifications required, which include the ability of drones to fly “beyond visual line of sight (BVLOS)”, carry a payload of up to 4 kg and cover a distance of up to 35 km. While government rules now permit only those drone operations that are within visual range, the Indian Council of Medical Research project comes at a time the Ministry of Civil Aviation has allowed 20 entities to conduct trials for long-range or “beyond visual line of sight” drone flights. These experimental flights start from June 18 and are likely to conclude by October. Based on learnings from these test flights, the government will frame the guidelines for BVLOS operations and they could be finalised by next March 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/soon-drones-might-ferry-vaccines/article34835763.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Excess deaths in T.N. over 4 times official COVID-19 tally||The number of “excess deaths” registered by the Civil Registration System (CRS) in Tamil Nadu ever since the COVID-19 pandemic hit (from April 2020 to May 2021) is 6.2 times the official reported figure of 24,232 deaths. But in data accessed by The Hindu , the CRS recorded the number of deaths due to COVID-19 as 35,807 (14,652 in 2020 and 21,155 till May 2021), possibly adjusted over the months, an increase of nearly 47% in the deaths reported in the State health bulletin. After omitting deaths due to causal factors unrelated to COVID-19, it is estimated that there were 1,61,581 excess deaths amounting to an undercount factor of 4.5 for the pandemic period — April 2020 to May 2021. In the second wave (April and May 2021) alone, the CRS registered 20,158 COVID-19 deaths, but it was found that this was undercounted by a factor of 3, as the estimated excess deaths for this period were 60,773. The undercount factor for 2021 was 3.7. Excess deaths in Tamil Nadu were calculated based on the month-wise number of deaths registered by the CRS from January 2018 to May 2021, besides utilising year-wise data from 2015. Data accessed by The Hindu included cause-wise deaths registered in the CRS and medically certified deaths data (close to 45% of deaths were medically certified in the State as of latest data from 2019).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/excess-deaths-in-tn-over-4-times-official-covid-19-tally/article34835770.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Primary teachers want schools to reopen, write to Minister||One of the largest representative bodies of primary school teachers in Maharashtra has requested the State government to restart primary schools by decentralising decision-making powers at the tehsil level. The Maharashtra State Primary Teachers Committee (MSPTC), which represents over 1.50 lakh members, has highlighted in its letter the extreme disparity in access to online education, saying that for the majority of primary students, education had “almost stopped”. “Online education cannot be the replacement of classroom. The requirements for this, including mobile range, are not available everywhere. Students not only from remote areas and from poor, labourer families but even those in middle-class have not been able to access online education,” they said in the letterto School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad. Vijay Kombe, general secretary, MSPTC, said, “We now have a batch of students from Class I who have never seen school. Students have lost out on foundation [in learning] of language and mathematics. We asked our members and a majority want schools to reopen.” Experts, too, have spoken in favour of reopening schools. “Young children learn through personal interactions, be it with teachers or peers or with their surroundings. It becomes impossible in online education even if one discounts the digital divide. Learning is primarily a social activity and online-only education comes with severe limitations,” said Kishore Darak, who works with the education team of Tata Trusts. It was important, he added, to remember that schools are not merely spaces for formal learning but provide safety, offer opportunities in peer-socialisation, and provide nutrition. Closure of schools for 15 months has severely impacted these. “Education of marginalised children cannot be treated as a collateral. It is their fundamental right to life,” said Mr. Darak. The letter recommended a decentralised approach, with a tehsil to be considered as a unit, and suggested that decision to restart schools could be taken based on the positivity rate and active case numbers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/primary-teachers-want-schools-to-reopen-write-to-minister/article34835864.ece
17 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||U.P. Police book Twitter, journalists||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday accused Congress leader Rahul Gandhi of spreading “poison in society” over his tweet after the State police ruled out a communal angle in the assault and humiliation of an elderly Muslim man in Ghaziabad recently. The police lodged a FIR against social media site Twitter, news portalThe Wire, journalists Saba Naqvi and Rana Ayyub, fact-checker Mohammad Zubair ofAltnewsand three others associated with the Congress for allegedly sharing on Twitter a video of the incident and giving it a “communal colour” without verifying the details. The FIR was lodged against them under Sections 153, 153-A, 295-A, 505, 120-B and 34 of the IPC. The police said Abdul Samad Saifi was allegedly beaten up by the accused, who included both Hindus and Muslims, as they were unhappy with the effects of a ‘ taweez ’ (amulet) provided by him. It was an interpersonal dispute, claimed the Ghaziabad police, dismissing the allegations made in a video of the incident, in which the victim alleged he was made to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ by the miscreants. Twitter was named as accused for not taking any steps to remove the tweets in question, said the FIR. Three persons have been arrested so far, including Parvesh Gurjar in whose house the victim was assaulted, said a senior officer. Police identified the other accused as Kallu, Poli, Adil, Aarif and Mushahid. The FIR accused the journalists and political activists of deliberately trying to spread discord between Hindus and Muslims and disrupting public peace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-police-book-twitter-journalists/article34835772.ece
17 June 2021||Kolkata,||Mithun questioned on poll speeches||The Kolkata police on Wednesday questioned veteran actor and BJP leader Mithun Chakraborty virtually for about 45 minutes in connection with a complaint that said he made inflammatory comments during the recent Assembly election. The complaint, filed at a police station by an individual, alleged that Mr. Chakraborty had made inflammatory remarks, which could lead to breach of peace and provoke enmity between different groups. Mr. Chakraborty, who was one of the star campaigners of the BJP, was often heard repeating dialogues from his films, such as Ek Chobole Chobi [death in one strike]”. He joined the BJP on March 7 during a rally at Brigade Parade Ground in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  ‘Recreational purpose’ Mr. Chakraborty said his remarks were only for recreational purposes and had nothing to do with inciting violence. The 71-year-old actor had approached the Calcutta High Court for quashing the legal proceedings against him. On June 11, the court directed that the actor be interrogated via video conference for the time being. Hearing tomorrow “In the meantime, the petitioner or his advocate-on-record would communicate the e-mail address of the petitioner to the State so that for the purposes of interrogation or answering any query of the investigating officer, the petitioner can make himself available by way of video-conference,” the order by Justice Tirthankar Ghosh read. The matter will come up for hearing again in court on June 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mithun-questioned-on-poll-speeches/article34835773.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Six Maoists killed in exchange of fire||Six members of the banned CPI (Maoist) were killed in an alleged exchange of fire on Wednesday that took place near Theegalametta village under Mampa police station limits in Koyyuru mandal in the interior parts of Visakhapatnam Agency. Among the dead include two Divisional Committee Members (DCM) and one Area Committee Member (ACM) rank Maoist and among them three were women. The dead were identified as Ranadev alias Arjun (DCM), Sande Gangiah alias Ashok (DCM), Santu Nachika (ACM), Lalitha and Paike. The body of one more woman cadre is yet to be identified. The security forces also seized a huge cache of weapons, including one AK-47 rifle, two carbines, two modified 303 Lee Enfield rifles, one country-made tapancha, some ammunition, explosive materials, extremist literature and kit bags. According to Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao, the exchange of fire took place when a team from the elite anti-naxal forc, Greyhounds, was on a combing operation in the forested area of Theegalametta. “On seeing our men, the Maoists opened fire and we retaliated, in which six of them were killed,” he said. Maoists camping It is learnt that around 20 to 25 Maoists were camping at the site and the exchange of fire lasted a couple of hours from around 10 a.m. Sateesh Kumar, OSD of Narsipatnam, who coordinated the operation, confirmed that there was no casualty on the security forces’ side. It is learnt that some senior leaders such as secretary of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, Aruna and Kakuri Pandana alias Jagan, might have been present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-maoists-killed-in-exchange-of-fire-in-ap/article34835731.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Nod for additional fertilizer subsidy||The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has approved the proposal to hike subsidy rates for phosphorus and potassium-based fertilizers by 140% in a bid to provide relief to farmers as the kharif sowing season begins. The estimated additional subsidy burden is around Rs. 14,775 crore, with the Centre emphasising that this is a one-time measure as part of COVID-19 relief. Unlike urea, where the Centre sets a fixed maximum retail price, non-urea fertilizer prices are decontrolled, with the Centre fixing nutrient-based subsidy rates each year. So far, a 50 kg bag of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), the fertilizer most popular with Indian farmers after urea, was sold at Rs. 1,200, including a subsidy of about Rs. 500. Raw material price up However, the bull run in the global commodity markets has seen a surge in prices of the imported raw materials as well as the finished fertilizer. In early April, a number of Indian fertilizer companies hiked their DAP prices to Rs. 1,900 per bag. Farmers’ groups protested against the Rs. 700/bag hike, pointing out that along with the rise in diesel and petrol prices, their input costs for the kharif season would spiral out of control in the midst of a pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nod-for-additional-fertilizer-subsidy/article34835766.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI,||ONGC seeks green nod for exploratory wells||The Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) has sought environmental clearance for drilling exploratory wells at 15 places in Tamil Nadu, including 10 in Ariyalur district and five in Cuddalore district. ONGC’s Cauvery Basin, Chennai, has submitted two proposals along with other documents to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) of the Tamil Nadu Department of Environment for obtaining mandatory environmental clearance. While the ONGC submitted the proposal for Ariyalur district on Tuesday, it filed the Cuddalore proposal on Wednesday. Executive summaries of the projects, toposheets, pre-feasibility reports and maps of the proposed exploratory wells were among the documents submitted with Form I, a formal application for environmental clearance. The move has evoked strong opposition from environmental activists and farmers. G. Sundarrajan, of Poovulagin Nanbargal, said it was yet another attempt by ONGC to expand its activities against the interests of farmers, who were waging a battle against the exploration of hydrocarbon and other kinds of activities in the delta and neighbouring districts. The move would be detrimental to nature and farming, he said. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to cancel the Centre’s invitation for bids to extract hydrocarbon in Pudukottai district. But without taking into account the Chief Minister’s opposition to the project, ONGC submitted a proposal on June 15 and another one on June 16 to SEIAA. “It shows that ONGC has been pushing ahead with its plans in spite of the State government’s stand on the issue. The State government should summarily reject the proposal to protect the environment and the interest of the farmers,” Mr. Sundarrajan said. Thanga Dharmaraj, president, Cauvery Delta Pasana Vivasaya Sangangalin Kootamaippu, said it showed the Centre’s adamant attitude in enforcing its agenda against the interest of the farmers. “The proposed drilling of wells would destroy agriculture in the region. The farmers would never allow the project,” he maintained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ongc-seeks-green-nod-for-exploratory-wells/article34836021.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||BMC seeks report on ‘fake’ vaccination camp||A day after residents of a housing society in the western suburbs of Mumbai voiced suspicions of a scam in the COVID-19 camp organised on their premises, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has sought a “factual report” on the incident within 48 hours. Suresh Kakani, Additional Municipal Commissioner (western suburbs), directed the Deputy Municipal Commissioner Vishwas Shankarwar to probe the “serious” incident and submit a report. He said in his letter, “The team which vaccinated the residents had no laptops. None of the beneficiaries had any side-effects. Aadhaar card number was taken from them and the OTP was sought after a few days. The vaccination certificates were from different hospitals. This created speculation in the minds of people and therefore the residents have filed a police complaint. The incident is serious.”  The Hindu had on Wednesday reported about the incident at Hiranandani Heritage in Kandivli west where the camp had been organised on May 30. Each of the 390 recipients of the vaccine paid Rs. 1,260. Two hospitals whose names were mentioned — Kokilaben and Nanavati — have denied any involvement in organising the camp. On Thursday, local Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Yogesh Sagar organised another camp in the same society. “More than 350 residents were successfully vaccinated today. They immediately received the certificates on their mobile and everything went perfectly fine,” said Umesh Shah, chairman of the society.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bmc-seeks-report-on-fake-vaccination-camp/article34835862.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Chennai zoo loses another lion to virus||A 12-year-old male lion, named Pathbanathan, housed in the Lion Safari area of the Arignar Anna Zoological Park, died due to COVID-19 on Wednesday. Pathbanathan is the second big cat to have died at Vandalur zoo this month. On June 3, Neela, a 9-year-old lioness, died of the disease. A release from the zoo said the lion tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, as per the report of the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, on June 3. It had been undergoing intensive treatment since then. “It had not eaten for the past five days,” a source said. The zoo administration is in a state of shock after the death of the second lion. Of the 13 lions at the zoo, two were responding slowly to treatment, sources said. A forest official said the death of two lions and the critical condition of two more showed the health management of the zoo in poor light. “We are the only zoo in India that has lost two lions,” the official said. Though eight lions at a Hyderabad zoo tested positive for the infection, all of them recovered. The zoo administration is in a state of shock after the death of the second lion. Of the 13 lions at the zoo, two were responding slowly to treatment, sources said. A forest official said the death of two lions and the critical condition of two more showed the health management of the zoo in poor light. “We are the only zoo in India that has lost two lions,” the official said. Though eight lions at a Hyderabad zoo tested positive for the infection, all of them recovered. A lion in Jaipur also contracted the infection. According to a senior officer, the zoo’s veterinarians were treating infected lions symptomatically, in consultation with their counterparts in the Bronx, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Etawah Lion Safari and the Central Zoo Authority, along with a team of experts from Tanuvas. “They are trying their best,” the officer said. A total of 9 lions had tested positive on June 3 after their samples were sent to NIHSAD. After the death of Neela, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Forest Minister K. Ramachandran visited the zoo to enquire about the condition of the lions and the treatment given to them. The zoo administration had sent the samples of three lions and four tigers to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly, to test for SARS-CoV-2. Of them, two lionesses, including Neela, had tested positive for the virus. Incidentally, the authorities also found that two lion samples tested mildly positive for canine distemper virus. The report from IVRI was supposed to shed light on the source of the infection in the Asiatic lions housed at Vandalur zoo. The zoo authorities are yet to comment on the source of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-zoo-loses-another-lion-to-virus/article34835936.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Roadworks delay city’s ‘smart parking’ plans||Roads dug up in the CBD for developmental work are proving to be a hurdle for the ambitious ‘smart parking’ project. The BBMP had planned for automated parking facilities on at least 30 roads in the CBD by May this year. However, since December 2019, it has been rolled out on only 10 major roads in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/roadworks-delay-citys-smart-parking-plans/article34835812.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,||Monsoon impacting rural students’ online classes||Rural students have always had it tough with online classes, given poor connectivity. Now, the rains have made it worse, particularly in Malnad area, where the southwest monsoon has been very active this week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-impacting-rural-students-online-classes/article34835814.ece
17 June 2021||Agartala,||Talks on for patch-up in Tripura BJP unit||BJP’s national organisation general secretary B.L. Santhosh, who arrived here on Wednesday, held hectic discussions with a cross section of leaders reportedly to work out a reconciliation between official and rebel groups. He held a closed door one-to-one meeting at the party headquarters with several leaders to understand the differences and repair the cracks, party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/talks-on-for-patch-up-in-tripura-bjp-unit/article34835910.ece
17 June 2021||Guwahati,||Assam not to hold Class X, XII board examination||The Assam Cabinet on Wednesday recommended the cancellation of Class X and Class XII board examinations. A final decision would be taken on June 18 at a meeting between the Education Department and various stakeholders. The recommendation came less than a week after a group of students approached SC seeking directions on the examinations in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-not-to-hold-class-x-xii-board-examination/article34835911.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre denied nod to probe oxygen deaths’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia claimed that the Centre has denied approval to a panel constituted by the Delhi government to probe the deaths of COVID patients due to oxygen shortage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-denied-nod-to-probe-oxygen-deaths/article34836232.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||JD(U) always believed in divisive politics: Chirag||Chirag Paswan on Wednesday accused his uncle, Pashupati Nath Paras, of betraying him, and the Janata Dal (United) of aiding the LJP rebels in crafting the split in the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jdu-always-believed-in-divisive-politics-chirag/article34836231.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Veteran Bollywood actor Chandrashekhar dead||Veteran Bollywood actor Chandrashekhar, best known for featuring in films likeCha Cha Cha, andSurang, and for playing the role of Arya Sumant on the popular TV serialRamayan,passed away on Wednesday due to age related ailments. He was 98.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veteran-bollywood-actor-chandrashekhar-dead/article34836218.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Shiv Sena-BJP workers clash in Mumbai||Shiv Sena and BJP workers clashed on Wednesday after the BJP held a protest outside the former’s headquarters in Mumbai to condemn a Sena statement on the allegations of a scam in the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. The BJP had given a call for a protest march to Sena Bhavan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shiv-sena-bjp-workers-clash-in-mumbai/article34836220.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||New scheme for children orphaned by COVID-19||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin launched a scheme to grant assistance to children who have lost either one or both of their parents to COVID-19. Under the scheme, a deposit of Rs. 5 lakh will be made in the name of the children who have lost both parents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/new-scheme-for-children-orphaned-by-covid-19/article34836022.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||State records 10,448 new cases, 270 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday recorded 10,448 new COVID-19 cases and 270 deaths. The overall case tally stood at 23,88,746. Fresh cases dipped to 1,420 in Coimbatore and 1,123 in Erode. Chennai recorded fewer cases than Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-records-10448-new-cases-270-deaths/article34836024.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||India to launch deep ocean mission||The Union Cabinet has approved the long-pending deep ocean mission, which among other things involves developing a submersible vehicle that will allow a crew to plunge 6,000 metres into the ocean and hunt the floor for precious metals. If this works, India will be among a handful of countries able to launch an underwater mission at such depths. In the works since 2018, the mission is expected to cost Rs. 4,077 crore over the next five years. The estimated cost for the first phase of three years (2021-24) would be Rs. 2,823.4 crore. The Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) will be the nodal Ministry implementing this multi-institutional mission. There are six components to the programme. A manned submersible will be developed to carry three people to a depth of 6,000 metres in the ocean with a suite of scientific sensors and tools. An integrated mining system will be also developed for mining polymetallic nodules at those depths in the central Indian Ocean. “The exploration studies of minerals will pave way for the commercial exploitation in the near future, as and when commercial exploitation code is evolved by the International Seabed Authority, an United Nations organisation,” says an accompanying press note. The second component involves developing Ocean Climate Change Advisory Services, which entails developing a suite of observations and models to understand and provide future projections of important climate variables on seasonal to decadal time scales. Microbes, minerals The next component is searching for deep sea flora and fauna, including microbes, and studying ways to sustainably utilise them. The fourth component is to explore and identify potential sources of hydrothermal minerals that are sources of precious metals formed from the earth’s crust along the Indian Ocean mid-oceanic ridges. The fifth component involves studying and preparing detailed engineering design for offshore Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion (OTEC) powered desalination plants. The final component is aimed at grooming experts in the field of ocean biology and engineering. This component aims to translate research into industrial applications and product development through on-site business incubator facilities. The Deep Ocean Mission was in 2019 envisaged as a Rs. 8,000 crore mission, as The Hindu has earlier reported. India has been allotted a site of 75,000 square kilometres in the Central Indian Ocean Basin (CIOB) by the UN International Sea Bed Authority for exploitation of polymetallic nodules (PMN). These are rocks scattered on the seabed containing iron, manganese, nickel and cobalt. Being able to lay hands on a fraction of that reserve can meet the energy requirement of India for the next 100 years, say officials at the Earth Sciences Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-to-launch-deep-ocean-mission/article34835658.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Adhir Ranjan shouted down at PAC meeting||Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairperson and senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was shouted down by BJP and Janata Dal(U) leaders at a meeting held on Wednesday when he attempted to make a political comment criticising the Union government’s COVID-19 vaccination policy. The meeting was called to shortlist the subjects that the committee would work on for 2021-22. Political comment When Mr. Chowdhury rose to make the concluding remarks, it was learnt that he read out a statement, a political comment, criticising the Union government’s current vaccination policy and overall alleged mismanagement during the pandemic. He wanted the “vaccine production and distribution” to be investigated by the committee. As per the panel’s rules, no subject can be deliberated upon till there is a consensus among all members. Even before he could read out the second paragraph of the statement, the BJP and the JD(U) started shouting at him. The BJP’s Bhupendra Yadav, Satyapal Singh and Rajeev Chandrasekhar; the JD(U)’s Rajiv Ranjan Singh; Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader T.R. Baalu; the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)’s Thambi Durai; Rahul Shewale from the Shiv Sena; Bhartruhari Mahtab of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD); and Shakti Singh Gohil from the Congress were the other members. The BJP and JD(U) members criticised Mr. Chowdhury, stating that the PAC was not the platform to make a political comment, sources said. They also reminded him that the meeting was not being telecast to an audience, so it was an useless attempt to score a political point here. Mr. Chowdhury said he was only quoting facts that were already in the public domain. Proceedings ‘very ugly’ The shouting match went on in front of the senior officials of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). One of the members who attended the meeting described the proceedings as “very ugly” and completely “avoidable”. Earlier, during the meeting, Mr. Baalu said since public money had been spent on pandemic management and vaccines, it needed to be investigated. There was no objection from anyone. Because a consensus could not be built, the subject of vaccine production and distribution was not accepted as one of the agendas of the PAC for this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/adhir-ranjan-shouted-down-at-pac-meeting/article34835680.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||Daily average of jabs continues to improve||India recorded 64,964 new COVID-19 cases and 2,261 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Wednesday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,96,97,263 cases and 3,81,863 deaths. Kerala reported 13,270 new infections, followed by Tamil Nadu (10,448) and Maharashtra (10,107). Maharashtra recorded 1,236 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (270) and Kerala (147). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Punjab, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tripura, Lakshadweep, and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19.3 lakh samples were tested in the country on Tuesday (the results for which were made available on Wednesday). About 28 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Wednesday, which is 11.26 lakh doses fewer than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 24,362 doses more than what was recorded during the corresponding period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 31.14 lakh on June 15, which is more than the 26.96 lakh recorded a week before (June 8). India is also administering the highest number of average doses in the world, followed by the United States (1.14 million), Japan (1 million), and Brazil (0.92 million). About 22.8% of adults in India, 43% of those aged above 45, and 46.6% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Wednesday. While 15.7% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.5% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. India continued to record the highest number of 7-day average daily deaths in the world with 3,721 deaths recorded on June 15. The two other countries with the highest fatality count after India were Brazil (1,986) and Colombia (577). Nearly 34% of the world’s new deaths were recorded in India on June 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/daily-average-of-jabs-continues-to-improve/article34835713.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Class 12: SC to hold hearing on assessment||The Supreme Court on Thursday is scheduled to hold a hearing in which the CBSE and the ICSE are expected to place on record the objective criteria by which they intend to assess the performance of Class 12 students whose Board exams have been cancelled due to the pandemic. On June 3, Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal had informed a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that the process for fixing the criteria may take a “little time”. The hearing was based on a petition filed by advocate Mamta Sharma for cancellation of the exams. Justice Khanwilkar had scheduled the case for June 17, for the Board to place the criteria/objective standards of assessment on record and for the petitioners to address the court on the issue. The court had, on June 3, said it would prefer to keep the petition pending till the objective criteria were scrutinised. The court had urged the CBSE and the ICSE authorities to interact on a day-to-day basis and come up with their respective objective criteria for assessment. Student concerns “The students have apprehensions… Many students want to go outside for further education. This requires an urgent decision. Let the persons concerned interact on a day-to-day basis,” Justice Khanwilkar said. Justice Maheshwari had even asked why the government needed two weeks as objective criteria had been notified last year when the Board exams were similarly cancelled. The ICSE, represented by advocate J.K. Das, had urged the court to give more time, at least three weeks to prepare the criteria. “If you want to do it, you can do it overnight… Everything can now be done on video conferencing… Don’t bargain for time like this… Do not force us to pass directions. Do it on your own,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Das. Ms. Sharma had, in her petition, earlier argued against the deferment of both exams to an unspecified date. She had said students cannot be made to suffer uncertainty in the midst of an unprecedented public health crisis. The CBSE is set to submit its criteria for assigning Class XII marks in the Supreme Court on Thursday, a senior Education Ministry official said. A 12-member panel of stakeholder representatives was set up on June 4, soon after the decision was taken to cancel Class XII Board examinations due to the pandemic. The panel was tasked with creating a formula to assign marks in lieu of the Board examinations. Two members of the panel earlier told The Hindu that the stakeholder feedback had largely been in favour of using a combination of final examination scores from Class X and XI, and internal marks from Class XII.  (With inputs from   Priscilla Jebaraj)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/class-12-sc-to-hold-hearing-on-assessment/article34835661.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Cong. leader comes out in support of Pilot||Amid renewed factionalism in the Rajasthan Congress between Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot, former Speaker of the Rajasthan Assembly, Depender Singh Shekhawat, has openly come out in support of Mr. Pilot. Mr. Shekhawat, who has been a five-term MLA, issued a statement saying that the issue in Rajasthan was not about the Cabinet expansion, but about honouring the Congress workers who played a key role in the 2018 Assembly election victory. His statement comes two days after the Chief Minister’s Office issued a statement that Mr. Gehlot would not meet anyone in person for the next one or two months as a precaution in view of his condition following his recovery from COVID-19. This statement was interpreted as the Chief Minister conveying to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) that he was in no hurry to carry out a Cabinet expansion. Committee formation After Mr. Pilot and his supporters rebelled against the Chief Minister last July, the AICC set up a three-member committee to resolve the differences and accommodate Mr. Pilot’s supporters in the Cabinet. It was seen as one of the steps to arrive at a compromise. Mr. Shekhawat said, “These reports of a bargain going on for the number of positions in the Cabinet, boards and corporations are absolutely false. Mr. Pilot and all of us have been striving to seek honour and self-respect for the grassroots Congress workers”. “Those who valiantly took on the wrath of the BJP governments of Vasundhara Raje and Prime Minister Narendra Modi from 2014 onwards gave their sweat and blood to revive the Congress after it suffered its worst-ever defeat in 2013 — getting only 21 out of the 200 seats. They need to get adequate recognition and respect now that we are the party in power,” he stated. Mr. Shekhawat said political appointments should be given to “those who have carried the burden of making the Congress win at the polling booths and not to cherry-picked retired bureaucrats and officers whose loyalties are temporary”. He added, “We have full faith in the commitment made by the high command to address all such issues that we have raised”. Mr. Shekhawat’s statement is seen as an assertion by the Pilot camp after reports that some of his loyalists may have joined the Gehlot camp.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-leader-comes-out-in-support-of-pilot/article34835676.ece
17 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||‘SP spreading the illusion that MLAs are leaving BSP’||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Wednesday accused the Samajwadi Party (SP) of spreading an “illusion” that some of her party MLAs were breaking away to join it. She noted that they had been suspended by her. The SP was an expert in “narrow-minded politics” of casteism, manipulation and malice, she said.  MLAs meet Yadav Ms. Mayawati’s comments come a day after around half a dozen suspended BSP MLAs met SP president Akhilesh Yadav amid talks of them joining the party ahead of the 2022 Assembly election. One of them, Aslam Raini, however, said they also had the option of forming their own party if they could muster 12 MLAs. So far, 11 MLAs from the BSP have been suspended in the recent past. Ms. Mayawati said the MLAs had been suspended over allegations of colluding with the SP and an industrialist in order to defeat a Dalit candidate fielded by the BSP in the Rajya Sabha elections. If the SP was honest to these MLAs, it would not keep them hanging, she said. The SP knew that if it took them in, it would face a rebellion, Ms. Mayawati added. MLAs from the SP were restless to join the BSP, she said and alleged that the SP’s moves, character and face had always been “anti-Dalit”. The BSP had won 19 seats in 2017. However, while on paper it has 16 MLAs, its actual strength is down to just seven due to rebellions and the recent expulsion of senior legislators Lalji Verma and Ram Achal Rajbhar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sp-spreading-the-illusion-that-mlas-are-leaving-bsp/article34835683.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Vaccine interval based on studies’||The increase in gap between two doses of Covishield is based on scientific evidence, N.K. Arora, Chairman of the COVID-19 Working Group of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), has said. In a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on his interview with DD News, Dr. Arora explained that the decision to increase the gap between two Covishield doses from four-six weeks to 12-16 weeks lay in the fundamental scientific reason regarding the behaviour of adenovector vaccines. “In the last week of April 2021, data released by Public Health England, the United Kingdom’s executive agency of the Department of Health, showed that vaccine efficacy varied between 65% to 88% when the interval is 12 weeks. This was the basis on which they overcame their epidemic outbreak due to the Alpha variant,” he noted. This issue was discussed and with no dissenting notes, the recommendation was that the vaccine interval had to be 12 to 16 weeks. The earlier decision of four weeks was based upon the bridging trial data available then. Dr. Arora pointed to how emerging evidence and reports regarding the efficacy of partial vs full immunisation were being considered by the NTAGI. “Two or three days after we took the decision to increase the dosage interval, there were reports from the U.K. that a single dose of AstraZeneca vaccine gives only 33% protection and two doses give about 60% protection; discussion has been going on since mid-May whether India should revert to four or eight weeks,” he observed. “When the NTAGI took this decision, we also decided that India will establish a vaccine tracking platform — to assess not only the impact of the vaccination programme, but also the type of vaccine and interval between doses, and what happens when someone is fully / partially immunised. This is very important in India, since around 17-18 crore people have received only one dose, while around 4 crore people have received two doses,” he stated. Dr. Arora referred to a study by PGI Chandigarh that compared the effectiveness of partial vs full immnunisation. “A PGI Chandigarh study very clearly shows that vaccine effectiveness was 75% for both partially immunised and fully immunised. So at least in the short run, effectiveness was similar whether you are partially or fully vaccinated. This was in relation to the Alpha variant which had swept Punjab, northern India and came to Delhi.” Results from a study by CMC Vellore were similar, he pointed out. “An important study by CMC Vellore, Tamil Nadu, which covers most of the current wave India experienced in April and May, 2021, shows that if somebody is partially immunised, vaccine effectiveness of Covishield is 61%, and with two doses, the effectiveness is 65% — and there is very little difference, especially since there is some degree of uncertainty involved in these calculations.” Two other studies were coming up from two different organisations within Delhi, Dr. Arora said. “And both these studies show that breakthrough infection with one dose is around 4%, and around 5% with two doses, basically hardly any difference. And the other study shows 1.5% - 2% breakthrough infections,” he said. When asked about any proposal to reduce the Covishield gap, he said a decision would be taken scientifically. “COVID-19 and the vaccination are very dynamic. Tomorrow, if the vaccine platform tells us that a narrower interval is better for our people, even if the benefit is 5% - 10%, the committee will take the decision on the basis of merit and its wisdom.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccine-interval-based-on-studies/article34835696.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath calls for open Indo-Pacific||India hoped that the code of conduct for South China Sea (SCS), being negotiated between the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) and China, would lead to outcomes in line with international law, including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and did not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of nations that were not party to these discussions, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday. “Maritime security challenges are another area of concern to India. The sea lanes of communication are critical for peace, stability, prosperity and development of the Indo-Pacific region. In this regard, developments in the South China Sea have attracted attention in the region and beyond,” he said at the 8th ASEAN Defence Ministers’ Plus Meeting. “India supports freedom of navigation, over flight, and unimpeded commerce in these international waterways,” he pointed out. China and ASEAN have set a target of end-2021 to finalise the code of conduct but recently officials had said it may not be concluded by then. Mr. Singh reiterated India’s call for a free, open and inclusive order in the Indo-Pacific, based upon respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity of nations, peaceful resolution of disputes through dialogue and adherence to international rules and laws. “Premised upon the centrality of ASEAN, India supports utilisation of ASEAN-led mechanisms as important platforms for implementation of our shared vision for the Indo-Pacific,” Mr. Singh observed. He expressed concern at cyberthreats like ransomware and cryptocurrency thefts and called for a multi-stakeholder approach, guided by democratic values.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajnath-calls-for-open-indo-pacific/article34835705.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||In six months, trans ID portal has issued 1,500 certificates||Just over six months after it was launched, the Centre’s national portal for issuing certificates of identity to transgender persons has issued 1,557 certificates as of Wednesday, according to Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry data. A total of 2,805 applications had been received since the launch of the portal on November 25 last year. Of them, 1,125 came from Andhra Pradesh, 696 from Odisha, 246 from Madhya Pradesh, 225 from Gujarat and 101 from Puducherry, data accessed by The Hindu showed. Many States, however, had applications in single digit. Assam and Goa saw one application each; Rajasthan and Jammu & Kashmir had two each; and Punjab and Chhattisgarh had three applications each. Out of the total, 2,327 applications were found to be valid, out of which 1,557 applicants had been issued certificates and 770 were pending, the data showed. Among the issues related to the portal raised by trans activists was the language barrier. Grace Banu, a Dalit and trans rights activist based in Tamil Nadu, said the portal was available for those who understand English or Hindi, leaving out a large part of the country. Speaking during a webinar organised by Bahujan Economists, a platform for students and researchers in economics from marginalised communities, on Tuesday, she said trans persons were finding it difficult to access welfare schemes for lack of IDs and the portal wMoreas not accessible to many. More accessibility When asked to comment, a senior official of the Ministry said the portal, which was available in English at transgender.dosje.gov.in, would be made available in five regional languages also by July to make it accessible to trans persons from across the country. The official added that the format of the application could be translated soon. However, integrating the information into the central database would take longer. The official said the portal would be made available in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Malayalam, and one North Eastern language would be included by the end of June or early in July.  The portal is available for those who understand English or Hindi, leaving out a large part of the country Grace BanuTrans rights activist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/in-six-months-trans-id-portal-has-issued-1500-certificates/article34835657.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘JD(U) always believed in divisive politics’||Chirag Paswan on Wednesday accused his uncle, Pashupati Nath Paras, of betraying him, and the Janata Dal(U) of aiding the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) rebels in crafting the split in the party. Addressing his first press conference since the coup in the party, he sidestepped questions on the BJP’s role, but did obliquely express disappointment that the party did not come to his rescue. Mr. Paswan said efforts were on to break the LJP even when his father was alive. Asked if he blamed the JD(U), he said, “This is an internal matter of my party. How can I blame anyone if my own party members betray me? But, yes, I cannot deny the role JD(U) played. They have always believed in divisive politics and engineering defections.”  Discontent in the party had been brewing since November 2019, when its founder and Mr. Paswan’s father, Ram Vilas Paswan, decided to anoint the son to the post of national president. The internal differences peaked soon after his appointment. Mr. Paswan replaced Mr. Paras, who, for long, held the post of the Bihar State unit chief with his younger cousin, Prince Raj. The decision to campaign against the JD(U) and contest the polls alone while remaining in the National Democratic Alliance during the 2020 elections was the last straw. Throughout the poll campaign, Mr. Paswan asserted that he remained in the NDA and loyal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He went on to compare his devotion to Mr. Modi as that of “Hanuman to Lord Ram”. When asked at the Wednesday press conference why he did not seek help from his “Ram” (Mr. Modi), he said, “If Hanuman has to seek help from Ram, then what is the point of Hanuman or Ram.” “I am the son of Ram Vilas Paswan. If I was not scared to contest alone back then, then I have no reason to be afraid today, too,” he added. Mr. Paswan said he and his mother, Reena Paswan, made all efforts to keep the party and parivaar (family) together. “When I lost my father, at least I had my uncle. But today that he has also deserted me, I truly became an orphan.” He accused Mr. Paras of betraying him when he was suffering from a long bout of typhoid and was debilitated. “They tried to break the party when my father was in the ICU. And, finally, they decided to stab me in the back when I was bedridden,” Mr. Paswan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/jdu-always-believed-in-divisive-politics/article34835678.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to frame norms for drones to carry vaccines||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has invited expression of interest from drone operators to “develop a delivery model” for using drones to deliver COVID-19 vaccines in remote and hard to reach areas in the country. The tender document lays down the technical specifications required, which include the ability of drones to fly “beyond visual line of sight [BVLOS]”. While government rules now permit only those drone operations that are within the visual range, the ICMR project comes at a time when the Ministry of Civil Aviation has allowed 20 entities to conduct trials for long-range or “beyond visual line of sight” drone flights. These experimental flights start from June 18 and are likely to conclude by October. Based on learnings from these test flights, the government will frame the guidelines for BVLOS operations and they could be finalised by March 31 next year. “Once the trials are over, different entities will submit their flight data and proof of concept, based on which the draft guidelines will be framed. Our task is to ensure air safety during BVLOS drone operations. These include ensuring that the drones stick to the assigned flight path, maintain robust communication and control link and are able to withstand the vagaries of nature,” said Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation, and head of the drones division. Drone companies said the guidelines would pave the way for drone deliveries in rural, remote and peri-urban settings to begin with, and similar operations in urban areas would take much longer. Ice boxes “Vaccines are carried in ice boxes containing dry ice in order to maintain required temperature levels. These boxes contain data loggers, which have 4G network connectivity to relay live recording of temperature through a mobile app to an operator on the ground,” said Wing Commander S. Vijay (retired), Chief Operating Officer, Skye Air Mobility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-to-frame-norms-for-drones-to-carry-vaccines/article34835681.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Four more arraigned in Mehul Choksi case||Four more persons, including two officials of the Punjab National Bank, have been arraigned by the CBI along with 18 others in a supplementary chargesheet filed recently in a case against fugitive Mehul Choksi and others for allegedly cheating the bank of Rs. 7,080.86 crore. The new accused persons are an assistant general manager of the bank Sanjay Prasad and single-window operator Sagar Swant; Dhanesh Sheth, director of Gili India Limited and Nakshatra Brand Limited, and Sunil Verma, international head of Mr. Choksi's Gitanjali Group of companies. The other 18 individuals/entities, including Mr. Choksi, were also named as accused in the first chargesheet submitted in May 2018. In the latest chargesheet, the CBI has invoked the IPC and the Prevention of Corruption Act provisions related to the offences of criminal conspiracy, cheating, criminal breach of trust and causing disappearance of evidence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-more-arraigned-in-mehul-choksi-case/article34835684.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||‘Take calculated risks with professionalism’||As part of its Career Counselling 2021 series, held along with The Hindu , the Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (HITS) hosted a webinar on “Digital transformation of law and how students can adapt to it”. Vincent Comraj, Dean, School of Law, HITS, spoke about the evolution of legal education and how it paved the way for dynamic modern innovation. “One-on-one classes may have now become virtual but it is the continuous assessment and pre-recorded materials that are making them emerge as capable students,” he said. Yusuf Abdul-Kareem, Vice-President, Emerging Markets and Business Intelligence, LSAC, said globalisation had a major impact on education but allowed us to connect meaningfully. “Universities are able to collaborate not only in integrating courses but also on the research front. Schools are changing the way they are training their teachers and networking. This transformation is giving way for interdisciplinary courses.” Despite breakthrough technologies, the legal sector is taking only baby steps, said Ramanuj Mukherjee, CEO and Co-Founder, LawSikho and iPleaders. His advice to students was: “Taking risks is necessary but it should be calculated and done with professionalism. You will be able to see more problems and a lot more solutions with your young minds. Your time is now!” The session ended with panellists fielding questions from the audience. The session can be viewed at https://bit.ly/3xq9JE2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/take-calculated-risks-with-professionalism/article34835655.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘HC cannot tell probe agency to arrest accused’||High Courts cannot decide when investigative agencies should arrest an accused, the Supreme Court said in an order, adding that it is entirely the call of the probe officers. A Bench of Justices Hemant Gupta and V. Ramasubramanian said it was beyond the jurisdiction of a High Court to direct the police to take someone into custody. “It is for the investigative agency to whom the investigation has been entrusted to take a call as to when the petitioner is to be arrested,” the Supreme Court noted. The court was hearing a petition filed by a man accused in a rape case. The Karnataka High Court had quashed a trial court order of May 24, granting the accused anticipatory bail in the case. The High Court transferred the case to the Corps of Detectives and ordered the outfit to submit a final report in the case within four months. However, the High Court also went on to direct the probe officer to take the accused into custody and produce him before the local magistrate. “We find that such direction to take the accused into custody is beyond the jurisdiction of the High Court. Whether an accused is liable to be arrested is based upon the decision of the investigating officer depending upon the material collected during the investigation, which may be conducted in a particular crime,” the apex court said. The Bench left it entirely to the investigator’s discretion whether or not to arrest the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-cannot-tell-probe-agency-to-arrest-accused/article34835673.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approval for OFB corporatisation||Addressing a long pending reform, the Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a plan to corporatise the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), which has 41 factories, into seven fully government owned corporate entities on the lines of Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSU). Once implemented, the OFB, the establishment of which was accepted by the British in 1775, will cease to exist. ‘Historic decision’ “This is a historic decision and there should be no concern on the part of the employees. There will be no change in service conditions of the employees which is also mentioned in the Cabinet note,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, assuring the 70,000 employees who had expressed concern over the proposed move. It is a major decision in terms of national security and also make the country self-sufficient in defence manufacturing as repeatedly emphasised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Singh stated. Improving efficiency This move would allow these companies autonomy as well as help improve accountability and efficiency, a defence official said. “This restructuring is aimed at transforming the ordnance factories into productive and profitable assets, deepening specialisation in the product range, enhancing competitiveness, improving quality and achieving cost efficiency,” the official said. Currently, the Kolkata headquartered OFB functions as a department under the Department of Defence Production. All employees of the OFB (Group A, B and C) belonging to the production units would be transferred to the corporate entities on deemed deputation initially for a period of two years without altering their service conditions as Central government employees, the official explained. The pension liabilities of the retirees and existing employees would continue to be borne by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cabinet-approval-for-ofb-corporatisation/article34835699.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||Karnataka legislature tops with 31 sitting days||The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, which affected the functioning of the legislatures of several States last year, had an apparently marginal impact on the working of the Karnataka legislature, if the number of sitting days is an indication. Compared with its average number of sitting days of 32 from 2016 to 2019, the Karnataka legislature, which is bicameral, met on 31 days last year, the highest for any State in 2020, according to a study that covered 19 States. The southern State was followed by Rajasthan (29 days) and Himachal Pradesh (25 days). For comparison, Parliament met for 33 days last year. In 2020, the average number of sitting days for the 19 States was 18, which was 11 less than the four-year (2016-19) average of 29. Kerala, which had the distinction of remaining at the top in the four years with an average of 53 days, had only 20 days of sittings of the legislature last year, stated the study report, “Annual Review of State Laws 2020,” which was prepared by the PRS Legislative Research (“PRS”), a New Delhi-based think tank. As regards other southern States, Tamil Nadu had met on 23 days against its four-year average of 35, Andhra Pradesh had met on 12 days (four-year average of 26) and Telangana had met on 17 days (four-year average of 25 days). After the lockdown, Karnataka’s figure of sitting days of the legislature was 10; Telengana 9; Andhra Pradesh 7; Tamil Nadu 3 and Kerala 2. However, the highest for any State, post-lockdown, was 11 in Chhattisgarh followed by 10 in Himachal Pradesh. Rajasthan, which was the number two State in terms of the overall number of sitting days, had met only on five days after the lockdown. As for the number of Bills passed last year, Karnataka again topped the list with 61 Bills, followed by Tamil Nadu (42) and Uttar Pradesh (37). For this purpose, Appropriation Bills were excluded. Among poor performers under this category, Delhi passed only one Bill; West Bengal passed two Bills, and Kerala three Bills. On the duration of time taken to pass Bills, the previous year saw 59% of the Bills being passed by the legislature of the States on the day of introduction. A further 14% was adopted within a day of being introduced. Only 9% of the Bills was passed more than five days after introduction, some of which were referred to committees for further examination. In respect of ordinances, data from the 19 States showed that, on average, 14 ordinances were promulgated last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-legislature-tops-with-31-sitting-days/article34835663.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Uttar Pradesh police book Twitter, journalists||The FIR accused the journalists and political activists of deliberately trying to spread discord between Hindus and Muslims and disrupting public peace. Tweeting a news link of the incident, in which it was reported that the man was beaten up allegedly for not chanting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and had his beard chopped, Mr. Gandhi said he did not believe that the true followers of Lord Ram could do such a thing. “Such cruelty is far from humanity and is shameful for both society and religion,” he said on Twitter. Mr. Adityanath responded saying that Mr. Gandhi should feel ashamed for trying to “spread poison in the society” despite the facts of the case being revealed. Ms. Naqvi later issued a clarification and said her comment on Twitter was based on a newspaper report. “I will wait for the investigation to be completed before further comment,” she tweeted. Mr. Zubair said he deleted the videos he had posted. “The victim’s version of him being forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’ at this point in time do not seem to add up based on my conversations with police authorities and other journalists reporting on this issue,” Mr. Zubair stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uttar-pradesh-police-book-twitter-journalists/article34835665.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Nod for additional fertilizer subsidy||So far, a 50 kg bag of di-ammonium phosphate (DAP), the fertilizer most popular with Indian farmers after urea, was sold at Rs. 1,200, including a subsidy of about Rs. 500. However, the bull run in the global commodity markets has seen a surge in prices of the imported raw materials as well as the finished fertilizer. In early April, a number of Indian fertilizer companies hiked their DAP prices to Rs. 1,900 per bag. Farmers’ groups protested against the Rs. 700/bag hike, pointing out that along with the rise in diesel and petrol prices, their input costs for the kharif season would spiral out of control in the midst of a pandemic. After a high-level meeting on May 19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the subsidy would be increased to Rs. 1,200 per bag, ensuring that farmers would not face any price rise. That decision was approved by the Cabinet on Wednesday, applicable for the kharif season only. “This has been done as one-time measure as COVID-19 package to reduce the hardships of farmers. As anticipated that international prices may come down in few months, GoI may review the situation accordingly and decide regarding subsidy rates at that point of time,” said an official statement. The Centre has also directed all fertilizer companies to sell all their old stocks of DAP at the old prices only.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nod-for-additional-fertilizer-subsidy/article34835666.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Excess deaths in T.N. over four times COVID-19 tally||Causes such as heart disease and heart attacks, diabetes mellitus, unclassified, liver disease, bronchitis, pneumonia, cerebro-vascular issues constituted more than 80% of all deaths registered in 2020 and 2021, increasing from 72% and 73% in 2018 and 2019, suggesting that there was a fall in other causes overall compared to COVID-related or similar causality. Deaths due to cancer for example fell from 3% in 2018 and 2019 to 2.6% and 1.9% in 2020 and 2021 so far. The inability to access standard care for chronic conditions over a period of two years, it is suspected, could have led to higher mortality over this period among patients who had co-morbidities. The proportion of men and women among the dead remained the same (60%-40%) before (2018 and 2019) and during the pandemic years (2020 and 2021). Both the undercount figures, adjusted for unrelated causal factors and registered death count (3.7, 3) and unadjusted (6.5, 5.3) numbers, for 2021 and the second wave (April 2021-May 2021) respectively are, however, much less than the corresponding figures from CRS data estimated for Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh (42 and 43, 34 and 31.4) recently. The unadjusted figure for Tamil Nadu was also similar to that of Karnataka — an estimated five times the actual death count for 2021. Raw data from the Greater Chennai Corporation on deaths show that the undercount factors (based on official deaths and not CRS adjusted figures) were 5.6, 4.1, 5.6 compared to 6.5, 6.2 and 5.3 for the State for the periods April 2020-May 2021, January to May 2021 and April-May 2021 respectively. This suggests that undercounting was lower in the city limits overall, but improvements in registration in the rest of the State led to similar numbers during the second wave. The inclusion of causal data along with the CRS registrations in Tamil Nadu helped in estimating the excess deaths in a granular manner. Releasing CRS data on death registrations along with causal factors nation-wide from all States will go a long way in estimating the actual number of deaths. Differences of opinion “We need to understand that there are two different things at play — death certification, and medical certification of death. As far as registration of deaths, there is no major issue in the State. As far as medical certification goes, it is indeed an evolving process — driven by ICMR guidelines. But in many cases there have been differences of opinion about the underlying cause of death. For instance, doctors are conflicted whether a person had died due to complications from Parkinsonism, and has also tested positive for COVID-19. So medical certification is an evolving process, at best — guidelines are also shifting,” explains Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. However, he adds that Tamil Nadu has an established mechanism of facilitating death audit, and a State-level reconciliation committee constituted for the express purpose of reconciling death data (COVID-related). “The government has been clear about revealing the proper figures — whether it is related to deaths or positive cases. Reconciliation has been an important part, we even indicate such deaths in the daily bulletin we put out. In the field, health staff have also been overwhelmed, which might result in a lag in counting/certifying deaths,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said.  (With inputs from   Vignesh Radhakrishnan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/excess-deaths-in-tn-over-four-times-covid-19-tally/article34835668.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Govindaraja seen as Rama||In his Perumal Thirumozhi, Kulasekhara Azhvar praises the Govindaraja shrine in Chidambaram as Thillai Thiruchitrakootam, said Akkarakkani Srinidhi in a discourse. He describes Ayodhya as a city surrounded by huge walls. Rama is born in the Surya kula, and He shines brightly in this illustrious family. He describes Rama as a great warrior — ‘veeran.’ Rama’s valour is evident in the Ramayana, and Vedanta Desika who wrote Raghuveera Gadyam, praises Rama with the words, ‘Jaya, jaya Mahaveera.’ Kulasekhara Azhvar describes Rama’s eyes being red-hued, like lotuses. Rama looks like a dark cloud. Clouds can sometimes disappoint us, for when we expect them to give us rain, they move away. But the cloud that is Rama does not let us down. Parasara Bhatta, in his Rangaraja Stava, a work in praise of Lord Rangaraja of Srirangam, says Lord Rangaraja resembles a rain-bearing cloud. So dark in colour is He. The ornaments He is adorned with give out a variety of colours, so that it seems as if one is beholding a rainbow. Where there are rain-giving clouds, there is lightning. What is the lightning in the case of this cloud known as Rangaraja? It is the Goddess residing in His chest who shines like lightning. The Lord of Thillai Thiruchitrakootam is described as ‘Thani mudalvan’ — the unparalleled, unequalled, unsurpassed One, the Supreme One, with all auspicious qualities. Kulasekhara Azhvar sings of Rama’s killing of Tataka and His protection of Viswamitra’s yaga. It is the same Rama who accomplished all this who resides in Thillai Thiruchitrakootam. Rama who bent Siva’s bow and married the large eyed Sita resides in Thillai Thiruchitrakootam. The feet of those who have surrendered to Him, serve as Kulasekhara Azhvar’s refuge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govindaraja-seen-as-rama/article34835685.ece
17 June 2021||Guwahati,||Body brought up from mine in Meghalaya||The body of one of at least five miners trapped in a rat-hole coal mine in Meghalaya since May 30 has been retrieved, officials said. East Jaintia Hills district’s Deputy Commissioner Ethelbert Kharmalki said the body detected by a submersible robotic device was retrieved on June 16 afternoon and sent for an autopsy to ascertain the identity. “The operation to detect and retrieve the other bodies will resume on Thursday,” he told The Hindu . District officials said the chances of survival of the other miners were very slim as the electronic devices could detect only two objects deep inside the water-filled pit, one of them turning out to be the body retrieved on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-brought-up-from-mine-in-meghalaya/article34835651.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Look-out notice for scam accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation has issued look-out circulars against some key accused persons in the scam involving large-scale import of fertilizers and their raw materials by the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Co-operative Limited (IFFCO) at highly inflated rates, to prevent their escape abroad. IFFCO Managing Director U.S. Awasthi and Indian Potash Ltd. Managing Director Pravinder Singh Gahlaut are the main accused. The Enforcement Directorate is also conducting a money laundering probe against them, given the allegation that at least Rs. 685 crore was paid in commissions for supply of fertilizers and raw materials from 2007 to 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/look-out-notice-for-scam-accused/article34835652.ece
17 June 2021||Srinagar,||Militant killed on Srinagar outskirts||A militant was killed in an overnight encounter on the outskirts of Srinagar near Nowgam on Wednesday. A police spokesman said the encounter with hiding militants at Wagoora in Nowgam area of Srinagar began on Tuesday night. “Two terrorists are believed to be trapped at the encounter site. The security forces cordoned off the area throughout the night,” an official said. As the operation, which was being carried out by the personnel of the police and the CRPF, resumed on Wednesday morning, one militant was found dead in the area. He was identified as Uzair Ashraf Dar, son of Mohd Ashraf Dar, a resident of Wandina Melhoora in Wachi area of Zainapora belt in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. Dar joined militant ranks on January 2, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/militant-killed-on-srinagar-outskirts/article34835664.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Probe land purchase in Ayodhya’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday reiterated the demand for a Supreme Court monitored investigation into allegations of corruption in a land purchase at Ayodhya by the Ram Temple Trust. The Congress general secretary, who is the party in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, in a Facebook post, said, “Any attempt to find an opportunity in faith is an assault on the faith of crores of Indians” and a “big sin”. Her remarks come just days after Ram Temple Trust general secretary Champat Rai denied all allegations of corruption. “The Supreme Court should get the entire scam investigated under its supervision,” Ms. Vadra said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-land-purchase-in-ayodhya/article34835669.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Shiv Sena-BJP workers clash in Mumbai||Workers from the Shiv Sena and the BJP clashed on Wednesday after the BJP held a protest outside the former’s headquarters in Mumbai to condemn the Sena’s statement on the allegations of a scam in the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. The BJP had given a call for a protest march at the Sena Bhavan after the Sena had called for an inquiry into the allegations of a scam in the construction of the Ram temple. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece, Saamna, had asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and ensure that there was no “blot of scam” as the construction “was a matter of national pride”. The BJP termed the Sena’s position as “anti-Hindu”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shiv-sena-bjp-workers-clash-in-mumbai/article34835670.ece
17 June 2021||Patna,||Paras reaches Patna with Bhan Singh||Minutes after Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan held a press meet in Delhi on Wednesday, rebel party leader and his uncle, Pashupati Kumar Paras, reached Patna along with senior party leader Suraj Bhan Singh. A large number of supporters of both the leaders were present at the Patna airport to welcome them. Both leaders headed towards the party office, a few yards away from the airport, without speaking to presspersons. They went into the LJP office amidst heavy police deployment. “Tomorrow, there is election for party president,” Mr. Paras said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paras-reaches-patna-with-bhan-singh/article34835671.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Outreach campaign on COVID-19’||The Congress on Wednesday announced its plans for a nationwide outreach campaign to help those affected by COVID-19 and gather data on the infected patients and the deceased. The outreach was announced on a day when former party chief Rahul Gandhi and Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan exchanged barbs on twitter over vaccination. Party general secretary (organisation) K.C. Venugopal said its president Sonia Gandhi and Pradesh Congress Committee chiefs would also be writing condolence letters to the next of kin of those who passed away due to COVID-19. “This outreach programme aims to cover three crore households in 30 days,” he said. Meanwhile, Mr. Gandhi had tweeted, “India needs quick and complete vaccination — not BJP’s usual brand of lies.” In reply, Dr. Vardhan said, “Signor @RahulGandhi continues to remain lost in a mythical land furthering mythical claims without checking any facts!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/outreach-campaign-on-covid-19/article34835674.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘No calf serum in Covaxin final product’||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday refuted some social media posts on the composition of Covaxin, where it has been suggested that it contains newborn calf serum. It said that newborn calf serum was used only for the preparation/growth of vero cells. The final vaccine did not contain newborn calf serum, it asserted. “Different kinds of bovine and other animal serum are standard enrichment ingredient used globally for vero cell growth. This technique has been used for decades in polio, rabies, and influenza vaccines,” said the release. Vero cells were washed with water and chemicals (also technically known as buffer) many times to make them free from newborn calf serum. Thereafter, they were infected with coronavirus for viral growth. Thereafter, the grown virus was also killed (inactivated). This killed virus was then used to make the final vaccine and in the final vaccine formulation, no calf serum was used, the Ministry noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-calf-serum-in-covaxin-final-product/article34835688.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Inland Vessels Bill receives Cabinet nod||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday gave the nod to the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, which will replace the Inland Vessels Act, 1917. “Total 4,000 km inland waterways have been operationalised. The Bill will regulate safety, security and registration of inland vessels,” tweeted Shipping Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. A key feature of the Bill is a unified law for the entire country, instead of separate rules framed by the States. The certificate of registration granted under the proposed law will be deemed to be valid in all States and Union Territories, and there will be no need to seek separate permissions from the States The Bill provides for a central data base for recording the details of vessel, vessel registration, crew on an electronic portal. It requires all mechanically propelled vessels to be mandatorily registered. All non-mechanically propelled vessels will also have to be enrolled at district, taluk or panchayat or village level.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inland-vessels-bill-receives-cabinet-nod/article34835708.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Use of drones mandatory for NHAI projects||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has made use of drones mandatory for video recording of the national highway projects during different stages of development, construction, operation and maintenance. These videos will be saved on NHAI’s portal “Data Lake” to assess the progress made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/use-of-drones-mandatory-for-nhai-projects/article34835709.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||No discrimination in black fungus drug allocation: Centre||The Central government told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that there has been no discrimination in the distribution of Amphotericin to treat Mucormycosis, or black fungus disease, among the States. The hearing will continue on June 18.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-discrimination-in-black-fungus-drug-allocation-centre/article34835714.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Probe roles of Siddique, Sonu Sood’s Trust in Remdesivir supply: HC||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashra government to examine the roles of MLA Zeeshan Siddique and actor Sonu Sood in supplying Remdesivir through private trusts each had set up. “Was it possible for the public to ascertain the quality or source of these drugs?” the court asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/probe-roles-of-siddique-sonu-soods-trust-in-remdesivir-supply-hc/article34835716.ece
17 June 2021||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes proceedings against Kamal Haasan||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the proceedings on the file of the Judicial Magistrate, Valliyoor, against actor-politician Kamal Haasan that were initiated in 2017 following his remarks on The Mahabharata . Mr. Haasan had referred to the epic when questioned during an interview to a Tamil news channel about the increasing violence against women in the country. He was said to have told the interviewer that nothing was surprising about the increasing violence against women in a country which revered The Mahabharata , which depicted a woman being used as a collateral in gambling. Subsequently, a private complaint was filed before the Judicial Magistrate by Aadhinatha Sundaram of Pazhavoor in Tirunelveli district. The complainant said the actor had hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus. Mr. Kamal Haasan filed the petition seeking to quash the private complaint. Quashing the proceedings initiated against Mr. Kamal Haasan, Justice G. Ilangovan observed that there was nothing in the comments to hurt the religious feelings of anyone. Drawing analogies from epics and literary works was common, the judge said. There was no intention to insult while answering the query. It should be taken only as a casual communication that took place between the actor and the interviewer. Criticism was part and parcel of free society, the judge observed. The judge said the complaint was clearly an abuse of the process of the court and was liable to be quashed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-proceedings-against-kamal-haasan/article34836313.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of fever survey workers may be reduced||The fever survey workers involved in preventing COVID-19 may soon be gradually relieved of their tasks. Though the civic body is yet to decide on the trimming of the survey workers, a sequence of events — the phased unlocking, the number of active cases coming below 1% and TPR dropping to 2.5% — have spurred thoughts on resizing. With the city slowly being unlocked for commercial activities, people have started going back to work. A senior official of the civic body said around Rs. 14 crore was being spent as salary for the more than 12,000 survey workers every month. But with the cases having come down drastically from the peak of more than 50,000 in May to less than 7,500 this week, a decision to scale down the workforce would be taken in the coming days. Before taking a call on laying off these survey workers, the civic body plans to get feedback from all the stakeholders, including the views of the residents and members of the health committee. A Health Department official said normally any decision would be taken based on the views of senior officials but in this particular subject, the Commissioner had sought reports from local officials in all zones. The civic official pointed out that with a third wave also being predicted, it would not be prudent to lay off the entire fever survey workforce.  With a third wave also being predicted, it will not be prudent to lay off the entire fever survey workforce, pointed out an official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/number-of-fever-survey-workers-may-be-reduced/article34836028.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases dip further, even as 270 more die||Tamil Nadu recorded a further dip in its daily COVID-19 case count, as 10,448 more people tested positive for the infection on Wednesday. Another 270 people died due to it. Fresh cases dipped to 1,420 in Coimbatore and 1,123 in Erode. Chennai recorded fewer cases than Salem. There were 689 cases in Chennai, while Salem saw 693. As many as 608 people tested positive for the infection in Tiruppur. There were 456 cases in Chengalpattu, 405 in Thanjavur, 318 in Tiruchi and 314 in Namakkal. The remaining 28 districts registered fewer than 300 cases each. Of these, five districts recorded less than 100 infections each. So far, 23,88,746 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Another 21,058 people were discharged after treatment. The State’s toll rose to 30,338. The active caseload dipped to 1,14,335. Of this, 14,396 people are under treatment in Coimbatore and 11,361 in Tiruppur. Erode’s active caseload dropped under 10,000 to 9,962. Chennai has 6,531 active cases. Of the 270 deceased (106 in private hospitals and 164 in government facilities), 206 had co-morbidities. A number of deaths that took place in May were recorded in Wednesday’s bulletin. These included the death of a 22-year-old woman from Chennai who had diabetes. In the last 24 hours, 1,71,085 samples were tested, taking the total samples tested to 3,04,80,340. A total of 3,68,806 people were vaccinated on Wednesday. This has been the highest daily coverage so far, taking the total coverage to 1,10,34,270. As many as 2,34,480 people in the 18-44 age group were vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cases-dip-further-even-as-270-more-die/article34836197.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM launches scheme for children who lost parents||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Wednesday launched a scheme to grant financial assistance and other benefits to children who have lost either one or both of their parents to COVID-19. He handed over the certificates, acknowledging the receipt of deposits made in the name of the children in the Tamil Nadu Power Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation, to the guardians of five children. Mr. Stalin also handed over cheques for Rs. 3 lakh each to parents of five children, who lost one of their parents due to COVID-19. Under the scheme, a deposit of Rs. 5 lakh will be made in the name of the children who have lost both parents. It will be paid to the child, along with the accrued interest, when he/she turns 18. In case a child lost one of his/her parents to COVID-19, Rs. 3 lakh will be granted to the other parent. Social Welfare Minister P. Geetha Jeevan, MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin, Chief Secretary V. Irai Anbu and senior officials were present. For details about the scheme, access the G.O. on The Hindu   portal athttp:// bit.ly/TNCOVIDChildren||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-scheme-for-children-who-lost-parents/article34836183.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Exemption from NEET unlikely, says ex-VC||Tamil Nadu is unlikely to get exemption from NEET-based admissions to medical courses and therefore aspirants must start preparing for the competitive examination this year, senior academic and former Anna University Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy said on Wednesday. Defending the NEET, he contended that “false propaganda and assurances of some political leaders” discouraged and demotivated students. Dubbing as “misplaced confidence” the hope that the State would be exempted from NEET, in a statement he said the test has been mandated by the Supreme Court. “If at all, any State wants exemption, it should be approved by the Union Government and accepted by the Supreme Court. This is very unlikely to happen. Therefore, NEET will be there to stay,” Prof Balagurusamy, a votary of entrance examinations, said. “I urge parents and the public not to fall prey to the false propaganda and assurances of some leaders with vested interests,” he said. According to him, students of Tamil Nadu were capable of facing entrance exams if provided with proper support and motivation. It was a misplaced belief that NEET undermined social justice. Claiming that NEET guaranteed equal opportunity for all medical aspirants, he disapproved of the argument that poor and rural students could not get through the entrance test. “Before NEET, only the rich students from private ‘coaching’ schools got admissions in large numbers. Where is social justice here,” he asked while calling for improving the quality of education in government schools instead of opposing the entrance test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exemption-from-neet-unlikely-says-ex-vc/article34835901.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. wants cement prices cut||The Tamil Nadu government held a meeting with cement manufacturers on reducing prices so that the people are not affected, Industries Minister Thangam Thennarasu said on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters here, he said in the next few days, the government would meet other stakeholders in the construction material industry. Answering a question on the increase in the prices of construction materials, Mr. Thennarasu said that a meeting was held with the cement manufacturers earlier this week at the instruction of the Chief Minister. “We have referred to the cement prices in other Southern States, such as Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, and asked the manufacturers how the prices here were so high and told them that they should not affect the people and construction activities. They have said they would give a good answer soon...,” he said. A meeting with steel manufacturers would be held soon, he said. “This government is keen that people should not be affected, especially during the pandemic.”  ‘Industries will open’ Asked about the possibility of new industries coming up in Tamil Nadu, he said the lockdown was still in force, and industries would open units after it is lifted. “Some have already expressed interest in starting new businesses. There are some who are at the stage of signing memoranda of understanding. Once the lockdown is lifted, we will continue the signing of memoranda of understanding,” he said. As for industries making products required to handle COVID-19, he said, “Many companies have responded to our invitation for expression of interest in the production of oxygen. They have sought an extension of the deadline. We have extended it to May-end.” Mr. Thennarasu, who also looks after archaeology, said the seventh phase of excavations was under way at Keezhadi in Sivaganga district, where important objects reflecting the rich lives of ancient Tamils had been discovered. Recalling his recent visit to the site, he said steps were being taken to construct a site museum. Earlier in the day, he chaired a meeting to review the schemes relating to archaeology, museums, and arts and culture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-wants-cement-prices-cut/article34836187.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Blast from past for Health Secy.||It was a detour, but for Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, it was a blast from the past. On a tour of the delta districts to oversee pandemic control activities, he took some time off his schedule to catch up with people from his past. He made a quick stop at Natham village near Kumbakonam. The people of Natham were once close to him, he said, because 13 of the 94 children who died in the horrific Kumbakonam school fire in 2004 hailed from this village. Dr. Radhakrishnan was then the Collector of Thanjavur district, and oversaw relief and rehabilitation efforts for the families of the children who died in the fire accident. “I had a touching meeting with some of the parents of the children, including the mother of Muruganandam, who perished in the fire. My family — my wife Krithika and son Arvind — used to accompany me on my visits to the homes of the children. In one instance, Muruganandam’s grandmother mistook my son for her grandson, and Arvind managed to persuade her to drink something as she had not eaten for days after the tragedy,” he said. He further shared his joy at finding out that they still remembered his visits and fondly enquired about his family. “Grandmothers came up to me to tell me what happened to their families during all these years, and kindly asked after my wife and son, whom they remembered as well.” He urged the health team to organise a vaccination camp in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/blast-from-past-for-health-secy/article34836190.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water reaches State border||Krishna water discharged from Andhra Pradesh on Monday reached the State’s border in Uthukottai on Wednesday. This will improve the declining storage in the reservoirs that provide drinking water to Chennai. Initially, about 150 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water reached the entry point of Kandaleru-Poondi canal in Uthukottai, Tiruvallur district. Officials of the Water Resources Department noted that the quantity of water realised at the State’s border had increased to 200 cusecs by noon. On Wednesday, water discharged at Kandaleru reservoir in Andhra Pradesh was stepped up to 2,100 cusecs so that about 500 cusecs could be provided to Chennai. “We expect the water release to be gradually increased so that we receive 500 cusecs. Water will travel for another 25 km and reach Poondi reservoir by Wednesday evening,” said an official. The reservoir at Poondi now has only 5% of its total storage capacity of 3,231 million cubic feet (mcft) and water is channelised to other reservoirs. If 500 cusecs of water is received till the month-end, the storage is expected to rise by about 500 mcft. The department is confident that there may not be much seepage loss now as canal lining works have been carried out in some vulnerable portions. Much of the quantity realised at the entry point may flow into the reservoir. The Andhra Pradesh authorities have promised to continue the supply for the next spell beginning from July. This would help sustain the present supply of 845.41 million litres of water a day to the city, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishna-water-reaches-state-border/article34836026.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Agama training a must for women to become priests’||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister P.K. Sekarbabu’s recent remarks on the appointment of women as ‘archaka’ (priest) has triggered a debate on whether it can be implemented in temples that follow the Agamas. The Minister said women who get trained at proper schools in accordance with the Agamas will have to pass a test before being considered for appointment. But the government will proceed only after a thorough discussion with all stakeholders. “We are not going to forcefully make anyone priests,” he has said. (Agamas are treatises pertaining to temple construction, installation of idols and conduct of worship of the principal and other deities). The Minister told The Hindu on Tuesday that such appointments would be made only in small temples and not in big temples such as the Parthasarathyswamy temple, Triplicane, and the Vadivudai Amman temple, Thiruvottiyur. When pressed further, he said, “Let women come forward first.” Notwithstanding the government’s inclination, experts in law and temple affairs say the Supreme Court settled the issue of appointment of priests through its 2015 judgment inAdi Saiva Sivachariyargal Nala Sangam vs the Government of Tamil Nadu. The court held that the appointment of priests “will have to be made in accordance with the Agamas, subject to their due identification as well as their conformity with the constitutional mandates and principles as discussed above [in the judgment]”. A former Commissioner of the HR&CE Department said that of the 42,000-odd temples under the Department’s control, only 5,000 follow the Agamas. The rest are non-Agama temples, where women priests can be appointed. As regards the temples that are adhering to the Agamas, there are no women priests. Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam urged the government not to interfere with the Agamas. T. Satyamurthy, former superintending archaeologist of the Archaeological Survey of India and founder-president of the Rural Education and Conservation of Heritage Foundation, said there was no explicit restriction in the Agamas on employing women priests, but the functions and roles of priests, as prescribed by the Agamas, make it almost impossible for women to be priests. An example is the prescription on the nature of clothes to be worn while performing rites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agama-training-a-must-for-women-to-become-priests/article34836185.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special vaccination camps at Koyambedu market||The Koyambedu Market Management Committee, along with traders’ associations, started a vaccination drive in the wholesale market complex from the early hours of Wednesday. This is to help vaccinate traders, labourers and lorry drivers visiting the market, including from other States, during business hours of the market. Officials of the Koyambedu MMC said 735 people were vaccinated at the camps held at four places, including the MMC office and the vegetable market. Residents from the neighbourhood also visited the market for vaccination. The camps would be held between 2 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Thursday too with the support of the Greater Chennai Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-vaccination-camps-at-koyambedu-market/article34836031.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman with rare tumour undergoes liver transplant||A 25-year-old woman with a rare liver tumour underwent transplantation in a private hospital and was discharged a week later. The woman suffered from hepatic epitheloid hemangio endothelioma (HEHE), a tumour that occurs in the soft tissues or blood vessels in the lung, liver or bone. Such tumours require to be diagnosed early and treated, said K. Elankumaran, head of liver diseases transplantation and hepatobiliary surgery, Kauvery Hospital. The patient, from Coimbatore, presented with symptoms of upper abdominal pain and significant loss of weight. “Upon abdominal scan and investigations, we found the presence of an unusual kind of liver cancer (HEHE). We recommended liver transplantation,” the surgeon said. The patient’s uncle was the donor. “After assessing both the patient and donor, we went ahead with the transplantation procedure. We transplanted the right lobe of the liver from the donor. She had a quick and uncomplicated recovery and was discharged in a week,” he added. Hospital co-founder and executive director Aravindan Selvaraj said: “Cancers occur over a very wide spectrum — which refers to a range of manifestations and severities of illness associated with the disease. A team which is on a par with global standards in diagnosis, treatment and research helps in treating such rare type of cancers."||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-with-rare-tumour-undergoes-liver-transplant/article34836032.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2 transgender persons employed in IMH||A job was the answer for all difficulties for Vaishnavi. Being employed meant setting an example for others in her community as well as creating an equal work space along with men and women for Manisha. For the two transgender persons, a visit to the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) for certification took them closer to their dreams. Manisha and Vaishnavi are both set to join the IMH in security and housekeeping jobs. They were among a group of 43 transgender persons from the Chepauk-Triplicane area, who had gone to the IMH for certification to obtain the identity card for transgenders being issued by the Transgender Welfare Board. This was the first time that the institute was employing transgender persons on its campus. “They spoke to us about the need for employment when we interacted with them during their visit. We have already outsourced contract staff for security and housekeeping on campus. So, we offered jobs to two of them,” P. Poorna Chandrika, Director of IMH, said. “We are so happy that two members of our community have landed jobs with employee benefits. We sought the help of MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin, who immediately made arrangements through the Social Welfare Department,” said Anushri, founder-director of Self Confident Transgenders Social Welfare Trust. For Ms. Manisha, this is more than just a job. “On seeing me, more from my community will join work. It also marks an equal workspace for transgender persons in a place where men and women have been working till now,” she said. Ms. Vaishnavi said it was very difficult for transgender persons to get jobs. “The lockdown and lack of income caused great hardship. I now look forward to working at IMH,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-transgender-persons-employed-in-imh/article34836175.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Several officials transferred in State||The State government on Wednesday appointed Chandrakant B. Kamble as Commissioner of Land Reforms. Vibhu Nayar has been given the additional charge of the post of Secretary of the Special Initiatives Department. A.K. Kamal Kishore has been appointed Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Fibre Net Corporation. P. Akash is the new Executive Director of the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board. K.M. Sarayu has been named Executive Director of the Tamil Nadu GUIDANCE Bureau. Mangat Ram Sharma will hold additional charge of Secretary of the Social Reforms Department. R. Kannan has been posted as Additional Commissioner of the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments while Mageswari Ravikumar is the Joint Secretary in the Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department. R. Gopala Sundaraj, whose earlier transfer order has been modified, has been appointed Collector of Tenkasi and J.U. Chandrakala will be Ramanathapuram Collector. Shankar Lal Kumawat has been posted as the Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes, Large Tax Payers Unit. S.P. Amrith has been posted as the Joint Commissioner of Municipal Administration. Kalaiselvi Mohan will be the Additional Director of Survey and Settlement. I.S. Mercy Ramya has been posted as Joint Commissioner of Commercial Taxes in Coimbatore and Nishant Krishna transferred as Sub-Collector in Hosur. R. Seethalakshmi will be the Joint Commissioner of Revenue Administration, Disaster Management and Mitigation and S. Valarmathi the Director of Social Defence. M. Lakshmi has been posted as Joint Secretary in the Labour Welfare and Skill Development Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/several-ias-officials-transferred/article34835895.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arputhammal meets CM||Arputhammal, mother of A.G. Perarivalan, one of the seven convicts in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, met Chief Minister M.K. Stalin at the Secretariat here on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters, she said the meeting was to thank the Chief Minister for having granted parole to her son. She said she had requested Mr. Stalin for continuing to provide the medical treatment needed for her son in prison. When asked what Mr. Stalin’s response was, she said, “The Chief Minister said he shared my sentiments. He said he would do whatever was possible.” Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin and senior officials were present during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/arputhammal-meets-cm/article34836192.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands separate bypolls to three RS seats||DMK Parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu on Wednesday urged the Election Commission of India to conduct separate byelections to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Tamil Nadu without further delay. The vacancies have been caused by the death of AIADMK member A. Mohammedjan and the election of two other members R. Vaithilingam and K.P. Munusamy to the State Assembly in the 2021 election. “The delay impedes Tamil Nadu from being adequately represented in the Rajya Sabha, and goes against the spirit of democracy and goals enshrined in the Constitution,” Mr. Baalu said in his letter sent to the Election Commission of India. The DMK leader added that as the three vacancies arose on three different dates, with the seats having different tenures left, the seats should therefore be regarded as three separate vacancies.  The vacancies have been caused by the death of an AIADMK member and the election of two other members to the State Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-demands-separate-bypolls-to-three-rs-seats/article34836194.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 infrastructure will not be dismantled||Tamil Nadu has no plans to dismantle its infrastructure created for COVID-19 management during the second wave. The rapid surge in COVID-19 cases in the second wave left several hospitals struggling with a shortage of beds. What made the situation more challenging was the sharp rise in the number of patients requiring oxygen. However, the Health Department managed to ramp up infrastructure quickly. It now plans to maintain the created infrastructure, keeping in mind past experience. Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian earlier said the State government had created nearly 70,000 oxygen beds, and would keep them intact even after the second wave comes to an end. “Considering the challenges of COVID-19, and the fact that it mutates frequently, it is only prudent to ensure that the created infrastructure is maintained, based on past experience. We should also remember that vaccination of optimum levels of people is bound to take some time, depending on the pace of supply. We will focus on creating permanent infrastructure rather than investing in temporary ones,” Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said. In places where dismantlable temporary infrastructure was created, the facility will continue for at least six more months, he said, adding: “We will take a call on infrastructure put in place in overlapping facilities such as college premises,” he said. R. Jayanthi, Dean of the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, said infrastructure would be retained as a measure of abundant precaution and preparedness. “Given the predictions and suggestions regarding a third wave, it is wise not to dismantle the existing system,” she said. “Along with the Greater Chennai Corporation, we had set up an ambulance triage centre with 100 beds, in a tent-like structure, on the grounds of the Bharathi Women’s College. This facility will be intact,” said P. Balaji, Dean of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. The hospital has created 100 exclusive beds with oxygen support and 25 ICU ones in its paediatric ward, M.A. Aravind, professor of paediatrics of the hospital, added. E. Theranirajan, Dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, said it was important to keep the additional infrastructure intact. “We are in a lull. We also need to know the seroprevalence,” he said. COVID-19 infrastructure put in place in the primary health centre-level will also remain, T.S. Selvavinayagam, Director of Public Health, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-infrastructure-will-not-be-dismantled/article34836199.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to study NEET just delaying tactics: OPS||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Wednesday criticised the State government’s decision to form a panel on the impact of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) on medical admissions. Terming the action as “delaying tactics,” Mr. Panneerselvam quoted statements made by the DMK in the Assembly at the time of adoption of the NEET exemption bills and at that time, the DMK had stated that the repeal of entrance tests had benefited students belonging to rural areas. He said the students now wondered whether Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had developed doubt on his earlier stand against the NEET. Mr. Stalin should get a Bill adopted in the coming session of the Assembly on the NEET and send it to the President for assent, Mr. Panneerselvam demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-to-study-neet-just-delaying-tactics-ops/article34836174.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Tangedco can’t take coercive action on power producers’||Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) has ruled that Tangedco can only be entrusted with the task of collecting and checking data for verification of captive generation plant status and cannot take coercive action against such players. Such action needs to be done through appropriate proceedings initiated before the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC). In January 2020, TNERC had issued an order, which laid down the procedure to be followed for verification of the status of captive generating plant, as per directions of the Madras High Court. The order was challenged by Tamil Nadu Power Producers’ Association before Aptel. The Centre and the State governments promoted the captive power model to ensure more competition. Under the model, a group of consumers come together and set up plants to meet power requirements, without depending on the State utility or grid. They can sell the surplus power to the State grid and are excluded from levy of cross-subsidy charges. As per norms, the owners of captive power plants need to consume 51% of the power and the remaining can be sold to other industrial users, who are required to own 26% in the captive power plant. Non-compliance with the procedures would result in loss of captive power status and they would have to pay the requisite charges. TNERC’s order gave powers to Tangedco to take coercive action against the captive power generators and users for non-compliance. Aptel noted that any action taken by a quasi-judicial body, which includes delegation of power by the Commission to any authority, should not wither away the underlying foundation of transparency, unbiasedness and fair play.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-cant-take-coercive-action-on-power-producers/article34836171.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shiva Shankar Baba arrested||Self-styled godman Shiva Shankar Baba, 72, was arrested by the Crime Branch-CID police in New Delhi on Wednesday. The arrest followed complaints of sexual abuse made against him by a few alumni of a residential school he founded on the city’s outskirts. The Mamallapuram all-women police station last week registered three cases against him under the IPC, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights inspected the school immediately after the complaints were made. The cases were transferred to the CB-CID by the Director General of Police on June 13. After the CB-CID took over the cases, a team, led by Deputy Superintendent of Police Gunavarman, conducted a probe and launched a search for Shiva Shankar Baba, who was said to be on a spiritual tour of north India. The Baba, who was reportedly admitted to a private hospital in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, disappeared after the CB-CID team reached there to secure him. Sources said the police traced his whereabouts after calls were made to him. He was arrested at Chittaranjan Park, New Delhi, and produced before a court that granted a transit warrant for him to be taken to Chennai. Interrogation would continue after he is brought to the city, the police said. The Child Welfare Committee, Kancheepuram/Chengalpattu, has asked the government to cancel the recognition granted to the school.  He was arrested at Chittaranjan Park and produced before a court that granted a transit warrant for him to be taken to Chennai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cb-cid-team-arrests-shiva-shankar-baba-in-new-delhi/article34836035.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admission guidelines for Class XI||The School Education Department has issued guidelines to schools on how to take Class IX marks into consideration for preparing a marks list to help Class X students from State board schools get admitted to Class XI, polytechnics or industrial training institutes (ITIs). Since the Class X board exams were cancelled, a marks list will be prepared based on the performance of students in the Class IX quarterly and half-yearly exams, which will help students seeking admission in higher education institutions. If a student passed a subject in both the quarterly and half-yearly exams, the maximum marks scored in the two exams can be chosen. If a student failed in one of the exam rounds, the half-yearly or quarterly paper in which he or she passed can be chosen. If the student failed in a subject or was absent in both the half-yearly and quarterly examinations, a minimum of 35 marks can be awarded. In government schools, the marks for these exams are in the EMIS portal, and teachers have started coming to schools on a rotation basis to help with this. The distribution of textbooks is expected to begin shortly.   The Directorate of Government Examinations is expected to give all students of Class X pass certificates, and more details regarding the same will be announced soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/admission-guidelines-for-class-xi/article34836184.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IPS officer posted as OSD to IT Dept.||The Tamil Nadu government has chosen a senior IPS officer as the Officer on Special Duty to expedite the implementation of e-governance at the Secretariat, police sources said on Wednesday. Additional Director-General of Police G. Venkataraman, who is heading the Cyber Crime Wing of the Tamil Nadu police, was given the additional charge as the Officer on Special Duty, Information Technology Department, a newly created post in the rank of ADGP. Mr. Venkataraman, an IPS officer of the 1994 batch, played a key role in the implementation of e-governance in the police headquarters. Then Inspector-General of Police, Administration, he formed a team of police officers who had expertise in information technology applications and brought about paperless file movement in the office of the Director-General of Police. Barring court affidavits or tender finalisation orders wherein the physical signatures of officers is imperative, all other files are paperless in the police headquarters. Mr. Venkataraman and his team extended the e-governance platform to all the city and district police headquarters where paperless administration is in various stages of implementation. Hundreds of ministerial staff dealing with the day-to-day administrative file movement in the police department were trained in the physical to virtual file transformation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ips-officer-posted-as-osd-to-it-dept/article34836180.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ICF staff to help families of deceased staff||At least 10,000 employees of the Integral Coach Factory here will contribute Rs. 200 each from their salary to extend financial assistance to the family of two employees who died in an accident on the factory premises on May 17, 2021. The two employees — S. Nagarajan, senior section engineer, and A. Elakkumanan, constable, Railway Protection Force — died when a heavy metal gate fell on them while it was being moved in the furnishing area last month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icf-staff-to-help-families-of-deceased-staff/article34836029.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered in Perumbakkam||A 26-year-old man was brutally murdered by a six-member gang, which hurled a country bomb at him and later hacked him to death in Perumbakkam on Tuesday night. The victim was identified as P. Sarath, a contract employee doing menial jobs in a private company in Chengalpattu district. On Tuesday night, while Sarath was standing outside his house and talking over the phone, a six-member gang, who came on three motorbikes, approached him. On seeing the gang, Sarath took to his heels, the police said. The gang chased him and threw a country bomb which exploded. Sarath fell with severe injuries on his neck and head. The gang hacked him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murdered-in-perumbakkam/article34836033.ece
17 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AEPC seeks State policy for exports||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has appealed to the State government to formulate a policy exclusively to promote exports. A. Sakthivel, chairman of the Council, met the Industry Minister Thangam Thennarasu and sought an export policy for the State. Mr. Sakthivel also urged the government to establish parks in the southern districts of the State for different segments of textiles and clothing, such as man-made fibre apparel manufacturing, sewing, heavy textile machinery, textile accessories, etc. He said these parks can come up under the Central Government’s scheme of Mega Investment Textiles Park (MITRA). Further, the existing parks and upcoming park projects should have housing and hostel facility for men and women workers, he added. The Minister had assured that he would consider the suggestions positively and the government would extend its support for the growth of industries and exports in the State, said a press release from the Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aepc-seeks-state-policy-for-exports/article34835896.ece
17 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation Commissioner inspects development works||Corporation Commissioner Raja Gopal Sunkara on Wednesday visited Ukkadam Periyakulam, Selva Chinthamani and Valankulam tanks, where the civic body had taken up development and rejuvenation works under the Smart Cities Mission, said a release from the civic body. He went around the tanks, saw the bicycling and walking tracks, open air auditorium, play area, place for eateries, boat jetty, open air gyms, watch tower and other facilities that the civic body had created. He then went to the Kembatty Colony Higher Seconary School to interact with frontline workers who were going door-to-door for fever survey. He then asked the workers to get vaccinated at once, the press release from the corporation added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-commissioner-inspects-development-works/article34836216.ece
17 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special drive to vaccinate corpn. school teachers launched||Around 150 Coimbatore Corporation school teachers took their first dose of vaccine on Wednesday in a special drive the civic body had organised. According to sources, the health wing of the Corporation in association with the education wing had organised the drive for the teachers who did not come under the frontline worker category during the recently concluded Assembly election and had not taken the first shot of vaccine, thus far. The education wing had identified around 500 such teachers and had asked them to take their first vaccine. The Corporation had around 1,500 teachers on its rolls. At the end of the vaccination drive on Wednesday afternoon, only around 150 teachers had taken the first dose. Many left after learning that the vaccine offered was one of the two varieties that had been in short supply thus far. They feared that if they took that vaccine they would have to run around for the second dose. They had asked for the vaccine that was widely available, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-drive-to-vaccinate-corpn-school-teachers-launched/article34836215.ece
17 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Couple held with ganja||The Peelamedu police on Tuesday arrested a couple on charges of possessing 2.25 kg ganja. Police found M. Suryaprakash (21) from Nehru Nagar and his partner B. Vinothini (21)from Virudhunagar district in suspicious circumstances on Veeriyampalayam road on Tuesday. The bag they carried had 2.25 kg ganja. They were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/couple-held-with-ganja/article34835897.ece
17 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tension at PHC over vaccination||Tension prevailed at the Thirumalayampalayam Primary Health Centre (PHC) on Wednesday after some persons agitated against the new arrangement wherein people were asked to produce the token issued from the panchayat office for COVID-19 vaccination. However, the hospital administration claimed that the arrangement was made after people from various places started thronging the facility from early hours and some of them were found selling tokens. A notice pasted at the PHC said that tokens issued by four panchayats covered by the facility namely Thirumalayampalayam, Ettimadai town panchayats, Mavuthampathi and Pichanur village panchayats were needed for vaccination. A senior doctor said that the arrangement was made to distribute vaccine doses allotted to the hospital equally for people from the four panchayats. R. Rameshkumar from Thirumalayampalayam said that the PHC was administering vaccine to people on a first-come first-basis after verifying Aadhaar card till Tuesday. “It was informed that the vaccine would be available from 9 a.m. on Wednesday. People started waiting in the queue from 4.30 a.m. But around 10 a.m., it was informed that the token from the panchayat was required. People who waited for long hours had to leave,” he said. Over 100 people thronged PHC after which the police were called to control the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tension-at-phc-over-vaccination/article34836207.ece
17 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online meeting||Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International announced that it would conduct its weekly online meeting on communication and leadership skills. The meeting would cover how to identify the audience, creating a basic outline of a speech and organising a presentation. The meeting would be held on Zoom platform on Friday at 6.30 p.m. with the Zoom ID 870 8197 2333. Those interested shall contact 95004 02317 or 99946 06591 via WhatsApp for the password.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-meeting/article34836200.ece
17 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK lodges complaint against AIADMK functionary||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has lodged a complaint with the Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Deepak M. Damor against an All India Anna Dravida Munnetrat Kazhagam (AIADMK) functionary for allegedly defaming its leaders and Chief Minister M.K. Stalin. A DMK communique said its party in-charge for Kuniamuthur Logu, lawyer K.M. Dhandapani and a few others lodged the complaint seeking action against AIADMK’s treasurer for Kuniamuthur Suresh Babu. Obscene messages The AIADMK functionary had posted vulgar and undesirable messages on a social media platform, the DMK alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-lodges-complaint-against-aiadmk-functionary/article34836217.ece
17 June 2021||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Hospitals warned against unsafe disposal of medical waste||Following complaints of open disposal of medical waste in violation of the medical waste disposal and management protocols of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the district administration has warned hospitals against disposal of medical waste without segregation and scientific management. The Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, had outlined medical waste disposal and management protocols through the Bio-medical Waste Mangement Rules, 2016. According to the administration, the enforcement of the Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016 is vested with the State Pollution Control Board (PCB). The Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, mandates that hospitals collect, segregate and temporarily store medical waste and dispatch them for medical waste disposal. Further, hospitals are forbidden from storage of such waste that are hazardous causing infections. The PCB has warned of action against erring hospitals for violations, despite repeated rejoinders to the hospitals. According to the administration, there were complaints of unscientific and hazardous ways of medical waste disposal by the hospitals here. Hence, hospitals, clinics, COVID isolation centre are directed to channel wastes to the medical waste disposal yards certified by the PCB, after proper segregation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hospitals-warned-against-unsafe-disposal-of-medical-waste/article34836201.ece
17 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination resumes in rural areas in Erode||Vaccination that was halted for a day resumed in rural areas on Wednesday while vaccination at the 10 Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHCs) in corporation limits will resume only on Thursday. On Tuesday, 15,600 doses of Covishield and 4,000 doses of Covaxin arrived in the district and were sent to 66 Primary Health Centres and vaccination centres. People were given token from 7 a.m. About 1,200 doses were sent to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital (GEMCH) at Perundurai where vaccination was suspended for over a week and instead vaccination was done at the Perundurai Government Hospital. Since COVID-19 patients were treated at GEMCH, people wanted vaccination on the hospital premises to be shifted to Perundurai GH as earlier. Vaccination did not resume at the 10 UPHCs as on Wednesday. Corporation officials said that vaccination will resume at the centres on Thursday. Meanwhile, 19,600 doses of vaccine arrived in the district on Wednesday and were sent to the vaccination centres. In Salem, vaccination did not resume on Wednesday as Collector S. Karmegam announced resumption of the vaccination programme on Thursday. He said that in corporation limits, vaccination centres were increased from the present 16 to 30 while in rural areas it will be done in 91 PHCs from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. everyday. He requested people to approach the PHC in their area only for vaccination. A total of 28,030 doses of Covaxin will be administered for the public while 3,470 doses of Covishield will be administered for the differently-abled persons in the district on Thursday, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-resumes-in-rural-areas-in-erode/article34836211.ece
17 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Five held for child marriage in Erode||Five persons were arrested in connection with a child marriage held recently at Anthiyur here. The Childline ‘1098’ received a complaint that a child marriage had taken place at Tavittupalayam village a few days ago. Officials from the Childline, District Child Protection Unit and the Anthiyur police visited the girl’s house and held inquiries. It was revealed that the 16-year-old girl was married to Prabakaran (32) and the marriage was solemnised in the presence of elders. The police picked up the groom and his parents -- Tamilarasan and Mariyammal -- and the girl’s parents -- Sakthivel and Padma. A case was registered under the provisions of Child Marriage Act, 2006 and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and all the five were arrested. Childline operates a toll-free helpline for children in distress – 1098.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-held-for-child-marriage-in-erode/article34835898.ece
17 June 2021||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Karur Collector visits GH in PPE kit||Collector T. Prabhu Shankar on Wednesday sprang a surprise by inspecting the COVID-19 ward at Government Medical College Hospital here attired in Personal Protective Equipment. Dr. Shankar, a postgraduate in medicine, who assumed office in the morning, visited the hospital in the evening. He sought a PPE kit to enter the special wards, where COVID-19 infected patients were being treated. He visited the patients and enquired about the treatment extended to them. He held detailed discussion with Muthuselvan, Dean, and senior officials of KGMGH on the system being followed to treat the patients. He also checked the food offered to the patients. The Collector visited the oxygen storage plant with a capacity of 10,000 litres. He checked with KGMCH authorities about the infrastructure available to treat the patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/karur-collector-visits-gh-in-ppe-kit/article34836340.ece
17 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Call to revive Uzhavar Sandhai in Kaveripattinam||The Uzhavar Sandhai (farmers’ market) in Kaveripattinam has remained inoperative for over a decade now and with the regime change in the State, fresh demands have risen calling for its revival. Uzhavar Sandhais or the farmers markets that started off as a pet project of the DMK government during its previous term fell part in some pockets for lack of attention. The Uzhavar Sandhai in Kaveripattinam was built in 2009 with 24 stalls and toilet facilities. The two years it flourished between 2009 and 2010, farmers benefited by bringing in their produce. But after the change in government, the market slowly fell apart for a slew of reasons, says an official. The MGR tomato market on the Palacodde highway and functioning barely 200 metres away from the Uzhavar Sandhai was slowly turned into a multi-vegetable market. In addition, hawkers set up stalls on either side of the Palacodde highway rendering the commute into the town to the farmers market superfluous. Somewhere along the line, new buildings owned by Kaveripattinam Municipality to house various offices including the office for Hogenakkal drinking water scheme came up blocking the view to the farmers market. Soon, farmers stopped bringing their produce, forcing the officials to shut it down. For a brief time in 2016, attempts were made to revive the Uzhavar Sandhai, says the official. However, it also became a turf struggle between the local AIADMK and DMK groups. “Two markets cannot function side by side. Way out is to convert the MGR market that is closer to the Palacode highway into Uzhavar Sandhai or close it down to revive the Uzhavar Sandhai Kaveripattinam,” the official says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-revive-uzhavar-sandhai-in-kaveripattinam/article34835894.ece
17 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response to erection of median||Erection of median on Kamarajar Salai between Keezhavasal junction and Teppakulam has evoked mixed reaction among city residents. Following frequent road accidents, including fatal accidents on Kamarajar Salai, National Highways officials put up concrete blocks to lay median on the 3 km stretch of busy road recently. Besides, the road was widened edge-to-edge by three to five metres. However, people have started to complain as only seven openings have been provided for the vehicles to make right turn on the highly commercialized stretch of the road. “This stretch of road had many black spots due to road accidents and it required median to avoid head on collisions,” said a highways official. People are used to haphazard parking of small and big vehicles on the carriage way blocking free flow of traffic. “When vehicles overtake parked vehicles they encroach into the opposite lane and result in accidents,” a constable said. After the construction of the median, unregulated parking will not be possible so that some people are complaining, another official said. The openings for vehicles to take turns have been provided at Arasamaram Pillayarkoil Bus stop, Gandhi Pottal, Munichalai junction, Sourashtra School, Kuruvikaran Salai junction, Nirmala School, South Bank Road junction, Anupanadi Road junction and Thiagarajar College. “We have provided openings as per the National Highways rules and recommendation of the City police,” the official said. However, people living between Munichalai Junction and Sourashtra School feel that they were now forced to take circuitous route for longer distance to cross the road for their daily needs. A resident of Balarkrishna Iyer Lane, S.A. Subashini, 40, said that she found it difficult to go around the median for bank, shops and bus stop on the other side of the road. “It is very difficult to walk for around 200 metres with bags to and from the bus stop to home,” she said. She sought a pedestrian opening in between the two openings for vehicles. P. Murugan, 55, said that young and old men were jumping over the median. “People need to cross the road even for medical shops,” he said. When buses come back on the roads and schools and colleges re-open, the narrow road will face congestion whenever they stop on the road, he added. A traffic police officer said that parking of vehicles will be regulated, especially on both sides of the openings to enable vehicles to take turn on the narrow roads. Another resident, Kanagaraj, said that the officials should consider providing openings for at least two-wheelers so that they could easily cross the road as there were many lanes and by-lanes along Kamarajar Salai. Based on traffic police recommendations, if any, changes can be considered, the Highways official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mixed-response-to-erection-of-median/article34835964.ece
17 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Compensation ordered to kin of doctor who died of COVID-19||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Centre and the State to consider and provide compensation under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19 to the family of a doctor from Tiruchi, who lost his life due to COVID-19 while treating patients. The court was hearing the petition filed by B. Varalakshmi, the wife of Dr. Baskar. He was into private practice after retiring from government service in 2016. The doctor died on August 3, 2020. When the petitioner approached the authorities for compensation, it was not processed as RT-PCR test result could not be produced. The petitioner was not in possession of the document as her husband was directly subjected to CT-Chest COVID screening test. Since RT-PCR test result was one of the documents insisted upon by the authorities, the petitioner moved the High Court. She had submitted all other documents to the authorities. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh observed that the entire world was facing an unprecedented situation due to the attack of COVID-19. It was the doctors and the frontline workers who, in spite of knowing the risk involved through exposure to the virus, were selflessly and tirelessly working to save the lives of millions of people. If not for the selfless services rendered by doctors, a major population of the country would have been wiped out. The least that should be done for a doctor, who lost his life due to COVID-19, was to acknowledge the selfless service and provide compensation to his family, the judge said. It was clear from the CT-Chest test that the husband of the petitioner was afflicted with COVID-19. When such a clinching document was available, there was no requirement for insisting on RT- PCR Test result. In cases of this nature, the authorities must not stick to technicalities and the claim must be considered with more humanness with the available documents which clearly substantiated the fact that the husband of the petitioner was suffering from COVID-19, the judge said. The scheme provides insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-ordered-to-kin-of-doctor-who-died-of-covid-19/article34835962.ece
17 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Further fall in cases||Madurai recorded 178 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. Now, the district’s case tally stands at 70,685. With five new fatalities, the district’s death toll rose to 1,048. A total of 624 persons were discharged from hospitals and healthcare facilities.  Tiruchi The central districts on Wednesday reported 1,395 fresh cases, the first time such a sharp dip has been reported in the region since April. The number of deaths reported, too, was lower than the previous days. Thirty-seven patients succumbed to the viral infection on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/further-fall-in-cases/article34835960.ece
17 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic workers stage demonstration||The members of National Domestic Workers’ Union staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Wednesday on the occasion of the International Domestic Workers Day, urging the government to pay Rs. 10,000 to domestic workers from April to October. Led by State secretary of the Union P. Clara, the protesters said many domestic workers were out of job during the COVID-19 pandemic and were struggling to make both ends meet. “The government must provide Rs. 10,000 to domestic workers from April to October to help them tide over the crisis,” Ms. Clara said. The protesters said the minimum wage announced by the government for domestic workers was very low. “It must be increased based on the current inflation rates,” they demanded.  Rather than asking homeless domestic workers to move away from their places of stay, the government could issue pattas for them in the same areas or nearby areas, Ms. Clara added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/domestic-workers-stage-demonstration/article34835961.ece
17 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rail traffic suspended on Pamban bridge||Officials have suspended rail traffic on Pamban bridge following an alarm raised by the continuous health monitoring system installed in the bridge in the early hours of Wednesday. “In view of stress in a portion of the bridge, we suspended rail movement as a precautionary measure,” a railway official said. Stating that a team from IIT-Madras, which installed the sensor on the bridge, would inspect and study it, the railway official said only after the stability of the bridge was ensured train services would resume. Southern Railway has made the following changes: Train No. 06617 Rameswaram– Coimbatore Weekly Special train, scheduled to leave Rameswaram at 7.25 p.m. on Wednesday, was fully cancelled. Train No. 05119 Rameswaram– Manduadih Weekly Special train, scheduled to leave Rameswaram at 11.55 p.m. on Wednesday, is rescheduled to leave at 11.55 p.m. on Thursday. Train No. 02206 Rameswaram– Chennai Egmore Special train, scheduled to leave Rameswaram at 8.25 p.m. on Wednesday, was partially cancelled between Rameswaram and Mandapam. It was rescheduled to start from Mandapam at 10 p.m. on Wednesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rail-traffic-suspended-on-pamban-bridge/article34835974.ece
17 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes proceedings against Kamal||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has quashed the proceedings on the file of the judicial magistrate Valliyoor against actor-politician Kamal Haasan initiated in 2017 following his remarks about women and the Mahabharata . A private complaint was filed with the judicial magistrate by Aadhinatha Sundaram of Pazhavoor in Tirunelveli district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-quashes-proceedings-against-kamal/article34836173.ece
17 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Female infant found dead||A just born baby girl was found dead inside a basket floating in Periyar Main Canal in Alanganallur near here on Wednesday. The dead infant was found by the local people. Alanganallur police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/female-infant-found-dead/article34836317.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||Asian Development Bank, Centre sign loan pact for transport connectivity in Tamil Nadu||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has approved a $484-million loan to improve transport connectivity and facilitate industrial development in the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor. The Asian Development Bank signed a loan agreement with the Union government on Wednesday to bolster Tamil Nadu’s industrial connectivity by upgrading 590 kilometres of the State highways in the industrial corridor’s influence areas covering 23 of the 32 districts between Chennai and Kanniyakumari. Seven-year contracts are envisaged for the long-term maintenance of these projects. The industrial corridor is part of the East Coast Economic Corridor from West Bengal to Tamil Nadu, being developed with the ADB as the lead partner as the region connects India to the production networks of South, Southeast and East Asia. “Climate change adaptation measures will be incorporated into highway upgrades, including improved drainage, raised road embankments in critical sections, and resizing of bridges and culverts,” said a statement on the project. The ADB’s country director in India, Takeo Konishi, said the project was part of the priority infrastructure projects identified for corridor development under the comprehensive development plan for the industrial corridor. “The overall objective is to spur industrial transformation through provisioning of essential transport, energy and urban infrastructure for holistic development of industrial growth centres,” he said, after signing the agreement with Rajat Kumar Mishra, Additional Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs. “The project is key to providing seamless road connectivity across industrial clusters, transport gateways and consumption centres, and help reduce logistics and production costs for the Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor’s targeted industries to boost their competitiveness,” Mr. Mishra said. “Enhanced connectivity of industrial hubs with hinterland and ports will particularly help increase the participation of Indian manufacturing in global production networks and global value chains, thus creating jobs along the corridor,” the statement on the project added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/adb-centre-sign-loan-pact-for-transport-connectivity-in-tn/article34836178.ece
17 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||430 new cases in Puducherry||The Union Territory logged 430 new cases at a positivity rate of 4.68% while the toll crossed 1,700 with six more deaths reported on Wednesday. Puducherry recorded five of the deaths and Yanam one taking the cumulative toll to 1,702. The patients, including one woman, were in the 40-80 age range, and one of them had no co-morbid condition. The region-wise cumulative toll is Puducherry 1,361, Karaikal 208, Yanam 101 and Mahe 32. With 597 patients recovering on Wednesday, the active cases stood at 4,495. The case fatality rate was 1.5% and recovery rate 94.55%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/430-new-cases-in-puducherry/article34836176.ece
17 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Selvam is Puducherry Speaker||Embalam R. Selvam was on Wednesday elected unopposed as Speaker of the 15th Legislative Assembly here. The first-time MLA, representing Manaveli, was elected at a special session of the Assembly. He formally assumed office after he was declared elected as Speaker by protem Speaker K. Lakshminarayanan. Chief Minister N. Rangasamy and Leader of the Opposition R. Siva accompanied Mr. Selvam to the Speaker’s chair. Tamil Nadu BJP chief L. Murugan was in the visitors’ gallery. The BJP, with nine MLAs, got the Speaker’s post after days of parleys with major ally AINRC, having 10 seats in the National Democratic Alliance. After the NDA won the election, AINRC founder-president N. Rangasamy took over as the Chief Minister on May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/selvam-is-puducherry-speaker/article34836181.ece
17 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Demo held||Farmers affiliated to Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam on Wednesday staged a demonstration at Karambakudi opposing hydrocarbon exploration in Pudukottai district. They raised slogans against the exploration and demanded that the Centre withdraw the move immediately. They were led by district secretary M.K. Arockiasamy. The protest came in the wake of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry’s announcement inviting companies to explore hydrocarbons at various sites, including Karukakurichi-Vadatheru, across the country through international competitive bidding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/demo-held/article34836348.ece
17 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Grand Anicut for irrigation in delta||Water for irrigation in Cauvery delta region was released from Grand Anicut here on Wednesday. Water released from Mettur Dam on June 12 reached here on Tuesday evening. Water would be released in turns to ensure uniform distribution through the Cauvery and Vennar and Grand Anicut Canal during the current season. An official press release said efforts would be initiated for equitable distribution of water for irrigation through the three waterways depending on storage at Mettur, inflow, anticipated rain during southwest monsoon and realisation of Tamil Nadu’s legitimate share of Cauvery water. Further, depending on the situation and availability of storage at Mettur, water for irrigation would be released in turns from the Grand Anicut. To begin with 500 cusecs of water was being released into the three waterways and another 500 cusecs in the Coleroon from Grand Anicut near Thogur on Thanjavur-Tiruchi district border from June 16. A total of 2.94 lakh acres in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladuthurai districts underkuruvaicultivation would benefit, the release added. State Ministers K.N. Nehru, M.R.K. Panneerselvam, S. Reghupathy, Ma. Subramanian, S.S. Sivasankar, Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi and Siva V. Meyyanathan, Government Whip Covi. Chezhian, Thanjavur Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu and others participated in the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-grand-anicut-for-irrigation-in-delta/article34836351.ece
17 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Call to release adequate water in Cauvery, Vennar||Welcoming the timely release of water for irrigation from Grand Anicut on June 16 for kuruvai cultivation in delta districts, political parties have demanded further increase in quantum of water released in the Cauvery and the Vennar. In statements issued on Wednesday, R. Kamaraj, MLA, and N. K. Kannan, Thanjavur district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to CPI (M), said water for irrigation would not reach tail-end areas unless adequate quantum of water was released substantially in the two rivers. Around 500 cusecs was released into the rivers from Grand Anicut on Wednesday morning and it would take more than 10 days for the water to reach tail-end areas. It would be beneficial for the farming community if it reached within a week from the date of release from the check dam at Thogur, Mr. Kannan said. Hence, it would be apt to release around 10,000 cusecs of water in the rivers and 3,400 cusecs in Grand Anicut Canal. Also, the State government must ensure that Mettur dam received 31.24 tmc in July and 45.95 tmc in August as prescribed by the Supreme Court from Karnataka. Expressing similar view, Mr. Kamaraj pointed out that it would be of utmost importance to ensure that Mettur dam received the quantum of water in Cauvery from the neighbouring State as per the Supreme Court order. Hitherto, just one tmc of water out of the monthly quota of 9 tmc for June had been realised at Mettur and the Tamil Nadu government should exert pressure on Cauvery Water Management Authority and the Centre to realise the remaining quantum of water for June. Meanwhile, the quantum of water released into the Cauvery and Vennar from Grand Anicut was increased gradually to around 2,700 cusecs each by Wednesday evening, said sources.  It will be of utmost importance to ensure that Mettur dam receives its quota from Karnataka R. Kamaraj Member of Legislative Assembly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/call-to-release-adequate-water-in-cauvery-vennar/article34836342.ece
17 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands steps to control fuel price||The Communist Party of India, Thanjavur Town Committee, has called upon the Centre and State government to bring down fuel prices and materials used in construction sector. Resolutions to this effect was passed at the committee meeting held at the CPI office here on June 15. The office-bearers regretted the steep hike in prices of construction material during the COVID-19 pandemic. Expressing their concern over the cost of petrol, the committee members urged the Centre and State to intervene and initiate steps to bring down the prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-demands-steps-to-control-fuel-price/article34836334.ece
17 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||New Collector assumes office||K.V. Muralidharan assumed office as Collector of Theni district here on Wednesday. Prior to this post, he was posted as Director of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business. He has also served as the Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Cements Corporation Limited and Commissioner of Adi Dravidar Welfare Association. Later, he inspected the Disaster Management Control room functioning in the Collectorate. He chaired a meeting with officials from various departments to discuss the steps taken to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collector-assumes-office/article34835968.ece
17 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete works before deadline’||District Monitoring Officer and Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation G. Prakash, who reviewed and inspected the ongoing infrastructure development works and the anti-COVID-19 operations in the district on Tuesday and Wednesday, urged officials to complete the works with superior quality within the deadline. He camped here for reviewing the anti-COVID operations and inspecting the progress of all ongoing infrastructure development projects in the district, each worth Rs. 10 crore and above. He inspected the infrastructure development projects being implemented under the Smart City programme, floodwater mitigating structure (Rs. 83.87 crore) near Thoothukudi Bypass – Tiruchendur Road Traffic Island, floodwater channel (Rs. 69.66 crore) at Meelavittaan, Buckle Channel Development Project (Rs. 78.88 crore), Si. Va. Irrigation Tank restoration project (Rs. 11.17 crore), multilevel car parking facility (Rs. 7 crore) near Flower Market, old bus-stand construction (Rs. 53 crore) and a few more projects on Tuesday and Wednesday. “All the works should be completed before the deadline with superior quality,” he told the officials. Speaking to reporters, he said the district administration had devised two-pronged strategies for checking the further spread of COVID-19 during the second wave and put in place medical and social infrastructure to neutralize the possible third wave. Steps had been taken to further increase the number of oxygen-supported beds in taluk, government and medical college hospitals to receive any number of COVID-19 positive patients even as special measures were being taken to vaccinate as many people everyday. Besides hiring doctors and nurses on contract basis, oxygen concentrators should be used to the maximum possible extent in case of sudden rise in demand for oxygen. He said the flood carrier channel, being excavated on an outlay of Rs. 950 crore to drain the rainwater into the sea and thereby averting flooding of Thoothukudi, was about to be completed. Once this project was commissioned, the coastal town would be saved permanently from flooding during monsoons. Mr. Prakash informed that trial run of a combined drinking water scheme being executed by the TWAD Board for the benefit of 248 village panchayats in Kovilpatti, Kayathar, Ottapidaram and Vilaathikulam taluks was going on successfully and the project would be commissioned before June-end. The old bus-stand work, being carried out under the Smart City programme would be completed within a year. He also informed that desilting of 53 irrigation tanks in Tiruchendur and Thoothukudi areas, new schemes to avert traffic congestion within Tiruchendur and a few more development works were under consideration. “After conducting feasibility studies, proposals will be sent to the government for final approval and allocation of funds,” he said. He ordered the officials to complete at the earliest ongoing laying of roads in Kovilpatti town and the construction of maternity ward and the renovation of paediatric ward in Kovilpatti Government Hospital. He also asked the officials to expedite the construction of check-dams at Mukkaani, Punnaikaayal, Sernthamangalam, Alwarthirunagari and Sri Parangusanallur to store flood water going waste into the sea and the construction of gryone in the coastal village of Alanthalai near Tiruchendur. Collector K. Senthil Raj, City Health Officer Vidhya, and other senior officials accompanied him during the inspection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-works-before-deadline/article34835970.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,395 fresh cases, 37 deaths in delta||The central districts on Wednesday reported 1,395 fresh cases, the first time such a sharp dip has been reported in the region since April. The number of deaths, too, was lower than the previous days with 37 patients succumbing to the viral infection. Eight patients died in Thanjavur district, while Nagapattinam and Tiruchi recorded six deaths each. Ariyalur reported five and Pudukottai four. Three deaths each were reported in Perambalur and Tiruvarur districts, while two fatalities were reported in Karur. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 405 patients testing positive. The district reported a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last week. Tiruchi district came a close second with 318 patients testing positive on Wednesday, while Nagapattinam reported a slight dip with 206 fresh cases. Tiruvarur, meanwhile, reported a marked drop with 154 patients testing positive. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had 14 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had 29. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 141 and 114 beds. Karur reported 110 fresh cases and Ariyalur 83. Five ICU beds were available in Karur and eight in Ariyalur. Pudukottai recorded 74 patients reporting COVID-19 positive, while Perambalur reported 45. Pudukottai had five vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 32.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1395-fresh-cases-37-deaths-in-delta/article34836337.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ONGC exploration move flayed||The Anti-Methane Project Movement on Wednesday condemned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation’s move to secure clearance from Tamil Nadu State Environment Impact Assessment Authority for 10 exploratory drilling wells in Ariyalur district. The Movement urged the State government to convey its strong opposition to the Centre’s move by convening a Cabinet meeting to arrive at a policy decision to reject any such proposal. ONGC sought clearance from the State authority under Central legislation that deemed public hearings as unnecessary for hydrocarbon exploration. Such a move by ONGC within two days of Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s letter to the Centre opposing exploration activities along the entire Cauvery river bed, with particular reference to Vadatheru in Pudukottai district, was condemnable, said T. Jayaraman, chief coordinator of Anti-Methane Project Movement. The Directorate-General of Hydrocarbons must be asked to remove all Discovered Small Fields (DSF) of hydrocarbons in Tamil Nadu from its list. Further, the State government must bring Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Cuddalore, Karur, Ariyalur and Tiruchi districts under the ambit of the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020.. The Act recognised the entire Cauvery delta region — rice bowl of the State — as an ecologically fragile agricultural zone and hydrocarbon exploration would lead to hazards of climate change, rise in sea level and submergence of vast swathes of coastal land mass. The Act, in its present form, prohibited new projects or new activities in the specified areas — Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Cuddalore (Kattumannarkoil), Melbhuvanagiri, Keerapalayam, Paringipettai and Kumaratchi blocks) and Pudukottai (Aranthangi, Avudaiyarkoil, Manamelkudi, Tiruvarangulam and Karambakudi blocks). However, the prohibition would not affect activities or projects in operation in the areas for exploration, drilling and extraction of oil and natural gas including coal-bed methane, shale gas and other similar hydrocarbons. The notification stated that certain industrial projects and activities in the Cauvery delta region would adversely affect the environment including depletion of ground water, sanctuaries, wet lands/ bio-diversity/over-sensitive areas of the region vulnerable to climate change, apart from causing threat to sustainable agricultural developments, livelihood and security of farmers and their well-being. Urging the State government to make sure that the already identified wells were also closed, alongside preventing new projects, Mr. Jayaraman said the Movement would continue to play a pro-active role in preventing exploration activities in the Cauvery delta region as well as shallow waters of the sea that would destroy coral reefs and affect livelihood of fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ongc-exploration-move-flayed/article34836341.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||23,500 vaccine vials arrive in Tiruchi||After a consignment of 23,500 vaccine vials arrived in the district, they were distributed to primary healthcare centres (PHCs) and hospitals on Wednesday. A total of 19,000 Covishield doses and 4,500 Covaxin doses were delivered to the district. Of the 19,000 Covishield vaccine doses, the PHCs at Navalpattu, Inamkulathur, Sirugambur, Puduruthamanur, T. Pudhur, Veeramachanpatty and Puthanatham received 1,000 doses each. Kulumani Valanadu, Pullambadi, Vaiyyampatti, Tattayyangarpettai, Kattuputhur and Uppiliyapuram PHCs got 700 doses each. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital received 1,000 doses, while Srirangam and Lalgudi GHs got 200 each, Manachanallur and Thuraiyur GHs got 150, while Manapparai, Musiri and Tiruverumbur GHs were allotted 100 doses each. Meanwhile, Railways Hospital was given 500 doses, Tiruchi Central Prison 500 and Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd., Tiruchi, 250. A buffer of 1,850 vials might be used for special vaccination camps, senior officials said. “This stock will last us 2-3 days. We have informed the authorities in advance so that they can help us procure vaccines,” the official said. Meanwhile, Minister for Medical and Family Wefare Ma.Subramanian claimed that there was good response from the public to vaccine inoculation. Talking to reporters at Government District Headquarters Hospital in Kumbakonam on Wednesday, the Minister said efforts initiated by Chief Minister M.K. Stalin to create awareness of the advantages of getting vaccinated showed good results as the public queued up at special camps. Hence, the State government had approached the Centre to release sufficient quantity of vaccines to ensure that all 5.68 crore people eligible in the State received the shots.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23500-vaccine-vials-arrive-in-tiruchi/article34836335.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||All elephants at rescue centre test negative||All six captive elephants at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre in M.R. Palayam in the district have tested negative for COVID-19, forest officials said on Wednesday. The female elephants were subjected to COVID-19 test, which was carried out last Friday by a veterinary team of the Forest Department. Swab samples were collected from each pachyderm. The tests were conducted due to the death of a lion because of COVID-19 at Vandalur Zoological Park near Chennai and a few other lions testing positive for the viral infection recently. The veterinary team led by A. Sukumar, Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore, collected rectal swab samples from each of the six elephants:Malachi,Indhu,Sandhya,Jayanthi,GomathiandJameelaat the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre where the jumbos were housed. In addition to this, trunk wash samples were also collected from each animal. The swab samples and trunk wash fluids of the six elephants were immediately sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute situated at Izatnagar in Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh for COVID-19 diagnosis. Test report Forest officials said the Indian Veterinary Research Institute sent the COVID-19 examination report on Tuesday in which it was stated that all six elephants tested negative for COVID-19. The centre, equipped with a host of facilities, functions inside a huge reserve forest area at M.R. Palayam adjoining Tiruchi- Chennai National Highway. It became functional in early September 2019 when the first captive elephantMalachiwas translocated from Madurai. Subsequently, other elephants were translocated from different places to the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-elephants-at-rescue-centre-test-negative/article34836338.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors take charge in three districts||Newly appointed Collectors of Ariyalur, Thanjavur and Karur districts assumed office on Wednesday. P. Ramana Saraswathi took charge as Collector of Ariyalur district. She started her career as Deputy Collector in 1999 and served in various postions including District Revenue Officer in Tirunelveli between 2009 and 2011. She was Additional Commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment in Chennai before being transferred to Ariyalur as Collector. Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, who was transferred from Ramanathapuram, assumed charge as Thanjavur Collector on Wednesday. Prior to his posting as Collector of Ramanathapuram district in November last, he served as Director of Rehabilitation Department, Chennai. In Karur, T. Prabhu Shankar took charge as Collector. He was hitherto Executive Director of Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board in Chennai. A native of Thirumangalam in Madurai district, Dr. Shankar studied MBBS in Madurai Medical College and pursued a postgraduate degree in Chandigarh. He appeared in UPSC examinations and secured all India second rank in 2013. He began his service as Sub Collector in Villupuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collectors-take-charge-in-three-districts/article34836346.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water released in Radhapuram Channel||Water was released in the Radhapuram Channel from the Gothaiyar Channel in Kanniyakumari district on Wednesday. Speaker M. Appavu released surplus water from the Gothaiyar Channel in the presence of Kanniyakumari Collector M. Aravind and Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam, . About 150 cusecs of water being diverted from Gothaiyar Channel at Thirumoolar Nagar near Nilappaarai near Nagercoil till October 31 this year will feed 52 irrigation tanks through the Radhapuram Channel. Consequently, cultivation will be taken up on 17,000 acres of land in Levingipuram, Karunkulam, Pazhavoor, Adangaarkulam, Azhaganeri, Thanakkarkulam, Koodankulam, Parameswarapuram and Radhapuram in this dry region. Moreover, the water to be stored in these water bodies will also effectively check intrusion of seawater into this coastal region. Speaking to reporters after releasing the water, Mr. Appavu said since the Kanniyakumari district was blessed with good rainfall over the past few weeks, more than 50 irrigation tanks had reached their maximum capacity. Hence, the surplus water being released from the dams was being diverted to the Radhapuram Channel to save farming in this dry region instead of getting wasted. After the Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was told about the water getting wasted into the sea, he ordered the diversion of surplus water to Radhapuram Channel. The 75-km-long channel connecting Petchipaarai Dam and Radhapuram channel was thoroughly repaired in 2009 when then government released Rs. 18 crore for the work, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-in-radhapuram-channel/article34835972.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner takes charge||Highest priority will be accorded for the timely completion of all development projects being executed in the Tirunelveli Corporation including the Smart City projects, Corporation Commissioner B. Vishnu Chandran has said. Assuming office here on Wednesday, he said he would give top priority for expediting all infrastructure development projects. Moreover, the ongoing underground drainage scheme, would also be accelerated. “Since the COVID-19-induced lockdown had badly hit the progress of all development works, the backlog works would be expedited,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/commissioner-takes-charge/article34836315.ece
17 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minor commotion outside vaccination centre in Tiruppur||Minor commotion prevailed outside a COVID-19 vaccination centre within Tiruppur Corporation limits on Wednesday following a delay in commencing the vaccination drive. According police, around 400 people gathered outside the Corporation Middle School at Velampalayam in early on Wednesday and waited in a long queue for vaccination. Around 9 a.m., a few members of the Left parties visited the camp, to whom the public alleged that the vaccination camp had not commenced as per schedule. Based on the information, the Velampalayam police reached the spot and held talks with the public, police said. C. Nandagopal, district committee member of CPI(M) who visited the spot, claimed that the public waited for several hours in empty stomach outside the Velampalayam centre after seeing media reports that the particular centre was allotted over 600 vaccine doses. Corporation sources said that the delay occurred as the Corporation received the allocated vaccine doses only past noon on Wednesday, following which the doses were distributed to the 17 centres in Corporation limits. Tiruppur district received 17,900 Covishield doses and 3,800 Covaxin doses on Tuesday, which were distributed among 67 government vaccination centres across the district, according to the Health Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-commotion-outside-vaccination-centre-in-tiruppur/article34836203.ece
17 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘State government must not interfere with agama rules’||State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam on Wednesday urged the State government not to interfere with the agama rules regarding appointment of temple priests. Speaking to mediapersons in Tiruppur, he responded to the recent remarks made by Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR &CE) P.K. Sekar Babu that women can be appointed as priests in temples after being trained. Training Mr. Subramaniam said that each temple in the State had its own agama rules which must be adhered to. However, the Hindu Munnani was not opposed to appointing archakas ( temple priests) from all communities in temples after completion of due training. Temple land retrieval Mr. Subramaniam also commended the State government for its COVID-19 preventive measures and the recent retrieval of land worth Rs. 250 crore belonging to Vadapalani Subramaniaswami temple in Chennai. Noting that the Madras High Court has flagged that 47,000 acres of temple land was missing as per government records, Mr. Subramaniam alleged that politicians were involved in encroaching these lands and demanded that the list of encroachers must be made public.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-government-must-not-interfere-with-agama-rules/article34835902.ece
17 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Former Kangeyam MLA booked for lockdown violation||The Kangeyam police registered a case against former MLA N.S.N. Nataraj on Wednesday on the charges of violating the COVID-19 lockdown after the police found an oil mill that he owned was operating illegally despite being sealed earlier. According to the police, the private oil mill at Alampadi near Kangeyam in Tiruppur district was sealed by the Revenue Department on June 5 for violating the lockdown. On Tuesday, the Alampadi Village Administrative Officer found labourers working in the mill without obtaining permission from the Revenue Department, the police said. Based on a complaint from the Village Administrative Officer, the police booked the mill’s owner Mr. Nataraj under sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code read with section 3 (Penalty) of the Epidemic Diseases Act on Wednesday. Mr. Nataraj served as the MLA of Kangeyam Assembly constituency between 2011 and 2016.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-kangeyam-mla-booked-for-lockdown-violation/article34836213.ece
17 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur Corpn. to vaccinate differently abled||Tiruppur Corporation announced on Wednesday that persons who are differently abled will be vaccinated against COVID-19 based on prior registration. In a statement, Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati said that the differently abled persons shall register for vaccination by contacting the COVID-19 Control Room at 0421-2240852 and 0421-2237852. The Corporation will arrange vehicles for the differently abled between their residence and vaccination centres, Mr. Pati added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-corpn-to-vaccinate-differently-abled/article34836204.ece
17 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Injured jumbo captured in Gudalur||The Forest Department on Wednesday captured a 30-year-old injured elephant in Gudalur. The elephant, known as “Silver Monstra,” was injured a few years ago during a fight with another elephant. The elephant had received its name since it was regularly spotted around the Silver Cloud tea estate, and for his propensity to enjoy feasting on the Monstera deliciosa (swiss cheese)  plants found in the area. Forest department officials said that till date, the animal had no interaction with humans that had resulted in injuries or loss of life to people in the region. It had sustained the injury to its tail region a few years ago and was being given antibiotics orally. However, the wound had become gradually bigger in recent months because of the animal rubbing the wound against hard surfaces, and veterinarians were of the opinion that the animal could only be treated only in captivity. On Wednesday, two kumki elephants from the Theppakadu Elephant Camp were pressed into service to capture the elephant. The operation was overseen by Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests I. Anwardeen and District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, Kommu Omkaram. The kumkis were used to get close to the elephant and ropes were used to restrain its movement. Officials said that tranquilisers were not used on the animal as it was already weak. Fading light, difficult terrain and rains in the region forced the officials to keep the elephant restrained with kumkis and veterinarians stationed to monitor his health through the night. The jumbo will be taken to the elephant camp at Theppakdu in a truck. The elephant may be be kept in captivity for the rest of its life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-jumbo-captured-in-gudalur/article34835900.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vaccine hesitancy a major challenge in remote areas||Healthcare professionals working in remote locations such as Valparai are facing vaccine hesitancy as a major challenge in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Residents of many tribal settlements have expressed their hesitancy in taking the vaccine due to various factors, including lack of awareness, they say. At Nedungundram, one of the tribal settlements in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), a few residents took their first jab recently. One or two of them developed high temperature after taking the vaccine, which is observed as a normal reaction in many takers. However, this created a fear among other residents who later showed hesitancy to take the vaccine. “We have observed vaccine hesitancy in many tribal settlements during fever surveillance visits. We do our best to educate them on the benefits of taking the vaccine,” says Babu Lakshman, Block Medical Officer (BMO), Valparai. Daring terrain difficulties and heavy rains, Dr. Lakshman and his team visited several settlements in the Valparai region and conducted fever surveillance. “Though these settlements are located in remote areas and forests, a few residents visit ration shops and towns. We have explained them these risks and to inform us if anyone develops symptoms of COVID-19,” he adds. There are 17 tribal settlements in Coimbatore district limits of the ATR and majority of them are located deep inside the forests and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers are maintaining regular contact with the residents. Activist S. Thanraj from Ekta Parishad, Tamil Nadu, who works closely with tribal communities in ATR and Valparai region, feels that concerted efforts from various government departments were needed to empower the communities and ensure them easy access to healthcare and create awareness on issues such as vaccine hesitancy. Karamadai is another block in Coimbatore district which is home to many tribal settlements. Mallan, resident of a settlement close to Pilloor dam, says that many people from the region were worried to take the vaccine after hearing that people develop fever, body pain and headache after taking the jab. According to Karamadai BMO P. Sudhakar, residents of the settlements have started taking the vaccine through the awareness created by ASHA workers and Village Health Nurses (VHN). “ASHA workers and VHNs track fever cases on a regular basis. If more than four or five fever cases are reported from a settlement, we conduct a fever survey and take necessary action,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccine-hesitancy-a-major-challenge-in-remote-areas/article34836206.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors assume office||Newly appointed Collectors of Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts took charge on Wednesday. G.S. Sameeran assumed office as the Collector of Coimbatore district. After taking charge from S. Nagarajan at the Collectorate, he said reducing the COVID-19 case count to zero was the aim. Stressing that public cooperation was important in reducing the case count, Dr. Sameeran wanted the people to continue extending their cooperation in the coming days to eliminate COVID-19 from the district. In response to a question on vaccine shortage, particularly in rural areas, he said that on Wednesday the Corporation was administering 30,000 vaccines. As and when more doses arrived, the administration would take steps to vaccinate people in rural areas as well, he said. S. Vineeth took charge as the Collector of Tiruppur district. He said that containing the spread of COVID-19 in the district would be his priority. “We will ensure that whatever [vaccine] stock that is available would be utilised immediately for the public,” Mr. Vineeth said. The district administration will also take steps to further reduce the delay in the declaration of COVID-19 test results, he added. Mr. Vineeth told The Hindu that the squad formed by the district administration to monitor the operation of industrial units in the district will be strengthened further. A 2013-batch IAS officer, Mr. Vineeth was serving as the Joint Managing Director of TANGEDCO prior to his posting as the Collector of Tiruppur district. He replaces K. Vijayakarthikeyan, who was recently posted as Secretary, State Human Rights Commission. H. Krishnanunni, a 2012 batch IAS officer, assumed office as the Collector of Erode district. Prior to the new posting, he was Collector of Theni district. He replaces C. Kathiravan, who was transferred and posted as Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Magnesite Limited, Salem. Mr. Krishnanunni told mediapersons that his top priority would be to take effective steps to control the spread of the virus and reduce the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district. Asked about the shortage of vaccines in the district, he said that vaccines were allotted by the State government and based on the available stock, camps were conducted. “We will plan meticulously and ensure that the public receive their doses,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collectors-assume-office/article34835906.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 1,420 new cases, 28 deaths||Coimbatore district reported 1,420 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday. The Health Department said that 2,445 persons from the district recovered from the disease. The department said that the district had 14,396 active cases of the disease. The district’s death toll increased to 1,806 after 28 more persons died of COVID-19. The daily caseload of Tiruppur district saw a significant dip with 608 new cases on Wednesday, which was the lowest in five weeks. The new cases took the overall case tally to 76,702. The Health Department reported 10 new deaths and the district’s toll touched 656. As many as 11,361 patients were active cases. On Wednesday, 1,968 patients were reported to have recovered from COVID-19 and the total number of recovered patients was 64,685 in the district. Erode district reported 1,123 new cases, taking the tally to 79,938. While 1,733 persons were discharged, 9,962 continue to be under treatment. Twelve persons died, raising the toll to 509. Salem district reported 693 fresh cases taking the overall tally to 81,608. While 1,456 persons were discharged, 6,003 continue to be under treatment. A total of 18 persons died, raising the toll to 1,307. Namakkal district reported 314 cases taking the tally to 41,068. While 608 persons were discharged, 3,324 continue to be under treatment. Six persons died, raising the toll to 363. In the Nilgiris, 242 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 26,488. The number of deaths from COVID-19 in the district increased from 138 to 140 on Wednesday while 3,016 persons are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 207 cases fresh cases on a single day, and 220 cases discharged with five deaths registered. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 2,046 cases. A total of 37,827 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Dharmapuri recorded 179 fresh cases, and 304 cases discharged with two deaths registered. The total number of cases in the district was 1,862. As of date, a total 22,911 cases were reported in Dharmapuri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-reports-1420-new-cases-28-deaths/article34836209.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai zoo loses another lion to virus||The zoo administration is in a state of shock after the death of the second lion. Of the 13 lions at the zoo, two were responding slowly to treatment, sources said. A forest official said the death of two lions and the critical condition of two more showed the health management of the zoo in poor light. “We are the only zoo in India that has lost two lions,” the official said. Though eight lions at a Hyderabad zoo tested positive for the infection, all of them recovered. A lion in Jaipur also contracted the infection. According to a senior officer, the zoo’s veterinarians were treating infected lions symptomatically, in consultation with their counterparts in the Bronx, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Etawah Lion Safari and the Central Zoo Authority, along with a team of experts from Tanuvas. “They are trying their best,” the officer said. A total of 9 lions had tested positive on June 3 after their samples were sent to NIHSAD. After the death of Neela, Chief Minister M.K. Stalin and Forest Minister K. Ramachandran visited the zoo to enquire about the condition of the lions and the treatment given to them. The zoo administration had sent the samples of three lions and four tigers to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly, to test for SARS-CoV-2. Of them, two lionesses, including Neela, tested positive for the virus. Incidentally, the authorities also found that two lion samples tested mildly positive for canine distemper virus. The report from IVRI was supposed to shed light on the source of the infection in the Asiatic lions. The zoo authorities are yet to comment on the source of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-zoo-loses-another-lion-to-virus/article34836195.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Green nod for exploratory wells sought||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to cancel the Centre’s invitation for bids to extract hydrocarbon in Pudukottai district. But without taking into account the Chief Minister’s opposition to the project, ONGC submitted a proposal on June 15 and another one on June 16 to SEIAA. “It shows that ONGC has been pushing ahead with its plans in spite of the State government’s stand on the issue. The State government should summarily reject the proposal,” Mr. Sundarrajan said. Thanga Dharmaraj, president, Cauvery Delta Pasana Vivasaya Sangangalin Kootamaippu, said, “The proposed drilling of wells will destroy agriculture in the region. Farmers will never allow the project.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/green-nod-for-exploratory-wells-sought/article34836188.ece
17 June 2021||Begnaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. workers arrested||The RMC Yard police on Tuesday arrested 19 Congress workers for allegedly violating COVID-19 guidelines while they were protesting against fuel price hike in front of a petrol pump on Tumkauru Road as part of a Statewide campaign, ‘100 not out’. D.K. Suresh, Congress MP, was also named in the FIR, but was not arrested. The protesters were arrested and released on station bail. RMC Yard Inspector Parvathamma S, the complainant, said the protesters violated prohibitory orders and were not wearing masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-workers-arrested/article34835859.ece
17 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman survives botched abortion of female foetus||Vijayapura police have booked a man and his associates for causing injury to his wife by forcefully aborting her foetus because he did not want a girl child. Vijayalakshmi Hadapad suffered blood loss during surgery by a quack. She is now recuperating in a private clinic. Aravind Hadapad, her husband, had allegedly forced her to undergo an abortion in the house of an acquaintance. The injury was caused after an unqualified person, who was experienced in illegal abortions, cut open her abdomen to remove the foetus. The Hadapad couple have two daughters. When Vijayalakshmi became pregnant for the third time, Aravind took her to a scanning centre to determine the sex of the foetus. When the illegal pre-natal scan revealed that it was female, Aravind decided to get the pregnancy aborted. With the help of relatives, he contacted a person who was known for carrying out abortions at home. However, on seeing Vijayalakshmi losing a lot of blood, the quack fled from the spot. Her relatives, who came to know about the surgery, admitted her to the private hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-survives-botched-abortion-of-female-foetus/article34835845.ece
17 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. canteens to the rescue of the poor||Indira Canteens have provided free food to over 45,000 poor and homeless persons during the lockdown in the district facing the second wave of the epidemic. In five weeks, each one of the 10 State-run low-cost eateries have served around 200 orders of breakfast and 500 meals per day, on an average. This started with the State government deciding to open these feeding centres in the first week of May. The outlets that had been closed since the lockdown began in April, were opened on May 10. “This has been a great relief to the poor like us,’’ says Ashfaq Ahmed, who operates an autorickshaw around the District Civil Hospital. He and his friends have been visiting the outlet behind the hospital every day for four weeks now. “Earlier, we left home hungry every morning,’’ he said. “Earlier, we were charged Rs. 5 per plate of breakfast and Rs. 10 per plate of lunch and dinner. But now all these are free,’’ said Hanumant Kaladagi, Assistant Executive Engineer in the city corporation who is in charge of the canteens in the city. “The footfall in the canteens is expected to increase in the coming days and we are making preparations to face it,’’ he said. The State government has issued fresh orders extending free service for a week in all the 11 districts with extended lockdown. Belagavi City Corporation Commissioner K.H. Jagadish said that systems and processes have been put in place to see that the canteens continued to work through the lockdown period. “Our officers have made all arrangements, including deputing staff for cleaning and cooking, ensuring physical distancing and procurement of foodgrains and vegetables. We are working to see that there are no glitches,’’ he said. However, there are some issues. “We have been working without any payment for over a month,’’ complained a contractor who supplies foodgrains and supervises labour in these units. He said that a Joint Director in the Urban Development Department, which manages the hotels, said that the State government would soon settle their bills. “It will be of help if the government releases funds early,’’ he said. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that the contractors will be paid as soon as the requisite grant was released by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-canteens-to-the-rescue-of-the-poor/article34835871.ece
17 June 2021||Belagavi/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain lashes most parts of Belagavi district causing some damage||Heavy rain lashed most parts of Belagavi district on Wednesday, causing some damage. A farmer’s house collapsed in Bhojagaon village near Belagavi, but none was injured. A tree fell on the road, blocking traffic for some time between Triveni Circle and Rani Channamma Circle. Water entered houses in low-lying areas, including Hindalga, the Old Fruit Market, B.S. Yeddiyurappa Road, Maratha Colony, Nanawadi Road and Bovi Galli, in the Old City. Karnataka State Disaster Management Centre has included Belagavi district in the orange zone, following forecast of heavy rain for 48 hours starting from Wednesday morning. Irrigation officers said that around 7,000 cusecs of water entered the Ghataprabha after Maharashtra released water from upstream reservoirs on Tuesday night. However, there is no immediate threat of floods. The Raja Lakhamagouda Reservoir on the Ghataprabha at Hidkal received an inflow at a rate of 7,558 cusecs and the authorities discharged water at a rate 87 cusecs. The dam with a gross capacity of 51 tmcft has 9 tmcft of water now. The Renuka Sagar Dam on the Malaprabha registered outflow at a rate of194 cusecs and zero inflow. The dam with a gross capacity of 37.73 tmcft has around 12 tmcft of water now. Five teams from the State Disaster Relief Force have been stationed along the Krishna and the Ghataprabha river course in different taluks. “A refresher training course was held for personnel at Kote Kere in Belagavi last year. They will be pressed into service once the water levels begin reaching danger levels,’’ a Revenue Department officer said. India Meteorological Department has declared red alerts for Goa, Konkan Maharashtra and the coastal districts of Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi in the State. Belagavi is among the districts with an orange alert, along with Dharwad, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu and Shivamogga, according to Joint Director of Agriculture Shivanagouda Patil.  Throughout the day Meanwhile many parts of Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts in the Malnad region received moderate to heavy rain. The average minimum temperature was around 20.4 degrees Celsius in these districts, as it continued to rain throughout the day. According to the Meteorological Department, there was heavy rain in Agumbe, Thalaguppa, Hunchadakatte in Shivamogga district and Kottigehara, Kalasa, Jayapura and Balehonnur in Chikkamagaluru district. Following an increase in inflow at the Tunga dam at Gajanur, the outflow was increased to 18,000 cusecs. The reservoir, with a gross capacity of 3.24 tmcft, reached the full level on Monday itself. The inflow was 17,500 cusecs. Inflow at Linganamakki Dam is also on the rise. On Wednesday, the water level stood at 1,777.6 ft against the full reservoir level of 1,819 ft. The inflow was 20,857 cusecs and the total discharge was 2,756 cusecs. The live storage has been measured at 50.71 tmcft against the total live storage of 151.64 tmcft. As per Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Shivamogga received an average of 45.3 mm of rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. This is against a normal of 19.8 mm. The highest of 141.5 mm was recorded at Honnetalu in Thirthahalli taluk. Chikkamagaluru recorded 29.1 mm of rainfall, against a normal of 14.4 mm. The highest of 105.5 mm was recorded at Bettagere in Mudigere taluk. Hassan received an average rainfall 11.4 mm, against a normal of 6 mm. Kyamanahalli in Sakleshpur taluk recorded the highest of 111 mm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heavy-rain-lashes-most-parts-of-belagavi-district-causing-some-damage/article34835877.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over a half-dozen districts report zero deaths consistently for a week||With a drop in new COVID-19 cases, the State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) too has been declining. For the last one week, the State has been consistently reporting zero deaths in six-seven districts bringing down the average CFR from 2.58% on June 8 to 1.76% on June 15. CFR that was highest in Bengaluru Urban last week at 7.30% has reduced to 1.88% on June 15. Haveri, which had the second highest CFR last week at 5.74% now has the highest mortality rate at 8.23%. CFR is higher than the State average in 16 districts, including Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, and Ballari. As of June 15, the average CFR was less than 1% in 11 districts, with the lowest in Mandya and Chitradurga at 0.49% and 0.72% respectively. Till June 5, although there was a significant decline in new cases, the number of deaths remained intriguingly high. Data, however, showed that many deaths that occurred as early as in March and April, May were being accounted in the State media bulletins leading to the high number. Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra had admitted that most of the deaths being accounted till June 5 were from the backlog since March onwards.   Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) who heads Lifecourse Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India in Bengaluru, said the current low CFR may not be the actual rate going by the fact that deaths that occurred since March onwards were being reported in June. “We cannot say anything about the drop in CFR right now. We have to wait for reconciliation of deaths and unless the State’s death audit is completed this can be an artificial CFR,” he said. However, C.N. Manjunath, nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force said, this is the usual pattern of the growth and fall of CFR that was noticed during the first wave last year too. “In the initial weeks after the surge starts, the CFR will be low. It will go high in the middle of the surge and fall down again two weeks after the curve starts flattening,” he said. “What is important now is to sustain the low CFR and people should not become complacent. Early reporting will help in early intervention thereby preventing complications,” he said. V. Ravi, nodal officer for genomic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 in Karnataka, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), said the declining CFR is a good sign and indicated that the peak is over. “We should continue aggressive testing, promote COVID appropriate behaviour and focus on graded unlock to sustain the low CFR and test positivity rate.We failed on this front after the first wave subsided. We should not repeat the same mistakes again,” he added.  We cannot say anything about the drop in CFR right now. We have to wait for reconciliation of deaths and unless the State’s death audit is completed this can be an artificial CFR Giridhar R. Babu, Member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-a-half-dozen-districts-report-zero-deaths-consistently-for-a-week/article34835832.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Smart parking: Roadworks delay implementation of plans||Roads that have been dug up in the Central Business District (CBD) for developmental work are proving to be a hurdle for the ambitious ‘smart parking’ project. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had planned to put in place automated parking facilities on at least 30 roads in the CBD by May this year. However, since December 2019, it has been rolled out on only 10 major roads in the area. The civic body has plans to implement the automated parking on as many as 85 roads in the city. Once the system is in place at all locations, there will be 4,000 parking slots for cars and 10,000 slots for two-wheelers. This is an attempt to solve traffic congestion in the city, which is compounded by illegal parking. The ‘smart parking’ project is being implemented through a public-private partnership model, for which the BBMP has entered into a 20-year tender with city-based Central Parking System (CPS). Civic officials said they are expecting to earn Rs. 31 crore a year by implementing smart parking on 85 roads in the city. The roads have been categorised into three zones and rates on hourly basis have been fixed for both two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Senior officials in the BBMP’s Department of Major Roads, which is overseeing the implementation of the project, told The Hindu that the civic body was waiting for the development works on these roads, including Infantry Road, Queen’s Road, Hospital Road in Shivaji Nagar, Lavelle Road, to be completed. To ensure more time is not lost, the BBMP has handed over 30 other roads to the contractor. The project has been taken up in three phases. Under the first phase, the automated parking facility is in place on 10 roads. An app – Namma Bengaluru Smart Parking app – has also been launched, which will help look for vacant parking places, make payments for parking using online payment gateways. “In all likelihood, the automated parking facility on these 30 roads will be in place by November this year,” an official said. Parking fees The erstwhile city corporation had abolished parking fees in 2006 following several allegations of corruption. The civic body proposed to introduce a parking fee once again in 2011. The new Parking Policy 2.0 was recently approved by the Urban Development Department, making free parking in the city a thing of the past.  In all likelihood, the automated parking facility on these 30 roads will be in place by November this year. BBMP official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/smart-parking-roadworks-delay-implementation-of-plans/article34835817.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivamogga prison inmates publish anthology of poems||A project that took root as an idea nearly a decade ago became reality with the publication of an anthology of poems penned by prison inmates. The collection of poems, Bandhanada Bhaava Lahari (Emotions of the imprisoned) was released earlier this month by Director-General of Police (Prisons and Correctional Services) Alok Mohan. Chief Superintendent of Prison P. Ranganath, who was the moving force behind the project, said it began in 2012 when he was heading the Shivamogga district prison and decided to promote literacy among inmates in an effort to reintroduce them into mainstream society. “Another interesting fact is that the majority of the inmates started writing poems after learning how to read and write,” said Mr. Ranganath. To encourage literacy and reading, he also conducted a quiz competition each month under the banner ‘Saavira Rupayiya Sardara’ which had a cash prize of Rs. 1,000. “There was also an essay competition with topics such as, ‘What would I do if I were the head of the prison’,” Mr. Ranganath added. The literacy project also helped the Prison Department get a glimpse into the minds of inmates. Many expressed their ideas through short poems. As many as 200 people wrote poems over the years, which have now been collected and published. “We consulted a donor who readily agreed to help to print the book,” Mr. Ranganath said. The department has sent complimentary copies to libraries and the government offices across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivamogga-prison-inmates-publish-anthology-of-poems/article34835819.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Domestic workers stage protest||On International Domestic Workers’ Day 2021, observed on June 16, employees who work in households staged a protest in front of the Labour Department to highlight the problems they are facing. Many said that households they worked for are refusing to hire them if they are not vaccinated. Geeta Menon, co-founder, Stree Jagruti Samiti, which organised the protest, said that domestic workers were one of the most affected groups during the pandemic and are facing jobs losses and salary cuts. “Even before they could recover from the loss of last year’s lockdown, restrictions were imposed this year. With the rampant termination of employment and non-payment of wages, food and life security of workers was at risk. Burdened by house rent, bills and children’s school fees, most of them can barely manage one meal a day,” she said, adding that employers and apartment associations should take the lead and conduct vaccination camps for them for free.  Problem of middlemen According to Priyadarshini P., a domestic worker, the process to get the Rs. 2,000 compensation amount announced by the State government is proving to be a hurdle. “Many of us don’t have access to computers and smartphones. How are they supposed to register online? How will domestic workers get an employment certificate? This situation has brought in middlemen and brokers who are promising to fill the forms, upload documents on behalf of workers and charge money from them,” she said. The Samiti demanded that the government ensure that compensation is made easily accessible and universal to all workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/domestic-workers-stage-protest/article34835823.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Demand for death audit in Karnataka gains momentum||The demand for an audit of all deaths reported in Karnataka over the past four months to ascertain the ‘real’ toll in the second wave of COVID-19, along the lines of a similar exercise recently conducted in Bihar, has started gaining momentum. This comes days after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced compensation of Rs. 1 lakh to Below Poverty Line (BPL) families that have lost adult members to the virus. Public health experts, non-government organisations, and the political opposition argued that amidst allegations of under-counting of deaths in Karnataka, such an audit is necessary to ensure that all eligible families avail of compensation. “How will family members avail of benefits of welfare schemes and ex-gratia if the deaths are not declared as COVID-19 deaths,” said Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar. According to public health practitioner Sylvia Karpagam, clear gaps have been identified in the death data capture mechanism. “Several home isolation deaths are not being reported. Till almost mid-May, RT-PCR negative but HRCT scan positive cases, estimated to be 30% of total RT-PCR tests, were not counted as COVID-19 deaths,” she said. H.V. Vasu, convener, Karnataka COVID-19 Volunteers’ Team, claimed that anecdotal evidence suggests “deliberate suppression of death count, even when deaths were reported from within the system”. This is an allegation that the political Opposition has also been consistently making, one that the State government has denied. “They are fighting the data, not the virus”, Mr. Shivakumar had recently tweeted. According to A. Suresh, State secretary, Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsh Samiti, which organised burial ground and crematoria workers across the State, there was a large gap between the death toll declared by the State government and the number of bodies coming for burial and cremation from April to mid-May. But later this was corrected, he said. A senior Health Department official conceded that there were gaps in the capture of death data, but denied ‘deliberate suppression’. “Health and civic officials were also tasked with the vaccination drive. The number of cases during the peak of the second wave was overwhelming, as a result of which there was no adequate follow-up of all patients. The HRCT scan issue persisted for over a month, after which we created a mechanism to include them in the case and death count. In rural areas, there may be under-counting of deaths due to lack of adequate testing as well, especially in SARI and ILI cases,” said the official. Other States have taken corrective measures. On June 10, Bihar added 3,951 ‘backlog’ deaths to its toll following a nearly month-long death audit by the district administrations of the state after the Patna High Court on May 17 flagged discrepancies. Maharashtra added 12,909 ‘backlog’ deaths to the toll between June 1 and June 14. Over the last three months, there have been media reports of wide discrepancies in actual deaths and the official death toll attributed to COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Telangana, apart from Karnataka. “Karnataka was the first State to declare compensation for COVID-19 deaths for BPL families. A death audit after this announcement will only lead to a rush to get all deaths attributed to COVID-19, leading to corruption and misuse of public funds,” said a highly-placed bureaucrat. Public health experts and activists said that this cannot be an excuse to not conduct a much-needed death audit, which will also help frame policies during subsequent waves of COVID-19. The compensation amount announced by Karnataka has also been criticised. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah has termed the amount ‘inadequate’ and demanded it be raised to Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/demand-for-death-audit-in-karnataka-gains-momentum/article34835836.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||92% of workers stopped receiving payment: Report||Migrant workers, one of the more vulnerable groups left in lurch during the national lockdown called by the Centre last year, are facing another crisis during the second wave of COVID-19. This time around, the problem is compounded by a lack of savings, which they used up last year. Around 92% of the country’s workforce who lack access to social safety nets are experiencing “a historic and unprecedented crisis”, said a report from the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), which relaunched its helpline in April 2021. SWAN, which began last year as a voluntary effort to mobilise relief for stranded migrant workers, was in contact with 1,396 worker groups: little over 8,000 people, including 4,836 women and children. Once restrictions were imposed and work stopped, 92% of workers stopped receiving money from employers. Around 56% of workers reported that their work had stopped for more than a month, said the report. As per their findings, 57% of the callers had less than two days of rations left when they spoke with SWAN, while 76% of the workers had less than Rs. 200 left with them. Around 34% of the workers had not been paid their pending wages for completed work, while 13% of them had been paid only partially. A majority of the callers (60%), were daily wage workers; 6% were drivers, domestic help, etc. and 16% were self-employed. The median daily wages of those who reached out was Rs. 308.3, stated the authors of the report. The Centre’s response to this crisis was lacking, the report stated. “...It [Union government] appears to have all but abdicated responsibility, instead expecting the states to respond to the crisis. There have been no budgetary extensions or policy announcements that cover migrant workers’ distress,” it said. The report also found that responses from State governments were inadequate. “Many of the policy initiatives introduced thus far have been limited in terms of coverage, procedurally confusing and alienating, on the whole failing to account for the needs of migrant workers and their families,” said the authors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/92-of-workers-stopped-receiving-payment-report/article34835858.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special centres for pomegranate, mango, and vegetables opened||Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday inaugurated three centres of excellence: one for mango in Kolar, pomegranate in Bagalkot, and vegetables in Dharwad. The three centres have been established under the Indo-Israel action plan with advanced technologies, such as high and ultra-high density planting, rejuvenation, canopy management, different trellising systems of planting, and automated drip irrigation technology to improve yield and quality of mango, pomegranate and vegetables. The action plan is based on an agreement signed by the Union Agriculture Ministry with Israel in 2006. The Centre of Excellence for Mango was established with an outlay of Rs. 1.98 crore from the Central government and Rs. 3.6 crore from the Karnataka government with technical support from Israel. Commercial varieties Alphanso, Mallika, Dasheri, and Totapuri have been demonstrated in four different plant spaces, said a release. The Centre of Excellence for Pomegranate in Bagalkot was established with a contribution of Rs. 3.43 crore from the Centre and Rs. 1.56 crore from the State government. The Centre of Excellence for Vegetables in Dharwad was established with an outlay of Rs. 5 crore from the Centre and Rs. 2.6 crore from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/special-centres-for-pomegranate-mango-and-vegetables-opened/article34835855.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents, associations clash over entry of domestic help||Many apartment associations and Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) have started framing their own rules on the entry of domestic help, vendors and visitors into the complex on the grounds that the guidelines listed by the civic body are vague. The ban on entry of domestic help who work in individual flats is proving to be a point of conflict. While the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike guidelines allow for entry of housekeeping staff, they remain silent on domestic help such as cooks, nannies, etc. As a result, most residential associations are not allowing them entry, which has left people working from home in the lurch. Lack of help With no outside assistance, they are finding it difficult to juggle daily domestic chores, online classes for the children, cooking and office deadlines. A 45-year-old software employee and a mother of two sons said that her apartment in North Bengaluru which has 50 flats is still not allowing maids or visitors. “We have a rigorous work schedule and I have to manage my sons’ online classes and in the middle of that we have to do household chores. Everything has opened up but our apartment association is still not allowing maids. This is completely ridiculous and we want to involve the BBMP and ensure that the association does not take unilateral decisions,” she said. ‘Discrimination’ Another apartment in South Bengaluru is allowing visitors but not domestic help. “This is discrimination. The Owners’ Association says that it does not want the apartment to become a COVID-19 cluster, but by that logic, they should ban visitors, too,” said an irate resident. When contacted, Health Commissioner K.V. Trilok Chandra clarified that domestic help can be allowed into apartment complexes.  ‘Rules are ambiguous’ Srikanth Narasimhan, founder of Bangalore Apartments’ Federation (BAF) said, “The rules are ambiguous but if one interprets the BBMP’s orders, it is clear that movement of people should be allowed between 5 a.m. and 7 p.m. within apartments on weekdays. On weekends however, no movement of people is allowed as there is a curfew,” he said, while adding that COVID-19 protocol such as wearing masks should be followed by everyone. He, too, felt that the BBMP guidelines were ambiguous. “It would be better if the guidelines are more clear and specific so that they can be implemented effectively,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-associations-clash-over-entry-of-domestic-help/article34835822.ece
17 June 2021||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nominated as member||Pentesh Kumar G.C. has been nominated as a member of the Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee of the Northern Railway for a period of two years (2021–23). The objective of the ZRUCC is to provide opportunities for frequent consultation between the railway administration and users on matters relating improvement in the service provided by the Railways, the ZRUCC said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nominated-as-member/article34835842.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fellowship programme for youth with disabilities||As part of its silver jubilee, the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP), in collaboration with Azim Premji Foundation, has launched a three-year fellowship programme for youth with disabilities. The NCPEDP-Javed Abidi Fellowship on Disability is open to applicants looking to build a career in the development sector, particularly disability rights and inclusion, stated a press release. The launch of the fellowship also marks the birth anniversary of NCPEDP’s former director the late Javed Abidi. Last date The fellowship programme is open to people aged between 18 and 28 with disabilities. Selected fellows will receive a monthly stipend of up to Rs. 25,000. The last date to apply is August 11, 2021, stated the press release. For more information about the fellowship programme, visit www.ncpedp.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fellowship-programme-for-youth-with-disabilities/article34835843.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Brahminism’ row: Police question actor Chetan||The Basavanagudi police questioned Kannada actor Chetan Kumar for over two hours on Wednesday in connection with a case filed against him over his comments on ‘Brahminism’. The police also questioned him about his passport and visa status before allowing him to leave. He has been asked to report for questioning again on June 18.  ‘Against inequality’ After leaving the station, Mr. Chetan told the media and fans who had come out in support of him that he was not against any community, but was fighting against inequality. “I stand by my statement and will continue to do so,” he said. Last week, the city police registered two first information reports (FIRs) against the actor, booking him for “hurting religious beliefs” and “imputations prejudicial to national integration”, for his remarks critical of ‘Brahminism’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/brahminism-row-police-question-actor-chetan/article34835844.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||7,345 fresh cases in State||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 7,345 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,84,355. Of these, 1,611 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 148 deaths, the toll rose to 33,296. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 17,913 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries to 25,99,4729. The State now has 1,51,566 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 4.35%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.01%. As many as 1,68,712 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,20,982 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,20,92,313.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/7345-fresh-cases-in-state/article34835829.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Count every death’||Several organisations in Karnataka have come together to launch a campaign called ‘In Memory of Loved Ones’ with the motto ‘Count every death, share every loss’. It seeks to honour the memory of all those who succumbed to COVID-19, both directly and indirectly. “There was severe under-counting of deaths during the pandemic, denying them even dignity. We cannot let our loved ones be forgotten: each has a name, each must be documented, remembered and continued to be loved. This will also help future generations comprehend the severity of the crisis we are facing today,” according to a statement from the campaign.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/count-every-death/article34835838.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC finds no fault in postponing of PG-NEET||The High Court of Karnataka has found no fault in the Union government’s decision to postpone NEET for postgraduate medical courses till August 31 in view of the severe nature of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar passed the order while dismissing a PIL petition filed by Late G.B. Kulkarni Memorial Legal Trust president Vinod G. Kulkarni, Hubballi. The petitioner had contended that aspirants for PG medical courses are suffering from stress, anxiety, and depression as their plans to do PG has been unsettled on account of procrastination in view of postponement of PG-NEET scheduled to be held on April 18 till August 31. Second wave However, the Bench observed that the postponement was in the background of second wave of COVID-19 and the need to enlist the services of doctors, including those aspiring for PG courses, for duties so as to manage the medical facilities and attend to the patients suffering from COVID-19. “The decision of Union of India to hold the test after August 31, 2021, in our view, cannot be faulted, as the decision would have been on the basis of the opinion of experts and on sound discretion being exercised by the authorities,” said the Bench. The Bench also took note of the government’s decision to notify fresh date for PG-NEET after August 31 giving at least one month’s time for preparation to the aspirants after accessing the COVID-19 situation in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-finds-no-fault-in-postponing-of-pg-neet/article34835852.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Randeep back as Special Commissioner (Health) in BBMP||The State government has brought back D. Randeep as Special Commissioner, Health, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Rajendra Cholan, who held the charge, was recently posted as managing director of Bescom and also given the concurrent charge of health in the civic body. However, sources said Mr. Cholan sought to be relieved of the health posting. Mr. Randeep, who led the city’s fight against COVID-19 during the first wave, has now been brought back to the post. Incidentally, N. Manjunath Prasad, who currently holds the post of Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, had also asked to be relieved as civic Commissioner, citing health issues. Harish Kumar K., Commissioner, Employment and Training, Bengaluru, has been given the concurrent charge as Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) that Mr. Randeep was holding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/randeep-back-as-special-commissioner-health-in-bbmp/article34835840.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreign national held, MDMA powder, marijuana seized||The Vyalikaval police on Tuesday arrested a 38-year-old foreign national and recovered 1 kg of marijuana and MDMA crystal powder worth Rs. 65,000 from him. The accused, Antony Tebechukwu Obdoakor, who hails from Nigeria, was arrested at Vyalikaval while he was allegedly waiting to take delivery of a consignment of drugs. Antony allegedly confessed that he came to India on a business visa in 2018 and remained in the country even after his passport and visa got expired. He told the police that he had sourced the drugs from his contact, John. “The accused has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, and also under the Foreigners Act,” said a police officer. He added that the probe was still on and efforts were on to track down John. “We are also probing to see if they are part of a larger network,” said the police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/foreign-national-held-mdma-powder-marijuana-seized/article34835841.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress criticises focus on squabbles||The Congress on Wednesday hit out at BJP national general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh over his visit to the State, saying that instead of serving people, the BJP was busy resolving rumblings within the ruling party. The Karnataka Congress tweeted: “Dear Arun Singh, you are coming here to hold a panchayat meeting ( katte panchayat ) but don’t you have the time to address the problems of people? From day one of coming to power, this government has been making news about squabbling and not any achievements.” The Opposition party alleged that the BJP’s internal differences led to poor management of the COVID-19 pandemic. It said that the BJP has no time to think about issues related to rise in prices of essential commodities, unemployment, third wave of COVID-19, hardship faced by farmers, and the economic downturn. In the last five days, Congress launched ‘100 not out’ protests as petrol prices crossed Rs. 100 per litre in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-criticises-focus-on-squabbles/article34835853.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vaccine priority||The State government has included newspaper vendors, agents, and delivery boys in the priority group (18 to 44 years) for COVID-19 vaccination. Others who have been included staff of Nuclear Power Corporation of India, naval-based civilians, Jain sadhus and sadwis, members of Savitha Samaja (hair dressers), staff of beauty parlours, electricians, plumbers, private medical representatives, transgenders, sexuality minorities and sex workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccine-priority/article34835849.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IKEA launches e-comm services in Bengaluru||IKEA, the Swedish home furnishing retailer, launched its e-commerce services and mobile app in the city on Wednesday. This marked IKEA’s entry into Karnataka and customers in Bengaluru will now be able to choose from over 8,000 home furnishing products and solutions. Peter Betzel, CEO, IKEA India said, “ IKEA’s close to 400,000 sq.ft. store would come up at Nagasandra within a year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ikea-launches-e-comm-services-in-bengaluru/article34835815.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIRs against those encroaching on pavements||The city police have initiated action against those encroaching on pavements following a circular issued by the State government on Tuesday. It cited an order of the Karnataka High Court that said pedestrians have the right of way on pavements and any encroachment is a violation of their right. It directed the civic body and traffic police to remove pavement encroachments. Even before the circular was issued, the Jayanagar police on Monday filed 10 FIRs against hawkers, civil contractors, pushcart vendors, as well as those dumping construction material and parking vehicles haphazardly on pavements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/firs-against-those-encroaching-on-pavements/article34835824.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Monsoon makes attending online classes harder for rural students||Rural students have always had it tough with online classes, given poor connectivity. The onset of monsoon has made it worse. Amidst heavy rains, many students are struggling to attend online classes, particularly in Malnad area, where the southwest monsoon has been very active this week With poor network connectivity, students have to scout for suitable places to attend classes. In some cases, parents hold an umbrella as long as their children are attending online classes. A few students have put up tents at vantage points where they get net access. H.S. Savan of Harobalige, a second-semester student of B.Com. at Tunga College in Thirthahalli, has put up a tent with his friends to attend classes, about 800 metres away from his residence. “During the summer, it was no problem to sit under a tree and attend class since we don't get access in my house. Now monsoon has begun. We have put up a tent-like structure using plastic sheets and wooden poles under the tree,” he said. He is accompanied by SSLC students Trishul, Prathishth and Sathvik. They all leave home at 9 a.m. after breakfast to attend online classes under their temporary shelter. The students return home by afternoon. “It is difficult to listen to classes amidst continuous heavy rains. But, there is no other way,” he said. Hundreds of students face this problem in areas receiving heavy rains. A photo showing a girl from Sullia taluk attending online class amidst heavy rains while her father is holding an umbrella has gone viral on social media platforms. SSLC students, who have to appear for exams in July, have to attend revision classes as the Karnataka government has changed the pattern of the question papers for this year. Nempe Devaraj, a social activist and journalist at Thirthahalli, said hundreds of students had been studying in temporary sheds away from their houses, in the heavy rains. The Karnataka government and telecom service providers should address this problem, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monsoon-makes-attending-online-classes-harder-for-rural-students/article34835828.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman, her mother found murdered||A woman and her mother were found murdered at Rangapura in Arsikere taluk on Monday night. The deceased have been identified as Manjula (30) and Bharathi (55). Manjula’s husband Sridhar is said to have murdered the two women after a heated argument with them. Manjula was married to Sridhar a few years ago. The couple had two children. Recently, the couple had differences and fought many times. Sridhar is said to have hit his wife with a wooden pole and turned on his mother-in-law as well when she rushed to protect her daughter. Gandasi Police have registered a case. The police have taken Sridhar into custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-her-mother-found-murdered/article34835891.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Woman found dead, her father files complaint against his son-in-law||A married woman was found dead at Malekal Tirupati in Arsikere taluk of Hassan district on Wednesday. The police gave the name of the victim as Bhavya (19), daughter of Mahesh from Melenahalli near Kanakatte in Arsikere taluk. She was married to Jagadish of Malekal Tirupati last year and the couple had a one-and-half-a-month old baby. Bhavya’s father Mahesh in his complaint to Arsikere Rural Police said that Bhavya was constantly harassed by her husband and parents-in-laws for dowry. They had sent her back to her parents house twice forcing her to bring dowry. Mahesh received information over phone on Wednesday morning that his daughter had fallen into a sump and died. When he reached Malekal Tirupati later, he noticed marks of injury on her body, he said in the complaint. Suspecting it to be a case of murder, Mahesh has filed a complaint against his son-in-law and his family members. The police have registered a case. Senior officers visited the spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/woman-found-dead-her-father-files-complaint-against-his-son-in-law/article34835892.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Could not attend interview’||Vinayaka Prabhu, a resident of Varamballi in Hosanagar taluk, has been fighting for better network connectivity for the last four years. “Many people, who had returned to the village after the lockdown was announced, worked sitting under trees. But now due to rains, they have shifted to a rented building at Sonale village,” he said. He had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2017 seeking improvement of internet connectivity in his village. He did receive a reply from the PM’s office, but there was no improvement in connectivity. “BSNL and the DC of Shivamogga responded to my petition. However, they could not provide a better service. I could not attend a job interview last week due to network glitches. If the services are improved in Varamballi, at least 1,300 people will benefit,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/could-not-attend-interview/article34835837.ece
17 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Monuments to remain closed till June 28||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has ordered the closure of archaeological monuments in the district till June 28 in view of COVID-19 cases. The Archaeological Survey of India had announced throwing open the monuments to visitors. However, the Deputy Commissioner issued an order on Tuesday extending their closure till June 28. “There are 6,800 active cases of COVID-19 in the district. Keeping the monuments closed to visitors is necessary to break the chain of infection,” he said. The district-wide lockdown will be in force till June 21. Monuments in Shravanabelagola, Belur and Halebidu in the district attract a huge number of visitors every year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/monuments-to-remain-closed-till-june-28/article34835878.ece
17 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Focus of multi village water projects is to ensure optimum utilisation of rivers’||The focus of multi village drinking water supply projects worth Rs. 6,096 crore being proposed under NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA) in the State is to ensure the optimum utilisation of river water sources, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa has said. Speaking to presspersons in Hubballi on Tuesday night, the Minister said that it was a record of sorts that projects worth over Rs. 6,000 crore were being implemented in the State and a majority of them are in North Karnataka districts. Mr. Eshwarappa said that under NIDA, Rs. 1,988.01 crore will be spent for the Vijayapura project, Rs. 1,431.48 crore and Rs. 954.51 crore for the first and second Vijayapura projects, Rs. 690.36 crore for Mandya (three taluks) project and Rs. 1,032.49 crore for Dharwad project. This apart, Rs. 276 crore will be spent for Holalkere project and Rs. 396 crore for the Baindur project under NABARD RIDF-26 Scheme, he said. To a query, Mr. Eshwarappa clarified that steps have been taken to first identify water source before preparing detailed project reports so that once implemented, there is sufficient water available at the identified water source. Another important aspect is that the contractor concerned will be responsible for maintenance of the multi village water supply scheme for five years. He said under the Mane Manege Gange Scheme, every household in the project area will have water taps. Steps have also been taken to incorporate household water requirements of villages that fall on either side of pipelines laid to draw water from rivers, he said. Mr. Eshwarappa said that the tender process is being initiated and in a month’s time, the files will reach Bengaluru for approval. Once the tenders are finalised and work orders issued, the contractors will have 30 months to complete the projects, he said. To a query, Mr. Eshwarappa said that another ambitious project of the department is rejuvenation of at least one water tank in every gram panchayat. The department has drawn up plans to get tanks rejuvenated with the help of non-governmental organisations and local bodies in the 6,000 gram panchayats of the State and that is going to make a big change, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/focus-of-multi-village-water-projects-is-to-ensure-optimum-utilisation-of-rivers/article34835883.ece
17 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||KCC Bank chairman Bapugouda Patil quits||In the wake of a no-confidence motion moved by the Board of Directors, Chairman of Karnatak Central Cooperative (KCC) Bank in Dharwad Bapugouda Patil has tendered his resignation. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Tuesday, Mr. Bapugouda Patil said that he had taken the decision to quit on the advice of seniors and considering the changed political scenario. He, however, sought to play down the fact that he was forced to resign as he had refused to step down after the completion of his tenure of 20 months as agreed to before. Mr. Patil said that he became the chairman of the bank in 2018 as per the desire of the elders in the Board of Directors and now, he resigned as per their desire. He clarified that there was no political pressure on him to quit. He said that under his chairmanship, the bank recovered loan arrears of Rs. 26 crore and had moved towards profit. The bank sanctioned Rs. 60 crore medium-term agriculture loans under the 3% interest rate scheme in the last two years and recovery has been 100%, he said. As a result of Mr. Patil’s resignation, the election to the chairman’s post in the KCC Bank, which has its head office in Dharwad and is the District Central Cooperative Bank for Dharwad, Gadag and Haveri districts, will be held on June 18. And, hectic lobbying has already begun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kcc-bank-chairman-bapugouda-patil-quits/article34835874.ece
17 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Food kits given to slum dwellers||Considering the plight of the poor people hit by COVID-19-induced lockdown, Managing Director of Swarnaa Group V.S.V. Prasad has donated kits of essential commodities to slum dwellers. On Tuesday, Mr. Prasad distributed around 200 kits of essential commodities to slum dwellers of Lakshmi Nagar, Lakshmi Colony, Gabbur and other areas. He was accompanied by members of Swami Vivekananda Utsava Samiti Gurunath Iragar and Prashant Goudar. Addressing the beneficiaries, Mr. Prasad urged them to follow COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/food-kits-given-to-slum-dwellers/article34835881.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,KARNATAKA||Vaccination centres doubled in Hyderabad||The number of vaccination centres for inoculating the high exposure groups or “super spreaders” in the city have been doubled from Wednesday. A GHMC press note informed that the centres have been enhanced to 60 from the existing 30, in order to include women members of the Self Help Groups (SHGs) in the city. Earlier, there was only one vaccination centre per GHMC circle, and now they have been increased to two. There are a total of 46,255 SHGs constituting 4,67,560 members. On Wednesday, 48,879 beneficiaries were vaccinated at the centres, the note informed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/vaccination-centres-doubled-in-hyderabad/article34835839.ece
17 June 2021||K.C. DeepikaBengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hebbal-Nagawara valley project: Over 6,000 trees face the axe||Why destroy an ecosystem to create a new one? Anger is brewing among citizens and environmentalists over the Minor Irrigation Department’s proposal to clear over 6,000 trees in Singanayakanahalli to make way for a lake under the Hebbal-Nagawara Valley Project. According to a recent notification by the Forest Department, 6,316 trees have been proposed to be felled to make way for the development of Singanayakanahalli lake, Yelahanka hobli, as they are in the way of the project. The notification, published on June 14, has invited objections via email or post within 10 days from its publication. The Hebbal-Nagawara Valley Project aims to fill 65 tanks in Bengaluru Urban, Rural and Chickballapur. Last February, Bagaluru lake became the first to receive treated water from the project and meant to act as an impounded reservoir to supply water to 11 other lakes in the region. Though direct use of treated water for drinking and agricultural purposes has been prohibited, farmers in the area were largely optimistic of the project pushing up the water table. However, citizen activists are questioning the logic behind removing such a huge number of trees. Environmentalist Vijay Nishanth said the area is known to be a peacock habitat, and asked why those many trees had to be axed to develop a lake. “Ironically, only earlier this month did we celebrate World Environment Day with aplomb,” said V. Ramprasad, co-founder and convenor of Friends of Lakes. “Won’t clearing over 6,000 trees for lake development have a negative effect? There are so many different species of trees. There is a thriving peacock ecosystem. There are ways to restore a lake with the existing ecosystem ecologically and environmentally restore the lake as per High Court of Karnataka order. We need to start re-imagining lake development ecologically and environmentally. It is not a swimming pool or a walking track. It is not something that should benefit only humans,” he said. Volunteers from Eco Champ, a citizens’ group involved in environment issues, alleged that many trees have already been axed. “When we want to plant new trees, there are so many considerations - utility lines, road cutting, etc. But here, instead of thinking about planting new trees, they are hell-bent on destroying existing ones. Even if they promise replacement, how long will those saplings take to grow into trees?” asked a volunteer, adding that they would mobilise objections against the proposal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hebbal-nagawara-valley-project-over-6000-trees-face-the-axe/article34835821.ece
17 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Team of 30 doctors removes tumour from girl’s nasal cavity and brain in 11-hour surgery in Kalaburagi||A team of 30 surgeons from the Department of Neurology, ENT and Anaesthesia at Basaveshwar Teaching and General Hospital in Kalaburagi performed a rare surgery on a 16-year-old girl and removed the dumble shaped tumour (Olfactory Neuroblastoma/Esthesioneuroblastomas) from her nose and the nervous system. Head of the Neurology Department Satish Melkundi and Head of ENT C.B. Nandyal said that the patient had been suffering from severe pain, headache and nose bleeding for the last eight months. A computerised tomography (CT scan) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and orbits demonstrated a large heterogeneous mass in the left superior nasal cavity that had invaded the brain. The size of the tumour in the nasal cavity measured around 4 cm x 4 cm and in the brain, 6 cm x 8 cm occupying 30% of her nervous system. The patient was also diagnosed with proptosis, which resulted in enlargement of the eye. The patient was admitted to hospital on May 31 and the rare surgery was performed on June 8. Dr. Melkundi, Dr. Nandyal, ophthalmologist Mallikarjun Tegoor and anaesthetist Gajendra Singh, along with a team of doctors, held long discussions before performing the surgery that lasted 11 hours and removed the extensively spread cancer in the nasal cavity, along with the nervous system. To mitigate functional disruption, they also performed a reconstruction surgery. Though most ONB surgeries are performed via nose using an endoscopic endonasal approach, as it was a large ONB, the doctors opted for the endonasal and transcranial approach. About the probability of recurrence, Dr. Melkundi said that the risk of recurrence is low. Dr. Melkundi said that this case was immensely complicated as the tumour had grown in the nasal cavity and invaded the brain. The name of the patient was given as Neelambika Vijakumar Bhagirathi, a resident of Hudgi village in Bidar district.  “The surgery would have cost anywhere around Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh in any private hospital, but we performed it free under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Scheme,” Dr. Tegnoor added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/team-of-30-doctors-removes-tumour-from-girls-nasal-cavity-and-brain-in-11-hour-surgery-in-kalaburagi/article34835977.ece
17 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Mobile vaccination centre flagged off||North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) on Wednesday flagged off a mobile COVID-19 vaccination centre, set up on a bus, to increase vaccination coverage in rural areas in Kalaburagi district. The mobile vaccination centre was flagged off by NEKRTC Managing Director and Sedam MLA Rajkumar Patil Telkur. Mr. Telkur said that the district administration and the Health Department were facing problems in vaccinating people in rural areas as villagers are busy in agricultural activities and are neglecting the need to get vaccinated. And, health centres are not in close proximity to villages and reaching out to villagers is difficult. This mobile vaccination bus has been launched mainly with a focus on remote areas with the aim of increasing the pace of the vaccination drive so that the maximum number of people can be covered. The vaccination bus will be available in each taluk for three days. Mr. Telkur urged the Health Department officials and ASHAs to create awareness about vaccination services available on people’s doorsteps and help villagers in getting vaccinated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mobile-vaccination-centre-flagged-off/article34835887.ece
17 June 2021||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man sentenced to life for sexual assault on minor||The Second District and Sessions Court here has sentenced Arvind Rathod, a resident of Kalnoor village of Kalaburagi district, to imprisonment for sexually assaulting a minor girl in his village four years ago. Judge Gopalappa S., who heard the case, sentenced the accused to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 under Section 8 of POCSO Act and Section 354 (assault or criminal case force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of IPC. In 2017, Arvind Rathod sexually assaulted a minor girl on the pretext of marrying her. A complaint was registered at Gulbarga University Police Station. Public Prosecutor S.S. Ghantimath argued for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-sentenced-to-life-for-sexual-assault-on-minor/article34835879.ece
17 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 13.66 cr. loss to MESCOM due to gale and heavy rain||Mangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (MESCOM) has suffered Rs. 13.66 crore loss between April 1 and June 14 due to gale and heavy rain in four districts that it serves. The power distribution company supplies power in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru, all of which witnessed gale and heavy rain during Cyclone Tauktae, summer showers and the monsoon. As many as 7,075 poles have been damaged this time causing a loss of Rs. 5.86 crore, while 680 transformers have been damaged resulting in a loss of Rs. 6.56 crore. As much as 219.8 km of power lines too got damaged resulting in a loss of Rs. 1.24 crore, MESCOM said in a release here. As many as 2,352 poles were damaged in Dakshina Kannada, 1,592 in Udupi, 1,722 in Shivamogga and 1,409 poles were damaged in Chikkamagaluru. Similarly, 161 transformers were damaged in Dakshina Kannada, 322 in Udupi and 197 transformers were damaged in Shivamogga. The company said that restoration of damaged infrastructure is being taken up on a war-footing. Adequate quantity of poles, transformers, power cables and other material are readily available. MESCOM has geared up to face eventualities arising out of monsoon and has sanctioned 585 additional workmen for three months. While Dakshina Kannada has been given 176 additional personnel, Udupi gets 117, Shivamogga 142 and Chikkamagaluru has been sanctioned 150 additional personnel. These districts have also been given 19, 7, 10 and 10 additional vehicles, respectively. Action has been taken to replace COVID-19-infected personnel with an equal number of additional staff, it said. MESCOM admitted that there has been delay in restoration of affected infrastructure owing to geographical conditions of the region. Hilly terrain, forest areas, rivers and other water bodies and inaccessible areas make it difficult to restore infrastructure. Hence, the company has urged consumers to cooperate with it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-1366-cr-loss-to-mescom-due-to-gale-and-heavy-rain/article34835884.ece
17 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railways resumes services of several trains||The Railways has resumed services of several trains that had been discontinued owing to COVID-19 lockdown. A release from Palakkad Division of Southern Railway here said that the following trains have resumed services: Train Nos 02685/02686 Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central Daily Superfast Special; Train Nos 06347/06348 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mangaluru Central-Thiruvananthapuram Daily Special; Train Nos 06605 Mangaluru Central-Nagercoil Junction-Mangaluru Central (Ernad) Daily Special; Train Nos 06323/06324 Coimbatore Junction-Mangaluru Central- Coimbatore Daily Special; Train Nos 06628/06627 Mangaluru Central-Chennai Central-Mangaluru Central West Coast Daily Superfast Special and Train Nos 02620/02619 Mangaluru Central-Lokmanya Tilak-Mangaluru Central Matsyagandha Daily Special.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/railways-resumes-services-of-several-trains/article34835890.ece
17 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||NHAI to build overpass at Katpady Junction||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has given approval to a proposal from Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje to build a road overpass at Katpady Junction on National Highway 66 in Udupi district. In a statement here, Ms. Karandlaje said that Katpady Junction has been a busy one where vehicles from Shirva, Bantakal, Mattu, Belman and Katapady join the highway. It is also difficult for people to cross the highway amid the busy traffic in Katpady town falling under Kaup Assembly constituency. While people have been demanding a solution to the problem either in the form of an underpass or an overpass, she met Union Minister Nitin Gadkari many a time with the proposal. The Ministry has now given approval to the proposal to build an overpass at an estimated cost of Rs. 22.72 crore, the MP said. NHAI is in the process of preparing a detailed project report and it will be ready by next month. Ms. Karandlaje thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari for giving approval to the overpass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nhai-to-build-overpass-at-katpady-junction/article34835873.ece
17 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minor landslip at Ottinene||A minor landslip at Ottinene, near Byndoor in Udupi district due to heavy rain, posed a risk to traffic movement on the National Highway 66 for sometime on Wednesday. Later, IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd., concessionaire of the Kundapur-Karwar four lane project, removed the heap of soil from the highway side. A revenue official from Byndoor, who visited the spot, said that only a part of the hillock had slid. But it did not obstruct traffic movement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minor-landslip-at-ottinene/article34835886.ece
17 June 2021||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||ASI monuments yet to reopen in State||The monuments protected by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) continue to remain closed in districts where the local authorities have extended the lockdown till June 21 to curb the surge in the second wave of COVID-19. Also, enquiries with different ASI circles in the State indicated that monuments are yet to reopen to the public even in case of districts where there is graded unlocking. COVID-19 guidelines Though the ASI monuments across the country were officially ready for reopening on Wednesday, the authorities also stipulated that the local heads will decide on the reopening based on the prevailing COVID-19 guidelines in the respective districts. The decision to reopen the monuments will entirely depend on the Standard Operating Procedures and COVID-19 guidelines issued by the district administration, according to ASI officials. In Karnataka, all monuments in the 11 districts where the positivity rate is above 5% and the lockdown has been extended beyond June 14 remained closed. They included monuments in Srirangapatna, Keshava temple at Somanathpur in Mysuru district, and monuments at Belur, Halebid and Shravanabelagola in Hassan district. The districts where the lockdown has been extended and where the monuments remain closed to public are Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Mandya, Belagavi, and Kodagu. Date extended Officials in the ASI circle of Dharwad confirmed that none of the monuments in their jurisdiction were open to the public as on Wednesday. The group of monuments at the UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hampi is also yet to reopen and will remain closed till June 21 or any future date depending on the local situation, according to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/asi-monuments-yet-to-reopen-in-state/article34835848.ece
17 June 2021||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Tigress killed by gaur in Bandipur||A tigress aged around nine or 10 years was found dead in Bandipur Tiger Reserve late on Tuesday. A close examination of the carcass indicated that the tigress was badly injured in a fight with Indian Gaur. Post-mortem report Officials said the post-mortem examination of the carcass also indicated the presence of wounds likely to have been inflicted by a gaur. That there was no foul play was reinforced by the presence of claws and canines apart from the skin which was intact and was beginning to decay. The carcass was subsequently incinerated as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tigress-killed-by-gaur-in-bandipur/article34835846.ece
17 June 2021||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials told to sanction land for hostels, graveyards||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed officials to sanction land for the construction of hostels and graveyards on receipt of proposals. She was chairing a review meeting of development works under the Revenue Department in Yadgir on Tuesday. Dr. Ragapriya directed Revenue Department officials to identify land in 20 days to construct hostels for girls and boys of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the departments concerned have already sent proposals seeking land. As many as 350 graveyards are in 509 villages in the district. Officials should sanction land for building new graveyards and also construct approach roads to them, she said. She also said that action has to be taken to sanction sites for Raita Sampark Kendras expeditiously. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shankar Gowda Somanal and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/officials-told-to-sanction-land-for-hostels-graveyards/article34835889.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kodagu bans heavy vehicles from June 23||With monsoon gaining momentum in Kodagu, the district administration has banned the movement of heavy duty goods transport vehicles in the district from June 23 onwards. The restriction will be in force till August 16. The order was issued by Deputy Commissioner Charulatha Somal on Tuesday as a precaution based on the condition of roads and in the interest of safety. The possibilities of regular movement of trucks with heavy loads causing damage to roads and resulting in landslips are high due to wet conditions. Roads in Kodagu are narrow and lack strength to sustain the traffic load due to continuous rains. The ban will apply to trucks carrying timber and sand, goods carriers and trucks with a gross vehicle weight of 16,200 kg and above, shipping cargo containers and multi-axle vehicles, a release said here on Thursday. However, the curbs do not apply to containers carrying LPG and milk, vehicles on government work, school and college vehicles and public transport vehicles, including multi-axle vehicles. The Superintendent of Police, Kodagu, has been told to put up signboards wherever necessary about the restrictions. The police have also been told to keep a watch on goods carrier vehicles passing through Kodagu’s Kushalnagar and Sampaje on National Highway 275 by setting up check-posts. The district administration has asked for the deployment of mobile patrol personnel for the enforcement of the ban.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-bans-heavy-vehicles-from-june-23/article34835825.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State told to set up district-level panels for lake maintenance||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the State government to set up district-level committees, headed by Deputy Commissioners of the districts, on the lines of similar committees set up for city corporations and municipalities across the State, for monitoring maintenance and development of lakes/tanks. A Division Benchpassed the order while modifying the 2012 directions of the High Court on a PIL petition filed by Environment Support Group and Leo F. Saldanha. The CEO of respective zilla panchayats and one higher officer each from Departments of Forest, Minor Irrigation, Environment would be the members of the committee and the member-secretary of the respective district legal service committee would be the secretary, the court said. Meanwhile, another Division Bench on Wednesday said that it would consider the legal issues related to constructions put up in buffer zones of lakes across the State. The Bench said that apart from issue of removal of structures put up by the government and its agencies in buffer zones, the court has to delve on the issue of constructions put up legally by private persons whose land form part of the buffer zone of 30 meters from lake areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-told-to-set-up-district-level-panels-for-lake-maintenance/article34835850.ece
17 June 2021||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Casuarinas to be planted along coastal Alappuzha||In an attempt to protect coastal areas, the Social Forestry wing of the Kerala Forests and Wildlife Department will plant 1.5 lakh casuarina trees in the district. K. Saji, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), Alappuzha, said here recently that the planting activities would begin in connection with ‘Vanamaholsavam’ from July 1 to 7. “Our aim is to plant 1.5 lakh seedlings in 15 hectares between the Arthunkal breakwater and Mararikulam. In the first phase, we will plant 75,000 seedlings during the Vanamaholsavam. Rest of the seedlings will be planted in a time-bound manner,” Mr. Saji said. Casuarina has been found to be an effective bio-shield, which can minimise the impact of rough seas. “It may not be a permanent solution to sea attack, but planting casuarina can help protect the coastline. Casuarina trees were planted in Punnapra sometime ago and it has been found to be effective in checking the intensity of sea attack. Apart from protecting the coast, planting of trees will increase green cover,” Mr. Saji said. Ecologically key land Officials said the seedlings would be planted at a distance of 50 metres from the sea. The land between the sea and the planting site is considered ecologically important, which is being used by turtles to create nests among other such activities. “Seedlings will be planted with the help of respective local bodies. They will further engage Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) workers to look after the plants,” said an official. Seedlings required for the planting drive have already been made ready at nurseries. Apart from the 15 hectares, the Social Forestry wing would plant Casuarina trees in 12 more hectares in the district next year. In May 2021, sea attack left a trail of destruction along the Alappuzha coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/casuarinas-to-be-planted-along-coastal-alappuzha/article34836323.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,KERALA||Stalin visits ration shops||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin visited six ration shops in the city on Wednesday to review the distribution of cash assistance and relief kits to card holders. Mr. Stalin visited shops in Alwarpet, Nandanam and Llyods Colony. The State government had announced a cash assistance of Rs. 4,000 to each of the rice ration card holders across the State, in view of the hardship faced by the people in the face of COVID-19 and the lockdown. The assistance is being made in two instalments and the second instalment is being distributed from this week. The government has been distributing dry ration kits to eligible customers. Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni MLA Udhayanidhi Stalin accompanied the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stalin-visits-ration-shops/article34836005.ece
17 June 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Search for two youths in Idukki reservoir||The search for two persons missing in the catchment area of the Idukki reservoir at Kettuchira continued on Wednesday. The police, Fire and Rescue Services personnel, and a scuba team continued the search for Mattuthavalam residents Joice, 31, and Manu, 31, till 6 p.m. on Wednesday. They are suspected to have fallen into the reservoir while fishing on a country boat on Tuesday evening. Joice slipped into the water while throwing the net and Manu fell trying to rescue him. Ratheesh, who was with them, informed forest officials. The search started on Tuesday evening and it was stopped by 9 p.m. Unfavourable climate and heavy flow in the Periyar hindered the rescue works on Wednesday. The search will continue on Thursday, the police said.  Unfavourable climate and heavy flow in the Periyar hinder the rescue works on Wednesday||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/search-for-two-youths-in-idukki-reservoir/article34836324.ece
17 June 2021||Idukki,KERALA||Lockdown relaxations in Idukki local bodies||There are 16 grama panchayats in the district classified in the A category for allowing relaxation in lockdown from Thursday. They are Udumbanchola, Munnar, Vathikudy, Karimannur, Pampadumpara, Vattavada, Santhanpara, Karinkunnam, Kamakshi, Rajakumari, Karunapuram, Rajakkadu, Mariyapuram, Konnathadi, Erattayar, and Edamalakkudy. The B category included the two municipal areas of Thodupuzha and Kattappana in addition to the grama panchayats of Vandanmedu, Elappara, Peerumade, Chakkupallom, Manakkad, Kokkayar, Nedumkandam, Arakkulam, Pallivasal, Udumbannur, Alakkode, Ayyappancoil, Muttom, Bisonvalley, Kumali, Chinnakanal,Vannapuram, Velliyamattom, Mankulam,Vazhathoppe, Kumaramangalam, Kanchiyar, Peruvanthanam,Vellathooval, Kudayathur, Kodikulam, Upputhara, Marayur, Senapathi, Vandiperiyar, Kanthallur, Devikulam,Adimaly, Purappuzha, and Kanjikuzhi.. C category Edavetty is the only local body in the C category and there are none in the D category, said an official release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-relaxations-in-idukki-local-bodies/article34836325.ece
17 June 2021||Kalpetta,KERALA||Exploited by timber mafia, Muttil farmers live in fear of repercussions||The ongoing investigations by government agencies into rosewood tree felling and their repercussions are now a major concern for farmers who were allegedly exploited by timber mafia in the district. Agencies, including the special team constituted by the State government and the Intelligence wing of the Forest Department, have begun separate investigations into the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees within Muttil South Village limits. The police have registered cases against as many as 68 farmers, including tribal farmers in the village, under Section 379 (theft) of the IPC following a complaint by Revenue officials. Velan, a member of the Malamkara tribal hamlet near Vazhavatta, had sold a lone rosewood tree on his land to the lobby after they allegedly misinterpreted a government order. He got Rs. 38,000 for the huge tree but the villagers said Velan was duped by the lobby as it was a huge tree worth more than Rs. 5 lakh. Neelakanda Das, an 83-year-old farmer near Kakkavayal, sold four huge trees on his land to the lobby. “I planned to sell those trees since they started to wither and posed a threat to my house and property,” Mr. Das told The Hindu . The farmer got Rs. 1.50 lakh for the trees. “The lobby had misused an outdated government order (GO) issued on March11, 2020, which had given full right to farmers to cut all reserved trees except sandalwood on the assigned land. The lobby succeeded in exploiting the farming community in the area cleverly by using the order,” N. Badusha, an environmental activist, said. Obscurity in the second order issued on October, 24, 2020, also helped the lobby cheat farmers, he said. Farmers also fear that they might be charged a huge amount as fine for cutting the reserved trees on the assigned land as per the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exploited-by-timber-mafia-muttil-farmers-live-in-fear-of-repercussions/article34835988.ece
17 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF leaders to visit village||A group of UDF leaders, led by V.D. Satheeesan, Leader of Opposition, will visit Wayanad district on Thursday. The team will visit various sites under the Muttil South Village where the massive felling of rosewood trees was reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-leaders-to-visit-village/article34835986.ece
17 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||SIT begins probe into tree felling||A special investigation team (SIT) led by Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith on Wednesday began investigation into the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees on Revenue pattaya land under the Muttil South village limits in the district. Speaking to the media after attending a meeting of senior officials at Vythiri here, Mr. Sreejith said that the comprehensive investigation would bring all culprits behind the alleged felling of reserved trees.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sit-begins-probe-into-tree-felling/article34836006.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Total lockdown to continue at Chittattukara||Complete lockdown will continue to remain in place only at Chittattukara near North Paravur in Ernakulam district, since the test positivity rate (TPR) remains over 30% in the area. TPR, calculated as a weekly average, is being used to determine where strict restrictions will remain and where they will be eased. A total of 11 local bodies in the district fall in category A (TPR of less than 8%) — Palakuzha, Koothattukulam, Ayyampuzha, Thirumarady, Marady, Valakom, Elanji, Perumbavoor, Pindimana, Varapetty, and Keerampara. As many as 70 local bodies are in category B (TPR between 8% and 20%) — Ayavana, Muvattupuzha, Maneed, Chengamanad, Pothanikkad, Avoli, Nedumbassery, Edavanakkad, Manjappra, Kunnukara, Kochi, Parakadavu, Kalloorkad, Manjalloor, Arakuzha, Angamaly, Kavalangad, Ambaloor, Kizhakkambalam, Vadavucode-Puthencruz, Aluva, Pallarimangalam, Kothamangalam, Mookannoor, Ramamangalam, Mudakuzha, Udayamperoor, Puthenvelikara, Chottanikkara, Kottapady, Eloor, Mazhuvanoor, Kottuvally, Rayamangalam, Chellanam, Pampakuda, Malayatoor-Neeleswaram, Varapuzha, Piravom, Koovapady, Edathala, Ezhikkara, Paingottoor, Kumbalam, Thrikkakara, Keezhmad, North Paravur, Vengoor, Kuzhupilly, Thiruvaniyoor, Edakattuvayal, Mulanthuruthy, Vengola, Kadamakudy, Kadungalloor, Pallipuram, Kalamassery, Thripunithura, Mulavukad, Poothrikka, Thuravoor, Maradu, Karukutty, Chendamangalam, Cheranalloor, Karumaloor, Vazhakulam, Kanjoor, Sreemoolanagaram, and Nayarambalam. A total of 14 local bodies are in category C (TPR between 20% and 30%) — Njarakkal, Nellikuzhi, Choornikkara, Okal, Kalady, Alangad, Elamkunnapuzha, Vadakkekara, Asamannoor, Kuttampuzha, Kumbalanghi, Kunnathunad, Payipra, and Aikaranad. Chittattukara is the only local body that falls under category D (TPR over 30%). TPR will be assessed every Wednesday to determine the nature of restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-lockdown-to-continue-at-chittattukara/article34835994.ece
17 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Rough sleepers harried by mounting debt, not COVID-19||A former autorickshaw driver from Kottayam who now lives under the Ernakulam north overbridge says he is more worried about paying off a mountain of debt than contracting COVID. Nevertheless, he was at the Ernakulam Town Hall on Wednesday during a vaccination camp organised by the Kochi Corporation for homeless persons. “Looks like COVID is prone to attack people in air-conditioned rooms and homes with walls. We don’t have any of that,” he said while he waited out the half-hour observation period post-vaccination. “At least 50 of us live under the bridge, and as far as we know, we haven’t fallen sick yet,” said the man in his 50s who has studied till class 12. He has counted 110 days since he hitch-hiked from Kottayam, arrived in Kochi and began to spend all his nights and some of his days beneath the bridge. Estranged from his family, he is struggling to pay off the debt he has accumulated over the years and is on the lookout for a steady job. Strangers provide packets of food sometimes, and now since the lockdown set in, the police have been distributing meals, he said, adding, “If somebody finds a day’s work and can buy some food, they share.” “Some are intermittently employed. Sometimes, we get asked to sell fruits by the wayside or help out in shops. The day usually begins with a walk to the railway station to use the washrooms there. If somebody manages to buy a newspaper, we spend the day reading it. If there is no work, we wait around under the bridge and go to sleep around the time shops close. Now that it is raining, it is a long wait for space beneath the bridge to dry up before we can sleep,” he said. “Contrary to what most people think, we are not using substances or getting drunk everyday. Some are always on the lookout for jobs and are hoping to return to their families,” he added. Around 70 homeless people from the Ernakulam north area were identified for vaccination on Wednesday, said Mithun, a representative of Mirror, an NGO that has been working with the Kochi Corporation to roll out the vaccination drive. Twenty people, registered on the spot, took the shot in the first session. So far, the organisation has identified around 200 homeless people within the corporation limits, he added. The NGO is hoping to help with some means of long-term rehabilitation for such persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rough-sleepers-harried-by-mounting-debt-not-covid-19/article34835998.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. wants report on ‘Roshni’ deadlock in 10 days||The Department of General Education has sought a report from the Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam, within 10 days on how to resolve the deadlock over the Roshni project for children of migrant workers in Ernakulam.  The Hindu report titled ‘Educational project for children of migrant workers in Ernakulam district hits a roadblock’ published on June 9 had pointed out that nearly 40 education volunteers associated with the project were yet to receive their salary of Rs. 10,000 each from November last to March this year. “The department will soon act based on the report submitted by the Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam. It is a socially relevant project initiated by the district administration for the children of migrant workers,” said A.P.M. Mohammad Hanish, Principal Secretary, Department of General Education. The innovative project was launched by the district administration in 2017 with the corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. Roshni project had also found mention in the Governor’s policy address last year. The government had said that it would be extended across the State. 1,250 beneficiaries As many as 1,250 migrant children enrolled in classes 1 to 7 across 40 government and aided schools in Ernakulam had received the benefits of the programme amid the pandemic situation in the previous academic year. Nearly 66 students, who had left for their home States with their parents following the lockdown last year, were part of this group. Honey G. Alexander, Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam, who is also the nodal officer for the project, said a detailed letter would be submitted to the District Collector on the status of the project along with details of pending salary arrears due to educational volunteers. Rs. 20 lakh required  The Hindu report had said that around Rs. 20 lakh was required to clear the salary arrears of 40 educational volunteers since November. The salary for the first five months of the previous academic year was given from the balance funds available in the academic year 2019-20. The district administration has not yet issued a revised proposal submitted in August by the project proponents to Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., which had supported the initiative since 2017 using its CSR funds, it is learnt. Fund release The office of the Deputy Director of Education had also forwarded bills and vouchers of expenses incurred under the project up to March to the District Collector for approval in April. The district administration had maintained that the release of funds could be effected only after due certification from the Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-wants-report-on-roshni-deadlock-in-10-days/article34836002.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||New guidelines issued for local bodies||The State government has issued guidelines that will be enforced in local bodies based on TPR.  Category A All shops and establishments can function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. with up to 50% employees, taxis and auto rickshaws can operate, hotels and restaurants can operate for delivery and takeaway from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., and home delivery will be permitted till 9.30 p.m. Category B Shops selling essentials will function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily. Other shops and private establishments can function on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. with 50% workers. Hotels and restaurants will be open for delivery and takeaway from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Outdoor sports activities with no physical contact and morning and evening walks will be permitted in areas falling within categories A and B. Public offices will function with 25% staff, and Beverages Corporation outlets and bars will be permitted for takeaway, in areas falling under categories A and B. Category C Shops selling essential items can function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily. Shops selling items for marriage (textiles, jewellery, footwear), for students, and repair services can function only on Fridays from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. with 50% workers. Hotels and restaurants will be open for delivery and takeaway from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Category D Intensified restrictions in place over the weekend will apply to local bodies in this category throughout the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-guidelines-issued-for-local-bodies/article34835995.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. wants all students to have access to online classes||The Department of General Education has started acting on complaints that some unaided schools are not permitting students to attend online classes on account of non-payment of fee. A few parents had lodged complaints with the department after the new academic year began online on June 1. The department has directed the district heads to resolve the complaints without delay. A parent had complained to V. Sivankutty, Minister for General Education, that the management of Choice School in Thripunithura had prevented nearly 140 students from attending online classes because of non-payment of fee. Senior officials of the department said the Minister had intervened and ensured that all students of the school had access to online classes. The Deputy Director of Education, Ernakulam, informed the school authorities that the Supreme Court and Kerala High Court had made it clear that no student should be denied the right to pursue education, especially amid the financial crisis faced by parents following the pandemic situation. Ajith P. Jacob, Principal, refuted the complaint. “It was a wrong statement. In fact, over 500 of our students are currently pursuing online sessions without paying the first instalment of fee for the new academic year,” he said. The school management said that no student would be barred from attending online classes for non-payment of fees. The Education Department has been trying to convince the managements of unaided schools not to collect fees for activities and facilities not offered to students. The officials have been reiterating the Supreme Court directive asking educational institutions to reduce fees as the running costs have come down with facilities provided on the campus remaining closed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-wants-all-students-to-have-access-to-online-classes/article34835996.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||1,793 new cases in Ernakulam; TPR 14.4%||A total of 1,793 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. A test positivity rate of 14.4% was recorded when 12,415 tests were done. The active case load stood at 14,139. There were 14 health workers among those who tested positive. Aikaranad recorded the highest number of cases with 69 people testing positive. Kumbalanghi registered 58 new cases, Fort Kochi 53, Nayarambalam 51, Chellanam 49, Thrikkakara 47, Kalady 42, Kunnathunad 41, Kalamassery 37, and Mundamveli 35. A total of 1,801 recoveries were recorded and 249 people were discharged from treatment facilities. As many as 179 people were newly admitted to hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1793-new-cases-in-ernakulam-tpr-144/article34835999.ece
17 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Aisha’s remarks amount to sedition, HC told||The allegation by Aisha Sultana, filmmaker, that the Union government had used COVID-19 as a bio-weapon against the people of Lakshadweep prima facie amounts to an assertion prejudicial to national integration, according to a statement filed by the Lakshadweep administration in the Kerala High Court in response to Ms. Sultana’s anticipatory bail petition in a sedition case. The statement filed on Wednesday by S. Manu, counsel for the administration and the Kavaratti police, said the assertion by the petitioner during a channel discussion could be prima facie considered an attempt to incite disaffection among the people towards the Union government. It had the tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resorting to violence. Hence a crime had been registered for the offences under Sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (assertions against national integration) of Indian Penal Code. It was the duty of the police to register a crime when they had information on commission of cognizable offences. As for her submission that she had apologised, the administration and the police contended that “the apologies or explanations made with the intention to avoid legal consequences will not absolve the criminal liability of the offences already completed.” The case was in the preliminary stage of investigation and interrogation of the petitioner was unavoidable for the progress of the investigation, the statement added. The anticipatory bail petition will come up for hearing on June 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aishas-remarks-amount-to-sedition-hc-told/article34836011.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Probe into financial means of rape accused||The city police are poring through the financial accounts of Martin Joseph accused of restraining and raping his alleged live-in partner. A local court had given the police his custody on Tuesday. He was taken for evidence collection at the flat where the abuse had taken place and at another apartment at Thrikkakara where he had forcibly taken refuge for hiding from the police. The woman at that apartment has also lodged a complaint against him. The police expect a while to analyse his financial means that enabled his luxurious lifestyle and whether anyone was on his pay. He will be taken to Thrissur for further evidence collection on Thursday as he was nabbed from Mundoor there after a three-day-long manhunt. Three of his aides were also arrested by the police from Thrissur on the charge of harbouring the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-into-financial-means-of-rape-accused/article34836000.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||HC rejects plea against road construction on Agatti island||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by some of the Agatti islanders against a single judge’s verdict allowing construction of a beach road on the island. The appeal was filed by Kasmikoya and four other persons. The single judge had earlier dismissed a writ petition filed by them, accepting the contention of the Lakshadweep administration that the construction of the beach road was essential for the development of the island.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-rejects-plea-against-road-construction-on-agatti-island/article34836003.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court returns PIL for investigation||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday returned for rectifying the defects in the filing procedure a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a probe by a Centre government agency into the alleged illegal cutting and removal of valuable trees from Wayanad and other districts Justice N. Anil Kumar observed that the PIL was filed as a private interest litigation. The petitioner had not suffered any loss or injury personally on account of the acts alleged. Besides, no Central agency had been made a party to the proceedings. The Bench also observed that the petition was filed without complying with Section 146 A of the High Court of Kerala Rules, which required the petitioner of a PIL to file an affidavit affirming that there was no pronouncement by the Supreme Court or the High Court on the question raised and that the result of the PIL should not lead to any undue gain for himself or for anyone associated with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/high-court-returns-pil-for-investigation/article34835983.ece
17 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Traditional fishers find the going tough||With pelagic catch hitting an all-time low and various COVID-19 related curbs in place, traditional fishers are staring at a prolonged dry spell. Normally fishers in the traditional sector look forward to June when the trawl ban is in place and the monsoon currents offer a good harvest. But this year they have been hit hard by multiple factors, including erratic weather and strict clampdowns at harbours. “After hitting the rock bottom during the last several months, we had pinned all our hopes on this season. But we could venture into the sea only once since the ban came into effect,” says Harikumar, a fisher from Alappad. 65 working days Instead of the regular 200 to 250 days, the fishers got hardly 65 working days last year and now, many days into the peak season, their plight continues. “We usually come back with huge hauls of sardine, mackerel, and shrimps, but now the season is too dull. Apart from a reasonable catch of shrimp from Alappuzha, none of the boats that ventured into the sea from the southern coast made a profitable trip in the past two weeks,” says Ansari from Punthura. The season in 2021 began with rough sea alerts restricting all fishing activities and lockdown on the weekends. The revised COVID-19 guidelines and repeated weather warnings often create confusion among the fishers and in many places cases were filed against boat owners. Alternate days In Kollam, the biggest fish landing centre in the State, crafts can venture into the sea only on alternate days. “Boats that return with nearly-zero catch can't touch waters the next day due to this and some get only two working days a week. When the harbours were reopened last month, antigen tests were made mandatory to enter. Many of us had to take the test at private hospitals as the government facilities were insufficient. When fishing villages or harbours fall into the list of containment zones, a lot of people are denied the opportunity to work,” adds Harikumar. Since the trawl ban along the east coast came to an end this week, there will be a huge inflow of fish to the State from Tamil Nadu, posing another challenge to the fishers. “There will be an abundance of fish in markets as trucks from Tamil Nadu reach Kerala much earlier than we return with the day’s catch,” says Jackson Pollayil, president, Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation. He also points out that harbour management societies that were expected to regulate all activities in harbours are now dysfunctional in many districts. After the 2020 lockdown, the societies had taken over marketing and distribution much to the relief of fishers. Sabotaged “Private lobbies have sabotaged the system and we are forced to pay commission. Though the government had promised freezer facilities, nothing materialised. And instead of helping the fishers in distribution, Matsyafed is now functioning more like a microfinance unit offering loans. The Kerala Fishermen's Welfare Fund Board is also a failure compared to other boards when it comes to offering support,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/traditional-fishers-find-the-going-tough/article34836327.ece
17 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,342 new COVID cases in Kollam||The district reported 1,342 new cases of COVID-19 and 1,882 recoveries on Wednesday. While 1,337 patients contracted the disease through contact, the others include one NRI, two persons from another State and two health workers. Kollam district currently has 33,220 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 15,16,633. A total of 3,114 people completed home quarantine on Wednesday, a bulletin issued here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1342-new-covid-cases-in-kollam/article34836328.ece
17 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Reopen shrines: NSS||In view of the easing of the lockdown restrictions across the State, the Nair Service Society (NSS) has urged the State government to permit the reopening of worship places. In a statement on Wednesday, NSS general secretary G. Sukumaran Nair said authorities should immediately review their decision not to permit the reopening of shrines. “ The present restrictions amount to a breach of the right of devotees. The government should permit the conduct of daily rituals and allow the faithful to offer prayers in compliance with the restrictions,” Mr. Nair said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/reopen-shrines-nss/article34836330.ece
17 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||TPR not the only indicator of pandemic control: experts||Test positivity rate (TPR) is a much-talked about term these days, based on which the government is now intensifying or relaxing COVID-19 containment steps. But public health professionals say TPR need not be the most valid or sensitive indicator of pandemic control. A senior Health Department official said the current method of calculating TPR, the percentage of people testing positive for the virus per 100 samples, is not based on a fixed denominator. “If 10 out of 100 people test positive in an area, the TPR is 10%. If 200 are tested and 10 people get infected, it will come down to 5%. If five out of 50 people test positive the next day, even if there is a decline in the number of new patients, the TPR remains 10%,” he said. If the number of infected persons rises to 10, the TPR also goes up to 20% in that place. This means that the TPR is dependent only on the number of people getting tested and not on the whole population in any area. “If tests are carried out in a nearby area which is more populated, the TPR will be similar. No matter how big the population is, the rate will not change,” he said. The official said that if the TPR comparison between two places has to be fair, the number of people subjected to tests should be increased according to the population. Otherwise, a fixed number of tests should be mandatory based on the size of the population. Better option “A better epidemiological option will be to compare the tests per 1,000 of the population and the new cases per 1,000 of the population. The test rates and case rates per population can be determined thus during a particular period,” he added. Another public health professional, who wished not to be quoted, said that the TPR depends on many factors. They include the sensitivity and specificity of the test kits, prevalence of the infection, and the probability of infection among people. If vulnerable people and those who have had contacts with already infected people are tested, they stand a chance of turning positive. If asymptomatic people and those who have had no contacts are tested, they will not turn positive as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tpr-not-the-only-indicator-of-pandemic-control-experts/article34836008.ece
17 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Most local bodies in Kozhikode to have partial lockdown||Partial lockdown will be in force in a majority of local bodies in Kozhikode district from Thursday. Shops selling essential commodities will be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Other shops can function on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays during the same time and private firms can also function on these days with 50% of staff. Government and semi-government offices will have 25% staff on a rotation basis. This was announced by District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Wednesday even as the COVID-19-induced total lockdown ended in the midnight. It is based on a government decision to allow relaxations in local bodies considering the test positivity rate (TPR) recorded in wards and divisions in grama panchayats, municipalities and corporations. The local bodies have been divided into four categories. Those with a TPR below 8% are in ‘A’ category, local bodies with a TPR between 8% and 19% are in ‘B’ category, those with a TPR between 20% and 29% are in ‘C’ category, and others with a TPR above 30% are in ‘D’ category. Kozhikode Corporation, Vadakara, Koyilandy, Payyoli, Feroke, Ramanattukara, Koduvally and Mukkom municipalities, and 40 grama panchayats are in ‘B’ category. As many as 29 grama panchayats are in ‘A’ category where all institutions can function with 25% of staff on rotation basis. Others can work from home. All shops, including Akshaya centres, can function between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. with 50% staff. Hotel and restaurants can have parcel service till 7 p.m. and home delivery till 9.30 p.m. House maids can travel. Jogging is allowed. Peruvayal and Karassery panchayats have been included in ‘C’ category where lockdown restrictions would continue. Only shops selling food and medicines can function between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Textile shops, jewellery shops, and footwear shops can function for wedding purpose and those selling school books can function on Fridays. Hotels and restaurants can have parcel service and home delivery only. None of the local bodies in the district have been included in the ‘D’ category where triple lockdown would be implemented. Mr. Rao said that strict restrictions would be imposed on Saturdays and Sundays. Fresh cases Meanwhile, 1,054 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday, of whom 1,039 acquired the infection through local transmission. The source of 15 others is not known. A daily TPR of 10.45% was recorded when 10,307 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation accounted for 251 cases of locally acquired infections. As many as 1,495 people recovered from the infection and active caseload from the district stands at 11,023.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-local-bodies-in-kozhikode-to-have-partial-lockdown/article34836311.ece
17 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Modernisation of Revenue Department on the anvil||With the Revenue and Forest Departments embroiled in a conflict over the illegal felling of trees from government-assigned lands, a proposal has been mooted to modernise the Revenue Department to equip it to manage all lands and resources within its jurisdiction in a scientific manner using Global Positioning System (GPS) information. Many believe the proposal, under the active consideration of the State government, will equip the Revenue Department to handle the task of resource management outside forestlands. “The Revenue Department should fully own up management of resource in its jurisdiction so as to end the confusion in the exercise of authority. The department should not just engage in tax collection, but also take responsibility. Now, the Forest Department has been dragged into unnecessary complexities and controversies on revenue land,” P.N. Unnikrishnan, former Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), Department of Wildlife and Forests, who pioneered Participatory Forest Management in Kerala, told The Hindu on Tuesday. Inventory of resources He said a computerised information system would help the Revenue Department maintain an inventory of resources indicating their geographical location. Thus, inventories of man-made farmlands, ponds, wells, canals, roads as well as natural resources (trees, streams, rivers, lakes, wetlands, natural forests and ecosystems, fragile and threatened landscape, and mangroves) would be available with the government. “This database generated could be mapped onto survey map as well as employed for taking management decisions,” Mr. Unnikrishnan, first director of the Attapadi Hills Area Development Society Project (AHADS). Mr. Unnikrishnan, who also had a stint as wildlife warden of Silent Valley National Park and erstwhile Parambikulam Wildlife Sanctuary, said as of now, the Forest Department was the sole legal authority on forestland and its resources. “However, the same cannot be said about the Revenue Department. It had assigned land to individuals or institutions, but has shown little concern for the land and resources under its authority. It sees itself as an authority to assign land based on survey numbers and then ignores the fate of the land and its resources,” Mr. Unnikrishnan said. He said that forestland was entirely under State ownership while revenue land was assignable to individuals. “An assignment of revenue land whether it is leased or handed over does not change the ownership though it allows private individuals the right of use. The ultimate ownership is retained by the State,” Mr. Unnikrishnan, who had worked with the Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE), said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/modernisation-of-revenue-department-on-the-anvil/article34835981.ece
17 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Protection brigade to ‘safeguard’ private hospitals in State||Relatives or friends of patients who vent their anger on private hospital staff in the State for alleged medical lapses need to be careful from now. An association of doctors and private hospitals here is planning to form an ‘all-men protection brigade’ involving their staff to ensure safety of health workers who, the forum claimed, are frequently facing physical attacks. At least two well-trained security guards will be appointed in each institution. Closed-circuit television cameras will be installed at the labour ward, intensive care unit, casualty ward, the triage for admitting COVID-19 patients and at the hospital entrance. The brigade members will be trained in self-defence too. Regular drills will also be conducted. Alarm to be installed C.M. Aboobacker, president, Qualified Private Medical Practitioners’ Association (QPMPA), said a special alarm bell would be installed at the labour ward, intensive care unit, casualty ward, and the COVID-19 triage. In the event of alarm bell going off, all the male staff, including doctors, nurses, nursing assistants, and the staff in the security, paramedical wing and office would reach the spot. Staff attending to emergency and critically ill patients would be spared from this. They would try to resist the unruly people and try to pacify them. They would also stop anyone from ransacking the furniture and other equipment in the hospital. Police personnel would be informed about the incident without losing time and members of the association as well as friends would be tipped off. The incident could be recorded on mobile phones. If some people were found to be upset and seething with anger after losing their loved ones, the brigade members would try to assuage their feelings without losing their cool. Bodies of the deceased would be handed over fast and more time would be given to clear the bills. Over 2,000 members The QPMA has around 2,000 doctors as its members and over 1,000 affiliated hospitals across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/protection-brigade-to-safeguard-private-hospitals-in-state/article34835982.ece
17 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Playwright Santhakumar no more||A. Santhakumar, who died here on Wednesday at the age of 52 while undergoing treatment for leukaemia, was one of the finest playwrights in Malayalam of his generation. He directed most of the plays he wrote. Many of those plays won critical acclaim besides enjoying reruns on the stage. Through them he dealt with a variety of themes. In Maram Peyyunnu , one of his finest works, he brought to life the tragic story of Ajayan, who was confined to a wheelchair after falling from a tree. The play was well-written; it could have worked with any actor playing the protagonist. But Santhakumar made Ajayan play out the tragic tale of himself. It was first staged in Kozhikode 15 years ago. One still remembers being moved by watching the preview of the extraordinary production. Big hit  Maram Peyyunnu won Santhakumar much critical acclaim and the Kerala Sahitya Akademi award. It was a big hit on stage too. Before it was going to be performed in Singapore, Ajayan passed away. Among his other notable plays are Sukhanidrayilekku , which was about a girl being abused by her father, Oru Rathriyude Kamukimar , which talked about sex workers, and Ente Pullippay Karayunnu , which dealt with farmer suicides. Santhakumar’s theatrical world was indeed a wide one. And he knew how to bring raw life to the stage without being too dramatic. Varied plots “His was a strong voice on our stage,” his friend and playwright Pradeep Kumar Kavunthara told The Hindu . “His dialogues were powerful and his plots varied. The last time we talked, he told me about a film script he was planning to write.” His first, and only film, Bhoomiyile Manohara Swakaryam was released last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/playwright-santhakumar-no-more/article34836010.ece
17 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants in State welcome mandatory gold hallmarking||Even as a section of small-scale gold merchants remains upset over the latest government order insisting mandatory hallmarking of gold jewellery, the majority of leading traders under the All Kerala Gold and Silver Merchants Association (AKGSMA) have welcomed the Union government’s decision hailing it as a ‘pro-customer initiative’ aimed at ensuring gold purity and fair trade. They claim that the rules which came into effect on June 15 will in no way affect the living of small players in the industry whose annual turnover is below Rs. 40 lakh. “We have a satisfactory number of BIS hallmarking units in almost all districts, except Idukki, to follow the new rule. In Kozhikode district alone, there are 10 such centres considering the increased quantity of sales here,” says K. Surendran, general secretary, AKGSMA. Meanwhile, the Calicut Bullion Dealers Associationsays it will throw a large number of ordinary merchants out of the business. “We are not against the hallmarking practice, but there should be more facilities to complete it easily. A rural entrepreneur will never be able to travel a long distance for the hallmarking process alone. The order should not emerge as a tool to throttle the weaker segments,” says P. Sunilkumar, president of the Kammath Lane Gold and Silver Merchants Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/merchants-in-state-welcome-mandatory-gold-hallmarking/article34835990.ece
17 June 2021||Palakkad,KERALA||Hospital offers apology as rat bites woman’s body||The body of a woman kept in a private hospital mortuary at Pattambi in the district was found to have been nibbled at by rats on Wednesday. A controversy erupted over the untoward incident that took place at Sevana Hospital and Research Centre, Pattambi, prompting an investigation by District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha. Sundari, 65, from Manissery Lakshamveedu Colony at Ottapalam, was admitted to the hospital for heart treatment on Monday. She died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday. The body was kept in the hospital morgue for a day on request by her family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hospital-offers-apology-as-rat-bites-womans-body/article34835991.ece
17 June 2021||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Tharayil Finance owner in police custody||The police team probing the Tharayil Finance case on Wednesday recorded the arrest of Saji Sam, owner of the Pathanamthitta-based non-banking finance company that allegedly cheated its depositors. Officials said Sam had gone into hiding following the cheating cases lodged by his customers and surrendered before the Pathanamthitta police on Wednesday afternoon. The Pathanamthitta district police had registered as many as 53 cases against the firm under Indian Penal Code Section 420 since last week. As per these cases, the private finance company is alleged to have duped around Rs. 7.4 crore from its investors. During preliminary interrogation, the accused reportedly expressed his willingness to refund the deposits to the customers and sought time for the same. According to sources, the company used to collect deposits from investors, especially the NRI community, by offering lucrative interest and it abruptly stopped paying interest on the deposits from February this year. Following this, customers approached the firm’s offices directly though to no avail and all its branch offices began closing down from May onward. Three branches Tharayil Finance, which began operations in 1991, has three branches in Pathanamthitta and one in Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tharayil-finance-owner-in-police-custody/article34836329.ece
17 June 2021||R.K. RoshniThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A continuing struggle for domestic workers||Mercy Shaji of Kottayam may count herself lucky. A domestic worker, Mercy is picked up by her employers thrice a week since she does not have a vehicle nor public transport is available to reach her workplace. Mercy’s wages feed her family of four as her husband, a labourer, does not have work due to the lockdown. Many domestic workers, though, have lost their jobs in the wake of the pandemic. Others have not been able to travel to work owing to restrictions. A good number of them are single women, trying to provide for their families. While there is a moratorium on loan repayment, they worry about the steep interest rates when repayments resume, says Mercy. Wednesday (June 16), International Domestic Workers’ Day, marks the 10th anniversary of adoption of the ILO Convention 189 stipulating decent work for domestic workers. India is a signatory to the convention, but is yet to ratify it. Instead of improvement in the conditions of domestic workers, neglect of their rights continues. There is little recognition of them as workers and essential service providers. The COVID-19 pandemic has only exacerbated matters. Law sought Domestic workers’ organisations say nothing much has been done to support the ILO Convention. The National Platform of Domestic Workers and other organisations have now written to the Prime Minister and MPs seeking a national legislation that will pave the way for ratifying the convention. Sonia George, secretary, SEWA (Self Employed Women’s Association) Union, says the Code on Social Security passed last year does not recognise private homes as establishments or define an employer. So, in effect domestic workers remain out of the purview of labour laws, though they have been included under the Rashtriya Swasthya Bima Yojana and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act. Some domestic workers who are part of the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Board get some benefits on paying a monthly contribution, but all domestic workers are not members of the board. Moreover, there is no employee contribution to the funds as there is no written contract with any employer. Nor is there equal support from the State. Income support Mridul Eapen, former member of the State Planning Board, says income support is what domestic workers need immediately. With Rs. 5 crore allocated for domestic workers in the State Budget for 2021-22, domestic workers’ organisations and private agencies should press the Labour Department to sanction some support to help them tide over the pandemic-induced crises. Registration of domestic workers with the Labour Department is also imperative so that they become more visible and can get entitlements due to them, she says. Employer responsibility is absent as most domestic workers work part-time in multiple households, leaving them more vulnerable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-continuing-struggle-for-domestic-workers/article34835944.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strict curbs in local bodies with TPR above 30%||Six local bodies in the district with daily average COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) above 30 will continue to have stringent restrictions while three local bodies with TPR below eight will have very light restrictions, as per the new set of guidelines announced by the district administration to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The guidelines will come into force on Wednesday midnight. Local bodies in the district have been categorised into four based on TPR — A category having local bodies with TPR below 8, B category with TPR between 8 and 20, C category with TPR between 20 and 30 and D category having TPR above 30. On weekends There will be complete lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays across the entire district. The local bodies in category D are Kadinamkulam, Pothencode, Panavoor, Manamboor, Athiyannoor and Karode. The C category has 38 local bodies, including Mangalapuram, Azhoor, Kanjiramkulam, Kadakkavoor, Cherunniyoor, Ottoor, Kizhuvilam, Maranalloor, Vithura, Kalliyoor, Chemmaruthy, Kollayil, Perumkadavila, Elakamon, Thirupuram, Aruvikkara, Mudakkal, Vembayam, Amboori, Pulimath, Pallichal, Kallara, Andoorkonam, Karumkulam, Nellanad, Kottukal, Balaramapuram, Anadu, Pazhayakunnummel, Vakkom, Kattakada, Kunnathukal, Venganoor, Chirayinkeezhu, Malayinkeezhu, Chenkal, Edava and Kilimanoor. A total of 31 local bodies, including the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation and all the four municipalities in the district, are in the B category with relatively lesser restrictions. Local bodies The local bodies in this category are Varkala municipality, Poovachal, Karakulam, Pallikkal, Tholicode, Karavaram, Vettoor, Kulathoor, Vilappil, Peringamala, Poovar, Pullampara, Parassala, Vilavoorkal, Vamanapuram, Attingal municipality, Pangode, Vellarada, Vellanad Neyyatinkara municipality, Manickal, Ottasekharamangalam, Aryankode, Anchuthengu, Uzhamalackal, Nedumangad municipality, Aryanad, Navayikulam, Madavoor and Kallikkadu. ‘A’ category The local bodies in the A category are Nanniyode, Nagaroor and Kuttichal panchayats, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strict-curbs-in-local-bodies-with-tpr-above-30/article34835950.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Eight of KSRTC’s public fuel pumps to start in 100 days||The first eight of the 67 retail petrol/diesel outlets being set up by the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) in association with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) will start functioning in 100 days. Necessary approvals have been received for starting the outlets at Nedumangad, Attingal, Chathannur, Mavelikara, Cherthala, Munnar, Thrissur and Guruvayur to increase non-ticket revenue for the KSRTC, said Transport Minister Antony Raju recently. The KSRTC has already signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the IOC to allow public access to the fuel outlets in its 67 bus depots in the State. Rs. 70 cr. expected Through this, the KSRTC expects Rs. 70 crore annually after deducting all expenses, including rent and the dealer commission. Mr. Raju said this would help reduce the financial crisis being faced by the KSRTC. Petrol pumps would be added to the diesel-dispensing units and motorists would have easy access to the retail outlets being set up on KSRTC station premises. Other places Fuel retail outlets will also be set up at Muvattupuzha, Angamaly, Perinthalmanna, Kozhikode and Kannur. The retail outlets will be managed by the KSRTC using its staff. The Minister said the KSRTC would not have to bear any cost for setting up the retail outlets and the entire expense would be taken care of by the IOC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/eight-of-ksrtcs-public-fuel-pumps-to-start-in-100-days/article34836322.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSIDC to support 30 start-up ventures||The Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC will support 30 innovative start-up ventures with seed fund assistance in the 2021-22 fiscal. The seed fund scheme primarily aims at supporting scientifically and technologically innovative projects promoted by young entrepreneurs and that are commercially viable, according to KSIDC Managing Director M.G Rajamanickam. Under the scheme, assistance up to Rs. 25 lakh or 90% of the project cost, whichever is lower, is provided as a soft loan for one year at low interest rate. Options After one year, the soft loan can either be converted into equity capital at face value or repaid with applicable interest. For those seed fund-assisted start-ups that have introduced their product in the market, the KSIDC provides further financial assistance up to Rs. 50 lakh as loan for scaling up their business activities. In the current financial year, it is proposed to provide scale-up support to five ventures. Since 2015 About Rs. 24 crore has been sanctioned for 117 start-ups through the seed fund scheme, which is operational since 2015. As much as 40% of the units assisted have completed the seed stage. The seed fund-assisted companies of the KSIDC have an estimated employment generation of 1,000. Those interested in seed fund assistance should contact the KSIDC Kochi office (telephone 0484-2323010) by July 15 and submit applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksidc-to-support-30-start-up-ventures/article34835942.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New tardigrade species named after Kerala||They are tiny, they are tough, and the latest of their ilk to be identified has been named after Kerala. Tardigrades are so small you need high-end microscopes to study them. Commonly called ‘water bears’ and ‘moss piglets’, they also rank among the hardiest animals on planet earth despite their minuscule size. Researchers have now come across a new tardigrade species of the genus Stygarctus, which they have named after the State of Kerala where it was found.  Stygarctus keralensis, the new species, is the first taxonomically described marine tardigrade from the Indian waters, which makes the discovery a significant one, the researchers say.  Stygarctus keralensis was discovered from Vadakara in north Kerala by a research team which consisted of Vishnudattan N.K., Jayachandran P.R., and S. Bijoy Nandan, professor, Department of Marine Biology, Microbiology and Biochemistry, Cochin University of Science and Technology. J.G. Hansen, University of Copenhagen, was associated with the study. Their findings have been published in Zootaxa .  Stygarctus keralensis is the eighth species named under the genus Stygarctus, which grows up to a length of 130 micrometres (0.13 mm). “Tardigrades are very tough animals and are found everywhere on earth, from mountain tops to deep sea. They have survived five mass extinctions. They are also related to insects, spiders, and crustaceans and are the lesser known taxa of invertebrates,” says Dr. Bijoy Nandan.  Cryptobiosis Tardigrades employ a curious process to deal with environmental stress. Called ‘cryptobiosis’, it brings their metabolic activities to a reversible standstill. A death-like state, more or less. Certain tardigrade species can withstand extreme temperatures, pressures, radiation, and dehydration. The present discovery is an outcome of an ongoing Ministry of Earth Sciences-National Centre for Earth Science Studies study on the ecology and diversity of submarine groundwater habitats of Kerala. Globally, scientific interest in tardigrades has grown, but in India it is still in the nascent stages, says Dr. Bijoy Nandan. There is a need for further explorations on tardigrade-meiofauna from India, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-tardigrade-species-named-after-kerala/article34835953.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||13 lakh vaccinated||More than 13 lakh people have been vaccinated in the district so far, the district administration has said. Of the 13,75,546 vaccinated, 10,80,845 have received their first dose, while 2,94,701 have received both doses. The administration had designed special drives for groups requiring special attention in COVID-19 management, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Special drives were being conducted for bedridden patients, Scheduled Tribe settlements and residents of old age homes, she said. Of the 31,146 patients who had registered for palliative care in the district, 2,223 had been inoculated. The administration had launched the ‘Santhwana Suraksha’ scheme for vaccinating bedridden patients. Under the Sahyasuraksha scheme, inoculation is progressing in tribal settlements in 36 panchayats. As many as 5,153 residents of the settlements above the age of 45 and 2,274 persons between the ages of 18 and 45 received their first dose. The residents of all old age homes received their first dose, Ms. Khosa said. Students aged between 18 and 44 in special schools and BUDS schools are also being vaccinated, with the assistance of the Social Justice Department. Vaccination sessions would be taken forward in the days ahead, the District Collector said, urging the public to cooperate with the measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13-lakh-vaccinated/article34835955.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chief Minister for scheduled completion of priority projects||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked officials to expedite the priority infrastructure projects and complete them in a time-bound manner. Reviewing the projects at a meeting here on Wednesday, the Chief Minister directed the officials to give priority to rehabilitation wherever land was to be acquired for development. Mr. Vijayan was informed that the Kochi metro’s elevated corridor from Pettah to S.N. Junction would be completed in March 2022. Steps would be taken to get the approval of the Union Cabinet for the Kaloor-Kakkanad corridor and land acquisition would be expedited. The first stretch of the Kochi water metro would be inaugurated in August under the 100-day plan. Steps would be taken to expedite the water metro project. Mr. Vijayan directed the officials to finalise the alignment of the Kochuveli-Kasaragod semi-high-speed rail corridor SilverLine and to expedite the social impact assessment study. In the case of the hill highway, the officials were asked to visit the spots where permission of the Forest Department was needed and prepare a detailed project report within three months. Officials were asked to take steps to complete the coastal highway from Poovar to Manjeswaram within two years and exploit the tourism potential of the proposed corridor along the shoreline. Light metro The Chief Minister asked the officials to expedite the work of the waterway. Canal cleaning should be expedited as part of the Kochi urban development and water transport. The construction of flyovers as part of the Thiruvananthapuram light metro and seeking approval from the Centre should be expedited. Mr. Vijayan said funds would be mobilised for the completion of the Wayanad tunnel road project, which is part of the Rebuild Kerala project. Chief Secretary V.P. Joy, Secretaries, and Collectors attended the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-for-scheduled-completion-of-priority-projects/article34836015.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Buses, boat services on demand||The Kerala State Transport Corporation (KSRTC) and State Water Transport Department will operate their services from Thursday based on the demand in the wake of the unlock measures announced by the government. KSRTC buses will operate adhering to COVID-19 protocol and buses will not stop in the local bodies classified under C and D categories (TPR of 20% and above), Transport Minister Antony Raju said Wednesday. The services will be to sectors where there is demand and more services will be operated on Friday and Monday, being the last day and first day of the week. On Saturday and Sunday, only essential bus services will be operated in view of the Statewide lockdown. The long-distance services of the KSRTC will resume from Sunday so that commuters can reach the destination on Monday morning to attend work. In the State Water Transport Department, only 50% of the schedules will be operated from a station from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. from Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/buses-boat-services-on-demand/article34836016.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||13,270 fresh cases, TPR drop continues||The plateauing trend of COVID-19 case graph continues with the State reporting 13,270 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday when 1,12,521 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate is dropping slowly and steadily and on Wednesday was 11.79%. The State’s active case pool is declining fast and is expected to fall below the one lakh mark soon. On Wednesday, the active case pool, which had over 4.45 lakh patients at the peak of the epidemic, had declined to 1,09,794 patients, with 15,689 patients reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. The cumulative fatality in the State now stands at 11,655 with the State adding 147 deaths, which occurred over the past few days, to the official toll list on Wednesday. On Wednesday, new COVID patients admitted in hospitals in the State went down to 2,052 against the figure of 2,161 on Tuesday. The number of patients who are being treated for moderate or severe infection in hospitals has gone below 30,000 and now stands at 29,012. ICU admissions of critically ill patients in both public and private hospitals went down further and on Wednesday stood at 2,857. The cumulative case burden now stands at 27,61,474 cases. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of new cases with 1,793, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 1,678, Malappuram 1,350, Kollam 1,342, Palakkad 1,255, Thrissur 1,162, Kozhikode 1,054, Alappuzha 859, Kottayam 704, Kannur 675, Pathanamthitta 437, Kasaragod 430, Idukki 303, and Wayanad 228.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/13270-fresh-cases-tpr-drop-continues/article34836017.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mothers of special kids to be given e-autos||The Social Justice Department is expediting steps to provide e-autos for free to mothers of children with specific disabilities who hail from financially weak backgrounds. The scheme has been included in the 100-day plan of the second Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front government. The initial proposal was to provide free e-rickshaws that cost Rs. 1.75 lakh each. However, following talks with Kerala Automobiles Limited, it was decided to give e-autos that cost nearly Rs. 3 lakh. Pilot project The revised proposal has now been given administrative sanction, and Rs. 84 lakh allowed to provide the e-autos to two women in each district this financial year as a pilot project. An amount of Rs. 49 lakh had been sanctioned for the scheme last financial year. Applications will soon be invited from beneficiaries. The scheme is aimed at providing a means of livelihood to mothers of children covered under the National Trust Act. The disabilities under the Act include autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation, and multiple disabilities. Conditions To be eligible, mothers of children with the above conditions should be below 45 years of age, be widowed, divorced, or abandoned, and have no other source of income. Depending on the success of the pilot project, the scheme will be expanded to reach out to more beneficiaries. The tax and insurance for the vehicles will have to be borne by the beneficiary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mothers-of-special-kids-to-be-given-e-autos/article34835957.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,678 cases in capital||The district reported 1,678 new COVID-19 cases and 1,634 recoveries on Wednesday. The test positivity rate stood at 12.3%. As of Wednesday, 12,501 were being treated for the infection in the district. Local transmission of the disease accounted for 1,580 of the cases. The day’s list also included two health workers. Under quarantine In all, 3,035 people have been newly quarantined in the district, while 4,277 people completed the observation period. At present, 49,536 people are in quarantine in Thiruvananthapuram, the district administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1678-cases-in-capital/article34835954.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State plans legislation||The State government is planning to enact a piece of legislation for domestic workers to regulate their work, terms of employment and social security. The draft Bill has been sent to the Law Department for vetting. Labour Commissioner S. Chithra says it will cover their recruitment and terms of employment. Contract The Bill mandates a contract between employers or agencies and domestic workers, even for part-time work. Their working hours should not exceed eight hours and they should be allowed a day off in a week. Pending wages should not exceed a month. For grievance redressal, the Deputy Labour Commissioner can be approached. “Those who fail to comply with the provisions will be penalised,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-plans-legislation/article34835945.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Study held||Report of a study conducted by the district administration on online education of students was submitted by District Collector Navjot Khosa to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Wednesday. The study was conducted by Trivandrum Ahead, an initiative of the district administration, in 35 select government, aided, and unaided schools.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/study-held/article34835946.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Manhandling minors: action recommended||Disciplinary action has been ordered against four officers attached to the Kattakada police for their roles in the alleged manhandling of four minor boys recently. Sanjaykumar Gurudin, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Thiruvananthapuram Range, issued orders on Wednesday for a joint oral inquiry against sub-inspector Aneesh T., grade sub-inspector Suresh Kumar P.G., and civil police officers Binu and Anurag V.S. A preliminary inquiry had found them to have erred. The Plus One students had been purportedly manhandled by the police at Anjuthenginmoodu on June 6. The team, led by Kattakada station house officer (SHO) Jose Mathew, was acting on the basis of complaints regarding youngsters engaging in anti-social activities in the area. While the inquiry report had been forwarded to Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, for possible action against the SHO, his role could not be established, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/manhandling-minors-action-recommended/article34835947.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Strong winds: fishermen told not to venture into sea||The district administration has advised fishermen not to venture into the sea till June 18 as strong winds are likely along the Kerala and Karnataka coasts and the Lakshadweep region. District Collector Navjot Khosa on Wednesday referred to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) warning that wind speeds could reach 40-50 kmph in these regions during this period. High waves The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) has warned that high waves in the range of three to four metres are likely along the Kerala coast till 11.30 p.m. on June 17. Coastal communities have been asked to remain alert. The district administration has urged fishermen to secure equipment, including boats, stored on the beaches. Avoid beach trips The district administration has also asked the public to avoid trips to the beaches. The district is likely to receive only light to moderate rainfall till June 20, as per an IMD update on Wednesday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/strong-winds-fishermen-told-not-to-venture-into-sea/article34835951.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Christian Nadars on SEBC list||The Christian Nadar community, except the South Indian United Church (SIUC), will be included on the Socially and Educationally Backward Communities (SEBC) list in the State. The weekly meeting of the Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Wednesday, decided to include the community in the SEBC category. The community will now get the benefits in the admission to higher education courses and entrance examinations in the State. The Cabinet also decided to issue a directive to the Backward Class Community Development, Higher Education and other departments to issue necessary orders in this regard and implement the decision at the earliest. The Chief Secretary was asked to oversee the timely completion of the procedures by the departments. A communication from the Chief Minister’s Office said the government had already included the community on the OBC list for reservation in government jobs. The SIUC Christian is in the SEBC category already and the Nadar Christian community had been putting pressure on the government to include them on the SEBC list.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/christian-nadars-on-sebc-list/article34836013.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus Two practicals from June 28||Plus Two higher secondary practical examinations will begin on June 28, while vocational higher secondary (VHSE) and National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) practicals will be conducted from June 21. The examinations will be held in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines. Taking into consideration students’ demands for more time for training for practical examinations, they can reach schools beginning Thursday up to June 25, depending on teacher availability, and conduct training following health safety protocols. Students who test positive for SARVS-CoV2 can appear for the practical examinations at special centres once they turn negative. Lab equipment should not be reused by another student. Writing of procedures as part of the exam should be held outside the lab. Viva voce should be held in different classrooms. Maximum laptops available should be used for IT-based practicals. If need be, students can be given training ahead of the examinations beginning Thursday depending on the school conditions. Timings Steps should be taken to prevent all students from gathering in schools at the same time. The exam schedule should be finalised and the timings communicated to parents and students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plus-two-practicals-from-june-28/article34836019.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Universities stick to exam plan||Universities in the State have decided to stick to their plan of commencing final-year examinations on June 28 and the exams will be held in the offline mode. An online meeting of Vice Chancellors convened by Higher Education Minister R. Bindu on Wednesday resolved to complete the exams before mid-July and declare results by August 10. COVID-19-infected students or those residing in containment zones will be provided another opportunity to appear for the exams and that will be considered their first chance. Universities will identify examination centres outside their jurisdiction to enable students to take the exams close to their homes. Not more than 20 students will appear for the exams from a single room. Besides, science, arts and humanities papers will be scheduled in a staggered manner to prevent crowding and ensure each campus had well spaced-out seating arrangements. Waive fees The Higher Education Department has directed self-financing colleges to slash fee as they are unable to conduct regular classes during thelockdown. An order was issued in this regard following complaints raised against private colleges that prevented students from attending online classes and appearing for examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/universities-stick-to-exam-plan/article34836020.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 1,064.83 cr. for water transport project in Kochi||The Cabinet has decided to give revised administrative sanction for the Rs. 1,064.83-crore integrated water transport project in Kochi. The weekly Cabinet, chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday, while giving the nod said Rs. 228.76 crore would be taken as loan from the German Development Bank KfW for completion of the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rs-106483-cr-for-water-transport-project-in-kochi/article34836014.ece
17 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Patient dies as ambulance falls into ditch||A patient died as an ambulance that carried him to a hospital fell into a large ditch on the roadside in Chalakudy on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as Johnson Padamattummal, 50, of Kuzhur. Johnson was admitted to a private hospital at Mala following cardiac arrest and was referred to a hospital at Chalakudy. But the ambulance that carried him to the Chalakudy hospital fell into a ditch on the roadside dug up for a sewage canal at Anamala junction in Chalakudy. It is alleged that there was no warning board to alert motorists to the danger. Johnson died on the spot while his son Noble’s leg was fractured. His body will be laid to rest after the COVID test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patient-dies-as-ambulance-falls-into-ditch/article34835984.ece
17 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Training on Vahan software held||The Kerala Motor Vehicle Department organised a two-day online training programme on Vahan software for its employees. Additional Transport Commissioner Pramod Shankar inaugurated it. More than 1,300 employees participated in the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/training-on-vahan-software-held/article34835985.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Over 400 babies delivered of COVID-positive mothers at MCH||Over 400 babies have been delivered of COVID-positive mothers at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here ever since SARS-CoV-2 began to do the rounds. Doctors say more symptomatic cases are seen among expectant women during the second wave. Dr. Sobha Pillai, gynaecologist at the MCH, said the number of cases among pregnant women was similar to the numbers seen in the months of September and October last year, when there was a surge in COVID cases. But most of them were asymptomatic during the first wave, she said. “This time, we have had more patients in the ICU. There are more cases of COVID pneumonia, requiring non-invasive ventilation. At the hospital, there was one maternal death in the first wave, and one more in the second wave,” she added. Recovery Some patients have taken as long as three weeks in the ICU to recover. A pulmonologist and cardiologist are usually involved in the treatment, since some young mothers have also developed myocarditis attributed to COVID, Dr. Pillai said. According to data with the District Reproductive and Child Health Officer’s team, 5,133 expectant mothers have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district. “If the patient is worsening or her oxygen requirement is increasing, we deliver the baby so that the mother can be better looked after, and drugs can be administered without any worry of what it might do to the pregnancy. This has worked out to the benefit of the patient, but pre-term babies have had to spend time in the neonatal intensive care unit. The mother’s condition usually improves once the pregnancy is taken care of,” Dr. Pillai said. CT scans are used only in a highly restricted manner for pregnant women, keeping radiation exposure in mind. Of the total number of ‘COVID deliveries’, around 55% have been normal ones, and the rest were caesarean sections, according to Dr. Ganesh Mohan, Resident Medical Officer at the MCH. Some babies have tested positive for the virus, but they have not had any serious issues, Dr. Pillai said. Women in the later stages of pregnancy or with serious COVID symptoms are usually referred to the MCH, a tertiary care facility for COVID patients in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/over-400-babies-delivered-of-covid-positive-mothers-at-mch/article34835992.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Monument of culture||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/monument-of-culture/article34836332.ece
17 June 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arun Singh warns Karnataka leaders||BJP national general secretary and State in charge Arun Singh began his troubleshooting exercise in the State unit on Wednesday by warning leaders against making any public statements that may embarrass the party. Mr. Singh, who is here on a three-day visit, held a meeting with Ministers in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and party State president Nalin Kumar Kateel within a hour of his arrival in Bengaluru. He told mediapersons after the meeting that he had instructed that none of the leaders should issue any statements that will affect the party. “We have told the legislators to camp in their constituencies and focus on development works,” he said. Coordination issue Sources close to Mr. Singh said that several Ministers alleged at the meeting that there was no coordination between the party and the government. He is learnt to have assured them of sorting out the issue. Mr. Singh’s arrival was necessitated as factional politics had come to the fore again in the State unit with a group of leaders seeking replacement of Mr. Yediyurappa. This was compounded with several party old-timers alleging that they were not happy with the style of functioning of Mr. Yediyurappa. They had also accused his son B.Y. Vijayendra of interfering in the administration. They had publicly demanded that the party high command hear their grievances. This was countered by the Yediyurappa camp which said that it had taken up a signature campaign in favour of the Chief Minister and that a majority of the MLAs had backed his leadership. ‘No leadership change’ However, Mr. Singh sought to downplay dissidence in the party, and told media persons that there was no question of change in leadership. He claimed that he was here to strengthen the party organisation and look into various issues including effective banning of single-use plastic and reviewing preparations for yoga day. Mr. Kateel too maintained there was no question of leadership change and that the Ministers’ meeting had not discussed anything about leadership change. Party insiders say that Mr. Singh have a crucial task on hand on Thursday when he will hold consultations with the party legislators. Both rival camps are ready to present their case before him. He will also hold a meeting with members of the State core committee before winding up his visit on Friday. Sources close to him said that his main intention is to broker peace between the warring factions and to convince them about the need to desist from indulging in factional politics now when people are suffering due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/arun-singh-warns-karnataka-leaders/article34835722.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC grants bail to 115 held for violence in D.J. Halli||The High Court of Karnataka has ordered the release of 115 people arrested in connection with the violent incidents that occurred at K.G. Halli-D.J. Halli localities on the night of August 11, 2020. The relief was granted under the provision of “default” bail since the chargesheet had not been filed within the specified time. Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while allowing petitions filed by Muzamil Pasha and 114 others, who were arrested on August 12, 2010. The court found fault with the order passed by the Special Court for National Investigation Agency (NIA) cases, granting 90 more days for the agency to complete the investigation, without giving the accused-petitioners an opportunity to be heard on the application it filed in November last year seeking more time to file the chargesheet. The order passed by the special court was legally unsustainable as the accused-petitioners were neither present before the special court nor were they notified that an application by the NIA for more time to complete the investigation was being considered by the court, the High Court pointed out. It said the accused-petitioners must be released on “default” bail as the NIA had not filed the chargesheet within 90 days and the order passed by the special court granting it more time was now found to be wrong. It rejected the NIA’s contention that they would have to apply for regular bail as the chargesheet was filed during the extended period of 90 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-grants-bail-to-115-held-for-violence-in-dj-halli/article34835717.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on career guidance for students||The Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (HITS), in association with The Hindu Group, will host various webinars to offer career guidance for students of Class X, XI and XII. Experts from academia and industry will speak in these virtual sessions to give students an insight on courses and trends in higher education which will aid in helping them choose streams according to their expectations. On June 18, at 4 p.m. there will be a session on ‘Why sustainability must be a part of management education’. To register, please visit http://bit.ly/HITSTHE5 or scan the QR Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/webinar-on-career-guidance-for-students/article34835737.ece
17 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Total lockdown in parts of Chittoor||Authorities of the Chittoor Municipal Corporation on Wednesday announced a complete lockdown in Anupalle and Mapakshi villages, coming under the 14th division of the corporation, for five days from Thursday. High number of COVID cases Municipal Commissioner P. Viswanath, along with senior officials of the health wing, inspected the areas in view of high number of COVID cases. Incidentally, the corporation recorded 92 cases of the total urban count in the district of 217. During the inspection, the Commissioner visited the houses with positive cases and advised the residents to maintain strict home isolation protocols. He urged the people to cooperate with the officials during the five-day lockdown, with exemption to emergency and essential services. Vaccine for mothers Mr. Viswanath instructed the field staff on COVID vaccination duties to encourage all the mothers with children in the age group of 0-5, and those above 45 years to get vaccinated immediately. Inspecting the newly-allocated site for the urban health centre building at Anupalle, the Commissioner said that steps would be taken for early completion of the building. Fever survey Meanwhile, the district administration has set a deadline for achieving cent per cent coverage of the ongoing 13th phase of the fever survey in the district by Wednesday, and seeking submission of reports. The officials said that the latest drive would cover the remaining 33% of the survey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/total-lockdown-in-parts-of-chittoor/article34836354.ece
17 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Punganur-Kadapa bus service launched||Wednesday was a day to cheer for the residents of Punganur municipality and the mandals of Chowdepalle, Somala, Kalikiri and Kalakada in Chittoor district on Wednesday with the inauguration of an APSRTC bus service between Punganur and Kadapa. Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Chittoor) M. Bhaskar said the bus service from the newly opened depot at Punganur was launched covering the rural areas between Punganur and Kalikiri. The official said it was for the first that a direct bus to Kadapa from Punganur was operated. Prior to this, the people of several western mandals had to reach Madanapalle or Piler to reach Kadapa. “After covering Chowdepalle, Somala, Kalikiri and Kalakada mandals, the service currently on pilot basis will join the regular Rayachoti-Kadapa road,” he said. Though more than 60 bus services had been allotted to the new depot at Punganur, their full-fledged operation was not yet launched owing to the ongoing COVID lockdown. Once the restrictions ease out, additional bus services would be mooted between Punganur and Kadapa, the official said,.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/punganur-kadapa-bus-service-launched/article34836352.ece
17 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID court extends MP’s remand till June 25||The Sixth Additional Junior Civil Judge of the court nominated by the CID has extended the remand period of Narsarapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju till June 25 on the ground that the bail bonds did not carry the latter’s signature. The MP, who was arrested by the CID on May 14 and sent to judicial remand by the CID Court in Guntur on May 15, furnished two securities of Rs. 1 lakh each as ordered by the Supreme Court on May 25 after he was being treated at the Army Hospital in Secunderbad. The Supreme Court had forwarded the bail bond and securities bond to the District Jail in Guntur to get the signature of the MP, with a covering letter, on May 28. On June 10, the Superintendent of District Jail sent a letter to the CID court by returning the bail bond and sureties bond without obtaining the signatures of the MP on the bail bond. The accused can be treated as not released from the judicial custody until the he signs the bail bond and gets the release order from the court as the remand warrant is pending before the District Jail, Guntur, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cid-court-extends-mps-remand-till-june-25/article34836369.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||After COVID ‘recovery’, a long battle with after-effects||After recovering from COVID-19, many people have been trying to catch up on work and other pending assignment at a rather aggressive pace. However, they are coming to an agonising realisation that they are unable to keep up with the usual work hours or getting tired a little too easily. Weakness and breathlessness even after a short walk or some physical activity are some of the common issues experienced by COVID-recovered persons. Apart from a notable depletion of energy levels, a few other post-COVID issues that doctors are coming across include hair loss, fever, muscle pain and sleeplessness. These issues were not limited to patients who suffered from severe COVID. Even those with mild form of the infection who underwent treatment at home have had the same complaints. The more serious complications include lung fibrosis leading to breathlessness and clots in blood vessels. Fatigue Doctors say that they are unable to put a finger on a definite cause for fatigue. Senior consultant physician at KIMS Hospitals, K. Shivaraju said they found this issue even among people who did not have hypothyroidism or high sugar levels. “We suggest people experiencing fatigue not to strain themselves but to take adequate nutrition as well as some muscle strengthening tablets. Those will give some relief,” he says, adding that recovery will be slow. People have also complained of loss of smell and altered taste, which lasted for several weeks. “Doctors have to be consulted when they experience these issues. Some have consulted me after undergoing unnecessary tests. This can be avoided if people rely on their doctor’s suggestion,” he explains.  Breathlessness  Lung fibrosis is one of the reasons for shortness of breath in some people. When lung tissues get scarred or hard, breathing becomes difficult. Professor of Pulmonology at Government General and Chest Hospital, M. Narender said that it cannot be determined which COVID patient might develop lung fibrosis. Even people with mild symptoms might develop it, depending on certain conditions. “Drop in oxygen saturation levels and breathlessness even after a short walk or increased rate of respiration are some of the symptoms of lung fibrosis. One should consult a doctor if they have such symptoms. The treatment, and its duration, depend on the severity of the disease,” he asserts. Professor of Pulmnology at ESIC Medical College, K. Surendar Reddy says he treated some post-COVID patients whose oxygen saturation levels dropped to 85 or below. “The oxygen saturation levels of 92-94 has to be considered as an alarm bell to consult doctors. If a patient needs only oxygen, we suggest oxygen treatment at home. But this varies from case to case and can be decided only after a doctor goes through a patient’s details and disease history,” he adds. Lung fibrosis leads to drop in oxygen saturation levels. So, when a person with COVID indulges in intense exercises or exerts pressure on body, it might lead to complications. “As various organs in the body might not be getting required oxygen, the organs might get affected,” says Dr Narender.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/post-coronavirus-recovery-a-long-battle-with-after-effects/article34836268.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||UoH team finds aerosols in Hyderabad air that can have climatic impact||Researchers at the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have found a frequent formation of sub-3 nanometers neutral aerosols in the city atmosphere that in a way indicate the quality of air is affected. Vijay Kanawade and Mathew Sebastian from UoH measured neutral sub-3nm particle concentrations in Hyderabad city and reported the formation rate of small molecular clusters, for the first time, in sub-3nm size regime, where aerosol nucleation triggers, according to their study published in Elsevier journal, Atmospheric Environment. Elsevier is a Netherlands-based publishing company specialising in scientific, technical, and medical content, and publishes more than five lakh articles annually in 2,500 journals. The researchers used Airmodus nano Condensation Nucleus Counter (nCNC) to measure particle size distribution in the size range of 1 to 3 nm diameter since January 2019 on the UoH campus site. Jeff Pierce from Colorado State University, USA, was also part of this study. Aerosols are tiny solid or liquid particles suspended in the atmosphere. The formation of small molecular clusters of sub-3nm and their subsequent growth to the large sizes is called atmospheric new particle formation (NPF). NPF occurs everywhere in the terrestrial troposphere, and therefore, is a large source of aerosol numbers to the atmosphere. Though extensively studied globally using field observations, laboratory experiments and modelling approach, it is largely unexplored in India. The team found a strong positive correlation between sub-3nm particle concentrations and sulphuric acid concentrations, confirming the potential role of sulfuric acid in the formation of sub-3nm particles. While NPF often starts with sulphuric acid in the atmosphere, sulphuric acid alone fails to explain observed particle formation and growth rates in the atmosphere. Other vapours such as ammonia, amines and organics play a crucial role in the growth of newly formed particles. Moreover, these newly formed particles did not always grow to large sizes, and the team hypothesised that the particle growth was limited by lower concentrations of condensable vapours such as organic compounds, calling for research using state-of-the-art instrumentation to understand the mechanisms driving NPF in diverse environments across India. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Kanawade said the study is of critical importance as a major fraction of these newly formed particles can reach sizes of cloud condensation nuclei where they have climatic impacts. Aerosols can suppress or enhance rainfall as well depending on their chemical composition. He observed the presence of aerosols in the atmosphere was common but presence in urban areas means, over a period of time, the city may have to face haze and air quality may also get affected in the process. He says the study of aerosols is not prolific in India and a lot of research needs to be done before coming to a total conclusion on these aerosols affecting the urban atmosphere badly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uoh-team-finds-aerosols-in-city-air-that-can-have-climatic-impact/article34836275.ece
17 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents, brother held for attempt to set girl afire||The Kadapa police on Wednesdqay arrested a couple of Rayachoti town, along with their son, for allegedly trying to set their daughter afire. The 20-year-old girl of Kothapalli was reportedly in a relationship with a close relative for some time. The girl’s father, mother and brother objected to it and reportedly fixed her alliance with another person. As the girl rejected their proposal, the enraged parents allegedly doused her with petrol and set her afire on Tuesday evening. With the timely intervention of the girl’s elder sister, the girl was shifted to hospital with burn injuries for treatment. DSP (Rayachoti) R. Vasudevan said the accused was arrested and sent them to judicial remand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/parents-brother-held-for-attempt-to-set-girl-afire/article34836359.ece
17 June 2021||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man killed by brother-in-law||A person, reportedly addicted to alcohol, was allegedly bludgeoned to death by his brother-in-law, who took offence to the former allegedly harassing his sister. The incident happened in Amrutha Nagar of Proddatur town on Tuesday night, when Shaik Fayaz reportedly came home in an inebriated condition and picked up a quarrel with his wife. His wife’s younger brother Karimulla, who was witnessing the drunken brawls, tried to pacify him, but to no avail. In a fit of rage, he allegedly threw chilli powder into the eyes of Fayaz and allegedly beat him on his head with a rod. Fayaz died on the spot. The Proddatur town police reached the spot and registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-killed-by-brother-in-law/article34836361.ece
17 June 2021||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 25 lakh for kin of doctor who died of COVID||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Wednesday handed over a cheque of Rs. 25 lakh to the family members of Kandikatla Roji, a house surgeon who had tragically succumbed to COVID-19 while undergoing medical treatment, on June 1. Dr. Roji served as house surgeon at the Ashram Medical College in Eluru town in West Godavari district. She died at the same hospital after contracting COVID-19. She had reportedly been infected by the virus while treating COVID patients, officials said. “The ex-gratia of Rs. 25 lakh was handed over to her family members from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund,” said Mr. Muralidhar during the meeting at the Collectorate here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-25-lakh-for-kin-of-doctor-who-died-of-covid/article34836376.ece
17 June 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court directs police to probe charge||The Judicial First Class Magistrate Court here on Wednesday directed the police to investigate the allegation that BJP leader K. Surendran paid Rs. 50 lakh (Rs. 10 lakh and Rs. 40 lakh in two instalments) to tribal leader and chairperson of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) C.K. Janu in cash to ensure her allegiance to the National Democratic Alliance. The court order came on a complaint filed by Muslim Students Federation State president P.K. Navas. The court issued a directive to the Station House Officer (SHO), Sulthan Bathery police station, to investigate the allegation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/court-directs-police-to-probe-charge/article34835732.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala CEO seeks report in Surendran case||The allegations of corrupt practices raised against BJP Kerala State president K. Surendran have taken a new turn with Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena seeking a police report on the accusations. Mr. Meena called for a detailed report from the State Police Chief (SPC) on a complaint filed by Saleem Madavoor, president of the Loktantrik Yuva Janata Dal. Mr. Madavoor wanted a probe into the alleged instances of people carrying huge bags from a helicopter used by Mr. Surendran for electioneering to his car. The bags contained black money, which he transported to various destinations, giving the police and the Election Commission the slip, he said. The complaints that Mr. Surendran had paid Rs. 10 lakh to Adivasi leader C.K. Janu to contest from Sulthan Bathery and BJP workers bribing Mr. Surendran’s namesake and BSP leader K. Sundara not to contest from Manjeswaram were brought to the notice of the CEO. ‘Black money’ The complainant stated that the Rs. 3.5 crore, which was robbed from Dharmarajan, an active Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh worker at Kodakara, was meant to be distributed in a constituency, overriding the Election Commission’s directions on spending money for election. Mr. Dharmarajan had also visited the election committee office of Suresh Gopi, MP, the BJP candidate in Thrissur, he said. He alleged that the BJP State leadership distributed around Rs. 400 crore in black money in Kerala during the recent Assembly election. A copy of the complaint had been forwarded to the SPC. Legal action Mr. Meena told The Hindu that the report of the DGP would be forwarded to the Election Commission of India (ECI) for further action. If the police found merit in the allegations, legal action would be initiated in accordance with the law and in consultation with the ECI. The provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Representation of the People Act could be invoked to deal with election-related corrupt practices. Future course of action would be dependent on the police report, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-ceo-seeks-report-in-surendran-case/article34835724.ece
17 June 2021||KOLLAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die after consuming surgical spirit||Two persons died on Tuesday and Wednesday and two others were hospitalised after they allegedly consumed surgical spirit at Pathanapuram in Kollam. The deceased have been identified as Prasad and Murukanand, both residents of Pattazhy. Two others, Rajeev and Gopi, who had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Kollam, were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Wednesday. Reportedly, all four had consumed isopropyl alcohol procured from a private hospital as liquor was unavailable due to the lockdown. A probe has been initiated into the incident. According to the Pathanapuram police, Prasad was taken to the hospital after he developed fever and vomiting and he died on Tuesday night. “By that time the other three were also hospitalised and Murukanandan breathed his last on Wednesday morning. The condition of the other two is stable as of now,” said an official. Murukanandan, who was working as security guard at a COVID first-line treatment centre (FLTC) attached to a hospital, allegedly stole the spirit from there and later shared it with his friends. “The cause of the death can be confirmed only after getting the autopsy report. We are investigating how they procured the spirit and if it is from the FLTC,” the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-die-after-consuming-surgical-spirit/article34835725.ece
17 June 2021||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengaluru-based NGOs donate medical equipment to Edurumondi island||Bengaluru-based Surya Foundation and Mantra 4 Change NGOs on Wednesday donated medical equipment to the Public Health Centre in Edurumondi island in Diviseema region in Krishna district. Responding to a news report ‘Healthcare services yet to reach Diviseema islands’, published in these columns on May 18, the two NGOs decided to extend their assistance for the better health infrastructure facilities in the group of five islands. In early June, the NGOs representatives met former district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz expressing their interest to provide the medical equipment to the Edurumondi island. An official release issued by the Medical and Health Department on Wednesday said the two NGOs donated the medical equipment including two Oxygen concentrators, four beds, four cylinders, 50 PPE kits, six BP machines. They also donated essential commodities to over 100 Yanadi tribal families. Nagayalanka Tahsildar J. Vimala Kumari, NGOs representatives Saravana Puneet, Mayoor Prajwal and Avanigadda Red Cross Chairman V. Seshagiri Rao visited Edurumondi island to hand over the equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bengaluru-based-ngos-donate-medical-equipment-to-edurumondi-island/article34835776.ece
17 June 2021||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balineni distributes herbal mixture in Ongole||State Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, along with his wife Sachi Devi, distributed Anandaiah’s herbal mixture free of cost to people who thronged his residence in Ongole on Wednesday. “People have faith in the herbal cure for the viral disease,” he said overseeing the distribution of the herbal preparation by YSR Congress Party volunteers led by party city unit president Singaraju Venkat Rao. The herbal concoction would be distributed to all those needing it in Ongole Assembly constituency on a saturation basis, he said. Meanwhile, the number of active COVID cases declined to less than 11,500-mark in the last 24 hours in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh while four more persons, two each in Nellore and Prakasam, succumbed to the virus on Wednesday. The toll rose to 1,755 in the region, including 880 in SPSR Nellore district. Compared to previous day, the daily tally rose marginally by 161 to 890 in the region taking the cumulative tally to over 2.40 lakh. The positive trend of recoveries outnumbering fresh cases continued in the region. Recovery rate improved to 94.48% as At least 1,550 patients in SPSR Nellore district and 746 patients in Prakasam district were declared cured. So far, over 2.27 lakh people have recuperated in the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/balineni-distributes-herbal-mixture-in-ongole/article34836355.ece
17 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fishing resumes after two months||Rolling up his sleeves, fifty-year-old Narayana, along with other scores of fishermen, gather enthusiastically on the Kothapatnam sea shore in the district. Many of them are setting sail for the first time on Wednesday after the two-month fishing holiday ended on June 14. The holiday was imposed by the State government on April 15 on the east coast to conserve fish and other marine resources during the breeding season. Fishermen, who spent the two months in mending nets and overhauling mechanised boats, resumed the activity from 69 landing centres across the coastal mandals in Prakasam. As many as 2,300 motorised crafts and 42 mechanised boats were back in action. “We are hopeful of better catch season this year as officials have predicted a normal southwest monsoon,” said a community elder Prabhu Prakash Naidu from Kothapatnam Pallepalem. As they prepare to go about their usual business, they iterate their demand for enhancement of fuel subsidy. “We take the trouble travelling long distances for a good catch. The unprecedented hike in the price of diesel has made fishing unviable,” a group of fishermen at Pakala complained. About 10,000 fishermen families in Prakasam district have been provided with an financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to compensate for the loss of income during the fishing holiday, said Fisheries Joint Director A. Chandrasekar Reddy. However, about 3,000 fishermen did not get the benefit for various reasons like mismatch of names in the Aadhaar card, ration card and savings bank account in the coastal mandals of Ongole, Kothapatnam, Chirala, Vetapalem, Chinnaganjam, Nagulapapadu, Tangutur, Singarayakonda, Ulavapadu and Gudluru. Efforts were being made to correct the discrepancies, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fishing-resumes-after-two-months/article34836357.ece
17 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Initiate probe into functioning of coop. societies: handloom forum head||The All India Handloom Rights Forum from Chirala has urged the Union and State governments to take urgent steps to hand-hold the weavers enduring hardships owing to COVID-19 pandemic and set right the malfunctioning cooperative societies. AIHRF president B. Jawala Narasimham, in a statement here on Wednesday, said the Centre should directly credit Rs. 25,000 to the the bank accounts each weaver to help them cruise throught the the troubled times bypassing the cooperative socieities which were ‘steeped in corruption’. A high-level probe should be ordered into the functioning of the Andhra pradesh Cooperatives (APCO) and Handloom Cooperative societies at the grassroots level. He alleged irregularities in over 80% of the societies. The Centre and the State governments must work in tandem to revive the weaving activities by supplying subsidised inputs including hank yarn, chemicals and colours and by extending market support as the demand is expected to pick up coinciding with the end of the second wave of pandemic to save the handloom sector, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/initiate-probe-into-functioning-of-coop-societies-handloom-forum-head/article34836358.ece
17 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A long battle against odds comes to an end||No obstacle was too big for Latheesha Ansari to surmount. Multiple health issues since birth did not stop her from aiming higher and pursuing her dreams. Early on Wednesday, the 28-year-old succumbed to her illnesses, leaving behind a message of hope through her paintings and music. Ms. Ansari, a resident of Erumeli in Kottayam, was diagnosed with Osteogenesis imperfecta (brittle bone disease) at birth. She was confined to a wheelchair. But the condition did not stop her from pursuing her education. She refused to go to a special school, and attended a regular school. She went on to complete her M.Com. She was planning to appear for the Civil Services examination in 2018, when she was diagnosed with pulmonary hypertension. Since then, she has mostly spent her days at home, as oxygen support was needed throughout. She came into the limelight in 2019, when she appeared for the Civil Services examination with an oxygen cylinder. Five days before the examination, The Hindu had reported that she was in need of a portable oxygen concentrator, as it was difficult to haul the bulky cylinder to the hall. Following the report, the then Kottayam Collector intervened to arrange a portable oxygen concentrator temporarily when she reached Thiruvananthapuram for the exam. She got the portable concentrator in time for her second examination. The attempt at Civil Services was unsuccessful. She, however, secured a job at the Erumeli co-operative bank, but had to discontinue due to breathing issues. Struggling through the brittle bone disease, she mastered the keyboard and made frequent appearances in music shows on TV channels. Creating glass paintings was another of her talents. She used to gift them to other musicians she met on television shows. For the past one year, she had been posting videos often on her YouTube page titled ‘Latheesha’s happiness.’ “She had great willpower. Despite her illnesses, she tried for the Civil Services, and had been planning to appear again,” says Latha Nair, founder of Amrithavarshini Charitable Society for Osteogenisis Imperfecta, of which Ms. Ansari was a member.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-long-battle-against-odds-comes-to-an-end/article34835734.ece
17 June 2021||Thiruvannanthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases down from high peaks||Tamil Nadu recorded a further dip in its daily COVID-19 case count, as 10,448 more people tested positive for the infection on Wednesday. Another 270 people succumbed to the virus. Fresh cases dipped to 1,420 in Coimbatore and 1,123 in Erode. Chennai recorded fewer cases than Salem. There were 689 cases in Chennai, while Salem saw 693. As many as 608 people tested positive for the infection in Tiruppur. There were 456 cases in Chengalpattu, 405 in Thanjavur, 318 in Tiruchi and 314 in Namakkal. The remaining 28 districts registered fewer than 300 cases each. Of these, five districts recorded less than 100 infections each. So far, 23,88,746 people have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Another 21,058 people were discharged after treatment. The State’s toll rose to 30,338. Active caseload reduced to 1,14,335. Of these, 14,396 people are under treatment in Coimbatore, followed by 11,361 in Tiruppur. Karnataka on Wednesday reported 7,345 new cases, taking the total to 27,84,355. Of these, 1,611 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. With 148 fresh deaths, the toll rose to 33,296, while there were 1,51,566 active cases.  While the TPR for the day touched 4.35%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 2.01%. Andhra Pradesh reported 57 more deaths and 6,617 new infections on Wednesday. Active cases came down to 71,466 while the daily TPR of 1,01,544 samples was 6.52%. East Godavari was the only district to have reported over 1,000 new infections. In Telangana, 1,489 positive cases and 11 deaths were reported on Wednesday. Cumulative cases touched 6,07,925 and the death toll 3,521. The Health department said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits had 175 cases, Nalgonda 131 and Khammam 118 cases. There were 19,975 active cases. The plateauing of COVID-19 in Kerala continued and the State reported 13,270 new cases on Wednesday from 1,12,521 samples. The test positivity rate (TPR) was dropping and on Wednesday stood at 11.79%.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada Hyderabad and Thiruvanthapuram bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-down-from-high-peaks/article34835740.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Alumni kindle hope in former teachers, turn their saviours||‘Hope’ and ‘Saviour’ are not any random names chosen by the team of students for their charitable activities taken up ever since the lockdown of 2020, as they form the cornerstone of their voluntary outreach activities. As the COVID-19 situation wreaked havoc on various professions, school teachers and non-teaching staff were the worst hit. Rude shock As news reports of degree college teachers selling bananas on the footpath in a remote location of Andhra Pradesh trickled in, a group of young employees huddled up to see if the situation was similar in their alma mater. They were in for a rude shock as a near-similar fate had befallen their mentors. With some teachers having lost their jobs and many more on the verge of it, the old students from various cities came onto a single platform to help their former teachers. They formed teams named as ‘Abhimanyu The Hope’ and ‘Bheeshma The Saviour’ to reach out to their well-wishers in the school, right from the teachers to school attendants. Ensuring confidentiality “The idea is to take up charity, even while ensuring their dignity by maintaining confidentiality, as many were reluctant to seek help,” explains Neelesh Kumar Kuppala, who heads the team of SRM Alumni of 2017 batch. The team members – Prasanth Koyyalagunta, Nihar Kuppala, Deepthi Manasa, Dhanvanth Soora, Anoosha Dasari and Rohitha Tirumalasetty – decided to pool up money and transfer the amount to their teachers’ bank accounts through their linked mobile number, without anyone else coming to know of it. Similarly, the amount was not sent from an individual account to ensure that the beneficiary did not know the (single) benefactor. Initially, it was a batch of students pertaining to a single school, but when employees from various streams joined, the numbers swelled and the activities spread across several cities. The number of beneficiaries also rose significantly. Starting from Tirupati, their activities spread to Vijayawada, Nellore, Visakhapatnam, Chandragiri, Hyderabad, and so on. Apart from providing groceries to 335 families, they also distributed masks, sanitisers, vaporisers to the school managements, in tune with the precarious situation that warrants precaution. “This is just an act of gratitude, as we are paying back to those who helped us become what we are today,” says Neelesh. Inspired by the success story, which was shared by their peers in social media groups, several alumni of Hyderabad joined hands to replicate the same in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/alumni-kindle-hope-in-former-teachers-turn-their-saviours/article34835778.ece
17 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP lauds Sri City for being ‘corona-free’ zone||MP (Tirupati) M. Gurumoorthy appreciated Sri City authorities for maintaining it as ‘corona-free’ zone, in spite of having porous borders with a district and a State. The MP paid a visit to Sri City on Wednesday, when he interacted with its Founder Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy on various developmental issues. The MP said the strict practices followed by the management helped in tackling the second wave.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-lauds-sri-city-for-being-corona-free-zone/article34836360.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Working group formed for cracker complex at Kakinada||The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas has constituted a working group under the chairmanship of Joint Secretary (Refineries) for establishing a petrochemical cracker complex at Kakinada in the wake of discussions between Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan and Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy in New Delhi on Wednesday. According to an official release, the Ministry advised Engineers India Limited and SBI Caps to rework the financials in view of the recent regulatory changes in corporate tax and interest rates in order to take the strategic project forward. The Indian Oil Corporation or Hindustan Petroleum Corporation was supposed to examine the feasibility of a greenfield crude oil refinery and petrochemical complex in the State within six months from the appointed day in compliance with Section 93(4) of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act, 2014. Viability Gap Funding Accordingly, the HPCL-GAIL consortium carried out the feasibility of setting up a 1 MMTPA cracker complex at Kakinada with an investment of Rs. 32,900 crore and sought the Andhra Pradesh government's support in the form of Viability Gap Funding (VGF). Mr. Goutham Reddy opined that the project would become viable without any VGF due to a reduction in corporate tax and a global dip in interest rates and asserted that the complex would be a major contributor to the vision of a $5 trillion economy. Mr. Pradhan promised to extend all support for the project. Ministry Secretary Tarun Kapoor and Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Aditya Nath Das and Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/working-group-formed-for-cracker-complex-at-kakinada/article34836372.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan asks officials to be ready for third wave of pandemic||While appreciating the officials for bringing down the number of COVID-19 cases and the positivity rate substantially, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday cautioned them against lowering the guard. “The pandemic is not expected to reach zero level in the foreseeable future. We should adhere to the COVID-19 protocols. People should be vaccinated on a mission mode to give them maximum possible protection,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while addressing the District Collectors and Superintendents of Police on the Spandana programme through a video-conference. Thrust on testing “Hand sanitising, wearing face masks, and keeping physical distance should become a part of our lives as COVID-19 is here to stay for a long time,” he said, and called for greater emphasis on testing and fever survey. Calling for conducting only Rt-PCR test for achieving good result, he instructed the Collectors to ensure that the patients were not exploited by the private hospitals. “Do not hesitate to shut down the hospitals flouting norms repeatedly,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. Paediatric hospitals He also directed the authorities to be prepared to face the anticipated third wave of the pandemic amidst fears that it might affect children. He said three state-of-the-art hospitals would be set up for paediatric treatment in Visakhapatnam, Krishna-Guntur area and Tirupati, and directed the Collectors to identify lands for the facilities. The Chief Minister said that the production of vaccines in the country was very low, and there was a need to ramp it up urgently. While a total of 3.50 crore people were targeted to be vaccinated, only 26,33,351 received two doses so far. About 6,90,710 got only the first dose, he observed. E-cropping Dwelling on other issues, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy called for a renewed thrust on e-cropping booking. He asked the Collectors and Joint Collectors to monitor at least 10% of it and give receipts to the farmers along with digital acknowledgement as it was on that basis that input subsidy and crop insurance would be provided. He insisted that quality seed be provided to the farmers through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and steps taken to curb black marketing of farm inputs. There should be no hindrance to agriculture and allied activities during the curfew, he said, and suggested that banking services be brought down to the RBK level. Housing scheme On housing, he instructed the officials to complete the construction of 15.6 lakh houses in the first phase and provide basic amenities in the colonies first. Financial assistance under the YSR Cheyutha and the YSR Bima schemes would be disbursed on June 22 and July 1 followed by Vidya Deevena and Kapu Nestham, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-asks-officials-to-be-ready-for-third-wave-of-pandemic/article34836368.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A smart way to harvest rainwater||Students of the National Institute of Technology Andhra Pradesh (NIT-AP) have developed a ‘WiFi- mounted micro-controller’ that can integrate sensors for smart harvesting of rainwater. This system can automate the process of storing water, reducing water-borne diseases, improving storage efficiency. To address water shortage in Indian cities by deploying Deep Tech such as IoT (Internet of Things) and Machine Learning, the students from Team LinkLer have developed an end-to-end software stack that provides an easy interface to manage and control in-house water resources.  The system monitors waste water and supply systems such as rainfall recorded, water remaining in the storage tank, water quality index and water supply in a given area. The students have also designed an underground storage tank with a material capable of holding water on a long-term basis, and its treatment process being monitored on a feedback IoT system. Team LinkLer has won ‘India Innovation Challenge Design Contest 2019’ (IICDC), organised by the U.S.-based Texas Instruments and the Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of India. The team is currently being mentored at the Indian Institute of Management-Bangalore’s (IIM-B) ‘NSRCEL Technical Program’ to drive the product to the market. This programme extends support for incubation, design and product launch. NSRCEL is the start-up incubator of the IIM-B, recognised by the Centre. Cutting-edge tech “The future holds the stage for ‘Deep Tech-based solutions for sustainable ecosystem. The institute, being the youngest NIT, is equipped with cutting-edge technology, and the team stands as an example for effective utilisation of the institute resources,” said C.S.P. Rao, Director, NIT-AP. Elaborating on how the project could benefit the country, Phani Krishna Karri, Team LinkLer’s faculty mentor and assistant professor, Department of Electrical Engineering, NIT-AP, said, “The system is an end-to-end technological solution for raising water mismanagement in cities. It is a robust, efficient and cost-effective solution, which is customisable, based on the demand of a household, or an entity. The students are in the process of commercialising the product after approval of the patent.” Team leader Shrish Shukla said the focus, at the moment, was on the technical detailing for improving its efficiency during scaling and adaptation to different use cases. Besides Mr. Phani Krishna and Mr. Shukla, other team members include Manish Roy, Shubham Kumar, Pranav Dadhich, Aarti Sartape, Ritvika Sonawane and Ravi Jain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-smart-way-to-harvest-rainwater/article34835774.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||10-bed COVID isolation centre in every village planned||District Collector J. Nivas has asked the officials concerned not to let their guard against the COVID pandemic down even if the daily cases continue to decrease. He asked them to continue to implement the COVID management strategies strictly, and said that a proposal to set up 10-bed isolation centres in every village of the district has been made to the government. In a review meeting with the mandal and village level officials here on Wednesday, Mr. Nivas asked them to follow all the measures like the observation of people under home isolation, sanitisation of public places, tracking COVID patient health status and shifting to the hospital when needed among others. Regarding isolation centres, Mr. Nivas said that there were 981 villages in the district and 9,810 isolation beds would be needed and each centre required a budget of Rs. 50,000. He said the budget had been sought from the government and as a last resort, the same would be drawn from the panchayat funds.  The district reported 407 infections and five deaths in the past day and has 5,791 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/10-bed-covid-isolation-centre-in-every-village-planned/article34835775.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 57 deaths and 6,617 new COVID infections||The State reported 57 COVID-19 deaths and 6,617 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the toll to 12,109 and the tally to 18,26,751. The number of active cases came down to 71,466 with the recovery of 10,228 patients during the period. While the recovery rate stood at 95.42%, the number of recoveries reached 17,43,176. Positivity rate The daily positivity rate of the 1,01,544 samples tested was 6.52%. The overall positivity rate remained at 8.81%. After a long time, no district reported double-digit deaths in a day. Chittoor and Guntur reported nine deaths each, followed by Anantapur, East Godavari, Krishna and Srikakulam (5 each), Visakhapatnam and West Godavari (4 each), Kurnool (3), and Kadapa, Nellore, Prakasam and Vizianagaram (2 each). East Godavari was the only district to have reported more than 1,000 new cases in last 24 hours. It reported 1,397 new case. It was followed by West Godavari (829), Chittoor (780), Prakasam (560), Anantapur (427), Krishna (407), Srikakulam (405), Kadapa (379), Nellore (364), Guntur (361), Visakhapatnam (303), Vizianagaram (222) and Kurnool (217). The district-wise tallies were as follows: East Godavari (2,50,694), Chittoor (2,10,588), Guntur (1,58,309), West Godavari (1,53,719), Anantapur (1,50,646), Visakhapatnam (1,45,928), Nellore (1,24,142), Kurnool (1,20,050), Prakasam (1,16,274), Srikakulam (1,15,530), Kadapa (1,02,731), Krishna (96,723) and Vizianagaram (78,522).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-reports-57-deaths-and-6617-new-covid-infections/article34836366.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free distribution of homoeo medicine to prevent COVID-19||As part of measures to gear up for the possible third wave of the COVID pandemic, the State government, through the Department of AYUSH, plans to launch Project Amruth. “Under this, we plan to distribute free homoeo medicine to every household as part of preparedness to battle the virus,” said V. Ramulu, Commissioner of the Department of AYUSH. Speaking to The Hindu , Col. Ramulu said the medicine Arsenicum Album 30C (Aa30C), a homoeopathic drug that the Ministry of AYUSH has prescribed in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, would be distributed across the State. The government had in-principle approved the distribution drive, which would tentatively start from June 25 with the help of the village and ward volunteers' network. “Vibhu Foundation, an NGO, has offered to sponsor the distribution of medicine worth Rs. 6 crore in three districts, and the entire project would be implemented with the CSR funds donated by various organisations,” Col. Ramulu said. Leaving nothing to chance in COVID preparedness, the Government approved use of medicines like AYUSH 64 and Shamshamani Vati, which would be procured, popularised and made available to the public through the 700 dispensaries the Department runs across the State. AYUSH 64 is a poly herbal formulation that had been found useful in the treatment of asymptomatic, mild and moderate COVID-19 infection. It is recommended in the National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga, which is vetted by the National Task Force on COVID Management of ICMR and Guidelines for Ayurveda Practitioners for COVID-19 Patients in Home Isolation. Similarly, Shamshamani Vati is an ayurvedic herbal medicine and it has multifarious health benefits. It corrects the digestive problem and is helpful and effective in managing fever of unknown and different origins. 1 lakh tablets Col. Ramulu said students of the four AYUSH colleges had manufactured 1 lakh tablets at the ayurvedic lab in Vijayawada. “These medicines are not expensive but very effective,” he said. To celebrate International Yoga Day on June 21, the department would organise a virtual yoga session for schoolchildren. This would be preceded by a ‘Yoga Run’ on June 20 from the Police Control Room to Benz Circle in the city at 6 a.m. The department also planned to start five de-addiction centres in the State on July 1 observed as National Doctors’ Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-to-give-free-homoeo-drug-to-all-in-bid-to-curb-covid-19/article34835730.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court reserves order on plea over transfer of certain powers to VROs||The Andhra Pradesh High Court reserved its order on a petition that opposed G.O. Ms.No.2 (dated March 25, 2021) through which certain powers of the village administration were sought to be transferred to the Village Revenue Officers (VROs). The writ petition filed by T. Krishna Mohan, sarpanch of Thokalavanipalem village in Kollur mandal of Guntur district came for hearing by a single-judge bench comprising Justice B. Devanand on Tuesday. Mr. Krishna Mohan argued that the G.O. was issued in violation of the Constitution and the spirit of Article 73 of the Constitution Amendment Act. Academic qualification He said that the prescribed academic qualification for VRO posts is SSC whereas the same for Panchayat Secretaries who are directly recruited is graduation. The Panchayat Secretaries are, therefore, more competent than the VROs to ensure effective administration. Besides, the VROs are under the supervision of Tahsildars who oversee the revenue administration hierarchy. On the other hand, the Panchayat Secretaries are accountable to the Mandal Parishad Development Officers (MPDOs), District Panchayat Officers and Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) at the district and State levels respectively. Advocate General S. Sriram appeared for the State while advocate N. Srinivasa Rao presented the arguments on the behalf of the petitioner. Mr. Sriram said through the G.O. No.2, VROs have been made the cheque disbursing officers for the functional assistants, whose leave applications are also processed through the VROs. He insisted that the G.O. in question was the policy space of the government and it should be allowed to learn and evolve based on its experiences without the court’s interference at this stage. He denied that the government had any intention to create a parallel power centres and that the village secretariats with the functional assistants are merely meant for the last-mile delivery of various welfare schemes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-court-reserves-order-on-plea-over-transfer-of-certain-powers-to-vros/article34836370.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP opposes extension of India Cements’ mining lease||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) State president K. Atchannaidu has alleged that extending the lease period for mines by 50 years to the India Cements was part of the quid pro quo arrangement made by the YSRCP government. In a statement on Wednesday, the former Minister said that the State government had already extended the lease period for Saraswati mines arbitrarily immediately after coming to power. “Obviously, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is hell-bent on according permissions to the co-accused in his CBI and ED cases. The ongoing mining benefits are aimed at influencing the witnesses in the illegal assets cases,” he alleged. Mr. Atchannaidu further said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had a history of resorting to corruption by plundering crores worth public resources during the Chief Ministerial tenure of his father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in combined Andhra Pradesh. “The State’s natural wealth and resources are being handed over on a golden platter to those who are hand in glove with the Chief Minister in various corruptions,” he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-opposes-extension-of-india-cements-mining-lease/article34835779.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marine officer goes ‘missing’ from ship||A marine officer named Kakarla Srinivas, working at Synergy Maritime Private Limited, has been missing for weeks now from the vessel on which he was posted, his family members said in a complaint lodged with the police. A resident of Guntur, Mr. Srinivas is working as chief officer at Synergy Maritime. He was posted on a vessel that was sailing from Singapore to the U.S., and he is reportedly missing since May 23. Synergy Maritime officials have reportedly confirmed the disappearance of the officer. “The company management did not inform us about his disappearance, and we came to know about the incident through his friends. His mobile phone remains switched on,” said a family member. Speaking to The Hindu , Guntur Urban Superintendent of Police Arif Hafeez said Mr. Srinivas’s family members lodged a complaint with Arundelpet police urging that his belongings be traced. “According to his family members, the incident occurred off-shore. We don’t have any information on exactly when and where he went missing,” Mr. Hafeez said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/marine-officer-goes-missing-from-ship/article34835785.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC stays APPSC Group-I interviews for four weeks||The High Court on Wednesday passed an interim order imposing a stay for four weeks on the APPSC Group-I interviews scheduled to begin on June 17, following objections raised by the candidates to the method of evaluation of the Mains examination papers. The court reserved the judgment after hearing a batch of writ petitions on Tuesday. The candidates alleged that there was no mention of online evaluation in the notification and the question papers had many bloomers. They also said the APPSC proceeded with online evaluation in spite of fears expressed by them about the possibility of technical errors in preparing the merit list. Besides, they told the court that a separate list for sports quota, which was published for the first time in the mains results, created havoc. This was because there was only 2% reservation in sports quota and 75 candidates were called for the interviews. There were many other discrepancies pointed out by the candidates. Especially, the Telugu medium answer sheets were claimed to be evaluated in Andhra Pradesh, while those in English were sent to outside the State. APPSC Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the revised interview dates would be announced later. Meanwhile, interviews for the short-listed candidates for the posts of Assistant BC Welfare Officer in BC Welfare Service, Assistant Social Welfare Officer in Social Welfare Service and Assistant Tribal Welfare Officer in Tribal Welfare Service will be held on June 30 and July 1. The schedule of the oral test is available at https://www.psc.ap.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-stays-appsc-group-i-interviews-for-four-weeks/article34836371.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D. El.Ed exams postponed||In view of the extension of the partial lockdown till June 20, the second semester exams of the Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) for candidates of the 2019-21 batch has been rescheduled. In a statement on Tuesday, Director of Government Examinations, Subba Reddy said the exams that were earlier scheduled from June 21 to 24, will now be conducted from July 5 to 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/d-eled-exams-postponed/article34835780.ece
17 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR cancels four trains, diverts two||South Central Railway has cancelled four trains and diverted two trains. Train No.08519, Visakhapatnam-Mumbai LTT has been cancelled from June 16 to 30, and Train No.08520, Mumbai LTT-Visakhapatnam cancelled from June 18 to July 7. Train No.07613, Panvel-H.S. Nanded has been cancelled from June 17 to July 1, and Train No.07614, H.S. Nanded-Panvel is cancelled from June 16 to 30. Train No. 02514, Guwahati-Secunderabad, scheduled to commence on June 17, has been diverted via. New Cooch Behar, Mathabanga, Y-Leg Connection Cabin, Raninagar Jalpaiguri Stations. Train No.02508, Silchar-Thiruvanthapuram Central, scheduled to start on June 17, is diverted via. New Cooch Behar, Mathabanga, Y-Leg Connection Cabin, Raninagar Jalpaiguri Stations, according to the railway officials on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/scr-cancels-four-trains-diverts-two/article34835786.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister reviews work on ‘Jagananna’ houses||Housing Minister Ch. Sri Ranganatha Raju on Wednesday reiterated the government’s commitment to provide houses for all under its Pedalandariki Illu scheme. “While the State government had set a target of starting the construction of 5,000 houses in the first phase of the Navaratnalu scheme, the district administration has gone ahead and started construction of 5,019 houses,” the Minister said, appreciating the efforts of Collector V. Vinay Chand and his team. “Jagananna Colonies will have proper roads, drainages, drinking water facilities, electricity supply and other amenities,” Mr. Raju told reporters after a review meeting at VMRDA Children's Arena. Mr. Raju said that there would be a sand stock point at Jagannana Colony to ensure that there is no dearth of sand for construction. He also asked the officials to work with commitment for the project and said that satisfaction of the beneficiaries should be their utmost priority. The Minister also spoke to various public representatives and officials about the status of the housing programme in their respective constituencies. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao asked the officials to ensure a high level of quality in the works of the housing programme. He also said that the programme is being taken up in a very transparent manner in the district. Earlier, District Collector V. Vinay Chand explained about the works being done at YSR Jagananna Colonies in the district. He informed Mr. Raju that all issues related to every constituency are being sorted out time to time by conducting reviews and are taking up works in fast-track mode. Government Whip B. Mutyalanaidu, Mayor G. Hari Venkata Kumari, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana and VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao were present during the programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-reviews-work-on-jagananna-houses/article34836383.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP protests against property tax hike||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a protest against the State government’s proposed property tax hike, near Gandhi Statue in the city on Wednesday. Party members demanded immediate withdrawal of the draft notification released by the GVMC officials in this regard recently. Holding placards stating ‘Anna Vachadu, Pannu Penchadu’, the BJP leaders alleged that the YSRCP government which already made Andhra Pradesh a debt-ridden state, is now planning to increase the burden on people by increasing taxes. Senior BJP leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that the procedure of levying property tax based on the market value is condemnable. He said that though Municipal Minister Botsa Satyanarayana claims the property tax would not be more than 15%, the G.O. does not say that. He said that taking the decision during the pandemic, when people have already been financially hit, is disappointing on the part of the government. “Why are YSRCP MLAs elected by the public not voicing their opinion on the property tax hike, despite knowing that this decision would put a burden on people?” he questioned. The BJP MLA also condemned the proposed collection of charges for garbage collection. BJP leader P.V.N. Madhav also took part in the protest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-protests-against-property-tax-hike/article34836382.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Act against land-grabbers equally, CPI(M) tells govt.||Welcoming the appeal of Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao to all political parties to come out with their stand on recovery of lands encroached upon by political leaders, the CPI(M) said that the government should focus on reclaiming lands grabbed by various political leaders irrespective of their affiliation instead of targeting any particular political party. In a statement on Wednesday, CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao, district committee member K. Lokanadham and city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said that the CPI(M) was ready to prove that lands worth Rs. 50,000 crore were encroached upon in the district. The party favours recovery of the encroached lands, they said. The government has acted only against TDP leaders like Peela Govind, Sabbam Hari and Palla Srinivasa Rao and GITAM University. This was leading to suspicion that only TDP leaders were being targeted, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/act-against-land-grabbers-equally-cpim-tells-govt/article34836378.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases fall below 5,000-mark in district||As many as 649 persons undergoing treatment for the COVID-19 have recovered in the last 24 hours, while 303 new infections were reported from various parts of the district in the same period, ending Wednesday morning, taking the cumulative tally to 1,46,440. The death toll rose to 996 after four more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases also came down below the 5,000-mark and stands at 4,850. The number of recoveries/discharges to 1,40,594.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/active-cases-fall-below-5000-mark-in-district/article34836380.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work extra hours to clear waste: civic chief||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana directed officials to work additional hours to clear garbage that has piled up in various colonies due to the two-day strike by sanitation workers. She instructed staff to collect segregated waste from homes, clean drainages, roads and lakes on a war-footing. The civic chief also asked sanitation workers to ensure drainages are not overflown and wastes are shifted to the dumping yard. She inspected Pandurangapuram, Beach Road, MVP Colony (Sector -9), and Fishermen Colony on Wednesday. In the wake of rains, Ms. Srijana also asked GVMC officials to take measures keeping in view seasonal diseases. Footpaths The GVMC Commissioner also instructed officials to ensure footpaths are not encroached upon in the city. During her inspection of various areas under Zone IV, she directed officials to take strict action against those encroaching footpaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/work-extra-hours-to-clear-waste-civic-chief/article34836384.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank employee dies in road accident||A 35-year-old woman was killed in a road accident after she was allegedly hit by a lorry near Gurudwara Junction under IV Town police station limits, in the city on Wednesday afternoon. The deceased was identified as A. Jayasri Reddy (35), a resident of Allipuram. According to sources, the incident reportedly occurred when the woman, who was working for a bank in Seetammadhara, was returning home from work. The IV Town police have registered a case and have launched an investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bank-employee-dies-in-road-accident/article34836385.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. more interested in revenue of temples than their problems: Ashok||Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju had darshan of the presiding deity of the Simhachalam temple on Wednesday for the first time after his reinstatement by the High Court as hereditary trustee of the temple and chairman of the MANSAS Trust. Addressing the media, he said it was the basic responsibility of the Central and State governments to uphold the Constitution and protect ‘dharma’. Referring to temple funds and temple lands, he expressed the view that the government was interested in the revenue, but not about the problems. “I was dismissed from three temples on the pretext that I failed to protect the idols. The stones at the Ananta Padmanabha Swamy temple at Padmanabham , had been removed. The idol of Lord Rama was damaged at Ramatheertham in Vizianagaram district. Have the culprits been arrested?” he questioned. He alleged that 17% of the temple funds (Rs. 49 lakh) was being misused by the government to advertise welfare scheme. He also visited the ‘gosala’ being maintained by the temple management.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-more-interested-in-revenue-of-temples-than-their-problems-ashok/article34836373.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Faculty development programme at GITAM||GITAM Deemed to be University along with All India Council for Technical EEducation Training and Learning (ATAL) Academy will be jointly organising an online faculty development programme (FDP) on ‘Life Skills Management – Leadership & Excellence’ from June 21 to 25. The five-day online training programme is being offered to all faculty members of AICTE-approved institutions in the country, said programme coordinator Dr. Sankranti Srinivasa Rao here on Wednesday. ‘Innovative teaching methodologies’ The programme will focus on innovative teaching methodologies and how to develop interpersonal connection with students during the present pandemic conditions. Those who are willing to participate in the programme are requested to register their names by visiting the ATAL website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/faculty-development-programme-at-gitam/article34836381.ece
17 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowment land will be protected: Velampalli||Minister for Endowments Velampalli Srinivas has said that all measures will be taken for the protection of Endowments lands in the district. The Minister held a review meeting on the functioning of the Endowments Department at the Zilla Parishad hall here on Wednesday. He said that efforts would be made to secure more revenue through the lease of assets and lands belonging to temples in a transparent manner. Endowments lands under occupation would be freed and brought under department control. The lands would be fenced to prevent encroachments. Lands in urban areas would be protected either with the common good fund or under the PPP mode. He said that the MANSAS Trust was not functioning in a transparent manner and its accounts would be audited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endowment-land-will-be-protected-velampalli/article34836387.ece
17 June 2021||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP seeks ex gratia for COVID victims’ kin||The Telugu Desam Party on Wednesday urged the State government to pay ex gratia of Rs. 10 lakh to family members of COVID-19 victims as it had stopped continuing the Chandranna Bima Bima scheme that could have ensured direct compensation to such families. Party veterans B. Narasinga Rao, Kandi Murali Naidu, and Karrotu Venkata Narasinga Rao submitted a memorandum to Vizianagaram Tahsildar M. Prabhakara Rao, urging him to convey their demands to the government. “Many have died due to lack of oxygen at MR Hospital. The government should pay Rs. 25 lakh compensation to their family members. It should pay Rs. 15,000 immediately for performing last rites for COVID-19 victims,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-seeks-ex-gratia-for-covid-victims-kin/article34836377.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action mode||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/action-mode/article34836363.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Throwing caution to the wind||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/throwing-caution-to-the-wind/article34835782.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six Maoists killed in exchange of fire||Sources say that one of the slain Maoist was the personal bodyguard of Uday. This is being termed as the biggest strike against the LWE, post the Ramaguda operation in which over 30 Maoistswere killed in October 2016. Elusive Ranadev The Greyhounds seem to have gotten the better of Ranadev, who has been eluding the security forces since the last couple of years. Hailing from Malkangiri of Odisha, Ranadev is said to be well trained in guerilla warfare. He was earlier heading the Kalimela dalam on the Odisha side of AOB and in recent times looking after the operations in Boipariguda, north of Sileru. He had escaped by the skin of his teeth when the Greyhounds and the CRPF had almost got him in the exchange of fire in Madigamallu-Kondajartha forest area in GK Veedhi mandal, in September 2019. Sources say during Wednesday’s incident, he held back the Greyhounds team, allowing the others to escapeunder the cover of fire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/six-maoists-killed-in-exchange-of-fire/article34836364.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tax burden||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tax-burden/article34836375.ece
17 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||40 kg ganja worth Rs. 6 lakh seized||Heightened vigil by the police as part of strict enforcement of COVID-19 lockdown in the border town of Bhadrachalam has led to seizure of 40 kg of ganja worth about Rs. 6 lakh in the temple town late on Tuesday evening. A police team apprehended four members of an inter-State gang of ganja peddlers during patrolling near the bus stand in the temple town. The contraband as well as a bike was seized from their possession. The arrested were identified as Imtiaz, 27, Kishan Kumar, 26, Muzamil, 19, of Khammam town and Korra Dhara Babu, 20, of Chintapalli village in Visakhapatnam district, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/40-kg-ganja-worth-rs-6-lakh-seized/article34836308.ece
17 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Man jailed in POCSO case||Fifth Additional District and Sessions Judge of Kothagudem Mohd. Abdul Rafi has sentenced a 30-year-old man to 10-year imprisonment under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for raping a 14-year-old girl of Bhadrachalam town in 2015. The accused P Laxman, a cycle mechanic in Bhadrachalam, who hails from Kalidindi in Krishna district of AP, was found guilty of raping the minor girl at his native village in October, 2015. Acting on a complaint filed by a relative of the rape victim, the Bhadrachalam town police arrested Laxman after booking him under the POCSO Act and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-jailed-in-pocso-case/article34836290.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Stop criticising KCR, opposition told||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao toured his constituency on Wednesday, inaugurating the 2BHK houses at Boppapur, Gollapalli and Yellareddypet mandal headquarters in Rajanna-Sircilla district, apart from Rythu Vedika built in Kodurupaka village in memory of his grandparents. The Minister challenged Congress and BJP leaders to prove if such scheme was in place in any state being ruled by their parties or just stop criticising Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao who had designed the scheme. “Your baseless criticism of the CM has no meaning and will not affect the government’s functioning,” he said while speaking at a programme organised on the occasion. He said the scheme that gave dignity to poor people also came free as the beneficiaries did not have to pay any money. The land cost in Sricilla was on a par with some places in Hyderabad but the government didn’t think twice to fulfil the promise. He requested the beneficiaries to plant saplings as a return gift to the government. The Minister said the selection of beneficiaries was done in a transparent manner without scope for irregularities. Those who could not get the houses so far should not be dejected as the government was committed to providing houses to all. The pandemic had slowed down the construction but it would pick up pace. KTR said the once drought-prone Rajanna Sircilla district would be turned into the Konaseema of Telangana once the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Scheme was completed. Housing Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said 2.67 lakh double bedroom houses were being constructed with an allocation of Rs. 19,000 crore. So far 1.67 lakh houses had been fully constructed at a cost of Rs. 10,000 crore, he said. New DCCB branch The Minister inaugurated the DCCB branch in Kondurupaka village of Boinpalli mandal. Mr. Prashanth Reddy, TS Planning board vice chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Rajya Sabha member J Santosh Rao and Karimnagar DCCB chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao were present. The Karimnagar DCCB had opened the bank branch in 2018 in a rented building. The DCCB has constructed its own building, which is the 10th in integrated Karimnagar district. Among the 67 branches, 10 were housed in own buildings and equipped with solar power system. The Karimnagar main branch has an installed capacity of 100 kilowatts and all other branches have 15-KW capacity. The Minister appreciated Mr. Ravinder Rao for constructing an ultra-modern DCCB bank branch on a par with any commercial bank. Collector D Krishna Bhaskar, DCCB CEO N Satyanarayana Rao, and general manager B Sridhar were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stop-criticising-kcr-opposition-told/article34836303.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minister’s brother booked||Labour and Woman and Child Development Minister Ch. Malla Reddy’s younger brother was booked by the Hyderabad police on Wednesday for organising card games and a liquor party at a private property at Bowenpally in violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines. Any sort of gambling/card games are banned in Telangana. Acting on a tip-off, the Commissioner’s Task Force (north zone) team raided the premises located near Malla Reddy Gardens around 2.15 p.m. and were shocked to see the Minister’s brother Ch. Narasimha Reddy. Later, they found that Narasimha Reddy was the organiser of the ‘makeshift gambling club’ which was running for months now. The police team found cards, a huge quantity of liquor, cooked mutton and other material provided to the ‘players’ by the organiser. They seized Rs. 1.40 lakh in cash from13 persons “We were shocked to see the ambiance there. It is like a makeshift gaming club with food and liquor for the players,” an officer said. Narasimha Reddy also dropped the Minister’s name and asked the policemen to leave the premises as they were ‘just relaxing’ during lockdown. However, the officers cordoned off the premises, seized the available material and handed over them to the Bowenpally police, who registered cases under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Telangana State Gaming Act, and served notices to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ministers-brother-booked/article34836284.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,489 new infections, 11 deaths reported in State||As many as 1,489 coronavirus-positive cases were reported on Wednesday while 11 deaths were recorded across the State. With the new cases, the cumulative number of positive cases touched 6,07,925. The number of patients, who recovered from COVID, was put at 1,436, thus taking the total recoveries to 5,84,429. The death toll stands at 3,521. A bulletin issued by the Health department on Wednesday evening mentioned that Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits had 175 cases followed by Nalgonda with 131 cases and Khammam with 118 cases. The number of active cases was 19,975. Further, the bulletin mentioned that 1,16,252 samples were tested on Wednesday and the total number of samples tested till date was 1,70,70,886. The samples tested per million population were 4,58,648. The case fatality and recovery rates in the state were at 0.57 per cent and 96.13 per cent, respectively.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1489-new-infections-11-deaths-reported-in-state/article34836273.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA installs advanced video analytics||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL) which has pioneered many technological initiatives for a passenger-friendly journey, has implemented Queue Management Systems combining IoT security cameras and AI video analytics that help improve passenger experience by reducing waiting time at passenger touch points. It has collaborated with AllGoVision Technologies in this implementation where smart queue management solution uses advanced camera-based video analytics to help the staff to constantly monitor various key parameters such as peak passenger waiting time and take corrective actions as needed which are very essential for the safety of both passengers and airport staff in these pandemic times. Advanced video analytics platform analyses the video feed from various cameras and uses Deep Learning (DL) based Artificial Intelligence (AI) models to accurately estimate passenger statistics over time. It is also using the technology for enhanced security such as camera tampering, loitering, parking violation, object classification, wrong way detection and left object detection. e-boarding facility The airport has already successfully converted all the elevators in the airport from traditional push-button controls to a safer touch-less alternative, heightening passenger safety. Hyderabad International Airport is also the only airport having paperless e-boarding facility for all domestic travellers. Shortly this is to be extended to all other airlines for international travellers too in a phased manner, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rgia-installs-advanced-video-analytics/article34836281.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s revenue looking up||The State’s finances are looking up after being hit by the COVID-19 pandemic for several months with over Rs. 12,000 crore revenue reported during the first two months of the current financial year. Total revenue during April was a little over Rs. 6,800 crore and in May it was Rs. 5,200 crore in spite of the lockdown restrictions allowing free movement of people and conduct of businesses for only four hours for a couple of weeks. That the State is returning to normal in terms of revenue can be seen from the fact that there is an increase in revenue collection in all sectors, including VAT on petroleum products, Excise duty and Goods and Services Taxes, during the two months. Revenue from commercial taxes department, including SGST, IGST and other heads during the two months, was reported at Rs. 4,444.78 crore as against Rs. 1,444 crore in the corresponding period in previous fiscal when the State was under total lockdown for around a month and a half. Value-added tax on petroleum products during the same period was Rs. 2,034 crore as against Rs. 292 crore of the same period previous year. Excise duty Excise duties from liquor are put at Rs. 1,815 crore during April and May during the current fiscal while it was nil in April and Rs. 495 crore in May in the year-ago period. Revenue through registrations and stamp duties during the past two months has been around Rs. 1,000 crore and the State had also opted for open market borrowings during the period to meet immediate financial commitments. The rebound in revenue comes after the State suffered huge setbacks during the same period last fiscal when the State’s own tax revenue was less than Rs. 1,600 crore due to COVID-19-induced slowdown and the situation was compounded with the general slowdown of the economy in the country at the same time. Senior officials are confident that the revenue collection would be back on track as the lockdown restrictions were being gradually phased out owing to the decline in the case load and fatalities. Officials are hopeful that the government would effect revision of land prices sooner than later so that revenue on that count increases significantly and thereby, helping the State achieve the targets set for the current fiscal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-revenue-looking-up/article34836302.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Youth held for stalking and harassing classmate||A 21-year-old student was arrested by the Rachakonda cyber crimes police for allegedly stalking and harassing a woman on Instagram. The accused, Leburi Veda Sai Reddy allegedly created a fake Instagram account using the complainant’s pictures and was chatting with her friend in abusive language. “While studying Intermediate he befriended the victim. Later when she started avoiding him, he bore a grudge against her and sent abusive messages to her friend in order to defame her,” police said. During the course of investigation the police collected all the technical evidence and after analysing the data he was arrested on Tuesday. Fake accounts In a similar case, a youngster who created fake social media accounts of a woman with morphed images as profile pictures was arrested by the Rachakonda Cyber Crimes police. The accused was identified as Chinna Venkanna Rajashekar Reddy (26) from Madannapet of Saidabad. “He posted the woman’s private and morphed images in social media platforms and also sent messages to her friends and family members stating that she is having an affair with the accused with the ill intention of defaming her character,” police said. Mason arrested A mason was arrested by the police on Wednesday in connection with the murder of a 45-year-old woman from OU Colony, Shaikpet. The accused, Ganji Venkatesh (35) and the victim Buneti Chennama worked at the same construction site and on June 9 after work they went to consume toddy at Sakkubai graveyard. “Later Chennamma fell unconscious. The accused grabbed an iron rod, hit on her head and made away with her silver braces and gold earrings,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youth-held-for-stalking-and-harassing-classmate/article34836285.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC contempt notice to Home Secretary||Taking a serious note of the State government dilly-dallying filling up of 174 Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) posts, Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notices to Home Secretary Ravi Gupta to explain why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against him. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea on filling-up posts of public prosecutors in criminal courts of the State, directed the Home Secretary to reply to the show cause notice by July 7. Earlier, the bench instructed the government to recruit 174 APP posts in different criminal courts of the State to ensure the criminal justice system does not suffer. Government Pleader for Home Srikanth Reddy sought more time to comply with the bench’s previous direction to fill up the posts when the matter came up for hearing on Wednesday. Turning down his request, the Chief Justice told him to inform the Home Secretary that the court would reconsider contempt of court show-cause notice only if its order is implemented. Otherwise, the contempt of court notice would be taken to its logical end, the bench said. During the previous hearing held on this April 1, Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed that Telangana government issued an order a month ago for the appointment of APPs. He sought time to inform the bench the timeline of completing the recruitment process. More than two-and-half-a-month passed since then and still the government wants time to finalise the appointments, the bench noted. Noting that APPs play key role in administration of criminal justice system, the bench wondered if the government wants to streamline the criminal court system in the State or not. “Does the government want us to put a gun to its head for implementing court orders...is it possible in a court of law?” the Chief Justice remarked. The Chief Justice recalled that the government delayed even appointment of Director of Prosecutions. “What is happening in the State? Does the government want the criminal justice system to go into deep slumber?” the Chief Justice asked. Mr. Srikanth Reddy informed the bench that there is a need to amend certain rules in Prosecution Department to complete the process of appointing APPs. “When do you plan to amend the rules...in the next century?” the Chief Justice questioned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-contempt-notice-to-home-secretary/article34836299.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Refer Krishna water issue to tribunal: Telangana||In a significant move, Telangana has filed an interlocutory application before the Supreme Court for withdrawal of its writ petition with regard to re-allocation of Krishna water following bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh and intimated the same to the Ministry of Jal Shakti for referring the matter to KWDT-II, as assured. In a letter addressed to the Secretary of MoJS on Tuesday, Special Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana Rajat Kumar has requested the Centre to refer the matter of re-allocation of Krishna water between Telangana and AP under Section 3 of the Inter-State River Water Dispute Act, 1956, either to the existing Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal-II headed Justice Brijesh Kumar or to a new tribunal. Drawing the attention of the MoJS Secretary to the second meeting of Apex Council held on October 6 last year where in Telangana had agreed to withdraw its petition in the Supreme Court following a suggestion by the MoJS for considering the request to refer the matter to a new tribunal or to KWDT-II. The MoJS had also assured at that meeting that the Ministry would seek legal opinion on whether a new tribunal has to be appointed or new terms of reference could be issued to KWDT-II to hear the matter of re-allocation between Telangana and AP. Based on the MoJS assurance Telangana filed an interlocutory application in the Supreme Court on June 9 for withdrawing its writ petition filed in 2015. Telangana has requested the MoJS to take steps for referring its Section 3 complaint, as assured at the Apex Council meeting, for re-allocation of water limiting the scope between Telangana and AP to KWDT-II, presently considering the reference under Section 89 of the AP Reorganisation Act, to avoid duplication of inquiry and multiplicity of proceedings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/refer-krishna-water-issue-to-tribunal-telangana/article34836289.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC workers protest salary delay||Several Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) workers protested at various depots and bus stations across the State on Wednesday against salaries not being paid on time. Workers said that for the past couple of years, salaries are not being paid on time, and that this month, they had to wait for fortnight from the day salaries are due to be credited. Protests were seen at the HCU Depot, Hyderabad – 1 depot and Kalwakurthy, among others. TRS govt. faulted K Hanumanth Mudiraj from the Telangana Jatiya Mazdoor Union (TJMU), one of the unions which is protesting, the other being Telangana Mazdoor Union (TMU), claimed that ever since the Telangana Rashtra Samithi came to power, there has been an inordinate delay in paying workers their due. “Previously, salaries were paid on the 1st of every month. In case 1st was a holiday, salaries would be paid a day before. It is already June 16 today. Meanwhile, some workers got salaries today, while many others have not, and I do not know when they will be paid.” Mr Mudiraj said. ‘No new buses’ He objected to the 32 KIA Carnival cars being procured for the use of civil servants, and said that the transport juggernaut has not bought new buses for many years. “In fact, fleet size has decreased. Further, our pay revision was due in 2017. That has not happened. Now, another pay revision due date, in April, has also gone by,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-workers-protest-salary-delay/article34836309.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sporadic cases of sudden cardiac deaths, heart attacks||Doctors across the country are observing two cardiac manifestations, although sporadic, among COVID patients — heart attacks, and the more concerning sudden cardiac deaths, said senior cardiologist and director of Division of Pacing and Electrophysiology at KIMS Hospitals, B. Hygriv Rao. He said that cardiologists across the country have observed heart attacks due to clots in arteries. This cardiac manifestation was observed even among people as young as 23 or 24 years old and with no risk factors such as diabetes or hypertension. It is believed to be an inflammatory response to COVID. Many of these patients may not require stents or bypass surgery. “More concerning is sudden cardiac deaths among patients who were recovering on ventilator or had been shifted out of ICU,” he said adding that only detailed systematic study or autopsies will help understand more about the reasons leading to the cardiac conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sporadic-cases-of-sudden-cardiac-deaths-heart-attacks/article34836269.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post-COVID issues now a focus area||Persisting health issues among coronavirus-recovered patients could become one of the major focus areas at hospitals in the coming weeks. While Health officials had earlier announced that Post-COVID Clinics would be opened at government hospitals, corporate hospitals are still chalking out plans. General physicians and pulmonologists at government hospitals have been asked to focus on post-COVID issues as they would be the ones dealing with patients experiencing breathlessness, fatigue, fever etc. Authorities of major State-run hospitals said they had received instructions to open the clinics and are currently attending such cases along with other out-patient cases. Managements of corporate hospitals said they may open similar clinics specifically to attend post-COVID issues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/post-covid-issues-now-a-focus-area/article34836270.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Leafy veggies, fruits for Vit-A intake in children’||Food-based initiatives through green leafy vegetables and fruits can meet daily vitamin A requirement, while not putting the children below five years at risk of excess intake. Hence, authorities concerned should consider a targeted state-based Vitamin A supplementation (VAS) programme, unlike the current nation-wide megadose VAS program in the country, say scientists of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-National Institute of Nutrition (NIN). A joint research effort in association with researchers at St. John’s Research Institute, Bengaluru, and Sitaram Bhartia Institute of Science & Research, New Delhi, had found Vitamin A Deficiencies (VAD) among children is not a public health problem anymore as the national prevalence of risk is below 20% in children. In fact, the researchers warned of a possible risk of ‘hypervitaminosis’ caused by excess intake with food fortification and supplementation. Vitamin A, key for vision and many biological activities, must be provided in the diet as it can’t be synthesised by humans. “The study draws on the sample of Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey 2016-2018. It showed VAD based on serum retinol levels was 15.7% among 1-5 years old children, lesser than the 20% mark that defines a serious public health problem,” said NIN director R. Hemalatha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/leafy-veggies-fruits-for-vit-a-intake-in-children/article34836274.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAF chief to review CGP on Saturday||Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, PVSM, AVSM, VM, ADC will be the chief guest and reviewing officer of the Combined Graduation Parade (CGP) to be held at Air Force Academy, Dundigal, on June 19 to mark the successful completion of pre-commissioning training of flight cadets of various branches of Indian Air Force. During the function, he will confer the ‘President’s Commission’ to the graduating trainees. The ceremony includes presentation of ‘wings’ and ‘brevets’ to the flight cadets who would be successfully completing flying and navigation training, respectively. The IAF chief will also be awarding ‘wings’ to officers of Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard on successful completion of their flying training at AFA. The event will also have an aerobatic display by the famous Surya Kiran Aerobatic Team, Sarang Helicopter Display Team, Pilatus PC-7 trainer and Para jumping by the Akash Ganga Team. The ceremony will also have fly past formations. Due to the COVID-19 situation, parents of graduating flight cadets have not been invited to witness the CGP this time. However, AFA is making adequate arrangements for live streaming on Doordarshan channel, social media and coverage in media, said a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-chief-to-review-cgp-on-saturday/article34836279.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 1,152 cr. Rythu Bandhu amount disbursed||An amount of about Rs. 1,152.46 crore was credited into the bank accounts of about 23.05 lakh farmers with landholding between one acre and up to two acres on the second day of disbursement of investment support for this kharif season under the Rythu Bandhu scheme on Wednesday. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, the Rythu Bandhu benefit was given to about 15.07 lakh farmers on the second day. On day one on Tuesday, an amount of Rs. 516.95 crore was credited into the accounts of nearly 16.96 lakh farmers with a landholding of about 10.34 lakh acres -- farmers having land up to one acre each. The total amount disbursed in two days is Rs. 1,669.42 crore for landholding of 33.39 lakh acres belonging to 32.03 lakh farmers. The Minister stated that on the third day on Thursday, an amount of 1,272.85 crore is expected to be credited to the accounts of 10.4 lakh farmers with a landholding of about 26.82 lakh acres. Lowest in Adilabad On day one, a maximum of Rs. 36.1 crore was credited to the accounts of 11,970 farmers in Nalgonda district and the lowest of Rs. 35.6 lakh was credited to the accounts of 9,628 farmers in Adilabad district. On the second day too, Nalgonda got the highest amount of Rs. 85.23 crore for 1,10,407 farmers.  1,272.85 crore will be credited into the accounts of 10.4 lakh farmers with a landholding of about 26.82 lakh acres S. Niranjan Reddy, Agriculture Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-1152-cr-rythu-bandhu-amount-disbursed/article34836295.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoU for corporate training||The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry and the Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, will enter into an MoU for imparting training to directors of companies in the State. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani announced this at a webinar on role and responsibilities of directors organised by the federation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mou-for-corporate-training/article34836300.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Community hall opened||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday inaugurated a community hall at Takkijail Dhobighat, Kachiguda, and hoped that it would serve as a centre for cultural exchange and for conduct of community activities. Participating in a series of programmes in the twin cities, the Minister later visited the residence of senior party leader N. Ramachander Rao and paid homage to his father NVRLN Rao who passed away recently. Later on, Mr. Reddy called on Chief Justice of India Justice N.V. Ramana at Raj Bhavan and extended his greetings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/community-hall-opened/article34836301.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police arresting Congress cadre during KTR’s visits: Ponnam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) working president Ponnam Prabhakar has questioned the rationale behind the arrest of all the opposition leaders in Sircilla whenever Municipal Minister K.T. Rama Rao visits his constituency. In a statement here, Mr. Prabhakar asked why is the police over-reacting to the Minister’s visit every time by arresting Congress leaders. Is the Minister afraid of his own constituency people, he asked and added that the police was keeping the arrested cadre in the police stations a day in advance of the Minister’s visit. He said the issue was also brought to the notice of State Humans Rights Commission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-arresting-congress-cadre-during-ktrs-visits-ponnam/article34836304.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Polling for Presidential elections of Iran tomorrow||With the 13th Presidential elections of Iran scheduled to be held on June 18, the Consulate General of the Islamic Republic of Iran has announced the setting of three polling stations. The polling stations will be in Hyderabad, Rajahmundry and Bengaluru. According to officials, there are around 2,000 voters in the region, out of which approximately 200 are students living in Hyderabad. Polling will begin at 8 a.m. and end at 6 p.m. on June 18. The Consulate General in Hyderabad, which is responsible for polling activity in south India issued a statement on Wednesday saying that all necessary coordination has been done with State officials to conduct the elections as per COVID protocols.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/polling-for-presidential-elections-of-iran-tomorrow/article34836288.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,383 one-year posts under TVVP announced||The State government has issued orders to engage 491 employees on contract basis and 1,892 more on outsourcing basis for various services under Telangana Vaidya Vidhana Parishad (TVVP). The jobs will last till 2022 March-end. According to the orders issued on Tuesday, the openings in administrative and medical wings include civil assistant surgeons of various specialisations, nurses, pharmacists, lab technicians, etc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/2383-one-year-posts-under-tvvp-announced/article34836271.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - with arranged pic - can go as brief or SC SEC calls on CJI||Telangana State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi has called on Chief Justice of India Justice N.V. Ramana in Raj Bhavan here on Wednesday. After meeting the CJI, the SEC said it was a courtesy call. He stated that he had explained to the CJI about timely conduct of elections to all rural and urban local bodies. Meanwhile, Chairman and Managing Director of Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Ltd (TS-Genco) and Transmission Corporation of Telangana Ltd (TS-Transco) D. Prabhakar Rao also called on the CJI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/state-page-with-arranged-pic-can-go-as-brief-or-sc-sec-calls-on-cji/article34836297.ece
17 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Music therapy to drive away lockdown blues||In an earnest attempt to spread positivity amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown, a young music teacher of Wyra town has been conducting online vocal music classes for a small group of beginners. Ch Navyasri, 25, a music teacher at the State-run residential school in Karepalli, has been making productive use of the lockdown period to impart the nuances of vocal music by conducting online classes from her home in Wyra. Driven by passion for Indian classical music, Navyasri, who hails from an impoverished family, completed her BA (music vocal) from S.V. College of Music and Dance in Andhra Pradesh’s temple city of Tirupati and a certificate course in Carnatic music from Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University. She started online music classes over a week ago by enrolling interested learners through social media. She devised a 12-day schedule to organise the online vocal music sessions thrice a week through video-conferencing app and fixed a nominal fee of Rs. 1,500 per learner. “I started the online music classes to familiarise learners, mainly children, with the basic concepts of Carnatic music and help them learn devotional as well as patriotic songs,” says Navyasri. So far, 10 learners, including eight children and two women from various parts of Khammam district and elsewhere in the State, have joined the virtual sessions by making use of their smartphones. “Music has the potential to develop cognitive skills among children and serve as a medium of self-expression,” she notes, adding that the classes help reduce stress and overcome boredom during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/music-therapy-to-drive-away-lockdown-blues/article34836277.ece
17 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident||A 30-year-old man and his two-year-old daughter breathed their last late on Tuesday night, minutes after being involved in an accident involving an excavator in Chintapally mandal in the district. The victims were identified as V. Ramesh, a car driver in Hyderabad, and his toddler Akshara, hailing from Homanthalapalli village of Chintapalli mandal. According to the police, Ramesh was at the wheel with his wife, daughter and another family member in the car while returning from a function at Andugula village in Ranga Reddy district. The incident occurred around 10.30 p.m. near Kurmedu gate in the mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-in-accident/article34836294.ece
17 June 2021||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Religious preachers, leaders vaccinated||Following orders of District Collector Prashant J Patil, a special drive to vaccinate religious preachers and leaders was conducted in the town on Wednesday. The drive conducted by the District Minority Welfare Department witnessed participation by a total 438 imams, priests, pastors and other religious leaders from across the town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/religious-preachers-leaders-vaccinated/article34836293.ece
17 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Officials are targeting us as we moved court, say oustees||With a hope that the Human Rights Commission (HRC) will come to their rescue in difficult times, outees of Mallannasagar have approached the State HRC, urging it to intervene and do justice to them. They complained that the officials had failed to keep the promise of allotting houses and sites and instead forcing them to vacate the village. “The government has taken over our lands and houses. At the time of acquiring lands, the officials issued us cheques and some papers mentioning plot numbers. Some families are depending on daily labour work. We are on roads, literally, as our lands and houses were already lost and officials are forcing us to vacate the village. The officials started paying us compensations since 2016 and still it is continuing. The compensations of houses, lands and structures were yet to paid. Single men and women are being neglected and they were not being paid. Those who crossed 18 years were also not paid. New cheques were not issued in the place of cheques for which ‘stop payment’ instructed,” said oustees in their petition filed before the SHRC. The oustees further stated: “The officials are informing that we are being targeted as we have approached the court. We have not gone to the court against the construction of Mallannasagar reservoir and officials should keep this in mind. Officials failed to respond to our repeated efforts. We are demanding justice and request SHRC to look into the issue.” The copy of the petition was sent to the Governor and the Chief Minister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/officials-are-targeting-us-as-we-moved-court-say-oustees/article34836307.ece
17 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Collectorate complex ready for inauguration||The newly constructed Collectorate and Commissionerate at the district headquarters are getting ready for inauguration. Though construction was completed almost a year ago but due to various reasons, the inauguration got cancelled three to four times. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the integrated collectorate is being established to see to it that all the offices are in one place so that it’s convenient for people. Rs. 81 crore budget “These buildings are being constructed at a cost of Rs. 81 crore. In G+2 mode, the collectorate was constructed on about 29 acres on the outskirts of the town. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate it on June 20,” said Mr. Harish Rao. The Minister also examined the MLA camp office at the Housing Board Colony. While participating in the oath taking ceremony of the agriculture market committee at Mirdoddi, Mr. Rao said development that was not made possible in the last 70 years by both the Congress and the TDP was made possible by Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. “Did anyone image that Kudavelli Vagu would over flow during summer. Labour force is coming from Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Odisha to work in agriculture works. We are far ahead of both Punjab and Haryana in paddy production. In the next few days, 40 metric tonne capacity godowns will be constructed,” said Mr. Rao. Lok Sabha member K Prabhakar Reddy, Zilla Parishad chairperson V. Roja Sharma and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/collectorate-complex-ready-for-inauguration/article34836305.ece
17 June 2021||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||KCR insensitive towards youth: Sharmila||Y.S. Sharmila, daughter of former Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy, who recently launched her political journey, on Wednesday said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is insensitive to the youth of Telangana as job notifications were not released for almost seven years now. She quoted committee reports and said there is one vacant job for every three jobs in the State government and a total vacancy of about 1.91 lakh jobs are in the various departments. “But why is the Chief Minister not issuing job notifications? Why is he short-sighted when it comes to youth issues and their future? He is very effective and leaves no stone unturned when it comes to winning even a single by-poll,” she remarked. Ms. Sharmila was in Suryapet and Nalgonda on Wednesday to meet unemployed youth and their families. She met the family of Md. Saleem, an ardent supporter of late YSR in Miryalaguda, who died due to COVID-19-related complications. She consoled the family and offered support. As per the schedule, Ms. Sharmila was to meet one Neelakanta Sai of Medaram village in Nereducherla mandal, who recently attempted to end life reportedly for non-issuance of notifications, but when approached, the house remained locked. Supporters of Ms. Sharmila alleged that the police forced the family out. However, Ms. Sharmila addressed unemployed group in an interaction and appealed to them not to resort to extreme steps but to demand and fight against the government. “The Chief Minister shed crocodile tears for the youth during the separate Telangana movement but now he is careless about them. Y.S.Rajasekhara Reddy was a visionary Chief Minister who filled more than 1 lakh jobs within three years, created about 11 lakh jobs in private sector, helped the skilled through corporations and extended self-employment subsidies,” she said, describing the deaths of unemployed youths as “murders by TRS government.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcr-insensitive-towards-youth-sharmila/article34836292.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Fed up with long queues, metro commuters take to social media||With the Delhi Metro services continuing to operate in a restricted manner, several stations are witnessing long queues outside the gates over the past few days. On Wednesday, the DMRC took to Twitter to reiterate its message to passengers on the need to control the flow of commuters inside the stations. The public transporter said that certain stations were intermittently being closed temporarily to ensure compliance of relevant COVID-19 guidelines. As part of crowd-control measures, while only select gates are functional at each station, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has also been temporarily closing gates to ensure social distancing inside the stations. Increased waiting time “The waiting time at the entry of some of the stations is also high since only a limited number of passengers are being allowed inside through a specified number of gates. We are aware that this is causing inconvenience and delay in journey to some passengers, especially during the peak hours and we apologise for the same,” read the statement. Since the resumption of metro services from June 7, after nearly a month of being suspended due to a lockdown in the national capital, the Delhi Metro is operating at a 50% capacity only. Due to the reduced capacity inside coaches, only 25 passengers are currently permitted to be inside coaches at any given point. For safer travel The DMRC further added, “However, it may be appreciated that these measures are being taken to regulate and control the flow of passengers for their safe travel. We expect the situation to improve once more relaxations are allowed by the authorities in the days to come.” With the growing queues outside some of the stations, several commuters have also taken to social media to complain about the increased waiting period before being able to enter the metro stations. On June 13, social media user, Harshit Agrawal, in a tweet had asked how passengers could know if the coach is already full. “Have you arranged guards in each coach so that they can inform passengers about [whether the] coach is filled or still have seats?” read Mr. Agrawal’s tweet. In response to the tweet, the DMRC said, “In order to ensure social distancing and compliance to 50% seating in trains, entry of passengers is allowed in limited and controlled manner. Drives are also being carried out to counsel or sensitise passengers. Announcements are being made in trains in this regard.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fed-up-with-long-queues-metro-commuters-take-to-social-media/article34836244.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Plea challenges capping non-PDS beneficiaries, HC seeks govt. reply||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea challenging its non-PDS (public distribution system) guidelines putting a cap of 20 lakh beneficiaries for providing them dry ration. A Bench of Justice Navin Chawla and Justice Asha Menon gave the direction on an application by NGO Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan which said foodgrains be given to all needy persons. Under the scheme, each beneficiary are to be provided with 5 kg foodgrains (4 kg of wheat and 1 kg of rice) free of cost. Modify guidelines The NGO has also sought direction to the city government to modify the May 27 guidelines to the extent that it should not be a mere one-time relief measure and that the beneficiaries may receive dry ration (foodgrains) for every calendar month until further orders. “The impugned guidelines [May 27] have put an arbitrary limit of 20 lakh beneficiaries under the scheme. This limit of 20 lakh appears to have no rational basis whatsoever. The provisioning and the estimate of the number of persons who are in need of the benefits under the scheme ought to be based on the number of people who in fact had benefited under a similar scheme last year,” the plea said. “In 2020, when the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic occurred, pursuant the orders of this court…, nearly 69.6 lakh persons, who did not possess ration cards, registered under the e-coupon scheme and were provided dry rations. Therefore, rations must be provided to all those who are in need, as also ordered last year,” the plea said. The NGO also asked the authorities to provide for a helpline number for people to register complaints over registering or availing benefits under the scheme and a mandate for nodal officers to place on the official website the action taken by them within 24 hours of receiving a complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/plea-challenges-capping-non-pds-beneficiaries-hc-seeks-govt-reply/article34836240.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Road safety to be focus of new centre at IIT-D||IIT-Delhi on Wednesday announced that it will establish a ‘Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Centre (TRIP-C)’ with a focus to produce state-of-the-art knowledge to address road transport and traffic safety in India and regions with similar socio-economic conditions. The ‘Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) that has been running at the institute since 2002 as an interdisciplinary programme and founded by late Prof. Dinesh Mohan, a world-renowned expert on traffic safety and human tolerance to injury will be converted to a centre. Sustainable transport The areas of research and study will include road planning and design interventions associated with traffic safety, road-user behaviour associated with traffic safety and sustainable transport systems and safety aspects of new vehicle technology in mixed traffic. The institute said that TRIP-C would offer academic programmes in the field of transportation and road safety to train professionals who are equipped with the skills for developing and maintaining safe transport infrastructure, including the vulnerable road users. TRIPP coordinator K. Ramachandra Rao said, “The forthcoming centre has a unique template on how to run an interdisciplinary programme successfully and would would endeavour to develop standards for safe transport and urban mobility options”. The new centre will offer a ‘Master of Science (MS) Research’ programme, which would train the students/ professionals in the field of the transportation safety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/road-safety-to-be-focus-of-new-centre-at-iit-d/article34836246.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||One held for supplying arms to gang||A 34-year-old man was arrested for allegedly supplying illegal firearms to members of a gang, the police said on Wednesday. The arrest follows after three members of the “Santro gang” were apprehended for their alleged involvement in a series of crimes, including robbery-cum-murder, committed within a span of a few hours at night in the national capital. The accused arms supplier, Sonu Panwar alias Baba Khan, was arrested from Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday, the police said, adding that he has also been found previously involved in a 2009 case of attempt to murder registered at Kotwali police station in the State. Last week, the Delhi police had arrested three men, identified as Rizwan (28), Shamshad (29) and Nasir (20), all residents of Loni in Ghaziabad, from Garhmukteshwar in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly committing a spate of robberies in a single night in the national capital. Among the four cases registered against them, one was a robbery-cum-murder case. According to the police, they arrested Panwar based on the disclosure made by Rizwan during interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/one-held-for-supplying-arms-to-gang/article34836242.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man buys bike with stolen money, arrested for theft of over Rs. 2 lakh||A man was arrested for allegedly stealing over Rs. 2 lakh from a lab in South Delhi where he worked as an accountant, the police said on Wednesday. The accused has been identified as Ranjan, 24, a resident of Tughlakabad, said DCP (South) Atul Thakur. On Wednesday, the police received a complaint at Hauz Khas police station regarding theft of over Rs. 2 lakh. The manager suspected involvement of a staffer because there were no traces of a break-in. “After a case was registered, traditional policing methods of interrogation were used with the lab’s staffers. Their gestures were noticed while interrogating as there was no clue from CCTV footage,” Mr. Thakur said. The police said that activity of the accountant was found suspicious and it was revealed that he had recently bought a motorbike. When he was asked the source of money with which he bought the bike, he couldn’t give a satisfactory response and started making excuses, the police said. During interrogation, the accused confessed to the crime. He allegedly said that his wife was pregnant and he was in urgent need of money.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-buys-bike-with-stolen-money-arrested-for-theft-of-over-rs-2-lakh/article34836241.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. to start ‘Lighthouse project’ for marginalised youth||The Delhi government on Wednesday said that the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) will identify youth in low-income or slum communities in the city to help them make more informed life choices and acquire necessary skills for improved employability. Community growth By partnering with Pune-based non-profit Lighthouse Communities Foundation, the Delhi government will set up “Lighthouses” in Kalkaji, Malkaganj, Matia Mahal and Patparganj. DSEU Vice-Chancellor Neharika Vohra speaking about the initiative said that the university seeks to make education a means for community growth and change. “The vision of the DSEU is to intertwine the transformation of the individual and the community. Through the ‘Lighthouse project’ we feel we can take the university closer to the communities,” Ms. Vohra said. Kalkaji MLA Atishi said that the initiative would ensure that children and youth coming from marginalised backgrounds are not left behind. This Lighthouse project will be a joint collaboration between the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University and Lighthouse Communities Foundation supported by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-to-start-lighthouse-project-for-marginalised-youth/article34836248.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Youth held for running sextortion racket||A 23-year-old Mewat-based man was arrested for allegedly running a ‘sextortion’ racket and victimising 200 people, the police said. Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime Branch) B.K. Singh said that the accused has been identified as Barkat Ali, from Haryana’s Palwal. The police said that they were investigating complaints by people who stated that their morphed obscene videos were being sent to them and that they were being threatening that the videos will be uploaded on the social media. “Criminals would demand Rs. 15,000 from their targets as the victims could pay up and not file any complaint because of the small amount,” Mr. Singh said. Ali was arrested after a team acted on a secret information on his arrival in Gurugram. During interrogation, it was revealed that the accused used to prepare fake ID with profile name and photographs of women on social media application after which they would send friend requests to wealthy people. The accused would then share WhatsApp numbers and indulge in intimate chats. “Eventually, they would very tactfully lure the victim into stripping on camera which would be recorded by them,” said a senior police officer. The accused would then reveal their identity as YouTubers and threaten the victims that they would upload the videos on social media which would tarnish their image in front of family and friends. “The victims preferred to pay the extortion money instead of filing complaint in order to save his reputation,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/youth-held-for-running-sextortion-racket/article34836251.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Case lodged for promoting ‘religious disharmony’||Delhi Police Special Cell on Tuesday registered a case following a complaint against an Instagram account allegedly making objectionable statements against three religions. The police lodged a case on charges of promoting enmity among religions. The complainant, a south Delhi resident, stated he came across “objectionable” content on the ‘gurus’ of three religions through WhatsApp on June 7 and the text was originally posted on Instagram. A case under Section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion... and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/case-lodged-for-promoting-religious-disharmony/article34836247.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man kills wife, tries to give it theft angle||A 25-year-old jobless man was arrested for allegedly stabbing his wife to death as she objected to his extramarital affair. The couple also had differences over taking care of their infant child, the police said on Wednesday. The accused tried to make it look like a theft attempt gone wrong. DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh said that the accused has been identified as Vikas. The police said that on Tuesday, they received a call about a murder-cum-theft at a house in Ranhola. When they reached the spot, the victim’s body with stab injuries was found lying on the bed. When asked, the husband stated that a thief had entered the house and escaped. “Vikas’s version was not found convincing. The spot was carefully examined which revealed that there was no disturbance to the main gate or other doors of the house from outside,” Mr. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-kills-wife-tries-to-give-it-theft-angle/article34836249.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Judo coach arrested in wrestler murder case||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested a judo coach in connection with a brawl at Chhatrasal Stadium involving Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar in which a wrestler died, an officer said. The judo coach, Subhash, was apprehended from his residence in Kirari here. He was arrested after interrogation. He works as a physical training instructor in a government school in Rohini. He had come to the stadium around 11.30 p.m. along with Kala, said the police. Mr. Subhash along with Sushil Kumar and other accomplices had allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. Sushil Kumar was arrested, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar, on May 23 from Outer Delhi’s Mundka area. The police said 11 people, including Mr. Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/judo-coach-arrested-in-wrestler-murder-case/article34836250.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Delhi govt. to start diploma course in yoga||The Delhi government on Wednesday said that it was going to launch a diploma course in ‘Meditation and Yoga Sciences’ at the Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences Research University as part of the announcement made in the Delhi budget 2021 that seeks to make yoga a crucial part of everyone’s daily life. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, announcing the course, said that yoga is a vital part of our rich and diverse Indian history and that it was the vision of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to make yoga a mass movement that reaches every household and impacts people positively. Any student which has taken any stream in Class 12 can opt for this course after passing out from school. “The main centre for this diploma course will be housed at the DPSRU however, several satellite centres across city schools which will host evening sessions, thrice a week, for two hours,” the government said. Over 400 trainees will be trained online in the first batch, Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-to-start-diploma-course-in-yoga/article34836252.ece
17 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Experts root for ‘healthcare marketing’||The strategies to promote “healthcare marketing” will instil confidence among the patients during the COVID-19 pandemic and improve access to public health facilities, besides strengthening the health infrastructure, a study on the challenges before public healthcare system amid the virus infection in the rural areas in Rajasthan has said. Experts and researchers laid emphasis on the role of primary and community health centres in containing the spread of the virus infection in the villages by generating awareness among the rural populace at a virtual event here on Wednesday. The marketing fundamentals were the need of the hour, said the experts. Jaipur-based Indian Institute of Health Management Research (IIHMR) has undertaken the study on the public health aspect of “healthcare marketing” to evolve new strategies to promote safety of patients through communication and inculcate confidence among them in the efficacy of treatment. The study also aimed at accelerating the know-how of quality and improvising access to public health services. New challenges IIHMR president P.R. Sodani said marketing as a component of public services had not yet taken a lead in the public health environment despite its potential to connect with the patients who were in need of immediate care. “COVID-19 has thrown challenges on the availability of public health services. It is here that the healthcare marketing can help by adopting a role transcending the commercial activities,” he said. While Piyush Sinha of Ahmedabad-based CRI Advisory and Research said a holistic healthcare marketing model would enable the corporates to make contribution to raising the country’s health status, Sheenu Jain of IIHMR’s Centre for Innovation, Incubation & Entrepreneurship laid emphasis on utilising digital platforms for connecting the patients with physicians and healthcare service providers. As a research institution, the IIHMR has launched a programme in health entrepreneurship under the University Grants Commission’s National Skills Qualification Framework.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/experts-root-for-healthcare-marketing/article34836258.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||The Hindu In School’s mega camp a hit||The Hindu In School, in association with Parisar Asha, organised ‘Creative Kids’, a 10-day-long mega online camp, from May 31 to June 10, which saw participation of more than 165 children across India. The camp that was curated for two age groups — juniors (7 to 10 years ) and seniors (11 to 15 years) — aimed at helping children get over the monotony of the lockdown and teach them essential life skills. Children also learnt various art and craft activities. There were also engaging sessions on language development, theatre, mind mapping, body movement, and mental health well-being. Chief guest of the grand online graduation ceremony on the last day of the camp was actor Rajeshwari Sachdev. N. Vaidyanathan, general manager West, The Hindu Group of Publications, and Aarati Savur, CEO, Parisar Asha, were also present along with the participants and their parents. Ms. Sachdeva applauded the efforts of Parisar Asha and The Hindu in School and urged the children to keep up the good work. Ms. Savur also appreciated the efforts of the children and the importance of their parents’ encouragement in keeping them motivated. Mr. Vaidyanathan said such efforts were of utmost importance which contributed positively to a child’s growth. He also announced one free subscription to the Young World Club for all the participants. The event was sponsored by Life Insurance Corporation of India and the energy partner was Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/the-hindu-in-schools-mega-camp-a-hit/article34835933.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Tackling learning challenges in pandemic||The Centre for Equity and Quality in Universal Education (CEQUE) has suggested creating a student enrolment database and initiating a campaign to bring children back to school, so that the challenges of access and learning in view of the pandemic can be addressed. Its report titled ‘Learning equity during and post-Covid’ has, among long-term measures, also advocated data-driven planning for learning and adaptation of curriculum considering learning loss as a result of school closure since the beginning of the pandemic. “We held our teacher innovator programme covering more than 300 teachers in six districts across Maharashtra. Our methodology helps teachers identify how they can improve student engagement, make level adjustments in their teachings, and use meaningful assessments to ensure that every child learns,” Uma Kogekar, CEO of CEQUE, said. Apart from coaching teachers to improve their pedagogy, the CEQUE works on creating audiovisual resource books for teachers, monitoring their performance, and encouraging community involvement in the process. The report has said that a Statewide initiative to assess the real enrolment will be a critical first step. “Using the pre-COVID-19 enrolment data, surveys need to be undertaken to assess how many children residing in the particular geographies are not attending school,” it said, adding that based on this database, a campaign to bring children back to school needed to be kicked off. The report has pointed out that the learning loss during school closure will necessitate reducing the curricular load at least in the next academic year. As inequities in learning outcomes are likely to continue as the impact of the pandemic will be felt over a longer term by the most vulnerable, the CEQUE report has recommended coaching teachers in mastering skill-based pedagogies rather than teaching from the textbook, and using hybrid models of teaching, among measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/tackling-learning-challenges-in-pandemic/article34835931.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Ramayan actor Chandrashekhar dies at 98||Veteran actor Chandrashekhar, best known for featuring in films like ‘ Cha Cha Cha ’, and ‘ Surang ’, and playing the role of Arya Sumant on the popular TV serial ‘ Ramayan ’, passed away on Wednesday due to age-related ailments. He was 98. Chandrashekhar breathed his last around 7 a.m. at his residence here, his son and producer Ashok Shekhar said. “He passed away in his sleep in the presence of family Mr. Shekhar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ramayan-actor-chandrashekhar-dies-at-98/article34835938.ece
17 June 2021||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 10,107 new cases||The number of recoveries barely exceeded the case surge on Wednesday with just 10,567 patients being discharged across Maharashtra as against 10,107 new COVID-19 cases. With a rise in daily cases as opposed to the last few days, the State’s active case tally reached 1,36,661. More than 1,200 deaths were added to the State’s progressive death toll of which 1,070 were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. As many as 144 fatalities occurred in the last 48 hours and a further 93 were from the past week. The State’s total death toll has climbed rapidly to 1,15,390 with the State’s case fatality rate going up to 1.94%. The State’s total cases have touched 59,34,880 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 56,79,746 with the recovery rate standing at 95.7%. “Of a total 3,86,41,639 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,34,880 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.36%) have returned positive with over 2.23 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. Pune reported nearly 1,200 new cases taking its total case tally to 10,38,966. As per the State Health Department figures, 16 deaths were recorded as the fatality toll went up to 15,744. According to district authorities, the active cases have declined below 11,000 while the death count reached 17,500. Mumbai recorded 821 new cases to take its total tally to 7,17,172 while the active count touched 17,782. Eleven fatalities took the city’s toll to 15,227. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur added more than 1,100 new cases taking its total cases to 1,36,588 of whom 12,487 are active. Sixteen deaths saw the toll climb to 4,260. Neighbouring Satara registered 915 new cases and 16 fatalities, taking its total case tally to 1,82,376 of whom 7,488 are active. Its death toll has risen to 4,276. Sangli logged more than 900 new cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maharashtra-adds-10107-new-cases/article34835935.ece
17 June 2021||Pune,||State govt. invites Maratha leaders for talks on quota||Even as Maratha quota agitators began a silent protest in Kolhapur district on Wednesday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government invited BJP Rajya Sabha member and royal Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati to hold a dialogue with the government to find a solution to the reservation demand. The government was positive about resolving the Maratha community’s demands, Congress leader and Minister Satej Patil said. The MVA supported the stance adopted by the Maratha community leaders, he said. Apart from Ministers Hasan Mushrif and Mr. Patil, all MLAs and MPs of Kolhapur, cutting across party lines, were present in the sit-in called by Mr. Sambhajiraje that saw thousands gathering in pouring rain. Mr. Sambhajiraje said, “The State government has extended an invitation for a discussion, which is welcome. But I will not go to Mumbai alone. The coordinators of Maratha outfits will decide who will go for the parleys”. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had called him on June 4, proposing that they meet in Mumbai to discuss the issue. However, he turned down the suggestion, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/state-govt-invites-maratha-leaders-for-talks-on-quota/article34835937.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Stars on the ground||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/stars-on-the-ground/article34836257.ece
17 June 2021||Geneva,||Biden, Putin hold ‘great power’ summit||U.S. President Joe Biden and Russian President Vladimir Putin concluded their summit meeting on Wednesday between what the American leader called “two great powers,” wrapping up more quickly than expected. The pair’s second sit-down, with aides present on both sides, lasted about 65 minutes. That session was to be divided into two parts with a break in between, but concluded without a second part. The two sides had said they expected to meet for four to five hours but spent less than three hours together, including an opening meeting with just the two Presidents and each one’s top foreign aide. In a press conference held after the summit, Mr. Putin said they have agreed to return their Ambassadors to their posts in a bid to lower tensions. Russia’s Ambassador to the U.S., Anatoly Antonov, was recalled from Washington about three months ago after Biden described Mr. Putin as a killer. U.S. Ambassador to Russia John Sullivan left Moscow almost two months ago after Russia suggested he return to Washington for consultations. Mr. Biden and Mr. Putin plunged into the face-to-face talks on Wednesday at a lush lakeside Swiss mansion, a highly anticipated summit at a time when both leaders say relations between their countries are at an all-time low. As the two leaders appeared briefly before media at the start of the meeting, Mr. Biden called it a discussion between “two great powers” and said it was “always better to meet face to face.” The meeting in a book-lined room had a somewhat awkward beginning — both men appeared to avoid looking directly at each other during a brief and chaotic photo opportunity before a scrum of jostling reporters. Mr. Biden nodded when a reporter asked if Mr. Putin could be trusted, but the White House quickly sent out a tweet insisting that the President was “very clearly not responding to any one question, but nodding in acknowledgement to the press generally”. Mr. Putin ignored shouted questions from reporters, including whether he feared jailed Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Shaking hands The two leaders did shake hands — Mr. Biden extended his hand first and smiled at the stoic Russian leader — moments earlier when they posed with Swiss President Guy Parmelin, who welcomed them to Switzerland for the summit. Mr. Biden and Mr. Putin first held a relatively intimate meeting joined by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Each side had a translator for the session, which lasted about an hour and a half. The meeting, after about a 40-minute break, then expanded to include senior aides on each side.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-putin-hold-great-power-summit/article34835637.ece
17 June 2021||Gaza City,||Israel strikes Hamas sites in Gaza over incendiary balloons||Israel carried out air strikes on the Gaza Strip early on Wednesday after militants in the Palestinian territory sent incendiary balloons into the south of the country, in the first flare-up between the two sides since a major conflict killed hundreds last month. The strikes were the first under the new coalition government headed by Naftali Bennett. The uptick in violence came after more than a thousand Jewish ultranationalist demonstrators bearing Israeli flags poured into Jerusalem’s flashpoint Old City on Tuesday, with scores of police deployed and international monitors urging calm. According to Palestinian sources, the Israeli Air Force targeted at least one site east of Khan Yunis in the south of the Gaza Strip. The military said that in response to the “arson balloons”, its “fighter jets struck military compounds belonging to the Hamas terror organisation”. It said “facilities and meeting sites for terror operatives” in Khan Yunis were targeted. There was no indication of any casualties. The military added that it was “prepared for any scenario, including a resumption of hostilities, in the face of continuing terror activities from the Gaza Strip”. Firefighters said the balloons caused around 20 fires.  Tension spilled over to the occupied West Bank, where a Palestinian woman was shot dead after attempting to ram Israeli soldiers with her car and attack them with a knife, the Army and the Palestinian Health Ministry said. The Ministry said the woman later died of her wounds. The incident took place near Hizma, south of Ramallah, with official Palestinian news websiteWafaidentifying the woman as Mai Afana, 29, from the town of Abu Dis, near Jerusalem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-strikes-hamas-sites-in-gaza-over-incendiary-balloons/article34835639.ece
17 June 2021||Lhasa,||China offers glimpse of Tibetan life without the Dalai Lama||A brisk wind ruffles yellow prayer flags as dozens of Tibetans, some on crutches, circle a shrine in a time-honoured Buddhist ritual. Across the street, a red banner spells out a new belief system, one being enforced with increasing fervour, of China’s ruling Communist Party. “Xi Jinping’s new socialist ideology with Chinese characteristics is the guide for the whole party and all nationalities to fight for the great rejuvenation of China,” the sign proclaims in Tibetan and Chinese script, referring to China’s leader, who has sought to put his imprint on virtually every aspect of life across the vast county. Lately, that has increasingly encompassed religion, both in central China and on its fringes, such as Tibet. The party is pressing a programme to Sinicise Tibetan life to separate Tibetans from their language, culture, and especially, their devotion to the Dalai Lama, Tibet’s traditional spiritual leader who has lived in exile since 1959. In the sun-drenched courtyard of the Jokhang Temple, one of the holiest sites in Tibetan Buddhism, the head monk, Lhakpa, said the Dalai Lama is not its spiritual leader. Asked who is, he said: “Xi Jinping”. The Associated Press joined a rare and strictly controlled media tour to Tibet highlighting what the government describes as the social stability and economic development of the region after 70 years of Communist Party rule. Stops included monasteries, temples, schools, poverty alleviation projects and tourist sites. That appears to reflect the party’s confidence that it is prevailing in the global battle of public opinion over Tibet. As a counterweight, Tibet rights groups continue to report detentions, economic marginalisation, a suffocating security presence and heavy pressure to assimilate with China’s Han majority while pledging loyalty to the Communist Party.  In the model village of Baji east of Lhasa, the capital, residents dressed in traditional garments told foreign journalists how poverty alleviation campaigns had changed their lives. “Time has changed, so people’s demands have changed. People needed religious beliefs as their spiritual sustenance in old times, but now we don’t,” said Tsering Yudron, 25, an accountant. “Tibet has eradicated extreme poverty,” reads a 2019 government report on Tibet. “People now lead better lives and live in contentment. A brand new socialist Tibet has taken shape.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-offers-glimpse-of-tibetan-life-without-the-dalai-lama/article34835643.ece
17 June 2021||Beijing,||No radiation leak from nuclear plant: Beijing||A Chinese nuclear power plant near Hong Kong had five broken fuel rods in a reactor but no radioactivity leaked, the government said on Wednesday in its first confirmation of the incident that prompted concern over the facility’s safety. Radiation rose inside the No. 1 reactor of the Taishan Nuclear Power Plant in Guangdong province but was contained by barriers that functioned as planned, the Ministry of Ecology and Environment said. The French co-owner on Monday reported increased “noble gases” in the reactor. Experts said that suggested fuel rods broke and leaked radioactive gas produced during nuclear fission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/no-radiation-leak-from-nuclear-plant-beijing/article34835644.ece
17 June 2021||Tehran,||Field narrows as Iran poll candidates quit||Iran’s presidential contest headed towards a showdown between the country’s hard-line judiciary chief and moderate former central bank chief on Wednesday, as two candidates dropped out on the last day of campaigning to clear the path for the challengers. Mohsen Mehralizadeh, the only reformist candidate in the vote, as well as hard-line contender Alireza Zakani withdrew from the race, state media reported, leaving just five candidates in the field ahead of Friday’s vote. Such dropouts are common in Iranian presidential elections in order to boost the chances of similar candidates. The departure of 64-year-old Mr. Mehralizadeh, who served as Governor in two Iranian provinces, is aimed at consolidating support for top banker Abdolnasser Hemmati, who has positioned himself as a leading moderate and stand-in for President Hassan Rouhani, who is term-limited from running again. Polling and analysts indicate that Mr. Hemmati lags behind hard-line judiciary chief Ebrahim Raisi, the presumed front runner long cultivated by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Also ending his campaign, Mr. Zakani, a 55-year-old hard-line lawmaker twice rejected from running for President, threw his support behind Mr. Raisi. “I consider him (Raisi) to be the most qualified,” Mr. Zakani was quoted as saying by state TV. Other candidates were expected to follow suit later on Wednesday. Over 200 lawmakers in Parliament, which is dominated by hard-liners, released a statement urging the rest of the conservative candidates to withdraw and back Mr. Raisi’s presidential bid. Mr. Mehralizadeh, the pro-reform candidate, had previously served as Vice- President in charge of physical education under reformist President Mohammad Khatami and as a deputy in the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, which runs the country’s civilian nuclear programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/field-narrows-as-iran-poll-candidates-quit/article34835646.ece
17 June 2021||COLOMBO,||India extends $100 mn loan to Sri Lanka||India and Sri Lanka on Wednesday signed  an agreement  for a $100-million loan from the Export Import Bank of India to support the island nation’s efforts to expand solar power coverage. Issuing a press statement on the bilateral initiative, the Presidential Media Division said one of the “key plans” of the government was to generate solar power, with the contribution of state-owned buildings, places of worship and houses of the low-income families. “Steps will also be taken to provide facilities to store solar energy in batteries for the low-income families that are unable to access the national power grid,” the statement said. Sri Lanka has an installed capacity of 4,213 MW of power. While 1,400 MW of that is hydropower, some 900 MW is produced from coal. Over the last five years, Sri Lanka has sought to tap more renewable sources of power, particularly solar power. The country’s electricity demand is expected to grow at an average 5.3% from 2015-2034, according to the Public Utilities Commission. A press release from the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka said the $100 million line of credit will help finance various projects Sri Lanka’s solar energy sector, including those announced at the founding conference of the International Solar Alliance (ISA) held in March 2018, in New Delhi, such as rooftop solar photo-voltaic systems for households and government buildings. As many as 89 countries, including Sri Lanka, signed the framework agreement of the ISA, jointly launched by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former French President Francois Hollande in 2015, with the aim of bringing together countries to promote large-scale deployment of solar energy. The line of credit extended by India, according to officials, is for a period of 20 years, with an interest of 1.75 %. Sri Lanka owes about $960 million in debt repayment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-extends-100-mn-loan-to-sri-lanka/article34835648.ece
17 June 2021||Islamabad,||Pakistan court adjourns Jadhav’s case till Oct. 5||A Pakistani court has adjourned till October 5 the hearing of a government’s plea to appoint a counsel for Indian death-row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav on request of the country’s top law officer, according to a media report. Mr. Jadhav, the 50-year-old retired Indian Navy officer, was sentenced to death by a Pakistani military court on charges of espionage and terrorism in April 2017.  On Tuesday, the Islamabad High Court adjourned the hearing of the government’s plea to appoint counsel for Mr. Jadhav till October 5 at the request of the Attorney General for Pakistan Khalid Javed Khan, The Express Tribune reported. The High Court also issued notice to the counsel of the Indian High Commission to appear before the court on the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-court-adjourns-jadhavs-case-till-oct-5/article34835650.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||China to send first crew to space station||The three members of the first crew to be sent to China’s space station say they’re eager to get to work making their home for the next three months habitable, setting up testing and experiments and preparing for a series of spacewalks. The three met reporters on Wednesday from inside a germ-free glassed-in room, hours before they were to blast off on Thursday morning. “First of all, we need to arrange our home in the core module, then get started on a whole range of diagnostic tests on crucial technology and experiments,” said mission commander Nie Haisheng, 56, who is making his third trip to space.   Liu Boming, 54, whose one previous flight in 2008 included China’s first spacewalk, said there would be multiple such activities during the mission as the astronauts prepare the Tianhe, or Heavenly Harmony, core module to receive two other modules to be sent up next year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-to-send-first-crew-to-space-station/article34835645.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Kim warns of tense food situation||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un warned about possible food shortages and urged the country to brace for extended COVID-19 restrictions as he opened a political conference to discuss national efforts to salvage a broken economy, the official Korean Central News Agency said on Wednesday. The North’s economy has deteriorated amid pandemic border closures, which choked off trade with China, while devastating typhoons and floods last summer decimated crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kim-warns-of-tense-food-situation/article34835647.ece
17 June 2021||The Hague,||British lawyer Karim Khan sworn in as ICC’s chief prosecutor||British lawyer Karim Khan was sworn in as the new chief prosecutor for the Internatio- nal Criminal Court. He takes over from Fatou Bensouda of Gambia, whose nine-year term ended on Tuesday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/british-lawyer-karim-khan-sworn-in-as-iccs-chief-prosecutor/article34835641.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Record’ FDI inflows, yes, cause for celebration, no||In an otherwise gloomy economic scenario, one area of cheer for the Government has been the numbers on inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI). In a recent press release, the Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced that “India has attracted highest ever total FDI inflow of U.S.$81.72 billion during the financial year 2020-21 and it is 10 percent higher as compared to the last financial year 2019-20” (https://bit.ly/3wBcEd6). The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reported that the equity component of inflows was over U.S.$61.4 billion, a 19% increase over the U.S.$51.7 billion received in 2019-20. The credit for this record level of inflows was given to FDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business. Taken on their face value, these numbers are indeed creditable, especially given that global FDI inflows in 2020 had declined by 42% over the level in 2019, and inflows to developing countries had fallen by 12%. However, if we consider the disaggregated data on inflows into India, the reality of foreign investors’ participation in the Indian economy seems a sharp contrast to what the Ministry has presented (https://bit.ly/35yBiyN). RBI data as a pointer The RBI provides a useful disaggregation of total inflows of foreign capital into India. This shows that net of repatriation/disinvestment, FDI inflows had declined by 2.4% in 2020-21, as compared to the previous year. This was due to a 47.2% increase in repatriation/disinvestment, which had reached a record level of U.S.$27.0 billion. The RBI reports yet another disquieting aspect of foreign capital inflow in 2020-21, a high increase in portfolio investment, fuelled entirely by a 69-fold increase in the participation by foreign institutional investors (FIIs), totalling U.S.$38 billion. This was the second highest level of FIIs’ involvement in India, after they invested U.S.$42 billion in 2014-15. Surely, sustained sizeable repatriation of the long-term FDI, together with a large increase in speculative capital does not bode well for an economy looking to recover from an economic slump. Who the recipients are Analysis of FDI inflows remains largely incomplete without referring to the largest recipients of FDI, which is possible using the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade database. Currently, data for the first three quarters of 2020-21 are available, during which 86% of the equity inflows for the financial year were received. This data shows that three Reliance Group companies, namely Jio Platforms, Reliance Retail Ventures and Reliance BP Mobility, together received U.S.$27.8 billion or, 54.1% of the total equity inflows during the three quarters. Other large recipients, though with far lower shares, were Schneider Electric India, Byju’s, ArcelorMittal India, GMR Airports and Amazon Seller Services. More than U.S.$20 billion of promoter’s shares in Jio Platforms, currently having the largest wireless subscriber base in India, were sold to 14 foreign investors, including Facebook, Google, KKR & Co., Qualcomm and a number of financial investors and sovereign wealth funds. A major part of the funds was meant to facilitate Reliance Industries to withdraw its investments already made in the form of Optionally Convertible Preference Shares. This, therefore, amounted to indirect acquisition of shares held by Reliance Industries. While the entire investment in Reliance Retail was by financial investors, viewed in the context of Reliance Group’s expansion through acquisitions (e.g. Future Group and Urban Platter) the end use of the inflows becomes obvious. Again, bulk of the investment into Reliance BP Mobility was through the acquisition route. Facebook’s entry in Jio Platform offered two significant benefits to the foreign partner; one, to substantially expand its social media reach by piggy-backing on Jio Platforms and, two giving Facebook a share in India’s rapidly expanding e-commerce business through Jio Mart. Following the Facebook deal, Reliance announced its partnership with Google for building an Android operating system, by selling 7.7% in Jio Platforms. Facebook’s shareholding was pegged at 9.9% possibly because the International Monetary Fund (and also the RBI) stipulates that if a foreign investor holds 10% or more of voting shares in a company, the investor “exercises a significant degree of influence on its management”. Interestingly, Jio Platforms remains “Indian controlled”, even though two major American companies now own nearly 18% of its shares. Acquisitions lie behind other major inflows as well: Schneider Electric’s acquisition of L&T’s Electrical & Automation business, ArcelorMittal’s acquisition of Essar Steel, and Byju’s acquiring a number of companies including Akash Educational Services. GMR’s deal with Groupe ADP of France paved the way for a foreign government-controlled company to have a say in India’s aviation infrastructure. It may be pointed out that the RBI’s data on acquisition-related inflows grossly underestimate the extent to which foreign investors have taken over existing businesses. Skewed distribution Perhaps alluding to these large cases of inflows, the RBI commented in its Annual Report thus: “Even though FDI inflows were stronger in 2020-21, their distribution was highly skewed. The coefficient of variation of FDI flows (based on transaction size) was larger during the pandemic period, implying concentration in distribution. The lower incidence of transactions points to the underlying weakness in FDI inflows during the year. Without the top five FDI deals, FDI inflows during 2020-21 would have declined by about a third of their level a year ago”. The RBI is entirely correct in its observation that without the large inflows mentioned above, there is a serious question mark over FDI inflows. In the absence of large inflows, FDI equity inflows suffered a precipitous fall in Q4 of 2020-21, the second lowest inflows in Q4 since 2014-15 barring 2016-17. Although the RBI has expressed its optimism that “[G]oing forward, the pipeline of FDI for 2021-22 could be supported by the thrust given to PLI and domestic growth prospects”, the nature of the bulk of the “investments” which involved a mere transfer of shares without creating productive assets in the country perhaps belies the expectation that FDI can contribute to the revival of the economy. This view is reinforced by the fact that contrary to the Government’s expectations of a larger magnitude of inflows into the manufacturing sector, this sector received just 17.4% of the total inflows during 2020-21. To the services sector The services sector attracted nearly 80% of the total inflows with information technology enabled services (ITeS) being the largest component, accounting for over 47% of the inflows thanks to the RBI’s classification of Jio Platforms as “Other information technology and computer service activities”. Wholesale and retail trade were the other prominent ones. According to the RBI, non-acquisition-related inflows into the manufacturing sector were the lowest in 2020-21 even in absolute terms, over the past five years. They were U.S.$6.7 billion in 2020-21, as compared to U.S.$12 billion in 2016-17, and were lower than even the previous year’s amount of U.S.$8.2 billion by 1.3%. Quick calculations based on the RBI data (which are gross underestimates) show that 34.9% of the reported inflows into the manufacturing sector were acquisition-related. Clearly, FDI inflows have not been in sync with the government’s priorities for the post-COVID-19 economic recovery: the AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, anchored on the revival of the manufacturing sector through the Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme. When this is the situation, ‘record’ levels of FDI inflows during 2020-21 cannot be a cause for celebration. Biswajit Dhar is Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi. K.S. Chalapati Rao is former Professor, Institute for Studies in Industrial Development, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/record-fdi-inflows-yes-cause-for-celebration-no/article34835623.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A seesaw of science and pseudoscience||Prime Minister Narendra Modi seems thoroughly modern. But he also appears to be steeped hopelessly in superstition. He promotes the exploration of the moon, orders the most sophisticated fighter jets, launches the first bullet train project, boasts about India being a vaccine ‘powerhouse’ that supplies vaccines to the world — all products of modern science. But he also simultaneously plumps for pseudoscience. He invokes cosmic energy to drive out the SARS-CoV-2 by exhorting the public to beat gongs and blow conches at auspicious hours based on ancient numerology; he does not pull up his Cabinet colleagues when they launch a yoga guru’s concocted COVID-19 medicine, drugs that have no clinical evidence of trials and have been condemned by the Indian Medical Association. Mr. Modi speaks glowingly of India’s scientific accomplishments in its mythic past and cites, for example, the elephant head transposed on Lord Ganesha as great strides in plastic surgery, long before the West invented it. Nobel-winner physicist Richard Feynman coined the term ‘cargo cult science’ to describe all kinds of pseudoscience that passed off for science over the ages — ancient superstitions, black magic, voodoo, witch doctors, astrology, mind reading, ESP (extrasensory perception), expanded consciousness, aphrodisiacs made from rhino horns, and other debatable ideas. He spoke of a ‘Cargo Cult’ of people, the South Sea islanders in the Pacific, who, during the world war, had seen planes landing and delivering cargos. After the war, they wanted to receive similar gifts from the skies. So they prepared landing strips to resemble runways, set up flares on either side, made wood pieces that looked like headphones, stuck bamboo stakes to resemble antennas, and waited for planes to land to deliver the goodies, the cargo. They waited and waited and repeated their exercise by adjusting the sticks and flares but the planes did not land. They were missing something. They did everything right. But there were no planes. They were changing the form but not the substance. “We really ought to look into theories that don’t work, and science that isn’t science,” said Feynman. “Cargo cult science” was his phrase for research that mimicked science. Despite never seeming to yield verifiable results, it garnered public acceptance because it seemed to possess the semblance of rigorous methodology. A slew of offerings India has a surfeit of charlatans — godmen and ‘sadhus’ of various hues, dieticians of native foods who have morphed into self-anointed doctors, and quacks who have turned apothecaries and practise various alternative medicines. Traditional practitioners have set up labs on a limited scale for analysing blood sugar and cholesterol levels, and equipment like X-ray machines and ECGs on the lines of western medicine to acquire the veneer of science that gives them credibility. They peddle everything from esoteric diets to cow dung and cow urine, as ‘cure-alls’ for all ailments, including the COVID-19 infection, which has ravaged the country. They offer various things to the rising middle class, from Vedic medicines, which promise immunity and boost potency to increase libido, to ‘instant nirvana’. It can’t be denied that home remedies are often beneficial. If one has a bad cold, a concoction of crushed black pepper and turmeric boiled in milk will do wonders. A terrible bloated stomach can be eased by buttermilk garnished with garlic and ginger. Corns in the feet can be managed without surgery by applying fresh lime and wrapping the affected parts in a ripe banana peel. From home remedies to Ayurveda, there are many cures that work for illnesses. Alternative medicines from other parts of the world, including treatments from medicines used by tribal communities, have been useful and passed down from generations. But their limitations have to be recognised and acknowledged. Modern medicine, an offshoot of science that questioned existing beliefs and practices, discovered the method of experimentation to find out whether medicines worked, and if they did not, it encouraged exploring new ideas. This was the beginning of the scientific age. Scientific progress has been possible only because the great men of science acknowledged their ignorance and were not afraid to question; each generation added to the fount of knowledge because they left the door to the unknown ajar. However, pseudoscientists are a danger to society because they are cocksure of their belief systems. They are not comfortable with doubts and uncertainties. It is alright to be not sure because certainty shuts all doors to corrections and blocks progress, which can be fatal for a civilisation. Returning to the subject, one is compelled to wonder whether Mr. Modi is a man of science or pseudoscience. Why is he pushing both at different times and on different occasions? If it is a political strategy with an eye on the electorate to appease the public, both the modern and the rational, the traditional and the superstitious, it has not, going by the recent State elections, yielded the expected results. His mixed messaging, mystic symbolism and mythic metaphors are incongruous with the image of a leader in a hurry to propel India to a technologically advanced nation alongside the modern developed economies of the world. While Mr. Modi’s loyalists — both within the saffron fold and on the fringes — are wreaking havoc and showing India in a bad light as a country of obscurantists lost in ignorance and superstition and going back to the Middle Ages, his administrators and scientists at the helm of policymaking are paralysed by the predominance of regressive orthodox forces and are unable to give impetus to scientific advancements and infrastructural progress to lead India into the comity of developed economies. India, hitherto a rising power, suddenly seems a foundering ship adrift on the seas of pseudoscience amid a huge calamity. Core values The Indian civilisation, from its known beginnings, has served as a quest for knowledge for people to explore the deep meaning of life and existence. It is a great adventure of ideas in the history of the human spirit stretching back three thousand years. “Nothing is more sacred to man than his own history ... For us Indians, a study of Upanishads is essential, if we are to preserve our national being and character,” said Indian philosopher and former President S. Radhakrishnan. He added, “There is much in our past that is degrading and deficient but there is also much that is life-giving and elevating. If the past is to serve as an inspiration for the future, we have to study it with discrimination and sympathy ... While the fundamental motives, the governing ideas which constitute the essential spirit of our culture are a part of our very being, they should receive changing expression according to the needs and conditions of our time.” Mr. Modi must heed the above words. Modern science is not antithetical to Indian thought. The spirit of enquiry, embracing new ideas and evolution through acquiring new knowledge is at the core of our being from the Upanishadic times. Without losing time, Mr. Modi must steer the nation back on to the path of science. Capt. Gopinath is a soldier, farmer and entrepreneur||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-seesaw-of-science-and-pseudoscience/article34835632.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Energy inefficiency can short circuit cooling India||More frequent and intense heat waves are expected with a rise in global temperatures due to climate change. In the last three decades, there have been 660 heat waves across India causing 12,273 deaths (https://bit.ly/3pXxtNj). India, with currently low penetration levels of air conditioners (ACs), will likely require substantial cooling services to keep citizens healthy and productive. The India Cooling Action Plan (https://bit.ly/3pZNm5B) projects the number of room air conditioners to become about four times in the next 10 years, and about 10 times in the next 20 years, making India the world’s largest energy user for cooling. Scant data Here lies a conundrum. Cooling will likely be at the forefront of India’s adaptation to climate change, but if cooling needs are met with inefficient ACs, it could be the bane of India’s mitigation efforts. Indian homes will be an important site where this conundrum between cooling needs and potential emissions will play out. Despite its clear importance, the implications of an increase in residential cooling demand have not been carefully examined. Estimates of AC ownership and usage, the two factors which will determine the extent of future cooling demand, have little empirical backing. We know little about what cooling appliances people seek, and how and why people make their purchase decisions. The pursuit of energy efficiency, too — for instance, who buys efficient technologies and why — remains underexplored. Delhi survey results In a recently published paper (https://bit.ly/3vBtTtu) in the Environmental Research Letters , my colleagues and I look at household cooling patterns, and unpack household characteristics that are leading to increased use of air conditioners and adoption of energy efficient choices. The findings are based on a door-to-door household survey in areas of Delhi, with above average levels of AC penetration. We find that the desired levels of cooling vary greatly even among relatively homogenous communities. In Delhi’s wealthy neighbourhoods, 43% of the households own an AC, 39% own coolers and 18% only have a fan. Further, the way households use ACs also differs quite a bit. While most households use an AC for three to four hours a day during peak summer months, about 15% use ACs for over eight hours a day. It is interesting to note that the India Cooling Action Plan in its estimation of residential cooling demand, assumes that an average household uses an AC for eight hours a day, which as per our study seems to be an upper bound. People prefer different AC set-point temperatures, again indicative of varying perceptions of thermal comfort. Half of the households set their ACs between 24°C-26°C, and 27% prefer their AC temperature to be between 21°C-23°C. This wide range of preferred AC temperatures have important implications on energy demand requirements, as every 1°C increase in AC set-point temperature can lead to additional 6% energy savings (https://bit.ly/2TDcd3j). Unfortunately, energy efficiency does not feature as a priority in the purchase of cooling appliances. Only 7% of the households have an energy efficient (star-rated) fan, and 88% of the coolers are locally assembled. Most people prefer to buy a three-star AC, and less than 20% of AC-owning households bought the highest rated five-star AC. An obstacle Large-scale adoption of efficient cooling appliances will be essential to providing the required thermal comfort in a low carbon manner. We find that low levels of energy efficiency awareness are a major bottleneck that hinders the purchase of more efficient appliances. A third of the households did not know of the Star Labelling programme, which is a government programme mandatory for refrigerators and air conditioners. Of the households that had heard of the programme, only half of them understood what it meant. We find that it is this set of informed households that are more likely to own a higher efficiency AC, and also likely to use the appliance efficiently. Higher upfront cost and low market availability of more efficient air conditioners (four-star and five-star) are other reasons for buying a less efficient AC. We find that many households also use alternative cooling strategies to keep cool, with the use of a fan being the favourite non-AC cooling option, and use of non-energy cooling methods such as natural ventilation being a common practice. Households using such non-AC cooling methods were found to use their AC for fewer hours. Other solutions The impending cooling demand transition in India offers a potential advantage. Because a majority of investments in cooling technologies, infrastructure, and behaviours are yet to be made, there is a unique opportunity to lock-in energy efficient consumption patterns. Awareness campaigns on the benefits of energy efficiency along with subsidies and financial incentives that help with the higher upfront costs can help drive up the adoption of more efficient technologies. Encouraging the use of passive cooling alternatives including energy efficient building designs can help provide the desired thermal comfort with reduced dependence on energy intensive cooling technologies. Anna Agarwal is a fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/energy-inefficiency-can-short-circuit-cooling-india/article34835625.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Acquitted but not forgotten||In an important development for the ‘right to be forgotten’, the Delhi High Court recently ordered the removal of one of its own judgments from easy access. The petitioner was acquitted of certain crimes by the court and the judgment was freely accessible on the Internet. Unhappy with this, the petitioner sought removal of the judgment from a leading database platform and search engines. The court, as a temporary relief, asked search engines to remove this order from search results, and ordered the database platform to block the judgment from being accessed by search engines. The High Court recognised that the petitioner may have a right to be forgotten, which must be balanced with the right of the public to access courts of record. The right to be forgotten is, generally, the right to have information about a person removed from public access. The proponents argue that individuals should be able to determine the development of their life in an autonomous way. Persons cannot be perpetually stigmatised for past conduct. In 2017, the Supreme Court recognised the right to be forgotten as being under the ambit of the right to privacy (specifically, informational privacy) under the Constitution. It observed that if someone desired to remove personal data from the virtual space, it ought to be respected. The top court observed that a lot of personal information may serve no “legitimate interest”, was “incorrect”, or was not “necessary” or “relevant”. However, the right to be forgotten was subject to reasonable restrictions based on countervailing rights such as free speech. But despite the Supreme Court’s judgment, the right remains underdeveloped in India. For now, individuals may request data hosts to take down some content, and it may be taken down based on the policies of the respective hosts. For example, some embarrassing selfies that a person posted as a minor may violate the terms of service. These photos may be taken down if so requested because they not only violate terms of service but are also unnecessary and irrelevant. However, if these photos have since become part of, say, a scientific study on Internet usage patterns by teens, or if the person now holds a prominent government office, they now serve a public purpose. There is a general consensus that people should be allowed to modify or delete information uploaded by themselves. However, whether this extends to information uploaded by third parties is uncertain. Take for instance a news article reporting an accusation of sexual harassment against a public figure. If the person was never convicted, should they continue to bear the infamy? Is abhorrent conduct reportable only if there is a legal proceeding to support it? The U.S. example Perhaps there is a lesson in the American civil rights movement. Back then, some governments filed defamation claims against newspapers to disincentivise them from reporting violence against protesters. In one of these cases, The New York Times was held liable to pay $500,000 (a king’s ransom in 1962) by an Alabama court for some errors in their content. In appeal, the U.S. Supreme Court intervened in New York Times Co. v. Sullivan (1964) , and ruled that public interest reporting may continue without fear as long as it did not intentionally or recklessly make outright false statements. Thus, the court disallowed suppression of criticism and accountability, especially against powerful figures. The case has been cited by the Supreme Court of India several times. Nonetheless, many courts in the country have ordered take-down of unflattering news articles pertaining to legal proceedings, redaction of names of litigants, and removal of references from search results. However, this is perhaps the first instance of a court ordering the removal of access to its complete final judgment from certain spaces. While there may be significant merit to the right to be forgotten, whether it extends to the removal of judgments of courts of record is uncharted territory. Judgments are published for good reasons. Trials held under public scrutiny act as a check against judicial caprices and help in enhancing the confidence of the public in the fairness and objectivity of the administration of justice. The wrong that the Delhi High Court sought to correct could have been achieved by narrow tailoring. The court could have ordered that the name and personal details of the petitioner be redacted while maintaining public access to the judgment itself. Unaware of the Streisand effect, the court names the petitioner repeatedly in its interim order, while removing the acquitting judgment from easy access. The issue has been listed for a final hearing and the outcome is keenly awaited. The authors are with Advaya Legal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/acquitted-but-not-forgotten/article34835635.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Higher education and COVID-19||The state of campuses of higher education institutes in India is at its nadir currently. The second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic brought the entire country to its knees and people struggled to access basic healthcare facilities. But there is still a lack of serious consideration for the safety of campuses, which may be among the most vulnerable sites for the spread of infection at the community level. Apart from routine advisories in the form of notifications for standard operating procedures, protocols or guidelines issued from time to time at the apex level by the University Grants Commission (UGC), and at the State level by the respective Education Departments, nothing concrete has been done on the ground. Campuses that house hostels, libraries, common rooms-cum-washrooms, canteens, auditoriums, gymnasiums, playgrounds, administrative offices, staff rooms, guest houses and staff quarters, besides classrooms and laboratories, require resources to change and modify their current settings for COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. Taking the ‘business-as-usual’ approach could lead to risking the lives of both students and employees on a very large scale. On May 10 this year, the UGC suggested a slew of measures that higher education institutes should adopt to fight the COVID-19 crisis. It recommended, inter alia, constituting a task force and setting up helplines, roping in counsellors and mentors for providing mental health support and enabling the well-being of all stakeholders, and creating a team of well-informed volunteers trained in life skills, including the NCC and the NSS. However, it did not mention the means and mechanisms for training the workforce for these specialised tasks. In the absence of that, such measures remain empty efforts. Numerous orders The abysmal financial state of higher education institutes, especially State-run universities, combined with a lack of will on the part of State governments already overwhelmed by the vaccination drive, has exacerbated the situation. Reports of deaths of several teachers in prominent universities highlight the loss of the national intellectual capital and scholarship.  The UGC in its order dated November 5 last year listed guidelines for colleges to reopen post the lockdown. It recommended that State governments estimate and prepare for the required procurement of essentials, such as disinfectants and face masks, in each of their districts and zones in consultation with higher education institutes; it also asked them to draw out a plan for distribution. Universities and colleges were instructed to ensure a sufficient supply of these items to students, faculty and staff. The UGC also suggested that higher education institutes set up on-campus facilities for the isolation of symptomatic persons and for quarantining of those who were in contact with infected persons. Alternatively, they could tie up with State-run hospitals or other approved premises, as suggested by local authorities, for providing essentials to quarantined or isolated persons. The need for quick action But these measures are far from reality. Explicit budgetary allocations for higher education institutes for COVID-19 management were found to be missing in the States’ annual budgets. This apathy on the part of institutes and policymakers (both at the Central and State levels) could endanger lives and may lead to a complete shutdown of academic activities in the time to come. It is incumbent upon the UGC to direct State governments to generously provide financial assistance to higher education institutes for managing the COVID-19 crisis. The resources could come from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for the year 2021-22, which was released by the Department of Expenditure at the recommendation of the Ministry of Home Affairs much before the normal schedule, in view of the extraordinary public health crisis. Milind Kumar Sharma teaches at the Department of Production & Industrial Engineering, M.B.M. Engineering College, Jai Narain Vyas University, Jodhpur. Views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/higher-education-and-covid-19/article34835628.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Terrorising dissent||Caught between a statutory bar on grant of regular bail and a judicial embargo on any close examination of available evidence at the bail stage, those arrested under the country’s main anti-terror law have been languishing in jails without trial for extended periods. The Delhi High Court orders granting bail to three student activists jailed for over a year for their alleged role in the February 2020 riots in Delhi represent a clear-headed effort to get around such impediments. Sound in legal reasoning and interpretation, the judgments of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani have made a salient distinction between those accused of offences against the country’s integrity and security on the one hand, and protesters or dissenters roped in unjustifiably under the rubric of ‘terrorism’ on the other. The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been invoked by the Delhi Police against activists and others who were among those organising the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, on the claim that they had also fomented the riots. Under Section 43D(5), there is a legal bar on granting bail if the court is of the opinion that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accusation against those held is prima facie true. Adding to this onerous burden on the accused to demonstrate to the court that the accusation is untrue is a 2019 Supreme Court judgment that bars a detailed analysis of the evidence at the bail stage and rules that bail can be denied on “the broad probabilities” of the case. The High Court has ruled that the bail court can look at the available evidence to satisfy itself about the prima facie truth of the case. In other words, there is no statutory invincibility to the prosecution case merely because the UAPA has been invoked. It has found that none of the three — Asif Iqbal Tanha, Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita — was specifically or particularly accused of any ‘terrorist act’, ‘funding of a terrorist act’ or an act amounting to a conspiracy to commit a terrorist act or something preparatory to it. Once the UAPA charges were not seen to be true, it was open to the court to admit them to regular bail until conclusion of the trial. Further, with 740 witnesses cited, there is no scope for early conclusion of the trial. Riots are matters concerning public order, and not the security of the state. The court’s observation that the state, in its anxiety to suppress dissent, has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed right to protest and “terrorist activity”, is a stern indictment of the establishment. The Delhi Police has gone to the Supreme Court on appeal against the verdict, possibly in the fear that the ruling may foil its design to paint protesters as ‘terrorists’. If the High Court’s approach to grant of bail is upheld, it would help secure the liberty of other dissenters held under the UAPA elsewhere without sufficient basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/terrorising-dissent/article34835617.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Closure, compensation||Nine years after two Italian marines shot dead two fishermen off the Kerala coast under the belief that they were pirates, the criminal proceedings against them are set to be formally closed. The Supreme Court of India has ordered that the criminal trial against them be stopped, after Italy deposited compensation of Rs. 10 crore. The Permanent Court of Arbitration, a tribunal under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, had last year ruled that even though India and Italy had concurrent jurisdiction to try the case, the marines — Salvatore Girone and Massimiliano Latorre — enjoyed immunity from Indian jurisdiction as they were acting on behalf of a state. The UN tribunal had also ruled that the Indian fishing boat, St. Antony , and the victims were entitled to compensation, as Enrica Lexie , the Italian vessel, had violated the boat’s right of navigation under the Law of the Sea. The two marines are likely to face trial in Italy, but as far as India is concerned, the monetary compensation may have to be treated as the only available form of closure for the moment. Given the legal tangles over jurisdiction, the lawfulness of their arrest and the location of their trial, as well as the provisions of law under which they should be tried, legal accountability through a criminal trial had been rendered extremely difficult. The legal heirs of the two victims are likely to get Rs. 4 crore each, and the owner of the fishing vessel, Rs. 2 crore. In hindsight, the diplomatic turbulence the incident set off in the early days, the nationalist passions the killings raised and much of the delay in resolving the issue could all have been avoided. A possible way out was to have agreed to Italy’s offer of compensation and a trial in its own jurisdiction — the very thing that came out of the UN tribunal’s ruling. At that time, many in India believed it was an act of wanton killing, while those in Italy believed the fears of piracy were genuine. India’s efforts to assert criminal jurisdiction succeeded in national courts, with the Supreme Court ruling in 2013 that prosecuting the marines, who had been brought into Indian waters from the Contiguous Zone, where the incident took place, was solely in the Union government’s jurisdiction. However, when the NIA invoked a stringent anti-piracy law — the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Maritime Navigation and Fixed Platforms on Continental Shelf Act, 2002 — it was received with consternation in Italy. European nations objected to the trial taking place under a law that provided for the death penalty. The provisions of the Act were dropped, but this led to significant delay in prosecuting the matter. A lesson is that such incidents should be dealt with a combination of legally sustainable steps and diplomatic efforts to find early resolution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/closure-compensation/article34835618.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Pakistan may seek a solution’||[Washington, June 17] The United States believes that there is an “increasing awareness on the part of Pakistan” that it must seek a political settlement with representative elements in East Bengal. Though General Yahya Khan has said nothing to indicate such a change of attitude, and has insisted all along that the Awami League is dead as far as he is concerned, the United States is proceeding on the assumption that he will eventually seek a solution within the framework of proposals made by the Awami League prior to March 25. United States official sources say they have detected an inclination on General Yahya Khan’s part to abandon his initial attempts to set up a “puppet Government” in East Bengal. The United States itself is unwilling to define what it means by its calls for a “political accommodation”. But it is less reluctant to concede that the Awami League’s ‘six-point’ plan constitutes the “floor” for any settlement. The United States still believes that the leaders of East Bengal will settle for such a solution even after all the carnage perpetrated by the Pakistani army.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/pakistan-may-seek-a-solution/article34835627.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Direct tax receipts jump this FY||India’s direct tax receipts in the first two-and-a-half months of 2021-22 have doubled to almost Rs. 1.86 lakh crore from the comparable period last year when the national lockdown hit collections, the Finance Ministry said on Wednesday. Economists said the tax figures suggest the economy could post double-digit growth in the first quarter. “The jump in the direct tax collections... reflects healthy exports and a continuation of various industrial and construction activities, given the lower stringency of the staggered regional lockdowns in 2021 versus the nationwide lockdown in 2020,” said Aditi Nayar, chief economist at rating agency ICRA. “This supports our expectation that GDP will record a double-digit expansion in Q1,” she added. Vivad Se Vishwas The substantive rise in inflows could be attributed to dispute resolution scheme Vivad Se Vishwas that concluded recently, said Neeru Ahuja, partner, Deloitte India. “Taxpayers have taken advantage of the scheme and have settled their old disputes and litigation with the income tax department along with depositing their tax dues. This seems to be the main reason” for the jump in receipts, she added. The collections from April 1 to June 15 include Corporation Tax of Rs. 74,356 crore and Personal Income Tax inflows, which include the Securities Transaction Tax, of Rs. 1.11 lakh crore. The collections in the year-earlier period totalled Rs. 92,762 crore. “Despite extremely challenging initial months of the new fiscal, the Advance Tax collections for the first quarter of 2021-22 stand at Rs. 28,780 crore against Advance Tax collections of Rs. 11,714 crore for the corresponding period of the immediately preceding financial year, showing a growth of approximately 146%,” the Finance Ministry said. The advance tax kitty includes Rs. 18,358 crore as Corporation tax and Personal income tax of Rs. 10,422 crore. “This amount is expected to increase as further information is received from banks,” the ministry added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/direct-tax-receipts-jump-this-fy/article34835599.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Speed, scale of vaccination to shape recovery: RBI Bulletin||The speed and scale of vaccination against COVID-19 will shape the path of recovery of the economy, which has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances, according to an RBI bulletin article. As per the current assessment, the second wave of the pandemic has mainly hit domestic demand, Reserve Bank of India Deputy Governor M.D. Patra and other central bank officials wrote in the article on ‘State of the Economy’. ‘Ramping up healthcare’ Observing that vaccines by themselves would not end the pandemic, they said, “we have to learn to live with the virus, complementing vaccines with ramping up investment in healthcare, logistics and research. The pandemic is a real shock with real consequences. Hence, there is a need to ensure that the recovery is built on a solid foundation of business investment and productivity growth.” The economy continued to wrestle with the second wave, though cautious optimism was returning, they opined. The central bank said views expressed in the article were those of the authors and did not necessarily represent those of the RBI. On the brighter side several aspects of aggregate supply conditions — agriculture and contactless services were holding up, while industrial production and exports had surged amidst pandemic protocols, they said. “Going forward, the speed and scale of vaccination will shape the path of recovery. The economy has the resilience and the fundamentals to bounce back from the pandemic and unshackle itself from pre-existing cyclical and structural hindrances,” the article’s authors wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/speed-scale-of-vaccination-to-shape-recovery-rbi-bulletin/article34835608.ece
17 June 2021||mumbai,||Automation to cull 3-mn IT jobs by 2022: report||With automation taking place at a much faster pace across industries, domestic software firms that employ over 16 million are set to slash headcount by 3 million by 2022, that will help them save $100 billion, mostly in salaries annually, Bank of America said in a report. About 9 million of them are employed in low-skilled services and BPO roles, as per industry association Nasscom. Of these 9 million roles, 30%, or about 3 million, will be lost by 2022, principally driven by the impact of robot process automation or RPA. Roughly 0.7 million roles are expected to be replaced by RPA and the rest due to other technological upgrades and upskilling, according to the report. “TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL, Tech Mahindra and Cognizant and others appear to be planning for a 3-million reduction in low-skilled roles by 2022 because of RPA upskilling. “This is $100-billion in reduced salary and other costs... on the flip side, it offers a likely $10 billion boon for IT firms that successfully implement RPA and $5 billion from a vibrant new software niche by 2022.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/automation-to-cull-3-mn-it-jobs-by-2022-report/article34835602.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Deal pricing in line with practice, law: PNB HF||Amid concerns raised in certain quarters about its proposed Rs. 4,000 crore-deal with Carlyle group, PNB Housing Finance (PNB HF) on Wednesday said the process followed in determining the issue price for its securities was in line with the “market practice” followed by listed firms and in compliance with applicable law. Responding to clarifications sought by the stock exchanges on Monday regarding the deal, the company — a subsidiary of Punjab National Bank — also emphasised that pricing was not required to be based on a valuation report from a registered valuer and that the final price was higher than the floor price suggested by registered valuers. The company also stressed that the price was arrived at after due consideration and weighing of various relevant factors, and hence the pricing for the preferential issue had been determined in compliance with the applicable law.  If it goes through, the deal — announced in May and subject to approvals — would also see Carlyle group taking controlling stake in PNB Housing Finance.    If approved, the Rs. 4,000-crore deal will see Carlyle group take control of PNB subsidiary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/deal-pricing-in-line-with-practice-law-pnb-hf/article34835605.ece
17 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘India to have 330 mn 5G connections by 2026’||5G will represent about 26% of mobile subscriptions in India at the end of 2026 with an estimated subscription base of 330 million, according to Ericsson Mobility Report. Also, 4G subscriptions are expected to rise from 680 million in 2020 to 830 million in 2026, increasing at a CAGR of 3%. The number of smartphone subscriptions, that stood at 810 million in 2020, was expected to touch more than 1.2 billion by 2026. “COVID-19 has accelerated India’s digital transformation as consumers increasingly rely on digital services to fulfil their business or personal needs,’’ said Nitin Bansal, head of Ericsson India and head of network solutions for Southeast Asia, Oceania and India, Ericsson. The average traffic per smartphone user in India has risen from 13GB a month in 2019 to 14.6GB in 2020. This may to grow to about 40GB in 2026. Total mobile data traffic in India has grown from 6.9EB/month to 9.5EB/month in 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-to-have-330-mn-5g-connections-by-2026/article34835615.ece
17 June 2021||new delhi,||200 IBC pleas filed since Mar. 24: IBBI||About 200 applications for resolution of stressed assets have been filed under the insolvency law since the suspension of fresh proceedings ended on March 24, as per IBBI.  IBBI Chairperson M. S. Sahoo said, “Since the expiry of suspension on filing, about 200 applications have been filed. “The higher threshold default of Rs. 1 crore coupled with support and forbearances limit the flow of applications,” Mr. Sahoo said.  “Since the markets and the economy are not in the best of their times, the stakeholders may be waiting for the appropriate time to use the Code,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/200-ibc-pleas-filed-since-mar-24-ibbi/article34835600.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Fuel demand revives in June over May||India’s fuel demand rebounded in the first half of June as easing of lockdowns helped sales but the consumption was still lower compared to last year. While petrol sales rose by 13% during June 1-15 over the same period of last month, diesel consumption was up 12%, according to state fuel retailers. This is the first monthly increase since March. Fuel demand had recovered to near-normal levels in March before the onset of the second wave of COVID-19 led to the reimposition of lockdowns in different States, stalling mobility and muting economic activity. Consumption in May slumped to its lowest since August 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fuel-demand-revives-in-june-over-may/article34835603.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||‘Youngest, oldest lost jobs in 2nd wave’||When it comes to losing a job permanently, the youngest and the oldest segments in the workforce have reported an increase in setbacks in the second wave of the pandemic, a survey of by a Fortune500 company has said. The survey, conducted in April this year, covered 2,000 persons in India. The survey said 6% of those above 55 years of age reported having permanently lost their job, as against 4% last year. In those aged below 24, the proportion reporting a permanent job loss has increased to 11% from 10% in the year-earlier period, the survey conducted by financial technology company FIS said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/youngest-oldest-lost-jobs-in-2nd-wave/article34835604.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Power use grows 9.3% in June first half||Power consumption in India grew by 9.3% in the first half of June to 55.86 billion units (BU), indicating a slow recovery in commercial and industrial electricity demand, according to Power Ministry data. Power consumption was recorded at 51.10 BU in the first half of June last year (June 1-15), it showed. According to experts, the recovery in power consumption and demand was slow during the first half of the month despite the low base of last year. They are of the view that the recovery in the rest of June is not likely to be robust because of the early onset of monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/power-use-grows-93-in-june-first-half/article34835606.ece
17 June 2021||new delhi,||NCLT doubts Videocon plan confidentiality||NCLT has raised doubts over ‘confidentiality’ of the liquidation valuation of assets of Videocon Industries and 12 group firms during the insolvency process. The tribunal asked the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India “to examine this issue in depth” to ensure that the confidentiality clause is followed without any compromise. The liquidation value of Videocon Industries and 12 group firms was Rs. 2,568.13 crore and fair value of the assets was Rs. 4,069.95 crore. The bid submitted by resolution applicant Twin Star Technologies in the resolution plan was for Rs. 2,962.02 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nclt-doubts-videocon-plan-confidentiality/article34835610.ece
17 June 2021||Hyderabad,||For Business Pages Gearing up for commercial launch of Sputnik V: Dr. Reddy’s With it vaccine registration on CoWIN will open||Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories on Wednesday said it is gearing up for commercial release of Sputnik V vaccine. A limited pilot, rolled out last month and now in its final leg across cities, has helped test cold storage arrangements, CoWIN integration, track-and-trace and other logistical arrangements. DRL said the public could register for the vaccine on the CoWin portal after the commercial release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/for-business-pages-gearing-up-for-commercial-launch-of-sputnik-v-dr-reddys-with-it-vaccine-registration-on-cowin-will-open/article34835593.ece
17 June 2021||Torrey Pines (California),||Rahm starts favourite on a tough layout||Jon Rahm, forced to withdraw from his last start with a sizeable lead because of a positive COVID-19 test, is a favourite at this week’s U.S. Open at Torrey Pines where hometown boy Phil Mickelson seeks the one Major that has eluded him. Cleared to play Rahm was running away with the Memorial Tournament — leading by six shots after 54 holes — before having to withdraw and go into self-isolation but said on Saturday he was cleared to play after two negative tests in a 24-hour span. The Spanish World No. 3 , in search of his first Major, will be in comfortable surroundings on the South Course as he has four top-10 finishes in five events played there, including a win in the 2017 Farmers Insurance Open.  A number of big names like World No. 2 Justin Thomas and four-times Major winner Rory McIlroy are among those in the 156-player field who will try to snap out of a form slump on a notoriously difficult layout with penalising rough. Defending champion Bryson DeChambeau, who overpowered Winged Foot last year to win his first Major by six strokes, comes in having finished in a share of 18th place at the Memorial Tournament. Six-times runner-up Mickelson, a three-time winner of the PGA Tour event at Torrey Pines, the course he grew up on, this week offers him an incredible chance to become only the sixth person to complete the career Grand Slam. Brooks Koepka, who counts two U.S. Open wins among his four Majors, may not be at 100% after surgery in March to repair a dislocated kneecap but has proven he can play through pain as he finished runner-up at the PGA Championship.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rahm-starts-favourite-on-a-tough-layout/article34835805.ece
17 June 2021||BRISTOL,||Sneh and Deepti spin India back into the contest||Off-spinners Deepti Sharma and Sneh Rana removed two batters each in the final session as India reduced England to 269 for six on the opening day of the one-off Test here on Wednesday. After losing Lauren Winfield-Hill (35) in the first session, the hosts lost Tammy Beaumont (66) in the second session but stayed in control. However, the visitors sent back Natalie Sciver (42), Amy Jones (1), England skipper Heather Knight (95) and Georgia Elwiss (5) in the post-tea session to make a strong comeback. Debutant Sneh dismissed Beaumont and also trapped Jones in front. The off-spinner also got rid of Elwiss, who was held by Deepti. Deepti broke the third-wicket stand of 90 between Knight and Sciver by having the latter leg-before. She also trapped Knight in front five short of a century. Though the England captain went for a review, it proved unsuccessful. Knight’s 95 came off 175 deliveries and contained nine fours. Sophia Dunkley (12) and Katherine Brunt (7) will resume the England innings on Thursday. Crucial wicket In the second session, though India picked up the crucial wicket of Beaumont, England consolidated its position by reaching 162 for two at tea. India toiled hard for most part of the post-lunch period before Sneh picked up her maiden Test wicket. She got rid of the in-form of Beaumont, who was brilliantly caught by Shafali Verma at short leg. Beaumont faced 144 balls and her second Test half-century was embellished with six fours. Knight and Sciver then batted cautiously as England made 76 runs off 28 overs in the second session. In the opening period, the hosts, after choosing to bat, reached 86 for one. The Indian pace duo of veteran Jhulan Goswami and Shikha Pandey made a promising start, doing just enough to trouble the English batters on more than one occasion. In the seventh over, Jhulan induced an edge from Winfield-Hill as she went for an extravagant drive but Smriti Mandhana dropped the chance in the slip cordon despite getting both hands to the ball. In the next over, Winfield-Hill got lucky again. Debutant Pooja Vastrakar induced a thick edge but the ball flew between second slip and gully to the boundary. Pooja eventually had the last laugh as she had Winfield-Hill brilliantly caught by wicketkeeper Taniya Bhatia, giving India the breakthrough. Five players made their Test debut for India: Shafali, Deepti, Pooja, Sneh and Taniya. For England. Sophia was the lone player to earn a Test cap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sneh-and-deepti-spin-india-back-into-the-contest/article34835749.ece
17 June 2021||MUNICH,||Hummels’ own goal gifts France victory||Mats Hummels’ own goal was enough to hand France a 1-0 victory over Germany on Tuesday as the World Champion made a winning start to its Euro 2020 campaign by controlling the game. Hummels turned the ball into his own net in the 20th minute, which ultimately decided the contest. France also saw Kylian Mbappe and Karim Benzema have second-half goals ruled offside, while Adrien Rabiot hit the post for Les Bleus . “It was a clash that could have been a semifinal or a final, so to take three points was important,” said France coach Didier Deschamps. The result leaves France second on goal difference in the early Group F table behind Portugal, after the holder’s 3-0 win over Hungary. Pressure on Germany The home defeat piles the pressure on Germany ahead of its next game against Cristiano Ronaldo’s Portugal on Saturday, also at the Allianz Arena. “It was a brutally intense game,” said Germany head coach Joachim Low. Seven years ago, it was Hummels’ header which knocked France out of the 2014 World Cup in the quarterfinals as Germany went on to triumph. In the final 10 minutes, Mbappe was furious to be denied a penalty, while Benzema looked to have sealed the win when he tapped in Mbappe’s pass in the dying stages, but VAR caught the latter offside. In Group B, Aleksei Miranchuk’s goal earned Russia a 1-0 victory over Finland in their second game in Group B on Wednesday. The midfielder curled in the only goal just before the break in Saint Petersburg as Russia bounced back from losing its opening game 3-0 to Belgium. In Group A, Wales beat Turkey 2-0 at Baku. Ramsey and Roberts were the scorers.  The results: Group A: Wales 2 (Ramsey 42, Roberts 90+5) bt Turkey 0; Group B: Finland 0 lost to Russia 1 (Miranchuk 45+2); Group F: France 1 (Hummels 20-og) bt Germany 0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hummels-own-goal-gifts-france-victory/article34835745.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||If we can play freely, we will get the desired result: Rahane||In an Indian team filled with flamboyant batting superstars, the unassuming Ajinkya Rahane often slips under the radar. Rahane’s recent numbers, however, underlines the value he brings to the table. With 1,095 runs at an average of 43.80, the Mumbai batsman is India’s leading run-scorer in this World Test Championship (WTC) cycle. His leadership qualities — which came to the fore in the memorable series win in Australia recently — is yet another asset. Typically modest Heading into the WTC final against New Zealand at Southampton, Rahane is typically modest when asked about his good form. “I like to be in the present, and adjust to the conditions on the given day. Being India’s highest run-scorer in the WTC cycle does not matter. It’s in the past. If we can play freely, we will get the desired result,” Rahane said in a media interaction on Wednesday. Rahane is familiar with the WTC final venue, the Rose Bowl, having played two Test matches there on earlier tours. Though both matches (in 2014 and 2018, against England) resulted in losses, Rahane did fairly well, scoring three fifties in four outings. The Indian vice-captain has also played at Southampton during his stint with Hampshire in the English county circuit. The 33-year-old stated that spin could play a factor, even though the match could be affected by rain. “We don’t want to go out there thinking about the weather forecast. In England, slow bowlers are the key. I’ve played many matches at Southampton — two Tests and two-three County games. It’s about adapting to slow bowlers. Too early “It’s too early to think about team composition, but we have a bowling attack which can do well in all types of pitch and weather conditions,” Rahane said.  Rahane, and indeed the Indian team, have good memories of the tour to Australia a few months ago. The Mumbai batsman had famously taken over captaincy duties from an unavailable Virat Kohli in the second Test, before leading an injury-ravaged side to a thrilling 2-1 win. He stated that the victories in Australia helped revive interest in Test cricket, and that this trend is set to continue with the WTC final clash. “The Australia series was the biggest win for us. We did so well there. I thought people started to take interest in Test cricket once again,” Rahane said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/if-we-can-play-freely-we-will-get-the-desired-result-rahane/article34835751.ece
17 June 2021||Chennai,||Kiwis have belief and ability||On an evening of considerable drama, edge-of-the-seat thrills, and fluctuations in fortunes, New Zealand saw a historic triumph snatched away by a bizarre set of rules in a head-spinning 2019 ODI World Cup final at Lords. For the Kiwis, the memories are fresh, so are the wounds. Teams can wilt from such heart- and gut-wrenching setbacks. But then, New Zealand, resilient, has only grown in strength. Sides that do not fear defeats win more. And these New Zealanders have been bravehearts. And now they stand close to the summit of the Test playing nations ahead of the clash against India at Southampton. Depth and options This is a side with serious depth and options. Gone are the days when New Zealand, a nation of just under five million, was referred to as a side whose sum was greater than its parts. In the present New Zealand side, the parts are significant. On view is considerable ability. Led by the tactically suave Williamson, New Zealand has a rhythm and a flow to its cricket, both home and away. New Zealand’s batting with Williamson, formidable with the willow, and Ross Taylor, strokeful with a sense of occasion, in its ranks, has solidity. The left-handed opening pair of the battling Tom Latham and Devon Conway, who has made a sensational start to his Test career with his footwork and balance, can ambush attacks. In the middle-order, the left-handed Henry Nicholls, provides strokes and stability. Colin de Grandhomme is a natural striker of the ball and an accurate seamer. Both B-J. Watling and Tom Blundell are efficient ’keepers and competent batsmen. The competition for spots is immense, reflecting depth. The Kiwis have shown faith in left-arm spinner Ajaz Patel ahead of the experienced Mitchell Santner. Pace will be New Zealand’s cutting edge. And the Kiwi pacemen will be backed by excellent slip catching. The left-right new ball pair of Trent Boult and Tim Southee bowl an attacking length and swing the ball. They are incisive with variations. And the never-say-die Neil Wagner lends an unmistakable dash of aggression with his compelling short-pitched bowling.  Matt Henry bowls in the channel around the off-stump, seams it both ways, and is a game-changer. Then, there is the tall Kyle Jamieson, with his pace, high-arm action, bounce and two-way seam movement. Whoever misses out from the pace pack will be unlucky. The depth in the Kiwi ranks is such. This New Zealand team has quality and belief. And it can sting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kiwis-have-belief-and-ability/article34835757.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Bachchan backs ISL’s move||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) co-owner Abhishek Bachchan welcomed the Indian Super League’s (ISL) decision to field seven Indian players in the playing XI and believes it will encourage and provide a platform to more young Indian footballers to showcase their talent. “This isn’t a surprise; this is something the ISL always intended [to do]. The quest was always to give Indian talent that much opportunity to showcase talent on the pitch. Happy “I’m glad this decision has been taken because it pushes us to really encourage Indian lads to get out there and give their best,” Bachchan said, while speaking on the Apollo Tyres live chat show 'Pitstop with Bad Road Buddies'.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bachchan-backs-isls-move/article34836170.ece
17 June 2021||Kochi,||Nine-member Lankan team likely for Nationals||They are very worried about the COVID-19 situation in India but Sri Lanka Athletics officials are working on sending a small team to India for the National inter-State championships which begin in Patiala on June 25. “It is still in limbo. We have to get clearance from three ministries, foreign, home and health, and if all goes well we will be sending a nine-member team to India. “The chances of the team coming to India are 50-50,” Prema Pinnawela, the general secretary of Sri Lanka Athletics, told The Hindu from Colombo on Wednesday. “Yes, we are very worried about the COVID situation in India but we want to help our big brother. We have high regards for your president (AFI chief Adille Sumariwalla) and Lalit Bhanot.” Big setback The Sri Lankan bunch awaiting clearance includes the women’s 4x100m relay team but not the 4x400m relay team. “The side will have the women’s 4x100m team, a women’s 800m runner and a men’s 100m sprinter. “But we will not be sending the 4x400m relay team,” said Pinnawela who also made it clear that the team will not be competing in the Indian Grand Prix-4 in Patiala on June 21. The fact that Sri Lanka is not planning to send its 4x400m teams should be a big setback for India which is currently in the 15th spot (only 16 qualify) in the men’s and women’s relay in the Road to Tokyo rankings and is desperately looking for competitions against international teams to improve its timings. The 4x100m women’s relay team is likely to include Amasha de Silva, who ran a personal best 100m of 11.55s late last year and has a season best of 11.60s which came in the National trials in Colombo in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nine-member-lankan-team-likely-for-nationals/article34835979.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Adhiban, Arjun and Gukesh set for Champions Tour debut||B. Adhiban, Arjun Erigaisi and D. Gukesh are set to make their debut in the $1.5 million Meltwaters Champions Chess Tour when the seventh leg of the season begins on June 26. Gukesh, the second youngest Grandmaster in history, will also become the youngest player on the Tour by replacing R. Praggnanandhaa for the honour. Praggnanandhaa was the youngest participant when he played the New in Chess Classic in April. For the first time, three Indians will be part of the 16-player field that is likely to be headed by Tour leader and World champion Magnus Carlsen. P. Harikrishna could well be a fourth Indian ‘wild card’, should he get voted in by the premium members of official broadcaster chess24.com. The members have been asked to pick two players from a list of 17. The final list of participants, along with title-sponsor of the $100,000 event, will be announced in due course. Arjun and Adhiban made it by finishing as the winner and the runner-up of the Indian Qualifier. Gukesh joined them by sensationally winning the Gelfand Challenge — an event on the Challengers Tour that offers the winner a wild card for Champions Tour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adhiban-arjun-and-gukesh-set-for-champions-tour-debut/article34835798.ece
17 June 2021||LONDON,||City opens at Spurs||Champion Manchester City will start the defence of its title away to Tottenham after the fixtures for the 2021-22 season were unveiled on Wednesday. City is among the sides heavily linked with Spurs striker Harry Kane, throwing up the tantalising possibility that the England captain could line up against his boyhood club on the opening weekend. Manchester United opens its campaign against Leeds at Old Trafford. Elsewhere on the weekend of August 14, Brentford begins life back in the top flight for the first time in 75 years with a London derby at home to Arsenal, while Championship winner Norwich meets Liverpool on its return to the top flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/city-opens-at-spurs/article34835799.ece
17 June 2021||HALLE,||Bopanna-Divij duo enters quarterfinals||Rohan Bopanna and Divij Sharan knocked out second seeds Lukasz Kubot and Edouard Roger-Vasselin 7-6(11), 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals of the €1,455,925 Halle Open on Wednesday.   Other results: €132,280 Challenger, Nottingham: First round: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Leonardo Mayer (Arg) 3-6, 6-3, 7-6(1).   $100,000 ITF women, Nottingham: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Renata Zarazua (Mex) & Ankita Raina bt Greet Minnen & Alison Van Yutvanck (Bel) 6-3, 4-6, [10-7].   $25,000 ITF women, Figueira da Foz, Portugal: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Momoko Kobori & Ayano Shimizu (Jpn) bt Junri Namigata (Jpn) & Riya Bhatia 6-2, 5-7, [10-4].   $25,000 ITF women, Madrid: First round: Cristina Dinu (Rou) bt Karman Kaur Thandi 1-6, 7-6(5), 6-2.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Alexander Kotzen (USA) & Siddhant Banthia bt Thomas Fancutt (Aus) & Ajeet Rai (Nzl) 6-3, 6-0 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-divij-duo-enters-quarterfinals/article34835810.ece
17 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||HCA Apex Council suspends Azhar||The Apex Council of Hyderabad Cricket Association issued a show cause notice to its president Mohd. Azharuddin on Tuesday stating that he stands suspended until final adjudication that included termination of his membership in the HCA, and pending enquiry and proceeding into complaints and charges of misconduct. No option “The Apex Council is left with no option but to issue the show cause notice and invoking 40(6) pending inquiry and proceeding into complaints and charges of misconduct the Apex Council has suspended you until final adjudication that included termination of your membership in HCA setting out the below mentioned details,” the show cause notice served to Azhar said. “The Council in its meeting held on June 10 has decided after careful consideration of various complaints made by the members of the general body and also on its volition had duly deliberated about your various acts of commission and omission in its meeting held and has decided to issue the show cause notice to you according to Rule 41(1) (b) and 15(4) ©,” the Apex Council stated in the notice to Azhar. “The complaint (against Azhar) discloses that you are a mentor of a private cricket club in Dubai by name Northern Warriors which participates in a T10 cricket tournament which is unrecognised by the BCCI,” the show cause mentioned. “The fact of you being a mentor has not been communicated to the HCA at any time. It is also apparent that you have not communicated the same to the BCCI. Therefore, you being a mentor of an unrecognised tournament comes under the ambit of conflict of interest as envisaged under Rule 38(1) (iii) of the Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations 2018 of HCA,” it is stated. “You (Azhar) have committed various acts of indiscipline and misconduct which are detrimental to the interest of HCA and the game of cricket,” it is said. “Therefore, the show cause notice is being issued to you calling for your explanation within seven days on receipt of this notice and failing which the Apex Council will initiate action in according with the Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations 2018,” the Apex Council concluded in the notice signed by the secretary R. Vijayanand, vice-president K. John Manoj, joint-secretary Naresh Sharma, treasurer Surender Kumar Agarwal and Councillor P. Anuradha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-apex-council-suspends-azhar/article34836261.ece
17 June 2021||KOLKATA,||Dutee eyes Tokyo berth through her ranking||Sprinter Dutee Chand is confident of earning a women’s 100m quota place in the Tokyo Olympics through her world ranking. Dutee, the National record holder with a timing of 11.22, said she would try to make the cut for the Olympics in Patiala. Brand ambassador “I have been training at the National camp here for the last three months. There is no guarantee but I will try my best to touch the (Olympic) qualifying mark of 11.15 in the Indian Grand Prix IV (June 21) and National inter-state championships (June 25 to 29),” said Dutee at a virtual press conference, where she was named Senco Gold and Diamond Company’s brand ambassador, on Wednesday. Dutee, who clocked 11.58 to come second in the Federation Cup in March, said if she did not get the qualifying time, then she would make it to her second Olympics because of her world ranking. “As per the current ranking, I am placed 42nd. I am very hopeful of qualifying. The qualification deadline is June 29. After that I will get one month to prepare well for the Olympics. I will try to achieve my personal best and get into the final in the Olympics.” “My training has been going on well, morning six to 10 and evening six to eight. My speed and stamina have increased and I need to make a few technical changes as per my coach’s advice.” The 25-year-old, an Asian Games silver medallist in 100m and 200m, highlighted the obstacles posed by cancellation of international events. “We were supposed to go to Poland to compete in the World Relay event, but we could not go there. We could not go to events in Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dutee-eyes-tokyo-berth-through-her-ranking/article34835788.ece
17 June 2021||LONDON,||Murray and Venus get Wimbledon wildcards||Former Wimbledon champions Venus Williams and Andy Murray will receive wild cards to compete in the grass-court Grand Slam tournament when it starts in less than two weeks. The men’s and women’s singles winners will each get $2.4 million, a nearly 28% decrease from 2019, although the overall reduction in prize money is 5.2%, the All England Club also announced on Wednesday. The club said the factors for the decrease included crowd constraints, a “substantial investment” in player accommodations and testing programs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/murray-and-venus-get-wimbledon-wildcards/article34835793.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Visa, vaccination worries for shooters||Despite all the professional arrangements by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) and the Sports Authority of India (SAI), the two Tokyo-bound skeet shooters Mairaj Ahmad Khan and Angad Vir Singh Bajwa are facing uncertainty regarding their vaccination and visa extension in Italy.  While Angad had his first shot of Covishield on April 1, Olympian Mairaj is still waiting anxiously for the first jab. Considering the short duration before the Games, Mairaj has requested the Indian Embassy in Rome for Pfizer vaccine, so that he can have the second dose in 21 days. Quite peeved by the consistent tame communication from the Embassy about requesting the local health authorities for the vaccine, without any positive response, the Indian camp has shot off a strong communication to the Ambassador Dr. Nina Malhotra. “We are mentally, emotionally and physically disturbed after almost a month chasing the Indian Embassy for our vaccination and extension of our visas,” wrote the Indian camp, seeking a quick resolution. Mairaj could not be administered the vaccination earlier, as he was COVID-19 positive on April 27, and then tested negative on May 13, before flying to Europe. With the visa ending on July 7, there is panic about extending it by a week so that the two can continue their training peacefully and fly to Tokyo from Italy. There is an alternate arrangement of the two shotgun marksmen going to Zagreb, Croatia, to join the rifle and pistol shooters, but that would considerably upset their training. In fact, on the advice of the coach Ennio Falco, both the skeet shooters had opted to skip the World Cup starting in Osijek, Croatia, from June 24, so as to concentrate on the best possible preparation for the Olympics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/visa-vaccination-worries-for-shooters/article34835809.ece
17 June 2021||Mumbai,||Relief for BCCI in Deccan Chargers case||In a relief to the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), the Bombay High Court on Wednesday set aside an arbitration award directing the Board to pay over Rs. 4,800 crores for the termination of Hyderabad Deccan Charges from the Indian Premier League (IPL). A single bench of justice Gautam Patel set aside the award (order) passed by an arbitrator who was appointed in 2012 to decide on the Board’s termination notice to Deccan Chronicle Holdings Limited (DCHL). In July 2020, retired Supreme Court judge C.K. Thakkar, the sole arbitrator, had directed the BCCI to pay DCHL a compensation of Rs. 4,814.67 crores plus 10% interest from 2012. This was subsequently challenged before the high court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/relief-for-bcci-in-deccan-chargers-case/article34835741.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Many dangerous players in Indian batting line-up’||New Zealand pacer Tim Southee feels that the two-Test series against England, which his team won 1-0, has provided the best preparation for the WTC final against India. “We have had a great start to the tour. I think it's been a great preparation leading into the final. We have got a number of guys who have had good performances in the two Tests,” said Southee in an online interaction on Wednesday. On the Indian batting line-up, the 32-year-old said it has a good mix of youth and experience, and doesn’t rely only on stars like Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma. “There are so many dangerous players in the line-up, so we are going to have to be on top of our game as a bowling unit and we know how dangerous the Indian batting can be.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/many-dangerous-players-in-indian-batting-line-up/article34835752.ece
17 June 2021||BERLIN,||Auger-Aliassime stuns his idol Federer||Roger Federer suffered a setback in his preparations for Wimbledon after crashing out of the second round of the Halle Open on Wednesday. Federer, bidding to win a ninth title at Wimbledon which starts on June 28, suffered a shock 4-6, 6-3, 6-2 defeat to 20-year-old Canadian Felix Auger-Aliassime. “It’s amazing, for sure I didn’t expect this,” said Auger-Aliassime after beating one of his heroes at the first attempt on the ATP Tour. “I thought he would be gone by the time I joined the Tour.” On Tuesday, Andy Murray made a winning return, easing into the second round of Queen’s with a 6-3, 6-2 victory over Benoit Paire.  The 39-year-old Federer's match against 20-year-old Auger-Aliassime was the first time the Swiss was playing an opponent born in the 2000s. The 19-year age difference is biggest in any of his 1,522 career matches Federer and Auger-Aliassime share their birthdays (August 8). When Auger-Aliassime was born in 2000, Federer had a 35-40 career record and had reached one ATP Tour Final First time in 18 appearances at Halle that Federer hasn't made the quarterfinals. The first of these last-eight matches came eight weeks before Auger-Aliassime was born in 2000, with Federer losing to Michael Chang  Source: ATP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/auger-aliassime-stuns-his-idol-federer/article34835755.ece
17 June 2021||KOCHI,||Star-studded athletics squad for Nationals||Kerala will send a star-studded 37-member team for the National inter-State athletics championships which begin in Patiala on June 25. The team includes National record holders M. Sreeshankar (long jump), Muhammed Anas (400m) and prominent quartermilers V.K. Vismaya and Jisna Mathew.  The squad:   Men: T. Midhun, K.P. Aswin, Nevil Francis Fernandez (all 100m), C. Mohammed Fais (110m hurdles), Mohammed Anas, Noah Nirmal Tom, A. Alex (all 400m), A.B. Jabir (400m hurdles), S. Gokul (decathlon), Muhammed Jaseem, T. Aromal, Geo Jos (all high jump), T.P. Amal, Mohammed Anees, M. Sreeshankar (all long jump), A.K. Sidharth (pole vault), Eldhose Paul, Abdulla Aboobacker, U. Karthik (all triple jump), V.K. Muhammed Badusha, K. Vijay Krishnan, Albert James Paulose, Alif Nizam (all 4x400m relay).   Women: P.D. Anjali (100m, 200 & 4x100 relay), Ancy Sojan (100, long jump & 4x100 relay), Ann Rose Tomy (100m hurdles & 4x100 relay), V.K. Vismaya and Jisna Mathew (both 400m), V.K. Shalini (400m hurdles), P.U. Chithra (1500m), Angel P. Devasia (high jump), Athira Surendran (triple jump), M. Akhila (4x100 relay), K. Sneha, Ansa Babu, Anila Venu, Riya Mol Joy (all 4x400m relay).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/star-studded-athletics-squad-for-nationals/article34835978.ece
17 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Karun is Motorsport UK’s youngest-ever board member||India’s former Formula One driver Karun Chandhok was appointed to the Board of Directors of Motorsport UK, the governing body and membership organisation for four-wheeler motorsports in the United Kingdom on Wednesday. Karun, who has become Motorsport UK’s youngest-ever board member, said, “I moved to England from India nearly 20 years ago because the belief at the time was that if you wanted to get to Formula 1, you had to come and race in the UK as it was the capital of world motorsports. “To have the opportunity to work with the rest of the Board and Motorsport UK in shaping the future landscape of motorsports in the UK is very exciting.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karun-is-motorsport-uks-youngest-ever-board-member/article34835803.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||It’s crowded at the top||The open section of the National under-14 online rapid chess championship on Wednesday created a record of sorts when 628 players completed three rounds. Only four players, from the top-10 seeds, managed to be part of the 56-player leaders’ group. Ishaan Das caused the biggest upset of the day by beating fifth seed Aayush Bhattacharya in the first round. Eight more rounds remain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-crowded-at-the-top/article34835794.ece
17 June 2021||Munich,||Unwelcome visitor||Several spectators were treated in hospital for injuries caused by a protester who parachuted into the stadium before France played Germany at the European Championship, UEFA said on Tuesday. Debris fell on the field and main grandstand, narrowly missing France coach Didier Deschamps, when the parachutist struck wires for an overhead camera attached to the stadium roof. The governing body of European soccer called it a “reckless and dangerous” act and said “law authorities will take the necessary action.” “This inconsiderate act caused injuries to several people attending the game who are now in hospital,” UEFA said. The incident happened just before the start of the Euro 2020 match between the last two World Cup champions. Deschamps was shown ducking into the team dugout to avoid falling debris. The protester’s parachute had the slogan “KICK OUT OIL!" and “Greenpeace” written on it. Apology Greenpeace spokesperson Benjamin Stephan apologised for the botched protest and the injuries caused. “That was never our intention," Stephan said. “The paraglider was to fly over the stadium and drop a latex ball with a message of protest onto the field.” Munich police said on Wednesday they were investigating various potential violations of the criminal code and aviation act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/unwelcome-visitor/article34835743.ece
17 June 2021||TORREY PINES,||No Koepka-DeChambeau pairing||Those hoping for for an early pairing of Bryson DeChambeau and Brooks Koepka were disappointed by Tuesday’s pairings announcement. Scenes of Koepka showing his unhappiness with DeChambeau’s loud talking at the PGA Championship had sparked a social media spat between the two Major champions. DeChambeau has been paired with Hideki Matsuyama and Tyler Strafaci, while Koepkawill tee off alongside Justin Thomas and Collin Morikawa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-koepka-dechambeau-pairing/article34835790.ece
17 June 2021||New York,||Virtuoso performance from Durant||Kevin Durant had 49 points, 17 rebounds and 10 assists in one of the most spectacular performances in post-season history, sending the Brooklyn Nets back into the lead in the Eastern Conference semifinals with a 114-108 victory over the Milwaukee Bucks in Game 5 on Tuesday night. With James Harden returning but delivering little offence and Kyrie Irving out, Durant played all 48 minutes and shot 16 for 23 from the field. He scored 20 points in the fourth quarter, perhaps the biggest shot a 3-pointer with 50 seconds left and the Nets protecting a one-point lead. The two-time NBA Finals MVP became the first player in NBA history to have at least 45 points, 15 rebounds and 10 assists in a playoff game.  The result: Eastern Conference: Brooklyn Nets 114 bt Milwaukee Bucks 108. Brooklyn leads series 3-2 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/virtuoso-performance-from-durant/article34835807.ece
17 June 2021||MELBOURNE,||Warner, Cummins and Maxwell to skip West Indies, Bangladesh tours||Seven top Australian cricketers who recently played in the IPL have pulled out of the country’s white-ball tour of West Indies and Bangladesh. The two tours are part of team’s preparations for the T20 World Cup later this year. David Warner, Pat Cummins, Glenn Maxwell, Jhye Richardson, Kane Richardson, Marcus Stoinis and Daniel Sams have requested not to be considered for the tours for various reasons while Steve Smith has been rested to fully recover from an elbow complaint which flared up during the IPL, Cricket Australia said in a statement.  The squad: Aaron Finch (Capt.), Ashton Agar, Wes Agar, Jason Behrendorff, Alex Carey, Dan Christian, Josh Hazlewood, Moises Henriques, Mitchell Marsh, Ben McDermott, Riley Meredith, Josh Philippe, Mitchell Starc, Mitchell Swepson, Ashton Turner, Andrew Tye, Matthew Wade and Adam Zampa.   Travelling reserves: Nathan Ellils and Tanveer Sangha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/warner-cummins-and-maxwell-to-skip-west-indies-bangladesh-tours/article34835789.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 10:07 IST,||Sudoku — June 17, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-17-2021/article34836851.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||All in the family||Ravindra Vijay’s phone has been ringing ever since season 2 of The Family Man released on Amazon Prime. His portrayal of Muthu Pandian, an intelligence officer based in Chennai, with style, attitude and quick retorts, has won him several fans. “The way the character was written has clicked with many,” says Ravindra Vijay. “The manner in which he straddles two languages, Tamil and Hindi, and the way he manages two varied perspectives, both as an insider as well as outsider, made the role challenging.” This Bengaluru-based 35-year old medical graduate has been pursuing his acting professionally since 2011. His recent films include Anbirkiniyal, Dharala Prabhu (Tamil) and Uma Maheswara Ugra Roopasya (Telugu). “Right from my school days, I was involved in theatre. While pursuing my medical course, I came across information inThe Hindu MetroPlusabout Rafiki, a Bengaluru-based theatre group, calling for auditions. I joined them part-time.” A few years later, he visited Chennai, when Rafiki and the Chennai-based Perch Theatre collaborated for a production, titled, Ms Meena , directed by Rajiv Krishnan. “My most recent theatre project was withKira Kulambu(script based on late Ki. Rajanarayanan’s collection of folktales, Nattuppura Kadhai Kalanjiyam ) by Perch Theatre, and the play had just three actors and a wooden bench as a prop.” Ravindra speaks Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Hindi and English fluently, and can even manage a little Urdu. “Being a Tamilian raised in Bengaluru, I had the chance to learn multiple languages. Working in a hospital proved to be an advantage as I could talk to patients in whichever language they were familiar with.” The writer of The Family Man , Suman Kumar’s wife was Ravindra’s senior in college and the trio were friends. “When the audition for season 2 was happening, Suman requested me to participate and, based on my performance, I was selected to play the role of Muthu Pandian. The shooting took place in Chennai for about a month in 2019.” Post its release, Muthu Pandian is among the talking points. “While I was performing, I did not realise that this bridging role would have this much prominence or even garner attention. Having a seasoned artist such as Manoj Bajpayee motivated me to give my best.” One of the challenges, he says, was switching languages. “It had to sound like I was at ease talking in Tamil, switch to English for official communication and communicate in Hindi with my Mumbai counterparts. In real life, I speak better Hindi but in The Family Man , I had to talk in a manner as though I knew the language but was not fluent.” Ravindra is also looking at playing more roles in Telugu cinema. “In Ishq: Not a love story , I play a bad cop. I have another negative role in Kinnerasani .” The actor has bagged a role in the yet-to-be-titled film starring Pawan Kalyan and Rana Daggubati and has also featured in the crossover film, Footprint on Water , starring Adil Hussain. So what happens to his medical profession now that he has proved his mettle as an actor? “It has been 10 years since I moved out of it to concentrate on acting,” he says, adding with a chuckle, “But my parents still believe that I will one day return to the medical profession.”  For the series, I had to be at ease talking in Tamil, switch to English for official communication and communicate in Hindi too Ravindra Vijay||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/all-in-the-family/article34835531.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Been there, done that||In The Tomorrow War , an upcoming military science fiction film, Chris Pratt plays Dan Forester, a Former Delta Force Operator going to the future, 2051, to fight deadly aliens and save the planet for his daughter, Muri (Ryan Kiera Armstrong). The film directed by Chris McKay, has some hair-raising action sequences. Talking of the biggest adrenalin rush at a virtual press conference, the Jurassic World actor said, “There was so much to choose from. Off the top of my head, there is a great sequence when we make the jump to 2051. There is this transition where we fall from the sky in Miami to land in a pool. There was some serious water work. We got to jump off of this high dive that we built out of a fork lift into the water. The camera followed us down and there were stunt people jumping down and landing on top of you forcing you under water. That sequence probably took two or three days. You are trying to get smashed into the ground, come up and struggle into a close up underwater. It was a lot of fun.” Unlike the real world, in The Tomorrow War , it is the older people who are sent to fight the aliens. “Everyone who goes forward into the future is over the age of 30 and everyone who comes back to train us is under 30 because you can’t live in both timelines at the same time. They are drafting a crop of people who are going to be dead in 2051. You are dealing with people who are making life decisions based not on the life that they could lead, but rather the world that they are leaving for their children. My character, Dan is doing this to protect his family. It is different to think about people being drafted away from their children rather than children being drafted away from their parents.” The SFX-heavy film called for a great deal of green screen work. Admitting it is liberating not having to work with a prop, Pratt says, “You basically force the animators to make your choices work. If you have a real tentacle, you are limited to how you can move it, but if you have a fake one, you can move it anyway you like. You can imagine an animator pulling their hair out saying, ‘Oh, great. I have to make that work somehow’.” Drolly elaborating, Pratt says, “I have had my fair share of running from and fighting against creatures that aren’t there. You could have a whole podcast episode about the way to achieve it. It is a combination of various things you are going to look at, whether it is a tennis ball or the guy named Troy who is seven feet tall and very scary. You look at Troy and think, ‘That is certainly a person who could lift me up and break me in half.’ He becomes significantly less scary when he is put in a giant grey leotard.” Acting opposite or fighting something that is not there is particularly embarrassing, Pratt says. “You put your trust in the director that they will not allow it to become a viral YouTube sensation.” The Tomorrow War premieres on July 2, 2021 on Amazon Prime Video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/been-there-done-that/article34835568.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Warm hugs miles away||Even as COVID-19 continues to wreak havoc, artists are finding creative ways to express the myriad moods associated with the pandemic and lockdowns. The Covid Art Museum (CAM), perhaps the first of its kind in the world, features art conveying hope, anxiety, courage, fear, boredom, struggle, solidarity, loneliness, and, even the feeling of ‘languishing.’ Created by Emma Calvo, José Guerrero and Irene Llorca, three friends, advertising executives and art enthusiasts in Barcelona, Spain, the digital museum, launched on March 19, 2020 features art from all over the world. Centred on the pandemic, it includes photographs, animation, installations, illustrations, graphic art and cartoons. Common elements such as masks, sanitisers, gloves, methods of social distancing and, of course, the Coronavirus itself, can be found in many of the pieces. Edited excerpts from an e-mail interview with José Guerrero: Why did you create this digital museum? We created the museum because we were locked up at home like everyone else, in Spain. It was a strange and worrying situation, but people were doing amazing things such as concerts on balconies, yoga classes on rooftops and streaming choreographies. One of these activities was also art that talked about the pandemic. We thought it would be a good idea to bring all these works together in one museum so they wouldn’t fall into oblivion. That’s how we created The CAM on Instagram from the sofa of our homes. How many works are there now?  There are more than 840 publications at the time of this interview. Every day we upload new works.They come from all over the world — from Brazil, USA and Spain to India, Indonesia and Russia. How are the artworks selected?  The main criteria is that they should be related to the current moment: the crisis of COVID-19. That’s why we don’t close ourselves to any technique. We collect all kinds of art whether they are illustrations, photographs, paintings, poems, drawings, animations, videos.... From all the works received or found, a selection of those that best reflect the situation, is published. Quality and originality are also important to us. Even if it is digital right now, we are still a museum. We want to keep the standards of a museum you would physically visit. Has anyone from India been featured?  There are several published works that have come from India and they are very interesting projects. They bring their particular vision of the situation, because despite the similarities, each part of the world has experienced the pandemic in a different way. How do you think art has helped people cope with social isolation?  The Internet connects people from all over the world regardless of distance, and that is very useful in the context of crisis, pandemic and quarantine. Being stuck at home, under such circumstances, one can feel depressed, worried and very lonely. That’s why we thought it was a good idea to create a museum that would show what was happening at the time. Then, the public would see that millions of people were living and feeling the same thing. In times of crisis, it is essential to feel accompanied. With the museum, people felt integrated into a community where they could participate and contribute their own works or simply write their thoughts in the comments section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/warm-hugs-miles-away/article34835578.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Running her own marathon||Even on a Zoom call, Rose Byrne looks picture-perfect. There is not a strand of hair out of place, and the Australian presents a picture of poise, as she talks to journalists across the world during a series of virtual junkets to promote her new Apple TV+ project. Be it her hilarious turn as a status-hogging wife in Bridesmaids , an exasperated mother in the Neighbors movies, or the charming museum curator caught between two men in Juliet Naked , Rose has been a scene-stealer in several recent comedies. But it is not just the comedies that adorn her career; her appearances in the Insidious franchise, and shows like Damages and Mrs. America , have established her as someone who slam-dunks any role she takes on. Next up is the dark comedy Physical , created by Annie Weisman. Set in the ‘80s, Rose plays Sheila Rubin, a quietly tortured housewife, struggling with her personal demons while trying to support her smart but controversial husband’s bid for state assembly. The most unlikely escape liberates her — the world of aerobics — after which Sheila begins her road to empowerment. Excerpts from an interview: How different was a dark comedy like Physical to prepare for, compared to other classic comedies like Bridesmaids or Spy ? My earlier films were more of hard comedies, with a lot of jokes and being more consistent. However, the theme of Physical belongs to a darker space. We meet Sheila when she is facing a crisis; she is dealing with a horrible illness and a very dysfunctional marriage. Not to mention, she is also ambivalent about motherhood. That is when she finds a way out of her life, through aerobics of all things! As an actor, it was such a rich script to take on, with this fantastic pilot episode that really examined the era of the 80s.  Physical is also a very personal story for Annie [the creator], and she was incredibly candid with me from the beginning about that. It’s also about many women in her life and growing up in San Diego in the ‘80s. The show explores several pertinent themes. What was your biggest takeaway?  It was so fascinating to really delve into. So now, everyone’s an innovator or an influencer on Instagram, and everyone has a blog or platform. But back then, they didn’t, especially women. The show turned out to be such a great way to reverse engineer, and look at where we are now, as this market is saturated with people doing this kind of thing. For Sheila, it is a way out economically, and out of this illness, and to harness this horrific inner voice she has that has been killing her. She has these liberal and progressive ideas, but at what cost does she let those go to become truly free? To me, it is a very interesting story about America. So, it is really not a straightforward story at all, which made it so interesting. You have not only starred in female-driven projects like Mrs. America , but you also formed the collective Dollhouse Pictures, that focusses on making films from a female perspective...  Like any actress, things have to naturally come your way. I was interested in trying to create stuff, which is when I met with friends here. I feel like it is timing with everything. Something like Mrs. America, Physical or so many other fantastic shows about the female experience could not have been made five or eight years ago. Now, with streaming platforms reflecting the culture and so on, we have the space to tell these kinds of stories, and I feel really lucky. But you have to run your own race. I am totally inspired by so many people before me, men and women who have done that. Physical streams June 18 on Apple TV+||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/running-her-own-marathon/article34835536.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A sari, reimagined||When friends and neighbours Deepa Balaji and Mansi Karra had to end their respective careers last year due to the pandemic, they decided to get together and focus on sustainability. The duo decided to source and sell pre-loved, unstitched fabric. “My mother has been my biggest influence when it comes to the idea of sustainability. I grew up wearing my elder sister’s outfits, which were later used by my cousin,” says Mansi. “As an event planner, I observed that most brides use their expensive bridal wear such as sari or ghagra , just once. These special outfits could be used multiple times if shared with friends or cousins. I also realised that unstitched garments such as sari or dupatta or stole can be recycled and repurposed imaginatively in many ways,” she adds. Which is why in April, the duo launched The Rewrap Company, a one stop shop to buy and sell any pre-loved, gently used fabric. They curate saris, yardage, dupatta and even upholstery material. “We carefully choose the products we sell by assessing the garment for any stains or damage, sanitising it, and labelling it. If required we dry clean the sari. A significant number of saris in our collection are unused with the price tag intact,” says Deepa, who shut her travel company which she ran for 23 years when the pandemic began. Once they announced the launch of their venture, friends and family members sent bundles of saris, dupatta and blouse materials to them. “The initial week was chaotic with our bedrooms filled with stuff we received from everyone. We segregated the collection based on quality, design, fabric and maintenance,” says Deepa. Mansi adds, “Some of our customers recycle saris into curtains or cushion covers. Silk is made into handbags or sari covers. People seem to have the time and are showing great interest in home decor now.” All-new avatars At The Rewrap Company, one can also buy yardages of upholstery fabrics, sourced from the manufacturer directly. “Apart from being useful for making table runners, shopping bags and cushion covers, we use these to make covers for the saris we sell,” Mansi says. She adds, “We only curate from authentic sources and get as much information as possible about the garment they give us. If possible, we try to get the bill of the sari also.” The Rewrap Company has stocked over 150 products, and prices start from Rs. 150. Currently, they operate through the Instagram handle @therewrapcompany, but plan to launch a website soon. “We want to be in the fabric space and stay away from pre-loved stitched garments. We cater to conscious buyers. Going forward we plan to offer consultancy in preserving saris that have antique or sentimental value. We can help preserve them by repurposing them in various ways. For example, a silk sari can be framed and mounted on the wall or even used as a partition. A cotton sari on the other hand, will be ideal for use as a blanket or curtain. Wedding veshti s/ dhoti s can be made into sari covers,” says Deepa, adding “The possibilities are limitless.”  Call 7904625398 for more details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-sari-reimagined/article34835547.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The resurgence of Jaddu||A year-and-a-half leading up to the England tour of 2018 was hard on Ravindra Jadeja. It had been over eight years since he made his international debut. His potential as an all-rounder was still in question. He wasn’t a regular in the side, especially in the limited-overs format. Between January 2017 to June 2018, Jadeja was not a part of four Tests, 25 ODIs and 22 T20s that India played. “It was one of the hardest phases of my life, I used to be awake till early morning thinking about the game. I was constantly contemplating on how to overcome my hurdles, boost my confidence, and up my game,” says Jadeja aka Jaddu from Southampton, where he is preparing for India’s World Test Championship (WTC) final against the world’s top-ranked side, New Zealand. Jadeja is now an indispensable member of the team. His unbeaten 86 off 156 balls in the Oval Test of 2018 replenished his confidence. Impressive performances followed across formats. Sample: a first Test century against the West Indies in 2018, a 59-ball 77 in the 2019 World Cup semi-final (albeit in a losing cause), and a 28-ball 62 in the Indian Premier League this year. The Oval Test knock, according to Jadeja, was a marker of his resurgence. He ceased having sleepless nights after that. But that innings was not a magic pill. “I worked hard on building my health and my mind,” he tells us in an interview organised by ASICS, the sports brand he is associated with. Jadeja explains how he takes care of his mental health: “I stick to my routine that includes waking up early, following my diet, working out, spending time with my family, and most importantly with my daughter. She is my stress buster. Whenever I get a break, I visit my farmhouse and spend time with my horses as they have become a part of my life and have been there through all the highs and lows. My workout, especially running, is a vital part of my daily routine. I combine it with strength training and stretching to keep myself flexible.” The last couple of years has been challenging for sportspersons across the world, having to be in bio-bubbles. “You can’t even meet your teammates, sometimes,” he says. This is why he is grateful for having his family with him. “It’s a big advantage to have them with you on tours. You can spend time with them when you have nothing to do. When there aren’t many restrictions, you can even go for a walk and explore new places with them,” he adds. With the WTC final set to begin on Friday, the focus, however, is back on cricket. Jadeja, due to an injury, missed the historic Gabba Test in Australia earlier this year and the home series against England that followed. So, he is raring to be a part of what promises to be another special match against New Zealand.  Whenever I get some break, I visit my farmhouse and spend time with my horses as they have become an imminent part of my life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-resurgence-of-jaddu/article34835555.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||How to go green||Shriya Suriyanarayanan came to a point in life when she saw plastic waste all around her. Greatly bothered by this, Chennai-based Shriya, an Engineering graduate from NIT Tiruchi, spent over two years following people and initiatives towards managing plastic waste and sustainability in India. Today, Shriya is a sustainability consultant. Her podcast, Footprint — A Guide to Sustainable Living, acts as a beginner’s guide to sustainability and has built a listenership of over 40,000 since July 2020. Season One, which contains 10 episodes, talks about sustainable choices in different aspects of life. From growing one’s own food and zero-waste living to home care, self-care and a career in climate, Shriya’s panel of experts and practitioners offer multiple sustainable solutions. Hosted on Aawaz.com, the podcast has featured Anuradha Kedia, co-founder of the Better Home Cleaners which deals with environment-safe home cleaning products; Abhay Rangan, founder of a plant-based dairy company Goodmylk; and Anshuman Bapna, founder and CEO of Terra.do, an online school working to solve climate change, to name a few. If there is going to be more plastic than fish in the world’s oceans by 2050, it is about time we did something about it, she says in one of the episodes. “Legislative changes around climate change and plastic waste are expected to be implemented over the next few years. There is massive progress and innovation being led by startups, NGOs and individual contributors across India. But we still need to talk about this constantly because consumer demand will drive Government and private sector action.” Consumer behaviour is something she is optimistic about: “According to Google Trends, search interest in ‘sustainable lifestyles’ has increased over six times in the past year. This means there are people who want to lead a sustainable life, but are not sure how. When I was doing my research on sustainable solutions, I found a wealth of information available, but it was scattered.” The extra time she had during lockdown in 2020 was when she “decided to channel that into something productive and bring all this information together as one comprehensive guide”. In the right context Shriya adds that her focus is on the Indian consumer and Indian products. “Indians inherently lead more sustainable lives due to our cultural practices and socio-economic conditions. According to a recent report, India’s per capita plastic consumption is half the global average. But we need to build on that with solutions that are viable in the Indian context. These podcasts help young, urban Indians and families take the next step towards alternative solutions,” she states. While Season One is from an individual’s point of view — on how to lead a sustainable life, Shriya is considering making Season Two from a business perspective. “It could cover issues such as sustainability within larger brands, how does one judge sustainability relatively, ethical and fair manufacturing, trade practices and the like,” she muses. Shriya admits that a sustainable lifestyle is not a pocket-friendly decision. She explains, however, “It is more expensive today because demand is less and the raw materials costlier. We hope to reach economies of scale soon, so it becomes affordable. But we need to remember that living more sustainably doesn’t mean buying a lot of sustainable products. If you just buy less and use what you have for longer, that’s a great start. Minimalism and sustainability are very closely linked.”  The podcast has built a listenership of over 40,000 since July 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-to-go-green/article34835557.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Let me tell you a kutti story||Priya Vasanth, a homemaker in Chennai, has just finished her household chores for the day. She does not reach for the remote to switch on a TV serial. Nor does she chat with her neighbours, the way she did before the pandemic. She plugs in her headphones. Eyes closed, keenly listening to the narration, Priya imagines the world created by Kalki Krishnamurthy’s classic Ponniyin Selvan . This is among the 45 Tamil literary works that she devoured through the lockdown in the form of audiobooks. Among the many voices that adorn such audiobooks is Kirtana Ragade’s that brings a charming energy to the stories she tells. A voice artiste for films, serials and OTT programmes for the past five years, Kirtana says that audiobooks have given her a new lease of life and alternate income. “Audiobooks are a huge opportunity to keep your voice busy and earn an income during these times when other industry work such as film and TV serials is on the wane,” affirms Kirtana, who has worked on a dozen titles, including Indira Soundararajan’s Ragasiyamaga Oru Ragasiyam , Rajesh Kumar’s Sivappu Iravu and Balakumaran’s Pachai Vayal Manadhu . As the pandemic drags on, weary of long hours of screen time, people are increasingly turning to audio-only platforms this year. While rooms in Clubhouse and Twitter Spaces bustle loudly with conversation, opinions and music, audiobooks are seeing a quieter, but steady, upsurge. Amid this worldwide trend, India is seeing the rise of a vibrant new industry, as vernacular audiobooks find creative ways to engage a young and growing audience. Tamil listeners are increasingly diving into both classic as well as contemporary Tamil works spread across several genres including historical, mystery and romance. Tales of succour Audiobook and ebook streaming service Storytel has seen a 73% jump in subscriptions of Tamil audiobooks in the last year; it already has more than 900 titles for listeners to choose from. The most popular among them are Ponniyin Selvan , Mogamul and Kadal Pura . While YouTube has a few amateur audiobook attempts, audio streaming service Spotify too has a Tamil audio library mostly consisting of user-generated content, with titles such as Thee Vizha , Sirai and Grahanam featuring among its most recent uploads. “The audiobook market is booming in recent times, especially in vernacular content,” says Deepika Arun, language manager at Storytel, “With lockdown and work-from-home routine for many people, screen fatigue is a real problem. For them, audiobooks are seen as an alternate option for entertainment. Also, with a lot of depressing news hitting them, listening to stories before bedtime is a calming exercise.” Deepika is a narrator herself; her popular 2019 podcast, Kadhai Osai , featured copyright-free stories. “Pronunciation and modulation are the most important aspects for any narrator. As audiobooks are usually a secondary activity, sustaining interest in the listener is completely in the hands of the narrator.” Connection with language Narrating for such books has played a key role in actor Lakshmipriyaa Chandramouli’s life recently. “As an actor, it has been greatly beneficial. Experimenting with different characters and emotions through my voice has added a different dimension to my skill set,” says Lakshmipriyaa, who has voiced for books like Thanneer and Kalvananin Kadhali , among others. Her biggest challenge was reading out Peruvali by Sukumaran, a book that features a character from the transgender  community. “The author wanted me to intentionally read it slowly in a couple of places. Also, every chapter in that is narrated by different characters. To make sure I get the voices right was a challenge,” she says. Like Lakshmipriyaa, actor Raaghav Ranganathan has energetically dived into this new challenge; he has contributed to books like Perumal Murugan’s Koolamathari and Sundara Ramaswamy’s Prasadam , among others. “When the film industry took a hiatus, this gave me a great opportunity to keep myself occupied. It helped me connect with Tamil, a language I dearly love,” says Raaghav. He has invested in a small audio set-up at his residence and has also been doing light voice-training exercises to ensure he is in prime form. “Narrating for audiobooks helps my voice get tuned and running,” he says. Dubbing artist Kirtana explains that there are differences between her approach to audiobooks and films, she adds. “For the film industry, my job is limited to conveying the mood of the artiste in the visual and ensuring lip-sync. With audiobooks, there are no restrictions for my imagination or performance. I decide if I should communicate a certain aspect in an aggressive or a subtle manner through my voice. For readers who have already read the book, it is my job to enhance their perception of the characters.” If narration is a key element in an audiobook’s success, so is the content. For many Tamil authors, the distribution of physical copies of their works was a challenge during the lockdowns. These writers see the burgeoning demand for ebooks and audiobooks as a new platform for their works to reach newer audiences. “There are many young people today who can speak Tamil very well but cannot read it fluently. These audiobooks have been a boon for them,” says popular writer Pattukottai Prabakar, whose many titles, including Indhiya Neram 2AM , Oru Poi Podhum and Operation Venus , have been adapted recently to the audio format. Prabakar has been getting a lot of calls in recent times from firms to give them rights to the audio format of his work. “This trend looks all poised to grow,” he adds. Listeners for such audiobooks belong to all ages, but older listeners and people tuning in from abroad vouch that it gives them a radio-like experience and an opportunity to relive material that they read in their younger days. For homemaker and regular listener Priya, it presented a chance to connect with the language. She says, “During the pandemic and lockdown, audiobooks have been my constant companion. Not only has it kept me in good spirits, it has also made me learn a thing or two about the beautiful language that’s Tamil.”  There are many young people today who can speak Tamil well but cannot read it fluently. Audiobooks are a boon for them Pattukottai Prabakar,Author   Top picks  Ponniyin Selvan  Mogamul  Kadal Pura  Parthiban Kanavu  Vandhargal Vendraargal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/let-me-tell-you-a-kutti-story/article34835563.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The red-nosed superhero||Spiderman is often at Dharavi. Santa Claus, too, is a frequent visitor. Only, last Christmas he doled out masks instead of candy. All thanks to 37-year-old Ashok Kurmi, a benevolent shape shifter who changes his getup at the behest of children living in the Mumbai slums. An employee with a pharmaceutical company, Ashok took it upon himself to spread not only joy, but also the message of hygiene, social distancing and the importance of masks, when the pandemic took the country in its grip last March. “I was working from home. At about 11.30 am I would set out to various parts of Mumbai, sanitising localities and spreading awareness on COVID-19. I want to help people living in the slums, and the homeless who live under flyovers,” he says. Initially, Ashok wore a PPE kit but that made people, especially kids, nervous. They assumed that he was in their neighbourhood to take away a COVID patient. “I realised that if I wanted to communicate with kids, I should dress in a way that connects with them. So, I started visiting in a Mickey Mouse costume. I got a good response and could teach them about the virus and how to stay safe,” he says. Eventually, the children started suggesting different characters for Ashok to dress up as. Doraemon, Santa and Spiderman followed in quick succession. He changes his look every 25 days. Now, if you spot a clown armed with a sanitisation device on the streets of Mumbai, be sure to give him a pat on the back. “That is my current avatar,” Ashok says over a call from Mumbai. Being a clown does not come cheap. He bought a sanitisation machine for Rs. 9,000 with his own savings. “The sodium hypochlorite solution that I use, costs around Rs. 1,300 for five litres. That quantity is easily used up in one area,” he says. So far, Ashok says he has sanitised around two lakh houses in the city. Right from conveyance and the masks he distributes to his costume and the charts he makes for the kids, all expenses are borne by him. It amounts to roughly Rs. 15,000 a month. Ashok revisits every locality after two weeks. He first sanitises the streets, the houses, doors and windows and then calls out to the kids, asking them to wear their masks before making an appearance. “Now they eagerly wait for me to visit them,” says Ashok, adding that he is pleased to see them following his advice. It takes him around six hours to complete his work in a locality. Sometimes, language can be a barrier, he says: “In some areas the kids understand Hindi or Marathi and in some places they understand Tamil. I plan ahead and make charts in those languages, with a little help from the Internet.” Ashok also takes the time to draw boxes at bus stands and taxi stands so people can maintain social distancing. He says the police are happy with his work, and even suggest which area to head to next. Old habits “Getting dressed up as a character is not new to me,” says Ashok, “Every December, I used to distribute gifts to children in the waiting area of Sion hospital and Tata Memorial Hospital as Santa Claus,” he says. This new role is an offshoot of that. His family comprising his parents, wife and two-and-a-half year old daughter were reluctant to let him out initially. “But I explained to them that this needs to be done. People on the streets don’t really have an idea of the risks and how to stay safe, and need help. Now, my family is supportive,” he says, adding that they help him with his one hour make-up routine, as he starts getting into the character of a clown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-red-nosed-superhero/article34835587.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Portrait of an artist in quarantine||When Bala Govind Kumar tested positive for COVID-19 on April 26 in Chennai, he spent 14 days in isolation at his rented apartment in Kilpauk, feeling lonely and listless. Through these days, he used his iPad to create a visual diary of his emotions through art. The series of six paintings, Quarantine Days, is an exploration of the concept of self. “All I could see was myself. Why not create self-portraits, I thought,” says Bala, whose style is greatly inspired by Mexican artist Frida Kahlo. He recorded a video of himself engaged in various daily chores and made a montage of the stills for his first work titled Rooted. It shows versions of himself staring out the window and at the ceiling, eating, and looking at his phone. For the 25-year-old self-taught artist and architect hailing from Tirunelveli and working as an art director in Chennai, this was a healing process. “Art is my natural way of self-expression. And it made my days of isolation easier to bear.” Bala chose to work digitally as it did not require him to go out to procure art supplies. “In another time, I would have preferred acrylic or oil paint. But now I realise digital art gives you a lot of artistic freedom; it is easy to pursue even in extraordinary circumstances such as this.” The works are a meeting place of Bala’s emotions and his physical reality. He describes each stage of the disease and his mental state — breathing difficulty, loss of taste and smell and fatigue. “I could not work every day. On the days I felt better, I would create two works,” he says. After six days indoors, he went up to the terrace, spending time with plants which rejuvenated his mind and he captured that, in one of the works. Bala explains how art was not just restorative but also gave him a glimpse into the philosophical. “We are bound by time. Whatever we may think we are, we cannot run from this.” Bala plans to exhibit his works when the COVID-19 situation improves. Currently in Tirunelveli, he is working on a series, Misplaced Goat, which is a quest to rediscover his hometown through its rich tradition of folk art.  Bala Govind’s works are for sale @kalaa_shala on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/portrait-of-an-artist-in-quarantine/article34835592.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Law and order||Kuriyedathu Savitri, aka Thatri, a young Namboodiri woman who lived in the early part of the 20th Century, is a name that resonates with modern Kerala. The life of Thatri, wife of the elderly Raman Namboodiri of Kuriyedath Mana in Thrissur, who questioned the judiciary and patriarchy of her time, had far-reaching consequences that are relevant even today. That is why G Prabha decided to direct his second feature film, Taya (By Her), in Sanskrit on Thatri, and the series of events that have immortalised her name.  Taya , shot over 22 days in Kerala during February-March 2021, focusses on the smarthavicharam, a kind of inquisition that examined the moral conduct of women from the Namboodiri community. The last trial of its kind ordered by the erstwhile king of Kochi, the smarthavicharam of Thatri in 1905 looked into allegations of adultery against her. Prabha, former Head of the Department of Oriental Languages, Loyola College, Chennai, says that Thatri has been portrayed in many different ways in creative works inspired by the trial. “I wanted to focus on Thatri’s courageous fight against the establishment. Taya portrays her as a bold woman who seeks to avenge her friend Arya’s murder. By naming each of the men, Thatri shook the system out of its false sense of righteousness. The story goes that the king was so shocked when she named 65 men that he had the trial stopped; he feared that his name too might feature on the list.” However, in the film, Prabha has chosen to portray the judge as the one who stops the trial as he fears for his reputation. “Imagine Thatri’s courage in battling the hypocrisy of the men and the system that was trying her as a wayward woman. Slut shaming of women who dare take on the system is prevalent even now,” explains Prabha. He decided to make it in Sanskrit as he felt that the language should be promoted along with other regional languages. “Namboodiris of Kerala were proficient in Sanskrit and I felt that the story had to be narrated in Sanskrit to do justice to it,” he says about the film, which features Nedumudi Venu and Anumol and was filmed by ace cinematographer Sunny Joseph in Kodanadu Mana in Kunnamkulam, Brahmaswom Madom in Thrissur and Vadakumpattu Mana in Guruvayur. Produced by Sree Gokulam Movies, the film is likely to be released on OTT in August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/law-and-order/article34835533.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||One for the game nights||Sanchi Poddar is not one to attend business calls past 11 pm, but this particular one was ‘urgent’. Somebody wanted a drinking boardgame delivered that night, and Sanchi obliged. The man is now one of her trusted customers. Through her service Binge on Boards, Sanchi has been delivering boardgames to the residents of Chennai, helping them tide through various stages of ‘unlock’. “Through the past year, the pandemic was affecting us mentally, like everyone else. So our family started doing game nights, and I could see how much of a stress relief it was. I saw that relatives felt more relaxed and there were less arguments in general,” says Sanchi, a chartered accountant by profession. Sanchi’s extended family — 25 people across three generations reside in the city, she says — would often send boardgames to each others’ houses. Binge on Boards became a natural extension of this ritual. She bought games of varying levels of difficulty, from strategy games like Splendor, Ticket to Ride and Catan to basic card games. “I have 80 games and have given out almost all of them to rent, currently,” she says. The lockdowns of the second wave of the pandemic in April and May brought about an increase in demand. “People who rented my games in the beginning of the lockdown, did not return it but kept renting them for the successive weeks, as the lockdowns continued,” she says. In fact, most of her orders are repeated by the same customers. Binge on Boards offers a seven-day rental for Rs. 950, and 10-day rental, for Rs. 1,100. You get three games: a hardcore strategy game, a medium-level family game, and a light game, for kids. There are also three-day rentals ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 350, depending on the game. “Once a family returns a boardgame, I keep the set with me for 10 days, before I send it to another family. That’s why I have more than one set of the popular ones,” she says. As for her family, they will be continuing the game night tradition even after the lockdown lifts in the coming weeks. And the youngest player will be Sanchi’s one year-old daughter.  Visit @bingeonboards, on Instagram to place an order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/one-for-the-game-nights/article34835541.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Vidya Balan on playing a forest officer in Amit Masurkar’s Hindi film ‘Sherni’, which will première on Amazon Prime Video||Stories mirroring the man versus animal conflict are not new to Indian cinema. But what happens when a tigress is on the prowl, and a woman forest officer finds herself in the thick of things? Director Amit Masurkar’s Hindi film Sherni looks at this story through the eyes of its protagonist, portrayed by Vidya Balan. Ahead of the film’s première on Amazon Prime Video tomorrow, Vidya discusses what it meant to play a female forest officer making sense of the conflict as well as battling patriarchal notions. Edited excerpts from the interview:  Sherni deals with the man-animal conflict in the jungle and can make for an immersive theatrical viewing experience. Did the film’s team consider waiting till the theatres reopen? We don’t know when theatres will reopen and if people will come back in large numbers. Sherni’s story has universal appeal and it felt prudent to release it on a digital platform. You can experience the jungle from the comfort of your home while watching Sherni .  A portion was filmed in the forest region of Madhya Pradesh before lockdown in 2020. Was it liberating to return to the jungle once restrictions were eased?  The jungle makes for a joyous experience. I had friends who would ask jokingly if they could accompany me and do my hair and make-up, to be away from the city! We were in a bio bubble. As we were in the forest area, we had no interaction with outsiders and followed COVID-19 protocols. I love to go on long walks and enjoyed walking in the forest. Apart from the man versus animal conflict, Sherni is also about a female forest officer taking on patriarchal norms...  We underestimate women who are in traditionally male-dominated bastions like the Armed Forces, police or the Forest Department, because we haven’t seen enough women in these divisions. Vidya Vincent, the character I portray, is introverted. She is not the kind who will fight back, which makes her task all the more challenging. She realises that she has to use her voice when required. Her journey mirrors that of the tigress and vice versa. What were your learnings from the women forest officers you met?  I met two women officers who were forthcoming with their time. It can get extremely lonely when you are posted in a forest. If you are not passionate about your work, it can be tough. There are many battles; officers are dealing with poachers, striving to maintain an amiable rapport with villages in the forest borders and trying to integrate the tribals into the mainstream without a loss of their identity. Sometimes, there’s a tug of war between development and safeguarding the ecosystem. Forest officers do a tightrope walk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/vidya-balan-on-playing-a-forest-officer-in-amit-masurkars-hindi-film-sherni-which-will-premire-on-amazon-prime-video/article34835539.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Congratulations, Gowri and Gombe!||On June 9, the star chimpanzee couple, Gowri and Gombe, at Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur, welcomed a baby. “Both Gowri and her child are healthy. We have increased the quantity of fruits she gets. The feed is tailor-made by vets to suit the nursing mother’s needs,” says Naga Sathish Gidijala, Deputy Director of AAZP. “Gowri is very protective of her child. She is nursing the baby, and does not let anyone else hold it,” he adds, explaining why they do not yet know the gender of the baby chimpanzee. While the mother is always with the baby, the father is kept in a separate night house, a general practice followed to avoid infighting. Baby chimpanzees are known to breastfeed for up to four or five years The parents, 23-year-old Gowri and 28-year-old Gombe, were brought to Chennai from the Singapore Zoo in 2005. “This birth is a prized occurrence. There are not many instances like this in India or even abroad,” says Naga Sathish. The baby brings up the chimpanzee count in the zoo up to three. In 2015, a 52-year-old female chimpanzee, Tun Tun, died at the zoo. She was brought from the Alipore Zoological Garden in Kolkata as part of an animal exchange programme in 1998. Endemic to the African continent, the species is endangered; there are less than 3,00,000 chimpanzees remaining in the wild, according to the Jane Goodall Institute. Even as the Vandalur zoo deals with the loss of a lioness to COVID-19, the birth of the chimpanzee brings it some much-needed cheer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/congratulations-gowri-and-gombe/article34835559.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A hundred ways to say thank you||“It’s one thing to be grateful, it’s another to express it in ways that are deeper than just the words ‘thank you’,” says Maya Patel, one of the founders of Mumbai-based Gratitude Project (GP) that was started in the last week of May. “We wanted the wall to be a space of that expression of how people’s lives have been touched in positive ways.” Over the last year, there have been many projects offering thanks to frontline workers in healthcare, agrarian community, last mile delivery, law enforcement, sanitation, security, and media. Some of them write letters, some raise funds and others pitch in to buy them essentials. Maya is also glad the project comes at a time when many people feel demoralised by the state of the nation while the rest of the world gets back to normal. While social media has certainly become a black hole of rants, they wanted GP to be a ray of light amid the noise. Those working on the project are Maansi Vohra, Hriyanka Shah, Mili Sanwalka, Shivika Poonglia, Latisha Shah, Alekha Advani and Maya, all of whom worked with the YouthFeed India campaign over the pandemic. Through their work, the girls were able to see which communities were not given as much thanks as they deserved, and they conceptualised a gratitude hub. The website, designed by SH-One with graphics by Ravina Puri, is minimalist so posts have more impact. Maya adds that the team wanted people to be creative and explore beyond a ‘normal thank you’. A skim of the website wall reveals different mediums such as photos, poetry and drawings — many in Hindi, Marathi and Punjabi. “More than the messages we have received, it is the responses,” says Maya. “As an initiative, our mission is to get as many posts up as possible, but to also get this in front of as many frontline workers as possible. We’ve been contacted by delivery executives and doctors who tell us, ‘this made my day, I’ve had so many days of darkness’. That is our fuel to keep going.” Maya explains GP’s core value: “If we couldn’t show the frontline workers the gratitude they have received, we wouldn’t have proceeded. We want people to know this whole concept is larger than it looks on-screen, in terms of impact.” With the number of posts shooting past 500, including those written by Athiya Shetty and Soha Ali Khan, GP may be growing but Maya and her team want gratitude to grow more. “Our country has shown us there is humanity left and that people are happy to just help!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-hundred-ways-to-say-thank-you/article34835583.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Warm hugs miles away||Even as COVID-19 continues to wreak havoc, artists are finding creative ways to express the myriad moods associated with the pandemic and lockdowns. The Covid Art Museum (CAM), perhaps the first of its kind in the world, features art conveying hope, anxiety, courage, fear, boredom, struggle, solidarity, loneliness, and, even the feeling of ‘languishing.’ Created by Emma Calvo, José Guerrero and Irene Llorca, three friends, advertising executives and art enthusiasts in Barcelona, Spain, the digital museum, launched on March 19, 2020 features art from all over the world. Centred on the pandemic, it includes photographs, animation, installations, illustrations, graphic art and cartoons. Common elements such as masks, sanitisers, gloves, methods of social distancing and, of course, the Coronavirus itself, can be found in many of the pieces. Edited excerpts from an e-mail interview with José Guerrero: Why did you create this digital museum? We created the museum because we were locked up at home like everyone else, in Spain. It was a strange and worrying situation, but people were doing amazing things such as concerts on balconies, yoga classes on rooftops and streaming choreographies. One of these activities was also art that talked about the pandemic. We thought it would be a good idea to bring all these works together in one museum so they wouldn’t fall into oblivion. That’s how we created The CAM on Instagram from the sofa of our homes. How many works are there now?  There are more than 840 publications at the time of this interview. Every day we upload new works.They come from all over the world — from Brazil, USA and Spain to India, Indonesia and Russia. How are the artworks selected?  The main criteria is that they should be related to the current moment: the crisis of COVID-19. That’s why we don’t close ourselves to any technique. We collect all kinds of art whether they are illustrations, photographs, paintings, poems, drawings, animations, videos.... From all the works received or found, a selection of those that best reflect the situation, is published. Quality and originality are also important to us. Even if it is digital right now, we are still a museum. We want to keep the standards of a museum you would physically visit. Has anyone from India been featured?  There are several published works that have come from India and they are very interesting projects. They bring their particular vision of the situation, because despite the similarities, each part of the world has experienced the pandemic in a different way. How do you think art has helped people cope with social isolation?  The Internet connects people from all over the world regardless of distance, and that is very useful in the context of crisis, pandemic and quarantine. Being stuck at home, under such circumstances, one can feel depressed, worried and very lonely. That’s why we thought it was a good idea to create a museum that would show what was happening at the time. Then, the public would see that millions of people were living and feeling the same thing. In times of crisis, it is essential to feel accompanied. With the museum, people felt integrated into a community where they could participate and contribute their own works or simply write their thoughts in the comments section.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/warm-hugs-miles-away/article34836221.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The red-nosed superhero||Spiderman is often at Dharavi. Santa Claus, too, is a frequent visitor. Only, last Christmas he doled out masks instead of candy. All thanks to 37-year-old Ashok Kurmi, a benevolent shape shifter who changes his getup at the behest of children living in the Mumbai slums. An employee with a pharmaceutical company, Ashok took it upon himself to spread not only joy, but also the message of hygiene, social distancing and the importance of masks, when the pandemic took the country in its grip last March. “I was working from home. At about 11.30 am I would set out to various parts of Mumbai, sanitising localities and spreading awareness on COVID-19. I want to help people living in the slums, and the homeless who live under flyovers,” he says. Initially, Ashok wore a PPE kit but that made people, especially kids, nervous. They assumed that he was in their neighbourhood to take away a COVID patient. “I realised that if I wanted to communicate with kids, I should dress in a way that connects with them. So, I started visiting in a Mickey Mouse costume. I got a good response and could teach them about the virus and how to stay safe,” he says. Eventually, the children started suggesting different characters for Ashok to dress up as. Doraemon, Santa and Spiderman followed in quick succession. He changes his look every 25 days. Now, if you spot a clown armed with a sanitisation device on the streets of Mumbai, be sure to give him a pat on the back. “That is my current avatar,” Ashok says over a call from Mumbai. Being a clown does not come cheap. He bought a sanitisation machine for Rs. 9,000 with his own savings. “The sodium hypochlorite solution that I use, costs around Rs. 1,300 for five litres. That quantity is easily used up in one area,” he says. So far, Ashok says he has sanitised around two lakh houses in the city. Right from conveyance and the masks he distributes to his costume and the charts he makes for the kids, all expenses are borne by him. It amounts to roughly Rs. 15,000 a month. Ashok revisits every locality after two weeks. He first sanitises the streets, the houses, doors and windows and then calls out to the kids, asking them to wear their masks before making an appearance. “Now they eagerly wait for me to visit them,” says Ashok, adding that he is pleased to see them following his advice. It takes him around six hours to complete his work in a locality. Sometimes, language can be a barrier, he says: “In some areas the kids understand Hindi or Marathi and in some places they understand Tamil. I plan ahead and make charts in those languages, with a little help from the Internet.” Ashok also takes the time to draw boxes at bus stands and taxi stands so people can maintain social distancing. He says the police are happy with his work, and even suggest which area to head to next. Old habits “Getting dressed up as a character is not new to me,” says Ashok, “Every December, I used to distribute gifts to children in the waiting area of Sion hospital and Tata Memorial Hospital as Santa Claus,” he says. This new role is an offshoot of that. His family comprising his parents, wife and two-and-a-half year old daughter were reluctant to let him out initially. “But I explained to them that this needs to be done. People on the streets don’t really have an idea of the risks and how to stay safe, and need help. Now, my family is supportive,” he says, adding that they help him with his one hour make-up routine, as he starts getting into the character of a clown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-red-nosed-superhero/article34836223.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Portrait of an artist in quarantine||When Bala Govind Kumar tested positive for COVID-19 on April 26 in Chennai, he spent 14 days in isolation at his rented apartment, feeling lonely and listless. Through these days, he used his iPad to create a visual diary of his emotions through art. The series of six paintings, Quarantine Days, is an exploration of the concept of self. “All I could see was myself. Why not create self-portraits, I thought,” says Bala, whose style is greatly inspired by Mexican artist Frida Kahlo. He recorded a video of himself engaged in various daily chores and made a montage of the stills for his first work titled Rooted. It shows versions of himself staring out the window and at the ceiling, eating, and looking at his phone. For the 25-year-old self-taught artist and architect hailing from Tirunelveli and working as an art director in Chennai, this was a healing process. “Art is my natural way of self-expression. And it made my days of isolation easier to bear.” Bala chose to work digitally as it did not require him to go out to procure art supplies. “In another time, I would have preferred acrylic or oil paint. But now I realise digital art gives you a lot of artistic freedom; it is easy to pursue even in extraordinary circumstances such as this.” The works are a meeting place of Bala’s emotions and his physical reality. He describes each stage of the disease and his mental state — breathing difficulty, loss of taste and smell and fatigue. “I could not work every day. On the days I felt better, I would create two works,” he says. After six days indoors, he went up to the terrace, spending time with plants which rejuvenated his mind and he captured that, in one of the works. Bala explains how art was not just restorative but also gave him a glimpse into the philosophical. “We are bound by time. Whatever we may think we are, we cannot run from this.” Bala plans to exhibit his works when the COVID-19 situation improves. Currently in Tirunelveli, he is working on a series, Misplaced Goat, which is a quest to rediscover his hometown through its rich tradition of folk art.  Bala Govind’s works are for sale @kalaa_shala on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/portrait-of-an-artist-in-quarantine/article34836224.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A sari, reimagined||When friends and neighbours Deepa Balaji and Mansi Karra had to end their respective careers last year due to the pandemic, they decided to get together and focus on sourcing and selling pre-loved, unstitched fabric. “My mother has been my biggest influence when it comes to the idea of sustainability. I grew up wearing my elder sister’s outfits, which were later used by my cousin,” says Mansi. “As an event planner, I observed that most brides use their expensive bridal wear such as sari or ghagra , just once. These special outfits could be used multiple times if shared with friends or cousins. I also realised that unstitched garments such as sari or dupatta or stole can be recycled and repurposed imaginatively in many ways,” she adds. In April, the duo launched The Rewrap Company, an online shop to buy and sell pre-loved, gently used fabric. “We carefully choose the products we sell by assessing the garment for any stains or damage, sanitising it, and labelling it. If required we dry clean the sari. A significant number of saris in our collection are unused with the price tag intact,” says Deepa, who shut her travel company which she ran for 23 years when the pandemic began. “The initial week was chaotic with our bedrooms filled with stuff we received from everyone. We segregated the collection based on quality, design, fabric and maintenance,” says Deepa. Mansi adds, “Some of our customers recycle saris into curtains or cushion covers. Silk is made into handbags or sari covers. People seem to have the time and are showing great interest in home decor now.” At The Rewrap Company, one can also buy yardage of upholstery fabrics, sourced from the manufacturer directly. “Apart from being useful for making table runners, shopping bags and cushion covers, we use these to make covers for the saris we sell,” Mansi says. The Rewrap Company has stocked over 150 products, and prices start from Rs. 150. Currently, they operate through the Instagram handle @therewrapcompany, but plan to launch a website soon. “We want to be in the fabric space and stay away from pre-loved stitched garments. We cater to conscious buyers. Going forward we plan to offer consultancy in preserving saris that have antique or sentimental value. We can help preserve them by repurposing them in various ways. For example, a silk sari can be framed and mounted on the wall or even used as a partition. A cotton sari on the other hand, will be ideal for use as a blanket or curtain. Wedding veshti s/ dhoti s can be made into sari covers,” says Deepa.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-sari-reimagined/article34836225.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||The resurgence of Jaddu||A year-and-a-half leading up to the England tour of 2018 was hard on Ravindra Jadeja. It had been over eight years since he made his international debut. His potential as an all-rounder was still in question. He wasn’t a regular in the side, especially in the limited-overs format. Between January 2017 to June 2018, Jadeja was not a part of four Tests, 25 ODIs and 22 T20s that India played. “It was one of the hardest phases of my life, I used to be awake till early morning thinking about the game. I was constantly contemplating on how to overcome my hurdles, boost my confidence, and up my game,” says Jadeja aka Jaddu from Southampton, where he is preparing for India’s World Test Championship (WTC) final against the world’s top-ranked side, New Zealand. Jadeja is now an indispensable member of the team. His unbeaten 86 off 156 balls in the Oval Test of 2018 replenished his confidence. Impressive performances followed across formats. Sample: a first Test century against the West Indies in 2018, a 59-ball 77 in the 2019 World Cup semi-final (albeit in a losing cause), and a 28-ball 62 in the Indian Premier League this year. The Oval Test knock, according to Jadeja, was a marker of his resurgence. He ceased having sleepless nights after that. But that innings was not a magic pill. “I worked hard on building my health and my mind,” he tells us in an interview organised by ASICS, the sports brand he is associated with. Jadeja explains how he takes care of his mental health: “I stick to my routine that includes waking up early, following my diet, working out, spending time with my family, and most importantly with my daughter. She is my stress buster. Whenever I get a break, I visit my farmhouse and spend time with my horses as they have become a part of my life and have been there through all the highs and lows. My workout, especially running, is a vital part of my daily routine. I combine it with strength training and stretching to keep myself flexible.” The last couple of years has been challenging for sportspersons across the world, having to be in bio-bubbles. “You can’t even meet your teammates, sometimes,” he says. This is why he is grateful for having his family with him. “It’s a big advantage to have them with you on tours. You can spend time with them when you have nothing to do. When there aren’t many restrictions, you can even go for a walk and explore new places with them,” he adds. With the WTC final set to begin on Friday, the focus, however, is back on cricket. Jadeja, due to an injury, missed the historic Gabba Test in Australia earlier this year and the home series against England that followed. So, he is raring to be a part of what promises to be another special match against New Zealand.  Whenever I get some break, I visit my farmhouse and spend time with my horses as they have become an imminent part of my life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/the-resurgence-of-jaddu/article34836227.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||How to go green||Shriya Suriyanarayanan came to a point in life when she saw plastic waste all around her. Greatly bothered by this, Chennai-based Shriya, an Engineering graduate from NIT Tiruchi, spent over two years following people and initiatives towards managing plastic waste and sustainability in India. Today, Shriya is a sustainability consultant. Her podcast, Footprint — A Guide to Sustainable Living, acts as a beginner’s guide to sustainability and has built a listenership of over 40,000 since July 2020. Season One, which contains 10 episodes, talks about sustainable choices in different aspects of life. From growing one’s own food and zero-waste living to home care, self-care and a career in climate, Shriya’s panel of experts and practitioners offer multiple sustainable solutions. Hosted on Aawaz.com, the podcast has featured Anuradha Kedia, co-founder of the Better Home Cleaners which deals with environment-safe home cleaning products; Abhay Rangan, founder of a plant-based dairy company Goodmylk; and Anshuman Bapna, founder and CEO of Terra.do, an online school working to solve climate change, to name a few. If there is going to be more plastic than fish in the world’s oceans by 2050, it is about time we did something about it, she says in one of the episodes. “Legislative changes around climate change and plastic waste are expected to be implemented over the next few years. There is massive progress and innovation being led by startups, NGOs and individual contributors across India. But we still need to talk about this constantly because consumer demand will drive Government and private sector action.” Consumer behaviour is something she is optimistic about: “According to Google Trends, search interest in ‘sustainable lifestyles’ has increased over six times in the past year. This means there are people who want to lead a sustainable life, but are not sure how. When I was doing my research on sustainable solutions, I found a wealth of information available, but it was scattered.” The extra time she had during lockdown in 2020 was when she “decided to channel that into something productive and bring all this information together as one comprehensive guide”. In the right context Shriya adds that her focus is on the Indian consumer and Indian products. “Indians inherently lead more sustainable lives due to our cultural practices and socio-economic conditions. According to a recent report, India’s per capita plastic consumption is half the global average. But we need to build on that with solutions that are viable in the Indian context. These podcasts help young, urban Indians and families take the next step towards alternative solutions,” she states. While Season One is from an individual’s point of view — on how to lead a sustainable life, Shriya is considering making Season Two from a business perspective. “It could cover issues such as sustainability within larger brands, how does one judge sustainability relatively, ethical and fair manufacturing, trade practices and the like,” she muses. Shriya admits that a sustainable lifestyle is not a pocket-friendly decision. She explains, however, “It is more expensive today because demand is less and the raw materials costlier. We hope to reach economies of scale soon, so it becomes affordable. But we need to remember that living more sustainably doesn’t mean buying a lot of sustainable products. If you just buy less and use what you have for longer, that’s a great start. Minimalism and sustainability are very closely linked.”  The podcast has built a listenership of over 40,000 since July 2020||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/how-to-go-green/article34836228.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||A hundred ways to say thank you||“It’s one thing to be grateful, it’s another to express it in ways that are deeper than just the words ‘thank you’,” says Maya Patel, one of the founders of Mumbai-based Gratitude Project (GP) that was started in the last week of May. “We wanted the wall to be a space of that expression of how people’s lives have been touched in positive ways.” Over the last year, there have been many projects offering thanks to frontline workers in healthcare, agrarian community, last mile delivery, law enforcement, sanitation, security, and media. Some of them write letters, some raise funds and others pitch in to buy them essentials. Maya is also glad the project comes at a time when many people feel demoralised by the state of the nation while the rest of the world gets back to normal. While social media has certainly become a black hole of rants, they wanted GP to be a ray of light amid the noise. Those working on the project are Maansi Vohra, Hriyanka Shah, Mili Sanwalka, Shivika Poonglia, Latisha Shah, Alekha Advani and Maya, all of whom worked with the YouthFeed India campaign over the pandemic. Through their work, the girls were able to see which communities were not given as much thanks as they deserved, and they conceptualised a gratitude hub. The website, designed by SH-One with graphics by Ravina Puri, is minimalist so posts have more impact. Maya adds that the team wanted people to be creative and explore beyond a ‘normal thank you’. A skim of the website wall reveals different mediums such as photos, poetry and drawings — many in Hindi, Marathi and Punjabi. “More than the messages we have received, it is the responses,” says Maya. “As an initiative, our mission is to get as many posts up as possible, but to also get this in front of as many frontline workers as possible. We’ve been contacted by delivery executives and doctors who tell us, ‘this made my day, I’ve had so many days of darkness’. That is our fuel to keep going.” Maya explains GP’s core value: “If we couldn’t show the frontline workers the gratitude they have received, we wouldn’t have proceeded. We want people to know this whole concept is larger than it looks on-screen, in terms of impact.” With the number of posts shooting past 500, including those written by Athiya Shetty and Soha Ali Khan, GP may be growing but Maya and her team want gratitude to grow more. “Our country has shown us there is humanity left and that people are happy to just help!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-hundred-ways-to-say-thank-you/article34836222.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Into the open: struggles of the female athlete||In 2019, Utkarsha Pawar, 22, from Pune, began journalling. On its last page, she wrote down her goal: to be selected in the cricket Women’s Under-23 Challenger Trophy. Every day, as she filled her diary, it was a reminder that all her thoughts and actions were fine-tuned towards that. “I achieved it, and ticked it off,” she says, adding that writing has helped in visualisation, an exercise by sportspersons to sharpen focus and better performance. It also helped her process her grandfather’s death last year. While the practice is beneficial for men and women athletes, Pawar finds that it’s her women athlete friends who journal more. “I also have gym training as part of the journal, so it helps me keep track of how I perform and lift [weights] during my periods,” she says. Added layers of pressure There are two parts to building mental health in athletes: performance enhancement on field and well-being (tackling stress and disorders) off field, says Divya Jain, a sports psychologist from Fortis Healthcare. While journalling and visualisation are practised by both men and women, off field stressors may differ. Soniya Dabir, Pawar’s coach, singles out the word ‘pressure’ to describe a sportsperson’s life: the need to perform better or at least at par with a previous time; the juggling of time between sport and study; the stress of endorsements. Women have added layers of pressure — the doubts about earning a living from sport, where women play for even shorter durations than men; the decision to have a child, etc. The nuances of women’s sport While we will never know the depth of Naomi Osaka’s mental health condition — she does not owe us a detailed explanation, much like she wouldn’t her history of a physical injury — she has opened up a conversation around mental health in sport. On Clubhouse discussions, players have talked about the responses to her decision to take a break, opening the field for more nuanced discussions. Take just the issue of what to wear at sporting events. Karan Singh, who runs the Indian Track Foundation, set up three years ago, has four female athletes (handpicked from across interiors of Jharkhand) in his elite team of 10 trainees. Earlier this year, the girls got Adidas gear, which gave them access to sports bras and shorts worn at the international level in track and field events. “These clothes are shorter and more snug than what Aakancha [Kerketta, 16] is comfortable wearing,” he says of his ward. So he left it up to her, but she realised the difference it was making to her performance and decided to go with them. Singh, who is aiming for the 2028 Olympic Games and beyond, normalises conversations with the help of his wife, who talks menstruation and body changes with the girls, made easier since they live together in one house in Ooty. About mental safety Just like a physical injury, a mental one too needs more than just first aid. A sports psychologist at Jamshedpur, talks of a young woman who came to him two years after she had been raped in her early teens, by fellow senior male players. “She came with anxiety, and after three or four sessions on a phone consultation, she revealed she had been raped,” he says. But a girl doesn’t have to be sexually abused to feel insecure. And it’s not just about putting up a CCTV camera, says Gayatri Vartak Madkekar, a sports psychologist. “An athlete travelling alone must feel safe. There are overt ideas of safety, but there is also the mental angle,” says Madkekar, adding that having a woman mentor, someone who has gone through a particular experience, will help young players. There is also the question of ‘what if not sport?’. While women in cities may have career options and choices they are free to exercise, those in villages might not. Arundhati (name changed to protect identity), 22, who (since 2009) has trained with Yuwa, an organisation for girls’ empowerment through football, says girls in rural Jharkhand generally get married by 15 or 16. Sports, therefore, also offers an escape route and she says she “feels free on the football field”. Fighting the odds Tripti Behera, 19, from New Delhi, talks about patriarchy and capitalism when it comes to earnings, even in seemingly egalitarian big-city settings. “I play for the Delhi Women’s League. The men get prize money; we don’t. Also, they get put up at five-star hotels, and we’ll get a two-star hotel.” Arundhati remembers her first national camp. “In the evening, the coaches would ask us to sing or dance, and I am shy, so I wouldn’t want to come to the front. They would force me to, and say, ‘You girl from a backward community — learn to sing or dance’.” On field too, she felt bullied. These challenges that go beyond just concentrating on the game chip away at their self-belief.  Media matters What appears in the press also has a bearing on the mind. Sprinter Dutee Chand says reporters will pit her against Hima Das in sensational headlines, and will take a quote out of context. Despite all the media coverage, a BBC survey last year, 50% of those surveyed in India (10,181 across 14 states) could not name even one sportswoman. Up to 42% felt that women’s sports were not as ‘entertaining’ as men’s. Supporting women in sports will bolster their mental health, but this will need institutions, individuals, and society to come together. As Behera says, “I want to be known as a footballer; not a woman football player.”  With inputs from Saraswathy Nagarajan and Uthra Ganesan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/into-the-open-struggles-of-the-female-athlete/article34835909.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Been there, done that||In The Tomorrow War , an upcoming military science fiction film, Chris Pratt plays Dan Forester, a Former Delta Force Operator going to the future, 2051, to fight deadly aliens and save the planet for his daughter, Muri (Ryan Kiera Armstrong). The film directed by Chris McKay, has some hair-raising action sequences. Talking of the biggest adrenalin rush at a virtual press conference, the Jurassic World actor said, “There was so much to choose from. Off the top of my head, there is a great sequence when we make the jump to 2051. There is this transition where we fall from the sky in Miami to land in a pool. There was some serious water work. We got to jump off of this high dive that we built out of a fork lift into the water. The camera followed us down and there were stunt people jumping down and landing on top of you forcing you under water. That sequence probably took two or three days. You are trying to get smashed into the ground, come up and struggle into a close up underwater. It was a lot of fun.” Unlike the real world, in The Tomorrow War , it is the older people who are sent to fight the aliens. “Everyone who goes forward into the future is over the age of 30 and everyone who comes back to train us is under 30 because you can’t live in both timelines at the same time. They are drafting a crop of people who are going to be dead in 2051. You are dealing with people who are making life decisions based not on the life that they could lead, but rather the world that they are leaving for their children. My character, Dan is doing this to protect his family. It is different to think about people being drafted away from their children rather than children being drafted away from their parents.” The SFX-heavy film called for a great deal of green screen work. Admitting it is liberating not having to work with a prop, Pratt says, “You basically force the animators to make your choices work. If you have a real tentacle, you are limited to how you can move it, but if you have a fake one, you can move it anyway you like. You can imagine an animator pulling their hair out saying, ‘Oh, great. I have to make that work somehow’.” Drolly elaborating, Pratt says, “I have had my fair share of running from and fighting against creatures that aren’t there. You could have a whole podcast episode about the way to achieve it. It is a combination of various things you are going to look at, whether it is a tennis ball or the guy named Troy who is seven feet tall and very scary. You look at Troy and think, ‘That is certainly a person who could lift me up and break me in half.’ He becomes significantly less scary when he is put in a giant grey leotard.” Acting opposite or fighting something that is not there is particularly embarrassing, Pratt says. “You put your trust in the director that they will not allow it to become a viral YouTube sensation.” The Tomorrow War premieres on July 2, 2021 on Amazon Prime Video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/been-there-done-that/article34836229.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Conditions not favourable for monsoon to cover North: IMD||Atmospheric conditions are still not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts of Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. It said a cyclonic circulation lies over east Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood and there is also a western disturbance. These conditions are not favourable for the advance of monsoon, IMD Director General M. Mohapatra said. “Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts of Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi,” the IMD said. However, there could be a slow progress of monsoon into some more parts of Uttar Pradesh during the next five days in association with the existing cyclonic circulation over east Uttar Pradesh, the IMD added.  Late onset over Kerala Monsoon has reached Saharanpur in western Uttar Pradesh. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar, it added. After making a late onset over Kerala on June 3, two days after its normal onset date, the Southwest Monsoon made a rapid progress covering large parts of area than its normal arrival date there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/conditions-not-favourable-for-monsoon-to-cover-north-imd/article34835913.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Kejriwal announces plan to train 5,000 youths as health assistants||To prepare for a possible third wave, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the Delhi government would train 5,000 youngsters as health assistants in the coming weeks. These Community Nursing Assistants will be trained in basic nursing, paramedic, lifesaving, first aid, home care, sample collection, oxygen concentrators and cylinders operations among other procedures. “In case a third wave emerges, we might also witness a shortage of medical and paramedical staff as we had seen during the second and the first waves. Keeping this in mind, the government has devised a big plan for training 5,000 health assistants,” the Chief Minister said during a digital briefing. “In technical terms, they are called Community Nursing Assistants. So 5,000 youngsters will be trained for two weeks by the IP University and by the 9 medical institutes of Delhi,” he said. These 5,000 health assistants or Community Nursing Assistants will work as assistants to doctors and nurses and pressed into service as and when the need arises, he said. “We will train these 5,000 people and they will be called when there is a need. They will be given a salary according to the number of days they work,” he stated. Apply from June 17 “So, online applications can be filled starting June 17. Training period will start from June 28 in batches of 500, that is the first batch of 500 will be trained for two weeks and after that, another batch of 500 will be trained,” he also stated. Mr. Kejriwal said all those who have passed their Class 12 exams are eligible. Applicants should be 18 years or more and applications will be accepted on a first come first serve basis. “I again hope that a third wave does not come about, but as per the information from the U.K., a third wave has emerged there. So we should also be fully prepared, keeping in mind the developments all over the world,” he added. The Delhi BJP, meanwhile, accused Mr. Kejriwal of attempting to take credit for the Centre-sponsored customised crash course programme for front-line workers. “How long will you keep trying to take credit for the works of the Centre in your name? PM Narendra Modi is launching this programme on June 18. You are deliberately trying to show that you are doing it,” Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said.  They will be trained for two weeks... they will be given a salary according to the number of days they work   Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/kejriwal-announces-plan-to-train-5000-youths-as-health-assistants/article34835923.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Fresh stock of vaccine arrives for 18+ group in the nick of time||The Capital has received fresh supply of vaccines — 62,160 doses of Covaxin and 1,73,340 doses of Covishield — for 18-44 age group on Tuesday, AAP leader Atishi said while presenting a daily vaccination bulletin on Wednesday. On Tuesday, she had said that all government-run vaccination centres for the age group will be shut from Wednesday due to shortage of vaccines. Fortunately, the government received the fresh stock later in the day, as per officials. “The reason for slowing down of the pace of vaccination is because of the dearth of vaccines for the youth. Yesterday [Tuesday], more than half the vaccination centres in Delhi were closed for youth,” Ms. Atishi said. A Delhi government spokesperson said as much. Meanwhile, the downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued in the national capital with 212 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,31,710, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 25 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,876. A total of 77,891 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,31,710 people have recovered and there are 2,749 active cases. The test positivity rate was 0.27%, which means that less than one person out of 300 people taking tests are positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fresh-stock-of-vaccine-arrives-for-18-group-in-the-nick-of-time/article34835928.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Centre denied nod to probe oxygen deaths’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday claimed the Centre has denied approval to a committee constituted by the Delhi government to investigate deaths of COVID-19 patients due to oxygen shortage and provide compensation. “As all of you know, there was an oxygen crunch during the last wave of COVID in Delhi. Oxygen supply was diverted to other places. There were also some deaths due to lack of oxygen supply,” the Deputy Chief Minister said. “The Delhi government announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh for the families of those who lost their lives in the incident. Following the directive of the court, the Delhi government constituted a committee of health experts to look into the incident and ascertain what led to these deaths. It is extremely saddening that the Central government has dismissed this committee. I don’t understand why the Centre has an issue with it,” he added.  “The AAP government wants to offer compensation to the families of those who died and also probe and confirm what led to these deaths. The Centre is not letting this happen. Why does it like to obstruct any good step or work being done by the State governments?” Mr. Sisodia asked. “There have been many incidents of unnecessary interference by the Centre. This decision to dismiss the committee is unreasonable and without any logic. I would like to request the Centre to stop such interference,” he said. Responding to Mr. Sisodia’s claims, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said it is sad to watch Mr. Sisodia playing “dirty politics” over such a sensitive matter.  ‘Panel already formed’ “The Supreme Court had already formed a committee with regard to oxygen deaths compensation on May 6 comprising Dr. Randeep Gulieria, Dr. A. Budhiraja and Joint Secretaries from both Centre and State governments. This panel had been working for 10 days when suddenly the Delhi government jumped in to form a separate committee on May 27. In the light of the fact that already a high powered four-member committee with Delhi government representation is working on it, the Delhi government has been asked to dismantle its committee,” Mr. Kapoor said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centre-denied-nod-to-probe-oxygen-deaths/article34835926.ece
17 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Don’t stop treatment even in case of e-card anomalies: Punjab govt.||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday directed all empanelled private hospitals that the treatment or e-card of the entitled beneficiary of ‘Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna’ (the State Health Insurance Scheme) should not be stalled while the beneficiary was admitted to the hospital. Mr. Sidhu said that in case of any anomalies in the e-card of the beneficiary, the same should be corrected only after the completion of treatment of the beneficiary patient, because the e-cards had been approved at the end of the insurance company only. The State government had also provided free treatment for COVID-19 to the entitled beneficiaries under the scheme in all empanelled private hospitals. He said training would be provided to private hospitals to expedite the process of filing the claim under the COVID-19 packages.  Vaccination drive Mr. Sidhu said the vaccination drive was running in full swing across rural and urban areas. “Punjab has received a quota of 5,98,060 Covaxin doses from the Government of India whereas the State purchased a Covaxin quota of 1,50,850. The utilisation of Covaxin received from the Centre is around 4,90,041 while 66,032 doses have been administered to public from the State purchase quota. On the same pattern, 48,16,580 doses of Covishield have been provided by the Centre and 46,43,786 of which have been utilised,” he said. He said the Punjab government had procured 5,86,000 doses of Covishield of which 5,30,603 doses had been successfully administered till June 13. He said a total of 58,15,339 people had received vaccine till now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dont-stop-treatment-even-in-case-of-e-card-anomalies-punjab-govt/article34836235.ece
17 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda blames Haryana govt. for rising crime and unemployment||Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday said unheeding attitude of ruling BJP-JJP government towards the State’s problems was to be blamed for the rise in crime and unemployment. Mr. Hooda said the crime graph was rising in the State, which was worrying for everyone. “While criminals have lost all fear of the law, the government is in a state of deep slumber. Theft, robbery, dacoity, ransom and murder have become a part of routine in the State and the news of someone being shot or killed in public has become common,” he said. Mr. Hooda said maintaining law and order is the responsibility of the State government but those in power are only concerned about their safety. “The government does not pay any attention to the safety of the life and property of the general public. Seeing the way crime is increasing, it seems as if there is no such thing as government in the State,” he said.  ‘Figures tell the story’ “The figures of the government itself testify to the increasing crime in the State. According to the recent report of NITI Aayog, Haryana has the highest number of murder cases per 1 lakh people, after Jharkhand. Besides, the NCRB data shows that there are 3 to 4 murders, 5 to 6 rapes, more than 100 robbery, theft, dacoity and ransom incidents take place in the State every day,” Mr. Hooda said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/hooda-blames-haryana-govt-for-rising-crime-and-unemployment/article34836237.ece
17 June 2021||FARIDABAD,||70-year-old resident of Khori Basti ends life||A 70-year-old man ended his life at Khori Basti here on Wednesday after he learnt that his house would be demolished in adherence to the Supreme Court order. The police have registered a case against a property dealer who duped the elderly to sell government land to him. The elderly had bought a 1,000 sq feet plot from a property dealer 15 years ago. The property dealer had assured him that he would get the ownership rights for the land. He later spent around Rs. 3 lakh to construct a house on the plot. But when he learnt that his house was illegal and would be demolished as per the Supreme Court order, he killed himself. His son, aged 36 years, works as a security guard. The police have registered a case against the property dealer. However, a mob pelted stones at the police personnel when they reached the deceased’s house. The police have registered a case against 100 people for stone pelting. The Supreme Court had on June 7 ordered demolition of the structures on 170-acre Khori Basti on the forest land within six weeks. The social activists and political leaders of various parties have been demanding that Khori Basti residents be rehabilitated before carrying out the demolition drive and compensated. Spread across 170 acres, the colony has 5,158 houses, 80 shops, five educational institutes, 36 social, public utility and religious structures and two industrial units. Most of the residents are migrants who bought plots in early 1990s.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/70-year-old-resident-of-khori-basti-ends-life/article34835914.ece
17 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Parts of Delhi receive rain, mercury dips||Some parts of the city received rain while overcast skies brought down the temperature and provided relief from the rising mercury. While the official weather station of the city, Safdarjung, did not receive any rain, the weather station at Pitampura recorded 24.5 mm of rainfall. The maximum temperature settled at 34.2 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees below normal for the season. The minimum settled at 26.2 degrees Celsius, two degrees cooler for the season. The overcast sky managed to bring the temperature down from a maximum of 38.7 degrees Celsius recorded on the previous day. The forecast for June 17 shows that the city will have a partly cloudy sky with possibility of very light rain or thundershowers. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be between 37 and 26 degrees Celsius respectively. The monsoon was expected early in the city on June 15 ahead of its usual arrival date of June 27 but conditions were unfavourable for it to reach the city, the IMD said. “Large-scale atmospheric conditions are not favourable for advance of monsoon into Rajasthan, remaining parts of Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi,” the IMD said in its bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parts-of-city-receive-rain-mercury-dips/article34835917.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP asks L-G to oversee cleaning of large drains||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Wednesday urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to oversee cleaning of large drains in the Capital, failing which Delhi could face a flood-like situation. Mr. Bidhuri said the arrival of monsoon was imminent and a welcome development but due to the alleged failure of the Delhi government to ensure that large drains under its jurisdiction were desilted on time, many parts of Delhi would face flooding. “The PWD has not undertaken the cleaning of such drains and this is likely to complicate matters,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. The LoP said 1,400 kilometres of drains on arterial roads in Delhi were cleaned by PWD while 400 kilometres of small drains were cleaned by the three municipal corporations. The PWD had not undertaken any cleaning of large drains this year whereas the municipal corporations have already cleaned the small drains under them, he alleged. “Due to the blockage of big drains, the small ones also get flooded which results in a flood-like situation in low lying areas. Such a situation could lead to an outbreak of malaria and dengue in the Capital,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-asks-l-g-to-oversee-cleaning-of-large-drains/article34835921.ece
17 June 2021||Agartala,||Parleys for patch-up in strife-hit Tripura BJP unit||BJP’s national organisation general secretary B.L. Santhosh, who arrived here on Wednesday, held hectic discussions with a cross section of leaders reportedly to work out a reconciliation between official and rebel groups. He held a closed door one-to-one meeting at the party headquarters with several leaders to understand the differences and repair the cracks, highly placed sources in the party said.  Santhosh’s meetings Senior leaders like Ajay Jamwal and Phanindra Nath Sharma, who also arrived to oversee organisation matters, did not join the meetings Mr. Santhosh had with MPs Pratima Bhowmik and Rebati Tripura, Deputy Chief Minister Jishnu Debbarman and dissident MLAs. Tripura BJP in-charge Vinod Kumar Sonkar, who was also to arrive here, had to cancel his trip owing to a family matter. After several months, dissident MLAs like Sudip Roy Barman, Ram Prasad Paul, Ashish Das, Sushanta Choudhury and Ashish Kumar Saha went to the party office to meet Mr. Santhosh. Sources said he met the Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb, Deputy Chief Minister, two MPs, four Ministers and the MLAs who were called in six separate groups.  Cabinet expansion Dissidents reportedly made some important demands including replacement of incumbent president Dr. Manik Saha, expansion of Cabinet and certain changes in the organisation. He also met State office bearers, morcha presidents and district committee presidents. Later in the evening, he met MLAs from the BJP’s ally Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (IPFT) at the residence of Mr. Deb. Party sources said the deliberations of Mr. Santhosh will continue on Thursday. He will also meet State functionaries of the RSS before his return to New Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/parleys-for-patch-up-in-strife-hit-tripura-bjp-unit/article34836233.ece
17 June 2021||Guwahati,||Assam not to hold school board examinations||The Assam Cabinet on Wednesday recommended the cancellation of the Class 10 and Class 12 board examinations. A final decision would be taken on June 18 at a meeting between the Education Department and various stakeholders. The recommendation came less than a week after a group of students approached the Supreme Court seeking directions on the examinations scheduled tentatively in the first week of August. Water Resources Minister and government spokesperson Pijush Hazarika said the Cabinet had also decided not to allow home isolation to any COVID-19 patient who does not have separate accommodation facility at home. The other Cabinet decisions included empowering the Social Welfare Department to procure rice directly from the FCI for the supplementary nutrition programme under the Integrated Child Development Services to reduce costs. The statutes of Madhabdev University at Narayanpur, Bhattadev University at Bajali, Birangana Sati Sadhani State University at Golaghat and Rabindranath Tagore University at Hojai were also approved for facilitating smooth functioning, Mr. Hazarika said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-not-to-hold-school-board-examinations/article34836234.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP raises questions over procurement of buses||BJP Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta on Wednesday questioned the Delhi government’s decision to keep in abeyance the procurement of 1,000 buses by the DTC after he approached the Lieutenant Governor with a complaint of graft in the process. In an order issued on June 11, the Transport Department stated that proceedings related to the procurement of 1,000 DTC buses and their annual maintenance contract “be kept in abeyance till further orders.” “Delhi government has now put the order of the buses in abeyance in a hush-hush manner. The timing of withdrawing the purchase order is highly suspect,” Mr. Gupta alleged. According to him, the order for 1,000 buses worth Rs. 890 crore was given to two private companies on a three-year warranty. However, despite the warranty, the government gave the order for maintenance from the very first day of the purchase worth Rs. 350 crore annually. Responding to the allegation, Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot said: “The BJP had filed a complaint with the L-G. The L-G had constituted an inquiry. We have stopped the process of procurement till the report on this inquiry comes through. We are even ready for an inquiry by the BJP if it wants to institute one.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bjp-raises-questions-over-procurement-of-buses/article34835919.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||L-G reviews water supply situation, requirements||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Wednesday reviewed the existing water supply situation, projected requirements, steps being taken to augment Delhi’s domestic water availability and requirements of other States. According to administrative sources, Mr. Baijal presided over a presentation made by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) related figures projects being undertaken with regards to the setting up of STPs and WTPs and the rejuvenation of waterbodies. Groundwater recharge, use of recycled water and rainwater harvesting were also reviewed during the presentation made by the DJB. “Reiterating that management of water in terms of wastage, leakage and distribution is an important area that could largely address supply constraints, the L-G advised the Delhi Jal Board to incentivise water saving and deincentivise wastage by adopting differential pricing,” sources said. “He suggested that technology be used for detecting leakages in pipelines and the same be speedily plugged. Immediately addressing the wastage of water by tankers was also stressed upon,” sources also stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/l-g-reviews-water-supply-situation-requirements/article34835920.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Most corrupt’ councillors appointed as Mayors: AAP||The AAP on Wednesday said that the BJP has appointed the “most corrupt” councillors as Mayors and Standing Committee Chairpersons in all three municipal corporations. AAP leader and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) Vikas Goel said citizens of Delhi will give a befitting response to the “corrupt” methods of the BJP by throwing them out of power in the upcoming elections. “BJP-ruled South body has brought a new Mayor who has been accused of corruption and the judiciary had expressed strong reservations against him earlier. There are only 8-9 months left of the BJP tenure and the AAP will not allow any corruption to take place in the BJP-ruled civic bodies,” said Prem Chauhan, LoP in South Delhi Municipal Corporation. LoP of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Manoj Tyagi, alleged that every year the BJP brings new people for the post of Mayor and the Standing Committee Chairman. “This is a practice just to give opportunities for corruption to new people. For several years, we are witnessing the same and I am very sure that this year will not be any different,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/most-corrupt-councillors-appointed-as-mayors-aap/article34835925.ece
17 June 2021||bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. announces partial lockdown till July 1||The Odisha government on Wednesday announced partial lockdown till 5 a.m. on July 1 following marginal improvement in the COVID-19 situation in the State. The present lockdown comes to end on June 17. However, night curfew and weekend shutdown will continue. “Odisha government has announced four lockdowns, including the present one, to bring the pandemic situation under control. The rate of infection has come down significantly during the third lockdown. A fortnight ago, the test positivity rate (TPR), which was 14 to 15%, came down to 6%,” said Chief Secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra here. Odisha had already crossed the peak period of the second wave and the infection rate was falling fast, Mr. Mohapatra said, adding that hundreds of positive cases, however, continued to emerge in some districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-announces-partial-lockdown-till-july-1/article34836238.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Domestic workers seek compensation||On International Domestic Workers Day, the National Domestic Workers Movement (NDWM) wrote to the Union Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar demanding workers compensation for the number of days of work lost as per the Disaster Management Act. The NDWM, an NGO which works for domestic workers, have also made other demands including, extending 100 days of work under the MGNREGA to urban areas and vaccination on a priority basis for domestic workers. “On the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the ILO (International Labour Organisation) Convention 189, Decent Work for Domestic Workers, we again appeal to you to pay heed to the protection of vulnerable domestic workers,” an email sent to the Minister on Wednesday read.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/domestic-workers-seek-compensation/article34835929.ece
17 June 2021||Noida,||Man held under anti-conversion law, rape charge||The Greater Noida police on Wednesday arrested a 30-year-old woman’s live-in partner over allegations of rape and coercing her into changing her religion for marriage, officials said. The accused, who has been arrested by officials of the Bisrakh police station, has been booked under the Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, among other charges, they said. “Accused Murtaza alias Mritunjay, 33, is from Moradabad district in western U.P. and had been living in a rented accommodation in Bisrakh. The accused and the complainant were in a live-in relationship,” a police spokesperson said.  Insisted on marriage “When the woman insisted on marriage, the man forced her for religious conversion. She approached us with allegations of rape and forced conversion attempt,” the spokesperson said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Women and Child Safety) Vrinda Shukla said the FIR was lodged on June 14 and the man was arrested the very next day. The FIR also invokes Indian Penal Code Sections 323 (causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 376 (rape), 406 (criminal breach of trust). Further legal proceedings have been initiated and will be completed soon, DCP Shukla added. The woman claimed she worked in a pharmaceutical company where in 2019 she met the accused who was referred to as “Mrityunjay” by colleagues. After they started living together, the woman happened to see the accused’s Aadhaar card, which allegedly mentioned his name as ‘Murtaza’. When confronted, the man allegedly threatened and blackmailed her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/man-held-under-anti-conversion-law-rape-charge/article34835924.ece
17 June 2021||New Delhi,||Chandni Chowk stretch now a no-vehicle zone||The Transport Department has notified the site of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project — from the Red Fort to the Fatehpuri Mosque a — non-motorised zone. According to the notification issued on June 14, no motor vehicle shall be allowed to ply on the main Chandni Chowk Road from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Mosque from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. on all days. In addition to these, restrictions will also not apply to the Shanti Desai Marg towards main Chandni Chowk Road upto T-Point Shanti Desai Marg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/chandni-chowk-stretch-now-a-no-vehicle-zone/article34835918.ece
17 June 2021||June 17 2021 00:00 IST,||Taking sex seriously||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/taking-sex-seriously/article34835908.ece
