18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC approves CBSE assessment formula||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave in principle clearance to the schemes placed on record by the CBSE and the ICSE to assess the final marks of Class 12 students whose exams were cancelled due to COVID-19. The CBSE has divided the marks assessment process into two components — theory and practical. The theory component would be assessed by first giving 30% weightage to average scores obtained by the students in Class 10 in their three best performing subjects out of a total five. Secondly, another 30% weightage would be given to marks based on the theory component of the final exam taken in Class 11. Finally, 40% weightage would be given for marks obtained in one or more unit tests, mid-term exams and pre-board exams in Class 12. So, if the total marks for theory is 80, the 30% weightage of Classes 10 and 11 would come to 24 marks each and the 40% weightage derived from performances in tests conducted in Class 12 would translate to the remaining 32 marks. On the practical side, calculation would be on the “actual basis” of the marks uploaded by the schools on the CBSE’s portal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-approves-cbse-assessment-formula/article34844972.ece
18 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Rescue operations on the sea off Maharashtra coast||In a sea-air coordinated operation amid inclement weather, an Indian Coast Guard (ICG) ship and helicopter rescued 16 crew members from a sinking vessel MV Mangalam near Revdanda port in Raigad district on Thursday. The Coast Guard control room received a call from MV Mangalam at 6 a.m. on Thursday morning that it was partially sinking and had 16 crew members on board located around 3 km near Revdanda jetty in Raigad district. The second officer said the master was planning to abandon the vessel. The crew was in panic due to water ingress, he said. An ICG officer said that the Maritime Rescue Co-ordination Centre Mumbai (MRCC) team requested them to remain on board and assured that a ship was being deployed. Subsequently, ICG ship Subhadra Kumari Chauhan sailed out from Dighi harbour in Raigad and proceeded towards the distressed vessel. Meanwhile, two ICG helicopters were also launched from ICG Air station Daman to evacuate the crew.  Subhadra Kumari Chauhan arrived in the vicinity of the distressed vessel at about 10.15 a.m. and after assessing the situation, lowered her boats for rescue of the crew. At the same time ICG helicopters also arrived and commenced winching of the crew. Through sustained operations, the ICG Search and Rescue Units (SRUs) successfully rescued all 16 crew members. They were taken to Revdanda and administered first aid. “The cargo ship from Mumbai was on its way to Revdanda carrying material for JSW Company. This vessel can sail only during high tide and hence was anchored on Wednesday after reaching around two nautical miles from the Revdanda jetty. The high tide started after 4 p.m. and the vessel started sailing but due to bad weather it tilted. When it tried to return one side got stuck in the mud. The JSW manager informed me and we started the operation. The rough sea was a big challenge due to which rescue via sea was not possible,” said Regional Board officer Captain Chokeshwar Lepande from Maharashtra Maritime Board, Alibag port.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rescue-operations-on-the-sea-off-maharashtra-coast/article34845554.ece
18 June 2021||Kolkata,||Former Visva-Bharati officiating VC given key role||Sabujkoli Sen, a former professor at Visva-Bharati who was sacked by the present administration just two days before her retirement in August last, has been appointed as the chief advisor of the Bolpur municipality, of which Santiniketan is a part. Professor Sen, who was popular in the university as a teacher of philosophy, had served as the officiating Vice Chancellor (VC) in early 2018. Her appointment can be seen as a move by the Trinamool Congress government to counter current VC Bidyut Chakrabarty, who reports to the Central government and who has ruffled many feathers within the campus as well as in Santiniketan ever since he assumed office in November 2018. “Today, in Santiniketan, only 10% of the area comes under Visva-Bharati [the only Central university in West Bengal] and the remaining 90% under the municipality. My top priority will be to work for the development of this 90% — which includes villages that were under the panchayat until recently — in keeping with the aesthetic values of Rabindranath Tagore,” Professor Sen told The Hindu on Thursday. “Another priority would be to push for the transfer of the heritage buildings in Visva-Bharati to either the culture ministry or West Bengal’s heritage department. The UGC [University Grants Commission] cannot be expected to pay for the upkeep of the buildings with historical value and the only way to rescue them would be to separate them from the university,” the Santiniketan resident said. Professor Sen was to retire on August 31, 2020, but on the evening of August 28, she, along with two other senior officials, was dismissed from service, for allegedly tampering with the minutes of a crucial meeting held back in February 2018 with the intention of prolonging her stay as the officiating VC. She officiated as VC till November 9, 2018. ‘Dismissal unfair’ The manner in which the university went about her dismissal had lent some weight to her claim that the move was unfair and the result of personal vendetta. Even though the alleged wrongdoing was committed in February 2018, an enquiry committee was set up only in July 2019 and it was not until November 2019 when she was served with a show-cause notice. She replied to the notice, seeking evidence that she had indeed tampered with the records. The matter then went quiet, but suddenly, in June 2020, in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, Professor Sen and the two others were suspended and a new committee was set up to probe the alleged wrongdoing. At 10 p.m. on August 28, she received an email that informed her of her dismissal. “I waited for two years for them to take action against me, but they did nothing. The idea was to humiliate me and to stop my retirement benefits,” Professor Sen, who went to court against her sacking — the matter is still in court, which had ordered payment of her dues — had told this newspaper at the time. But on Thursday, she said she no longer thought of the past and was looking forward to her new role as the chief advisor of the municipality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-visva-bharati-officiating-vc-given-key-role/article34845056.ece
18 June 2021||Special CorrespondentPune,||COVID-19: Maharashtra’s active case tally nudges 1.40 lakh||Just 5,890 recoveries were recorded across Maharashtra on Thursday against 9,830 new Covid-19 cases as the State’s active case tally rose to 1,39,960. More than 600 deaths were added to the progressive death toll of which 400 fatalities were part of the Health Department’s ongoing ‘reconciliation’ process. In all, 167 deaths occurred during the last 48 hours and a further 69 occurred in the past week. The death toll has climbed rapidly to 1,16,026 with the case fatality rate rising to 1.95%. The total cases have reached 59,44,710 while its cumulative recoveries have risen to 56,85,636 with the recovery rate standing at 95.64%. “Of a total 3,88,75,644 laboratory samples tested thus far, 59,44,710 (with the average case positivity falling incrementally to 15.3%) have returned positive with over 2.34 lakh samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 1,200 new cases taking its cases to 10,40,109. As per State Health Department figures, 13 deaths were reported taking the toll to 15,744. As per district authorities, the active case tally has declined below 11,000 while the total death toll had reached 17,500. Mumbai reported 660 new cases to take its case tally to 7,17,832 while the active count rose to 18,417. As many as 20 fatalities took the death count to 15,247. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported more than 1,300 new cases taking its case tally to 1,37,897 of whom 13,485 are active. As many as 28 deaths saw the cumulative fatalities rise to 4,299.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-maharashtras-active-case-tally-nudges-140-lakh/article34845555.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Students released after court rejects Delhi Police stand||A Delhi court on Thursday issued the release warrant for Jawaharlal Nehru University students and activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, who were arrested in May last year in connection with the northeast Delhi riots. They were released from Tihar jail in the evening.  Additional sessions judge Ravinder Bedi rejected the Delhi Police argument that it needed more time to verify the permanent addresses of the three accused as they were outside Delhi. “I would say this by itself cannot be a plausible reason for the accused to be kept imprisoned till the time such reports are filed,” the judge said. “The accused is directed to be released forthwith as per orders of the Delhi High Court,” the court said, taking into account the undertaking given by counsel of the accused that their clients would not leave the jurisdiction of the Capital. In the morning, the High Court directed the trial court to “proceed with promptitude and expedition” on the pleas filed by the three activists for immediate release. “The orders enlarging the applicants on bail have already been rendered by us. It needs to be implemented,” the HC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-released-after-court-rejects-delhi-police-stand/article34844967.ece
18 June 2021||KOLKATA,||I have written to PM thrice to withdraw Governor: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that she had written thrice to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from the State. She was responding to questions on Mr. Dhankhar’s visit to Delhi. She described the Governor as “Centre’s own person” and denied allegations of post-poll violence. “A child can be cajoled into silence… In this case, speech is silver and silence is golden,” the Chief Minister said, responding to the Governor’s allegations of post-poll violence in the State. On speculation that the Governor might be changed, Ms. Banerjee said she had not been informed about any such development. “How am I supposed to know? When a Governor is appointed, the State government is usually consulted. That was not done in this case,” she said. This is the first time the Chief Minister has gone on record that she had written to the PM on withdrawing the Governor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/i-have-written-to-pm-thrice-to-withdraw-governor-mamata/article34844970.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||A ‘deal’ prompted by one couple’s need, another’s desire||A couple’s need for money and another’s desire for a male child led them to strike a deal on a six-day-old infant and subsequently land in police net. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said the accused have been identified as Vidyanand Yadav, 50, his wife Rampari Yadav, 45, Raman Kumar Yadav, 32, Haripal Singh, 50, Govind Kumar, 30, and his 24-year-old wife Pooja. The police said on Tuesday they received a call at Fatehpur Beri police station from Mr. Govind, who said his six-day-old baby boy had been kidnapped. When the police reached the spot in Aya Nagar, he said his wife, Ms. Pooja, had delivered the baby on June 8. One of their friends, Haripal Singh, invited the couple to live with him because there wasn’t enough space at their rented accommodation. On June 12, the couple reached the friend’s residence in Aya Nagar where Mr. Haripal locked them from outside and fled with the child, alleged Mr. Govind. The police registered a kidnapping case based on his statement. A team led by Station House Officer Kuldeep Singh launched the investigation and traced Mr. Haripal, who allegedly told them that the couple had, in fact, given the child willingly to the relatives of his friend, Mr. Raman, who lives in the Moti Bagh jhuggis. When the police reached Mr. Raman’s house, he told them that the couple had sold the baby to his relatives, Mr. Vidyanand and Ms. Rampari for Rs. 3.6 lakh, and the duo had already left for Kanpur. The police sought the details of the train they had boarded and nabbed the couple from Kanpur railway station. They were then brought to Delhi. Financial crisis Further investigation revealed that Mr. Govind and Ms. Pooja were extremely poor and needed money for which they agreed to sell their baby for Rs. 3.6 lakh to Mr. Vidyanand and Ms. Rampari through Mr. Haripal and Mr. Raman. “When Vidyanand and Rampari were questioned, they said they were married for 25 years but couldn’t bear a child because of which their relatives in their village in Bihar would demean them and use derogatory words. Vidyanand, in fact, sold his land to be able to buy the baby. He told Raman that he will only take the child if it’s a boy,” said a senior police officer. A written agreement was signed between the two parties and pictures were also taken. Police said Mr. Govind decided to inform them because they got only Rs. 2 lakh cash and four cheques of Rs. 40,000 each dated June 18. Mr. Govind wanted to encash the cheques on June 14 and leave for his village immediately. When he tried to reach Mr. Haripal and Mr. Raman on phone, they blocked him. He also couldn’t reach them physically. Feeling cheated, he decided to call the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/a-deal-prompted-by-one-couples-need-anothers-desire/article34845467.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||‘Continue demolition of illegal buildings in Aravali forest land’||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to halt the demolition of about 10,000 unauthorised residential constructions encroaching into the ecologically fragile Aravali forest land near Lakarpur Khori village in Haryana. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari had refused to give encroachers any quarter on June 7 while ordering the demolition. The court had categorically said that “land-grabbers cannot take the refuge of the rule of law” and demand fairness. However, fresh petitions were filed urging the court to revisit its order and provide for rehabilitation of the residents, including children. The petitioners, mostly residents whose properties face the axe, said they were not given time to submit documents to the local authorities to prove their claim. But the court refused to budge on Thursday.  Onus on State The Bench said the residents had enough time to prove their claims in accordance with a notification issued by Haryana in 2020. The court said the onus was on the State to rehabilitate the residents in compliance with a 2003 scheme. The demolition would continue. “Petitioners were obligated to provide documents to come under the rehabilitation scheme, which they have failed to do. We have recorded the submission that clearance of unlawful encroachment on forest land will be carried out as per due process of law,” the court said. The Haryana government said officials and personnel were pelted with stones at the site of demolition. However, the court declined to pass any orders while merely telling the authorities, “You know what to do then.”  The court had in its June 7 order made it clear that the encroachers should be evicted by the land even by force.  The next hearing is scheduled on July 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/continue-demolition-of-illegal-buildings-in-aravali-forest-land/article34845469.ece
18 June 2021||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||Large parts of Kolkata under water||Large parts of Kolkata and adjoining suburbs remained waterlogged on Thursday. With forecast of more rain and thunderstorm over the next two days, there is little rellief for residents. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee expressed concern over the deaths due to lightning and urged people not to venture out. The Regional Meteorological Centre ( RMC) in Kolkata said that Kolkata recorded 144 mm rainfall in 24 hours till 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. The city also recorded very high rainfall through the day leaving several areas in knee deep water. A special bulletin saidadvised fishermen not to venture into the deep-sea during till June 18. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, Deputy Director General, Meteorology ( RMC), Kolkata said monsoon arrived in the south Bengal on June 11 and since then the State has witnessed regular rainfall. “Since there is thunderstorm activity, we would suggest that farmers working in the fields to stay indoors inside pucca houses,” Mr. Bandyopadhyay said. Besides Hooghly, water in several south Bengal rivers have swelled. The Chief Minister urged the administration to remain alert for flooding in Howrah, Hooghly and Paschim Medinipur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/large-parts-of-kolkata-under-water/article34845058.ece
18 June 2021||Kolkata,||Mamata approaches Calcutta HC over Nandigram election result||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has moved the Calcutta High Court challenging the election results at the Nandigram Assembly constituency. She has filed an election petition which will be mentioned on Friday before Justice Kausik Chanda. Ms. Banerjee lost the elections at Nandigram to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s Suvendu Adhikari by a narrow margin of 1,956 votes. Alleging irregularities in the counting process, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) chairperson has said that she would challenge the results before the Court. The TMC registered a massive victory in the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly polls, winning 213 seats in the 294-member Assembly. Mr. Adhikari, who had defected from the TMC to the BJP and won from Nandigram, is now Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly. Since Ms. Banerjee is not a member of the State legislature, she will have to get re-elected to Assembly within a period of six months. TMC MLA from Bhawanipur Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has resigned as an MLA, paving a way for Ms. Banerjee to seek a reelection from the constituency she had represented from 2011 to 2021. The Election Commission of India is yet to announce by-polls for Bhawanipur and certain other Assembly constituencies in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mamata-approaches-calcutta-hc-over-nandigram-election-result/article34845059.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Operationalise vaccine units: Stalin||In his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi after assuming office, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged him to operationalise the vaccine units in Chengalpattu and Coonoor. He also sought the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the three farm laws and the proposed Chennai-Salem Greenfield Expressway. Mr. Stalin handed over a memorandum containing 25 major demands, including exemption of Tamil Nadu from the NEET-based admission to medical courses and scrapping of the entrance tests for admission to other professional courses. He sought additional allocation of COVID-19 vaccines and drugs; establishment of an AIIMS in Coimbatore; and reservation for the Other Backward Classes in the all-India quota for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. The State sought the withdrawal of the income ceiling to identify backward classes, and an amendment to the Constitution to enable the States to allocate reservation for the Most Backward Classes and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes based on caste composition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/operationalise-vaccine-units-stalin/article34845468.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Operationalise vaccine units: CM||In his first meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi after assuming office, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged him to operationalise the vaccine units in Chengalpattu and Coonoor. He also sought the scrapping of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the three farm laws and the proposed Chennai-Salem Greenfield Expressway.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/operationalise-vaccine-units-cm/article34845164.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||Former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma, 2 others sent to NIA custody||Former encounter specialist and Shiv Sena leader Pradeep Sharma and two others, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilla bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren murder case, have been sent to NIA custody till June 28. Early on Thursday morning, NIA officials conducted searches at Mr. Sharma’s residence at Andheri and questioned him till noon, after which he was placed under arrest. Later, the NIA arrested Satish Mothukuri and Manish Soni from Malad. Mr. Sharma has been arrested for his alleged role in the conspiracy and destruction of evidence in the case. The NIA had arrested Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, both residents of Kurar village in Malad, and they, NIA sources said, named Mr. Sharma and arrested and dismissed police inspector Sunil Mane in the case. Through the investigation, they found that dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze and Mr. Mane handed over Hiren to Mr. Satish, Mr. Manish, Mr. Santosh and Mr. Anand on March 4, 2020, a day before Hiren’s body was found in a Mumbra creek, NIA officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-encounter-specialist-pradeep-sharma-2-others-sent-to-nia-custody/article34845560.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Private buses to operate on weekdays||Private buses have been allowed to operate on weekdays from Friday adhering to the COVID-19 protocol and following the odd-even registration number pattern on alternate days. The situation is not conducive for all private buses to enter the road and hence the operators should cooperate with the government, Transport Minister Antony Raju said on Thursday. On June 18, Friday, private buses with odd registration numbers can operate. Next week, on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, buses with even numbers can operate and on Tuesday and Thursday, those with odd numbers can run. On June 28, Monday, buses with odd registration numbers will be allowed to operate. The same odd-even pattern will be applicable for the subsequent days. There will be no services on Saturday and Sunday in view of the government’s decision to enforce Statewide lockdown to contain the pandemic.  Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation general secretary Lawerence Babu said the government’s decision was impractical and against precedence and the private bus operators could not go by the directive. “We were not consulted. The decision has been imposed on us and it will destroy the private bus industry that is reeling under crisis due to COVID-19. The decision is aimed at dividing the public and private sector and we cannot go by it,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/private-buses-to-operate-on-weekdays/article34845080.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Don’t declare II PU results till decision is taken on promoting repeaters: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government not to declare the results of regular-fresher students of the second year pre-university (II PU) course till a comprehensive decision is taken, based on suggestions by an expert committee set up to study methodology to be applied for promoting repeater students. A Division Bench, comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar, passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by S.V. Singre Gowda, the managing trustee of Gnana Mandira Education Trust, Bengaluru. The petitioneralso termed as discriminatory the decision of the government to promote only the fresh-regular students without holding exams, and to conduct exams for repeaters and the private candidates when COVD-19 pandemic situation eased.  The Bench issued the direction after it was stated on behalf of the government that a 12-member expert committee had been set up to suggest methodology to be applied for promoting repeaters of II PU if the exams were not be conducted for them on the lines of regular-fresher students of the academic year 2020-2021. Earlier, the government counsel pointed out that 5,92,816 students, who had been studying in various PU colleges, had been registered for II PU exam for 2021 in the category of regular-freshers, and 76,387 candidates had been registered as repeaters. This included those who applied for improving marks even after passing II PU exam last year, and those who failed the earlier exams. And 17,477 students had been registered in the category of private candidates. The government also told the court that it had the data of marks obtained in I PU exam by the regular-fresher students as the Department of PU Education in 2020 had conducted I PU final exam district-wise and evaluation of answer scripts were also done in a considerably fair manner. As the department was considering marks obtained in I PU exam as one of the parameters to promote the students of II PU, the government counsel said it could not promote private candidates applying the same parameters as marks of their I year PU exam would not be available as they could write II PU exam without joining regular I PU course. Also, it was pointed out to the court that some students among the repeaters could be those who failed earlier as private candidates and in their case also there would not be marks of their I PU course. As the petitioner’s counsel gave up the plea on behalf of the private candidates in view of lack of I PU data, the Bench gave time till July 7 to take decision on promoting all categories of II PU students, including repeaters based on the expert committee’s report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-declare-ii-pu-results-till-decision-is-taken-on-promoting-repeaters-hc/article34844993.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||Ram temple: NCP for panel to monitor construction||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday demanded formation of a non-political committee of devotees of Lord Ram to supervise whether the money collected for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya is being spent in a transparent manner. This comes a day after Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party workers clashed in Dadar over the Sena’s demand of a probe into allegations of corruption in construction of the temple. ‘Honest effort’ “Devotees of Lord Ram want an honest effort to construct the temple without violating its sanctity. The independent body will monitor the construction cost and other expenditure,” NCP State president Jayant Patil said. Mr. Patil said people of this country were donating huge amounts to the construction of Ram temple and it was unfortunate if the money collected was being misused. “If these people are involved in corruption while constructing Ram temple then it just shows how disconnected they are from Lord Ram. The entire episode has exposed how some people are using the Lord’s name to gain political and financial benefits,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ram-temple-ncp-for-panel-to-monitor-construction/article34845557.ece
18 June 2021||KURNOOL,||‘Faction feud’ claims two lives in Kurnool||Two siblings were killed in a suspected case of faction feud in Pesaravai village in Gadivemula mandal of Kurnool district on Thursday. According to the police, Voddu Nageswara Reddy and Voddu Pratap Reddy, former Pesaravai sarpanch and former Director of Kurnool District Central Cooperative Bank, were walking to a cremation ground along with four others when a van allegedly knocked them down. The occupants of the vehicle alighted and allegedly hacked the brothers with sickles and fled the scene. Three others were also injured in the incident and were rushed to the Nandyal Government Hospital. The brothers were TDP workers and followers of party Nandyal Parliament constituency president Gouru Venkata Reddy. The brothers were reportedly going to the graveyard to perform rituals relating to Pratap Reddy’s brother, who had died recently. Nandyal Deputy Superintendent of Police Chidananda Reddy along with his staff rushed to the spot. A tense situation prevailed in the village and arranged police pickets. Known for its faction feuds, Pesaravai is close to Chindukur, where 2008 faction killings had shaken the State. The DSP said so far nobody has been arrested and the vehicle used by the assailants could not be traced. “We have formed teams to look for the 13 accused named by one of the persons, who was walking along with the victims, “ he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/faction-feud-claims-two-lives-in-kurnool/article34844963.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Lockdown curbs may be eased in Telangana||As the deadline for expiry of the ongoing restrictions is approaching fast, all eyes are on whether the government will prefer extending curbs to completely rein in COVID-19 pandemic or ease the restrictions further. Given the significant improvement in the recovery rate and low rate of hospitalisation cases, the government is understood to be seriously examining the prospects of lifting the restrictions completely or to give some more relaxations till the cases fall further.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-curbs-may-be-eased-in-telangana/article34845502.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mammoth support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mammoth-support/article34845054.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Mammoth support||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/mammoth-support/article34845465.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Picture perfect||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/picture-perfect/article34845562.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Scheme evokes mixed response||There were mixed reactions to the CBSE’s assessment scheme for the Class 12 exams. Some said it was not an accurate evaluation process, while others welcomed it. Devansh Saraf, who was to take his exam, said any assessment done would not be accurate to what a student could have been able to achieve in an offline exam. He, however, felt the CBSE criteria was as fair as it could get.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scheme-evokes-mixed-response/article34844968.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former Ranji star Vijayakrishna dead||Former Karnataka all-rounder B. Vijayakrishna passed away here on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, the Karnataka State Cricket Association stated. He was 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-ranji-star-vijayakrishna-dead/article34844995.ece
18 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam for realignment of tracks through wetland||The Assam government has proposed the realignment of a broad gauge railway line through the Deepor Beel, an ‘Important Bird Area’ designated under the Ramsar Convention of Wetlands. Several elephants have been run over on the railway track between the elevated Rani Reserve Forest and the sanctuary. The elephants use four corridors crossing the track to often bathe and feed on the aquatic plants in the wetland. The wetland is 10 km southwest of Guwahati.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/assam-for-realignment-of-tracks-through-wetland/article34845061.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ration scheme: CM’s fresh bid to get L-G nod||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday resent the file of the home delivery scheme of ration to L-G Anil Baijal for approval. He also responded to the objections raised saying that the scheme was in accordance with the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ration-scheme-cms-fresh-bid-to-get-l-g-nod/article34845471.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former Ranji star Vijayakrishna dead||Former Karnataka all-rounder B. Vijayakrishna passed away here on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, the Karnataka State Cricket Association stated. He was 71.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/former-ranji-star-vijayakrishna-dead/article34845496.ece
18 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Nearby||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said Father Stan Swamy, a Bhima-Koregaon case accused, would remain at Holy Family hospital till July 5, as he had critical medical issues and required intensive care. Advocate Mihir Desai, representing him, told a Division Bench that Fr. Swamy was in the ICU. The court was given his latest medical report from the hospital that said he had recovered from COVID-19, but his health condition continued to remain critical.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nearby/article34845559.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,||AIADMK district units move against Sasikala||Several district units of the AIADMK have adopted reso-lutions against the party’s former interim general secretary V.K. Sasikala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aiadmk-district-units-move-against-sasikala/article34845165.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,||Daily COVID-19 count drops below 10,000||After 60 days, Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 10,000 on Thursday. The State recorded 9,118 cases and 210 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/daily-covid-19-count-drops-below-10000/article34845167.ece
18 June 2021||Ludhiana,||SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab seeks action against Cong. MP||The Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party alliance submitted a complaint against Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu to the Ludhiana Police Commissioner on Thursday and demanded his immediate arrest for allegedly passing “casteist” remarks against the Dalit community. The complaint was submitted to the Police Commissioner by a SAD-BSP delegation. Senior leaders Charanjit Singh Atwal and Gulzar Singh Ranike said the delegation demanded that a case be registered against Mr. Bittu for allegedly hurting the sentiments of the Scheduled Caste community. They said the delegation brought it to the notice of the Police Commissioner that “conclusive evidence” was already available against Mr. Bittu in the public realm and that the police should not try to save him simply because he belongs to the Congress, the ruling party in Punjab.  ‘Deliberate slander’ Mr. Cheema said it was clear that Mr. Bittu had “deliberately slandered” the Dalit community to please his political masters by questioning why the “holy seats” of Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib were given to the BSP under its alliance with the SAD. “Bittu has effectively stated that holy seats have been given to unholy persons. This is intolerable as it goes against the Constitution, which guarantees equality to all, and is also against Sikh ethos and culture,” he said in a statement. Mr. Bittu had earlier represented the Anandpur Sahib Lok Sabha constituency in Parliament and knew about the history of the area, Mr. Cheema said. “He knows that it was at Anandpur Sahib that Sri Guru Gobind Singh chose persons from the oppressed sections of society to create a casteless and classless society. It was also at Anandpur Sahib that the Guru made the proclamation 'Rangretta Guru ke beta' when the severed head of Guru Tegh Bahadur was presented to him by Bhai Jaita. “Bittu also knows that it was at Chamkaur Sahib that Guru Sahib gifted his 'kalgi' to the Dalit community. In the light of these facts, it is clear that Bittu deliberately insulted the sentiments of the Dalit community,” he said. BSP leaders Gurmail GK and Jeet Ram Basra also condemned the Congress MP for his remarks. The Opposition parties in Punjab are slamming Mr. Bittu, an MP from Ludhiana, for allegedly insulting the Dalits by saying the SAD left “pious seats” like Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to its ally BSP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sad-bsp-alliance-in-punjab-seeks-action-against-cong-mp/article34845473.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,||Number of COVID-19 tests declines rapidly||India recorded 57,837 new COVID-19 cases and 1,536 new deaths till 9.30 p.m. on Thursday. The country has so far reported a total of 2,97,57,425 cases and 3,83,467 deaths. Kerala reported 12,469 new infections, followed by Maharashtra (9,830) and Tamil Nadu (9,118). Maharashtra recorded 636 new fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (210) and Karnataka (138). Maharashtra’s fatalities include backlog deaths which were missed in the previous reports. The figures do not include cases and deaths from Chhattisgarh, Assam, Jharkhand, Arunachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The data are sourced from the respective States’ health bulletins. Around 19.31 lakh samples were tested in the country on Wednesday (the results for which were released on Thursday). The number of samples tested has come down drastically in the last ten days. The average number of tests conducted declined from over 30 lakh on June 7 to 18.6 lakh on June 16. About 34.63 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the country in the 24 hours ending 7 a.m. on Thursday, which is 6.6 lakh doses more than what was recorded in the previous 24 hours. It is also 84,700 doses more than what was recorded during the same period a week ago. The seven-day rolling average of daily vaccinations in the country continues to increase. It stood at 31.26 lakh on June 16, which is more than the 26.69 lakh recorded a week before (June 9). About 23.1% of adults in India, 43.3% of those aged above 45, and 46.8% of people aged above 60, have been administered at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, until 8 p.m. on Thursday. While 15.9% of the country’s population has received at least one dose, only 3.6% are fully vaccinated. The figures are based on the estimated population in 2021. India continued to record the highest number of 7-day average daily deaths globally as of June 16. The two other countries with the highest daily fatality count after India were Brazil (2,025) and Colombia (595). Nearly 34.6% of the world’s new deaths were recorded in India on June 16. More than 2.18 crore vaccine doses are available with States and Union Territories, and over 56,70,350 more are in the pipeline and will be received by them in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. More than 27.28 crore (27,28,31,900) doses have been provided to the States and Union Territories so far by the Centre (free of cost channel) and through direct State procurement category, the Ministry said.  (With PTI inputs)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/number-of-covid-19-tests-declines-rapidly/article34844932.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CBSE to record Class 10, 12 marks throughout the year||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is considering a system of continuous assessment for 2021-22, whereby all student scores — from unit tests, mid-terms, project work and pre-Board examinations — would be regularly recorded with the Board throughout the year, so that it would be possible to compute and declare final results even if COVID-19 prevents a final Board examination again, Controller of Examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj told The Hindu on Thursday. “We are preparing a scheme, which will be implemented for the 2022 examination for Class 10 and Class 12. In case the pandemic persists, even then we will be able to declare the result without such special schemes. We have started working on it, and discussions are going on,” he said. “We are trying to ensure that at regular intervals, we should note down the performance of the students and that should be with the CBSE only. The school will be doing each and every thing and that will be with us, and if there is any problem, we should be able to declare the result, without having to ask the schools to apply this kind of formula to declare the result,” he added, noting that the CBSE was considering the option of asking for each assessment through the year to be submitted to the Board. This may lead to further standardisation of continuous assessment formats as well. Dr. Bhardwaj was speaking soon after he notified the CBSE Tabulation Policy for the 2020-21 Class 12 results, which gives a lot of discretion to schools themselves and their results committees, to assign and revise marks in order to ensure they aligned with the school’s historical performance. “We are trying for a system to be brought into place, looking into the New Education Policy, in which we will see that year-round development should be recorded,” he said, adding that this would not be for Class 12 alone, but for all students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-to-record-class-10-12-marks-throughout-the-year/article34844896.ece
18 June 2021||Patna,||Paras elected LJP president||The rebel group of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Thursday elected Pashupati Kumar Paras unopposed as the new party president. After his election, Mr. Paras, who days before had staged a coup in the party, told mediapersons, “I was elected according to the party’s constitution and democratic process. The party has thrust a big responsibility on me and I’ll take forward the party.” The LJP’s national executive committee meeting was held at the residence of senior party leader Suraj Bhan Singh in Patna. Mr. Singh later announced that no other nomination had been filed against Mr. Paras. After the coup in the party, the rebel LJP group had elected Mr. Singh, a party leader and former MP from Munger, as its working president. ‘Autocrat nephew’ When asked why he and other party leaders had to break away from his nephew Chirag Paswan, the newly elected president said, “If the nephew becomes an autocrat, what can an uncle do?” “I’ve been elected under the party’s constitution, which says that every three years, election for the party president will take place. No one can be party president for life in a democratic set-up,” said the MP from Hajipur. Mr. Paras also urged partymen who had quit previously to “come back to fulfil the dream of party’s founder leader Ram Vilas Paswan”. He said there was no “internal bickering” in the LJP and that the party would “take care of people coming from every section of the society”. The LJP is currently an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre. Earlier, Mr. Chirag Paswan was removed from the post of LJP president after an emergency meeting of the party’s national working committee. Out of a total of six LJP MPs, five rebelled against Mr. Paswan. Mr. Paswan, however, on Wednesday nominated party leader and former MLA Raju Tiwari as the LJP State president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paras-elected-ljp-president/article34844911.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Rules regulating cable TV network amended||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Thursday amended the rules regulating cable television networks, providing for a “statutory” mechanism for complaints raised by citizens regarding any content broadcast. At present, there are over 900 TV channels that are required to comply with the Programme and Advertising Code laid down by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting under the Cable Television Network Rules. The Cable Television Networks (Amendment) Rules, 2021, provides for a three-level grievance redressal mechanism — self-regulation by broadcasters, self-regulation by the self-regulating bodies of the broadcasters, and oversight by an Inter-Departmental Committee at the level of the Centre. A viewer could file a complaint directly to the broadcaster, who would have to respond within 15 days. If the complainant was not satisfied with the response, the complaint could be escalated to the self-regulating bodies set up by TV channels, which should deal with the case in 60 days. “If the complainant is not satisfied with the decision of the self-regulating body, he may, within 15 days of such decision, prefer an appeal to the Central government for its consideration under the Oversight Mechanism,” it said. Such appeals would be dealt with by the Inter-Departmental Committee set up under the Oversight Mechanism. The Committee would be headed by the Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, and have members from the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Home Ministry, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Defence, and representatives of other Ministries and organisations, including experts, as the Centre may decide. This third tier was not only kept aside to hear the appeals, it could take up complaints that come directly to the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rules-regulating-cable-tv-network-amended/article34844901.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We must use the available vaccines to protect the most vulnerable’||With the ideal interval between Covishield’s first and second doses coming under debate, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) president Srinath Reddy said data on the Indian experience on the issue was still being gathered. He said there were reassuring reports of good protection being provided to healthcare workers. However, it was not yet clear how effective one dose of the vaccine is against the delta variant, which is the dominant variant now in many parts of the country. He said more information was needed on that aspect, especially for high-risk, older age groups.  The time gap between Covishield’s first and second dose has come under the scanner in India yet again. Should we be reverting to a shorter time gap? The time gap issue initially surfaced due to the way the AstraZeneca trials were conducted internationally. The British-led international trial accidentally created two strands among the trial participants — a larger group which received the vaccine shots at a four-week interval (as per trial protocol) and a smaller group which received the second shot after 12 weeks. Interestingly, the second group showed higher efficacy (81%). So, Britain decided to adopt a three-month dosing interval. A later large U.S. trial of the same vaccine, with 32,000 participants, also showed a high efficacy (76%). The WHO recommended an eight-12 week spacing. Those trials were conducted when the ancestral wild virus was in circulation. Then came the variants, against which most vaccines showed lower efficacy. Even then, the first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine offered adequate protection against the alpha variant. Against the delta variant, however, the first dose provided only 30% efficacy against symptomatic infection, according to data from Public Health England. Against serious illness and death, the vaccine seems to provide reasonable protection with one dose. A second dose demonstrably increases efficacy against both mild and severe infections. Hence, the U.K. switched to an eight-week interval. Concerns have been raised about inadequate protection of a single dose against the Delta variant, in a French study. Two doses do provide better protection. Hence, the suggestion from international experts that the people at risk of severe disease must be provided that level of protection earlier. [Data on] the Indian experience is still being gathered. There are reassuring reports of good protection being provided to healthcare workers. However, it is not yet clear how effective one dose is against the delta variant, which is the dominant variant now in many parts of the country. We still need that data, especially for high-risk, older age groups and persons with co-morbidities — not just in relatively younger and healthier healthcare workers. I would like to close this by pointing out the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) has stated that it will review recent evidence. Let us leave it to that expert body, to review all available national and international evidence. In the meanwhile, people need to be assured that vaccines are protective even against the delta variant. They should get both shots, whenever scheduled. If there is a limited supply till July, let us use the available vaccines to provide maximum protection to the most vulnerable. There is no reason for vaccine hesitancy. Has India vaccinated enough of its population? Is the pace of vaccination steady enough to allow opening of the country? We have not vaccinated enough numbers as yet. There are many susceptible individuals still. I believe the pace of vaccination will pick up from July, with increasing domestic production and international procurement. I think we do need to open the country, but carefully. Vaccines protect against disease, once the virus infects. For protection against viral transmission, we need to adhere to public health advisories, with discipline in our behaviour for several months more. We must wear masks, avoid ill-ventilated and crowded places as much as possible and not allow super-spreader gatherings. Safe behaviour and vaccines will together protect us. We can’t run fast on one leg. Is there enough data to start children’s vaccination? International trials are available for some mRNA vaccines, to provide evidence of efficacy and safety. Trials in younger children, some including even infants aged six months, are now in progress. Some trials of child vaccination are now on in India too. We should wait for these international and domestic trials to be completed. If a nasal or orally administered mucosal vaccine proves safe and efficacious, that will be a boon for child vaccination. Is the mutating virus a cause of worry? Is there data showing that virus could escape vaccination cover? The worry is misplaced at present. Available vaccines are offering enough protection, at the right dose. Even if neutralising antibody levels fall with time, T cell immunity is likely to remain. In fact, that cell-mediated component of our immune system is capable of fighting the virus which has entered our cells, whereas antibodies can only attack the surface spike protein as it circulates in the blood. Memory T and B cells also store the image of the antigen and can readily reactivate our defence when the virus enters our body. Newer vaccines are also being prepared and some are under testing. Current mRNA vaccines are being tweaked to attack the spike protein mutations in the variants. Inactivated whole virus vaccines are being prepared, similar to Covaxin. Beyond that, multi-antigen vaccines are being tested, which combine the spike protein, the nucleocapsid (which wraps the genetic material of the virus) and ORF 3a (which helps the viral replicas to exit the infected cells). Such vaccines will present a larger platter of our antigens to our immune system. Even if spike protein mutations evade the neutralising antibodies, other antigens in the vaccine will still evoke an effective response. These internal antigens of the virus are also much slower in mutating than the surface spike protein. So, science can still provide us solutions. What is the way ahead? We need to combine four components of response as we move ahead. They are protect ourselves from exposure to the virus and its entry into the body; prevent free passage of the virus by avoiding crowded places, non-essential travel and super-spreader gatherings; vaccinate as fast and as many as possible; and develop, evaluate and introduce new vaccines which can effectively protect against current and emerging variants.  Safe behaviour and vaccines will together protect us. We can’t run fast on one leg||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/we-must-use-the-available-vaccines-to-protect-the-most-vulnerable/article34844924.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Birth, death registrations up in 2019||The level of registration of births and deaths in the country improved in 2019, according to the “Vital Statistics of India Based on The Civil Registration System” report. Some States and Union Territories were, however, lagging behind. The report states that the level of birth registration increased from 87.8% in 2018 to 92.7% in 2019; and death registrations went up from 84.6% to 92% during the period. While 14 States/Union Territories achieved 100% level of birth registrations, 19 States/Union Territories achieved the same level in cases of death. Sex ratio at birth Based on the information received from 32 States/Union Territories, the share of institutional births in the total registered births was 81.2%. The number of registered births increased to 2.48 crore in 2019 from 2.33 crore in 2018. The share of male and female was 52.1% and 47.9%. In the case of registration of births within the prescribed period of 21 days, 15 States/Union Territories achieved more than 90% registration. The highest sex ratio at birth (SRB) based on registered events was reported by Arunachal Pradesh (1,024), followed by Nagaland (1,001) Mizoram (975) and Andaman & Nicobar Islands (965). The lowest SRB was reported by Gujarat (901), Assam (903) and Madhya Pradesh (905), followed by Jammu & Kashmir (909). The number of registered deaths increased from 69.5 lakh in 2018 to 76.4 lakh in 2019. The share of male and female was 59.6% and 40.4%. Based on the information received from 31 States/Union Territories, the share of institutional deaths in total registered deaths was 32.1%. Infant deaths Eleven States/Union Territories achieved more than 90% registration of deaths within the prescribed period of 21 days. In the case of registration of infant deaths, the share of urban area was 75.5% compared to 24.5% in rural areas. In the north-east, Arunachal Pradesh reported 100% registration of births, but only 38.6% of deaths. Nagaland also registered 100% births, but just 30% deaths, while Manipur recorded 67.7% births and only 21.4% deaths. In Sikkim, there was 100% registration of deaths, but 61.2% registration of births. Full registration However, Mizoram and Tripura reported 100% registration of both births and deaths. Meghalaya had 100% registration of births and 97.6% registration of deaths, while Assam reported 100% registration of births and 74% registration of deaths. In Bihar and Jharkhand, the levels of registration of births were 89.3% and 84.3% and the levels of registration of deaths were 51.6% and 58.8%. In Daman & Diu, the figures were 50.7% and 61%. Listing the limitations, the report said the level of registration of States/Union Territories and India level presented in the report was arrived at using the mid-year projected population of the respective States/Union Territories of 2011-2019 based on 2011 census (Report of the Technical Group on Population Projections, July 2020, National Commission on Population, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare) and, therefore, was not comparable with rates presented in previous reports. Incomplete data The level of registration was arrived at using Sample Registration System Rates for 2018 as the survey for 2019, which was scheduled for 2020, could not be completed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, some States/Union Territories submitted incomplete or partial data, which was not included.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/birth-death-registrations-up-in-2019/article34844930.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||Ex-encounter specialist, two others sent to NIA custody||Former encounter specialist and Shiv Sena leader Pradeep Sharma and two others, arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilla bomb scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case, have been sent to NIA custody till June 28. Early on Thursday morning, NIA officials conducted searches at Mr. Sharma’s residence at Andheri and questioned him till noon, after which he was placed under arrest. Later, the NIA arrested Satish Mothukuri and Manish Soni from Malad. Mr. Sharma has been arrested for his alleged role in the conspiracy and destruction of evidence in the case. The NIA had arrested Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, both residents of Kurar village in Malad, and they, NIA sources said, named Mr. Sharma and arrested and dismissed police inspector Sunil Mane in the case. Through the investigation, they found that dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze and Mr. Mane handed over Hiran to Mr. Satish, Mr. Manish, Mr. Santosh and Mr. Anand on March 4, 2020, a day before Hiran’s body was found in Mumbra creek, NIA officials said. “Later the accused made calls to Mr. Vaze and Mr. Sharma. We also recovered some cash from the suspects, which we believe was paid to them by the officers,” they added. Mr. Sharma’s role in Hiran’s murder was being probed as well. However, Mr. Sharma contested the NIA’s claim before the court and stated that he had no relations with Mr. Vaze. He asserted that he did not know anyone arrested in the case. He stated that he had appeared before the NIA whenever he was called. He claimed that he was being framed because of two groups in the police force. He added that he had no role in this case, and that he would not have been home if he was involved in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ex-encounter-specialist-two-others-sent-to-nia-custody/article34844903.ece
18 June 2021||LUCKNOW,||Akhilesh has lost faith in his own leaders, says Mayawati||As leaders and legislators, both former and current, associated with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in Uttar Pradesh continue to engage with rival Samajwadi Party (SP), the latter’s chief Mayawati has intensified her attack on SP leader Akhilesh Yadav, with whom she joined hands to fight the 2019 Lok Sabha election. On Wednesday, yet another leader formerly associated with the BSP, former MLA Amar Pal Sharma, was inducted into the SP by Mr. Yadav. Mr. Sharma, who won from Sahibabad in Ghaziabad in 2012 on BSP ticket, was expelled by the party in the 2017 election for indiscipline. He joined the Congress and contested on its ticket as part of an alliance with the SP but stood a distant second as the BJP won the seat. Mr. Sharma has “resolved” to bring back Mr. Yadav as the Chief Minister in 2022, said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. Ms. Mayawati said it seemed like the SP chief no longer trusted his local leaders. “The SP’s condition is so bad that to remain relevant in media, its chief himself is having to induct former MLAs who have been expelled by other parties or have become ineffective in their constituency, and small-time workers,” said Ms. Mayawati. The four-time former Chief Minister claimed that her party’s local leadership was regularly inducting leaders from other parties, including the SP, after full scrutiny. Udaiveer Singh, SP MLC and a close aide of Mr. Yadav, dismissed Ms. Mayawati’s attack as a mere “face-saving” comment. He said the flow of leaders towards the SP was an indication that people have read that the party could provide a viable alternative to lead the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/akhilesh-has-lost-faith-in-his-own-leaders-says-mayawati/article34844917.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||BJP members of House panel flag rising fuel prices||An overwhelming majority of members of the Standing Committee on Petroleum, at a meeting on Thursday, felt that petrol and diesel should be brought under the GST regime to avoid the multiple taxation by the Centre and the States, which they claimed was responsible for the rise in fuel prices. The committee is chaired by BJP member Ramesh Bidhuri. However, a select few, including CPI(M)’s K. Sivadasan, opposed the idea. All the MPs, including those from the BJP, according to sources, expressed concern and posed sharp questions to Petroleum Secretary Tarun Kapoor. The Congress recently pointed out that the prices of petrol and diesel had increased over 25 times in the last month and a half. Both diesel and petrol have become dearer by over Rs. 6 since May 2, when results of the Assembly election in four States and a Union Territory were announced. ‘A flogging horse’ Mr. Kapoor, according to the sources, quoting the example of Delhi, explained that the base price of petrol was merely Rs. 36. But it was being sold at nearly Rs. 97 a litre. The difference in the base price and the selling price was taxes both by the Centre and the State. The Opposition members said the spiralling costs had a cascading effect on other essential commodities. “Fuel is being used as a flogging horse to make up for all the revenue deficit. If this flogging is already hurting the common man, the government has to step in,” one of them said. A war of words erupted between Mr. Bidhuri and the Congress’s Pradyut Bordoloi. A member said, “Mr. Bidhuri claimed that in 2003, the petrol price was Rs. 33 a litre, but by 2012, it had risen to Rs. 66, a 100% increase. To this, Mr. Bordoloi pointed out that during the UPA rule, international oil prices had shot up to $144 a barrel, while the current rate was $78.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-members-of-house-panel-flag-rising-fuel-prices/article34844919.ece
18 June 2021||AHMEDABAD,||Minor reshuffle in Central bureaucracy||In a minor reshuffle in the top bureaucracy in the Central administration, the Narendra Modi government on Thursday appointed senior bureaucrats Renuka Kumar and Sanjay Kumar Singh as Secretaries for Minority Affairs and Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances respectively. Mr. Singh, a 1987-batch IAS officer of the Madhya Pradesh cadre, succeeds Indevar Pandey, who has been appointed as Women and Child Development Secretary. Mr. Pandey, a 1988-batch IAS officer of the West Bengal cadre, had been appointed as Secretary, Department of Administrative Reforms and Public Grievances (DARPG), in April. Mr. Singh, now Special Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research & Education & Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, will also be the Secretary, Department of Pensions & Pensioners Welfare in the Ministry of Personnel. Ms. Renuka Kumar is a 1987-batch IAS officer serving in her cadre State, Uttar Pradesh. She has been appointed as the Minority Affairs Secretary in place of Pramod Kumar Das, who retires on June 30. The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has also approved the appointment of Manoj Kumar Parida as Chairman, National Authority Chemical Weapons Convention, in the rank and pay of Secretary to the Government of India. Mr. Parida is a 1986-batch IAS officer of the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram and Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. B. Anand, Secretary, National Commission for Minorities, will be Secretary, Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare in the Ministry of Defence. He will succeed Ravi Kant, who retires this month.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/minor-reshuffle-in-central-bureaucracy/article34844894.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Punjab Ekta Party merges with the Congress||Sukhpal Singh Khaira, former Leader of the Opposition and founder of the Punjab Ekta Party, on Thursday formally merged his party with the Congress after meeting former party chief Rahul Gandhi at the latter’s Delhi residence. Mr. Khaira’s meeting comes just days before the party high command is expected to meet Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and former Minister-turned-dissident leader Navjot Singh on June 20 to work out a compromise and end the factionalism. Mr. Gandhi’s meeting with Mr. Khaira, who had walked out of the Congress and joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in 2015 and won from the Bholath seat on AAP ticket in 2017, is significant also due to its political messaging. On June 3, a day before Capt. Amarinder met the AICC panel to resolve the factionalism, the CM re-inducted Mr. Khaira even before a formal nod from the central leadership. Mr. Gandhi’s meeting with Mr. Khaira not only puts a stamp of approval over his re-induction but can also be interpreted as a sign of a thaw between the two camps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/punjab-ekta-party-merges-with-the-congress/article34844918.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||New Pak. law riddled with shortcomings, says India||A new Pakistani law that will allow Indian death row prisoner Kulbhushan Jadhav’s right to appeal is flawed, said the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Addressing the weekly press briefing virtually, Official spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Review and Reconsideration Bill 2020 has codified into law the earlier ordinance with its “shortcomings”. “The Ordinance, now the Bill, invites the municipal courts in Pakistan to decide whether or not any prejudice has been caused to Shri Jadhav on account of the failure to provide consular access. This is clearly a breach of the basic tenet that municipal courts cannot be the arbiter of whether a State has fulfilled its obligations in international law. Not only this, it further invites the municipal court to sit in appeal, as it were, over the judgment of the International Court of Justice,” said Mr. Bagchi.  Pakistan argues that the law is in line with the ICJ order, which urged Islamabad to undertake an “effective review and reconsideration” of the verdict. But Mr. Bagchi said the Bill is riddled with shortcomings. “It does not create a machinery to facilitate effective review and reconsideration of Shri Jadhav’s case, as mandated by the ICJ judgment,” he said, and urged Islamabad to take “appropriate steps to address the shortcomings”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-pak-law-riddled-with-shortcomings-says-india/article34844921.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||‘Arsenal Consultancy can’t give opinion on Sen’s plea’||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that Arsenal Consultancy, a digital forensic analyst that said false evidence was planted against retired Professor Shoma Sen who is an accused in the Bhima Koregaon caste violence case, has “no locus standi to give opinion without court’s permission”. The affidavit was filed before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar in the petition filed by Ms. Sen relying on the Arsenal Consultancy report and seeking to quash three chargesheets against her in the case. Vikram Khalate, Superintendent of Police, NIA, raised questions on the maintainability of the petition and said the NIA came into the picture on January 24, 2020, after the registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against her. “The officer denies the report filed by Arsenal Consultancy and by the American Bar Association. The sanction to prosecute her was granted one day before the chargesheets were filed. All contentions raised by the petitioner [Ms. Sen] are entirely based on the basis of the report by Arsenal Consultancy. This report does not form part of the chargesheets filed by the Pune Police and the NIA,” the affidavit said. “When the trial is pending, and the matter is sub judice before the court, Arsenal Consultancy has no locus standi to give such opinion without permission of this court,” it said. The Bench adjourned the matter to July 13.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arsenal-consultancy-cant-give-opinion-on-sens-plea/article34844906.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Court rejects police stand; students freed||In the morning, the High Court directed the trial court to “proceed with promptitude and expedition” on the pleas filed by the three activists for immediate release. “The orders enlarging the applicants on bail have already been rendered by us. It needs to be implemented,” the HC said. The Delhi Police argued that it also needed to verify the Aadhaar cards of the people who have been nominated as sureties by the three accused. For this, the trial court can pass an order directly to the authority concerned, they said. “Do you follow this procedure in other cases as well,” the High Court asked the Delhi police. Both Ms. Kalita and Ms. Narwal, who were arrested in connection with the northeast Delhi riots last year, were granted bail by the Delhi High Court on Tuesday. Following this, they had moved the local court for securing immediate release order. The Delhi Police have moved the Supreme Court challenging the High Court verdict granting regular bail to the three students who were booked under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The case is likely to come up for hearing on Friday. While granting bail, the High Court gave the Delhi police a dressing down for ‘casually’ invoking provisions of anti-terror laws against the three activists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/court-rejects-police-stand-students-freed/article34844907.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||CBSE scheme evokes mixed reactions||“Online examinations conducted in the past year are not a true representation of a student’s capability and potential but considering Class 10 and 11 marks do even out things and help provide a result that a student could have achieved in an offline examination,” Mr. Saraf observed. Some students felt that the education system was such that it put so much emphasis on Board exam results that taking into account marks from previous results and assessments was not quite fair. They said there was scope for bias as grading was not being done by external examiners. “Although Class 10 and 12 exams are standardised, there is a lot of scope for internal bias while considering Class 11 marks,” said Auorra Uban, whose exams got cancelled. “Children are told that only Class 12 boards and clearing the JEE and NEET matter, so most of them never actually study up till the final external board exam,” she said. Principals of schools welcomed the assessment scheme. Jyoti Arora, principal of the Mount Abu School, said the CBSE’s submission of the criteria was a result of extensive consultations. “The CBSE consulted Sahodayas across the country. Again, unusual decisions for unusual times. Considering all three classes is a balanced approach,” she said. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said the announcement had come as a much-needed relief to students. “Usually students perform well in the Class X boards so now the results combined with the other classes, will get balanced out. So it is a win-win situation,” Ms. Joshi added. Delhi University (DU) officials said they would take a call on the admission procedure at a later stage. Rajeev Gupta, Chairperson of DU admissions, said, “We have to wait for sometime to understand the repercussions of the decision.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cbse-scheme-evokes-mixed-reactions/article34844908.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||SC approves CBSE assessment formula||On the practical side, calculation would be on the “actual basis” of the marks uploaded by the schools on the CBSE’s portal. According to the scheme, the total marks awarded should be in consonance with the past performance of the school in Class 12 exams. A result committee under the principal would be formed in each school. It has been given the liberty to prepare the result by following the policy. The CBSE said it would declare the results by July 31, 2021. In case any candidate is not satisfied with the assessment done, based on the policy, he or she would be given an opportunity to take the examinations to be conducted by the Board when the situation is more “conducive”. “Most of the candidates will be happy with this scheme… When there is a manageable number you can consider holding a physical exam later,” a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari addressed Attorney General K.K. Venugopal, appearing for the Union of India, which is the CBSE’s controlling authority. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) assessment formula would include taking into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exams, project and practical work in subjects, best marks obtained in school exams in Classes 11 and 12 and the best performance of the school itself in the past six years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-approves-cbse-assessment-formula/article34844909.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Pragya Thakur to host yoga session for MPs||BJP MP from Bhopal Pragya Singh Thakur will host one of the four segments being organised as part of the International Yoga Day celebration on June 21 by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, members were informed on Thursday. Ms. Thakur, 51, had won the 2019 election from Bhopal. She is also one of the key accused in the 2008 Malegaon bombings. According to the bulletin issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat, Ms. Thakur will host a talk at noon on ‘Yoga: A Way of Life’. The event is being held online.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pragya-thakur-to-host-yoga-session-for-mps/article34844899.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Centre opens 14 disability early intervention centres||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Thursday launched 14 cross disability early intervention centres across the country to provide support to infants and young children at risk of or with disabilities. Union Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot virtually inaugurated the centres that are located at seven national institutes and seven composite regional centres of the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. “Research studies suggest that early childhood [0-6 years] is a time of remarkable brain development… Early intervention can provide specialised support and services for infants and young children at-risk or with disability and/or developmental delay and for their families to help them in their overall development, well-being and participation in family and community life,” a statement from the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities said. Through the centres, which have been started as a pilot, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal are covered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-opens-14-disability-early-intervention-centres/article34844890.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC to look into Class 11 State exams in Kerala||The Supreme Court on Thursday decided to examine why Kerala has still not cancelled the Class 11 examinations conducted by its State Board. “Counsel for the petitioners shall serve a copy of the petition on the standing counsel for the State of Kerala, as we are informed that it has not cancelled the 11th standard examination conducted by the State Board,” a Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari ordered. The court listed the case for hearing on June 21. The Bench also asked Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh to explain their reasons for not cancelling their Class 12 examinations. The four States’ case has drawn the court’s attention, as out of 28 States, six had conducted the examinations and 18 cancelled them. “But four States [Assam, Punjab, Tripura and Andhra Pradesh] have not cancelled the examination as of now. Counsel for the petitioners shall serve the standing counsel for the above mentioned four States via email/online,” the court directed. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by child rights activist Anubha Shrivastava Sahai to cancel the State Board examinations due to the pandemic. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) cancelled the Class 12 examinations due to concerns over exposing children to infection. The CBSE and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations Boards on Thursday came up with an alternative assessment procedure to compute marks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-to-look-into-class-11-state-exams-in-kerala/article34844892.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘Wrote to PM thrice to withdraw Governor’||Earlier, the Trinamool Congress leadership, including several MPs, had written to President Ram Nath Kovind demanding the Governor’s recall. Ms Banerjee described the Union government’s attempts to “control Twitter” as unfortunate”. “They cannot control Twitter, that is why they want to bulldoze Twitter. They cannot control me, that is why they want to bulldoze my government and my party,” she said. Speaking on allegations of post poll violence, the Chief Minister said there were a few incidents, and she had asked the police to take strong action in such cases. “There are no incidents now. At the time when the State was under the Election Commission, there were some sporadic incidents. But all incidents were not political. In some cases, personal enmity was there. As the matter is sub judice, I won't speak. But I do not support any violence and whenever there is an incident, I have asked police to take strong action,” Ms Banerjee said. The Chief Minister said the BJP was trying to create an atmosphere of violence. “There is no political violence, it is BJP gimmick violence,” she said. On Thursday, Mr Dhankhar called on the President. The Governor also called on Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/wrote-to-pm-thrice-to-withdraw-governor/article34844897.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Unchanging Varadaraja||Kooratazhvan, in his Varadaraja Stavam, points out that Varadaraja, like Brahman, is unchanging, said Valayapet Ramachariar, in a discourse. Visishtadvaita philosophy explains the sareera-sareeri relationship between the Supreme One and the Universe. All sentient and non-sentient constitute His body. When we talk of sareera (body), we know that it is subject to change. Chetana and achetana also change. And if they are His body, how can we say He is changeless? The answer is simple. Take a human being. His body changes appearance as he ages. But his atma remains the same. In the same way, if the Universe is the body, and the Supreme One is the atma, then how can changes in the Universe affect the atma? So, the Paramatma remains the same. And so does Varadaraja. Varadaraja is Ananta — His auspicious qualities are immeasurable. He is nitya — ever present. He is niravadhi — without boundaries to limit Him. He is nirupamam — present in everything. Vedanta Desika, while praising Varadaraja, recalls His Narasimha avatara, and says that while He jumped out of a pillar to save Prahlada, He is present in everything, everywhere. Kooratazhvan says Varadaraja possesses the quality of santam. The word has many meanings. One meaning is anukula. The Lord is always anukula (kind) towards His devotees. Another meaning is bhogya. If we take this meaning bhogya, then it means Varadaraja is always pleasing. And Varadaraja can easily be seen and worshipped by all. In Varadaraja Panchasat, Vedanta Desika says because of His karuna (mercy), Varadaraja chose to stay in Hastigiri, so that all beings can worship Him. Human beings have a mix of the three gunas — sattva, rajas and tamas. But Varadaraja has only sattva guna, for He is Parabrahman.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unchanging-varadaraja/article34844925.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Shah launches helpline for cyber fraud||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has launched a national helpline, 155260, and its reporting platform for preventing financial loss due to cyber fraud. The helpline was soft-launched on April 1. The helpline has been made operational by the Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre, in coordination with the Reserve Bank of India, all major banks, payment banks, wallets and online merchants. Since its soft launch, in a short span of two months, the helpline has assisted in saving more than Rs. 1.85 crore, with Delhi and Rajasthan saving Rs. 58 lakh and Rs. 53 lakh, said a government release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shah-launches-helpline-for-cyber-fraud/article34844912.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Roy gave up Z-category security: MHA||The “Z-category” security cover given to Mukul Roy, who returned to the Trinamool Congress last week along with his son, has been withdrawn as sought by him, according to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. After he quit the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Mr. Roy had reportedly written to the Central government asking for the withdrawal of the security cover. Accordingly, it was taken away. It is learnt that now, the State police would provide security to him and his son. Mr. Roy had won on BJP ticket from the Krishnanagar Uttar constituency. He had joined the BJP in November 2017 and was made national vice-president.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/roy-gave-up-z-category-security-mha/article34844913.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Vaccination not mandatory for students: MEA||The United States said that vaccination is not a “mandatory requirement” for Indian students to travel to the country, a senior official of the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. Responding to a question, Official Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said a “constructive solution” should be found to help Indian students returning to attend academic sessions in the United States. The remarks came days after the U.S. Embassy here began processing student visas to enable them to resume on-campus education.  The official’s comments pointed out the contradiction between the U.S. government and some leading academic institutions that are demanding vaccination before the students are allowed to return to the campuses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/vaccination-not-mandatory-for-students-mea/article34844922.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Boost facilities for children, say guidelines||Going by sero-surveillance reports, COVID-19 infection in children above 10 years occurs in similar frequency as that of adults, notes the “Guidelines on operationalisation of COVID care services for children and adolescents” released by the Health Ministry earlier this week. While children have less severe disease than adults, intermittent surges in the number of cases are anticipated and so it is desirable to augment the existing facilities to provide care to children with acute COVID, it says. The guidelines state that the majority of infections is asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic among children and it is uncommon to have moderate to severe COVID-19 in healthy children. Children with co-morbid conditions have more severe manifestations and poorer outcomes; they should be a priority group for vaccination, once vaccines are approved for children. “A combined effort from private and public sector is needed to handle any surge in future after the withdrawal of the lockdown, school reopening or as third wave strikes over next three of four months,” said the guidelines, calling for paediatric-specific plans to be put in place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boost-facilities-for-children-say-guidelines/article34844928.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘The fight against CAA-NRC will go on’||Upon their release from Tihar Prison on Thursday evening, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia University student Asif Iqbal Tanha, said the fight was not over. The three were lodged in jail under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and were released two days after the Delhi High Court granted them bail. Outside the prison after their release, Mr. Tanha said that the fight against injustice and against CAA-NRC [Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Register of Citizens] would continue. “The constitution gives rights to everyone and because of that, I had faith that we’ll be released. I would just want to say that our fight against CAA-NRC will continue and the fight for justice for the likes of Najeeb, Ikhlaq and Alimuddin will also continue. I am not scared of anyone but God,” he said, adding that he was beaten in jail and faced hardships but accepted it all because of “the love I have been showered with and it’s with that feeling I’ll continue”. Ms. Kalita said, “Whenever women come together, stand against something … protest, society criticises them … they are vilified and called names — terrorists, obscene and what not,” she said, adding that she was grateful to the High Court for saying “what we believe in”, that “any peaceful protest or dissent is not terrorism”. She said, “So many people like us are languishing in jails for protesting against this government, which is the basis of democracy.” Ms. Narwal, who lost her father to COVID-19 last month, said the loss was irreparable and she was still coming to terms with it. “We have survived staying without family and friends but I would like to say that because our case was highlighted and we had support from all quarters, the time was spent fine and we didn’t have to face a lot of harassment.” She also said when she told people about the charges against them in jail, prisoners would laugh at them, unable to believe the allegations of terrorism levelled against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/the-fight-against-caa-nrc-will-go-on/article34844915.ece
18 June 2021||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan waives mandi duty on forest produce||The Rajasthan government has waived mandi duty and farmers' welfare cess for the forest produce sold outside the Krishi Upaj Mandi premises to extend relief to tribal population and the traders dealing with tendu leaves and timber and non-wood products. The decision has led to abolition of the duty regime which was in force for the last 40 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-waives-mandi-duty-on-forest-produce/article34845472.ece
18 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Stan Swamy will remain in hospital, says HC||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said Father Stan Swamy, a Bhima Koregaon case accused, will remain at the Holy Family hospital till July 5, as he has critical medical issues and requires intensive care. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, representing him, told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.J. Jamadar that Fr. Swamy was in the ICU. The court was given his latest medical report from the hospital that said he had recovered from COVID-19, but his health condition continued to remain critical. The court said, “As per the report, there are serious medical issues. In view of aforesaid report, we deem it appropriate to extend the stay of the appellant till July 5.” The bench also directed that a copy of the report be given to the National Investigation Agency probing the case, and adjourned the hearing till July 3. Fr. Swamy tested positive for COVID-19 on May 30, after being shifted to the private hospital on May 29 from the Taloja Central Jail. He suffers from Parkinson’s disease, lower back pain and bilateral hearing loss among other ailments. “I am eating less and less, and my co-accused are worried about me,” he told the High Court on May 21. “I would prefer to suffer and die like this in Taloja jail than be admitted to J.J. Hospital. It will not improve, it will keep going. Only one thing that I would request of the judiciary is to consider interim bail. That is the only request.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/stan-swamy-will-remain-in-hospital-says-hc/article34844905.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||CPI calls OFB corporatisation an anti-national step||A day after the Union Cabinet approved the corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Thursday accused the Centre of taking the decision during the pandemic. CPI general secretary D. Raja called it an “anti-national step”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-calls-ofb-corporatisation-an-anti-national-step/article34844898.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Job outcomes will be improved: Gangwar||Union Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Thursday that India was committed to improving employment outcomes for the youth, a Ministry statement said. He said this after the signing of a statement of intent between the Labour Ministry and UNICEF here, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/job-outcomes-will-be-improved-gangwar/article34844889.ece
18 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Will give befitting reply to any external aggression, says Rajnath in Arunachal||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India had never invaded any country, but would give a befitting reply to any external aggression. He avoided mentioning China while naming the “five countries” bordering the northeast at a programme to dedicate 12 strategic Border Roads Organisation (BRO) projects to the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/will-give-befitting-reply-to-any-external-aggression-says-rajnath-in-arunachal/article34844891.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||SC says continue demolition of 10,000 unapproved buildings in Aravali forest land||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused to halt the demolition of about 10,000 unauthorised residential constructions encroaching on the Aravali forest land near Lakarpur Khori village in Haryana. A Bench had refused to give the encroachers any quarter on June 7 while ordering the demolition. However, fresh petitions were filed. But the court refused to budge on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-says-continue-demolition-of-10000-unapproved-buildings-in-aravali-forest-land/article34844893.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online gaming comes under the scanner||The dark world of online gaming on YouTube and other social media platforms has come under the police radar. As the law enforcement agency began investigation after complaints on YouTuber Madhan OP poured in, they stumbled upon more than just games. They found several cases of vulgar abuse and targeted abuse against women among several gamers during live streams. City Police Commissioner Shankar Jiwal said efforts had been intensified to trace Madan, who was on the run. M. Madan Kumar alias Madhan OP, 29, and his wife Krithika, 26, are engineering graduates and had completed their Electronics and Communications Engineering course. He is a native of Dadagapatti, Salem, and briefly ran an eatery in Ambattur. Attracted to gaming content on YouTube, he began a channel in 2019 to showcase his skills in video games, including PUBG, and uploaded strategy guides. The games were live streamed on his YouTube channel. Even after the Central government banned PUBG, he used virtual private networks (VPNs) to continue accessing the game, and live streamed videos through his channel. While chatting with players, he pretended to be an affluent person with a charitable disposition, remaining off-screen throughout the streams. The police said his viewers were between ages 13 and 25. Joe Michael, an event manager and one of the complainants, said, “He influenced a lot of people through his abusive language against girls during live stream. People spend a lot of time watching it, and he earns money for mentioning their name in the stream. This channel seems to be very influential and is likely to inspire many other youth to do the same.” Dr. Shalini, psychiatrist, said, “Adolescents are typically impressionable, anti-establishment and worship the anti-hero because it makes them validate the negativity they themselves feel. They feel insecure about their appearance, lack of accomplishment and financial dependency. Bravado and ‘don't care’ attitudes appeal to them, as it makes them feel invincible too. But fake bravado only breeds fake invincibility. That’s the sad part of it.” Meanwhile, the cyber crime cell of the Central Crime Branch has intensified its efforts to nab Madan. The team arrested his wife Krithika and recovered laptops, mobile phones and other data from his house in Vengaivasal. Sources said he earned Rs. 10 lakh per month through subscriptions on social media. All his bank account transactions were analysed, and luxury cars were seized from his house. Mr. Jiwal said, “Madan is still on the run. We are searching for him. We have sufficient evidence to establish that he was involved in crimes. All efforts are on to trace and arrest him.” Asked about the action against a few other players on social media using equally vulgar language, Mr. Jiwal said, “New rules made by the Central government prescribe a three-level mechanism — complaining, monitoring and supervising. Even now if we ask social media companies to remove content, they are complying. We have the power to initiate criminal action against them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-gaming-comes-under-the-scanner/article34845415.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases drop below 10,000||After 60 days, Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 10,000 on Thursday. The State recorded 9,118 cases and 210 deaths, taking its tally to 23,97,864 and toll to 30,548. In the second wave, the State’s daily count surpassed the 10,000-mark on April 18 (10,723). Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore and Erode reported over 1,000 each, though infections continued to dip gradually. While 1,227 people tested positive in Coimbatore, there were 1,041 cases in Erode. Salem recorded 598 cases, while Chennai’s count dipped to 559. There were 542 cases in Tiruppur. Eight districts clocked in fewer than 100 cases each — Ariyalur (85), Dindigul (92), Perambalur (40), Pudukottai (69), Ramanathapuram (65), Sivaganga (84), Tenkasi (93) and Tirunelveli (87). The State’s active caseload reduced to 1,00,523. Of these, there were 12,820 patients in Coimbatore, 11,039 in Tiruppur and 9,709 in Erode. Chennai’s active cases dropped below 5,000 — 4,683 patients are presently under treatment. Fatalities in State Of the 210 deceased, 109 died in private hospitals and 101 in government facilities. Chennai recorded the most number of deaths at 33. There were 17 deaths in Coimbatore, 16 in Tiruchi and 15 in Salem. A teenager was among the 44 deceased who did not have co-morbidities. The 19-year-old was from Chennai. As many as 22,720 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 22,66,793. In the last 24 hours, 1,75,010 samples were tested. Another 2,54,378 people received COVID-19 vaccines across the State, taking the overall coverage to 1,12,88,648. Of these, 1,54,410 people were in the 18-44 age group. The State received 60,000 doses of Covaxin as a part of the State government’s order on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/daily-cases-drop-below-10000/article34845432.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police help man from Assam reach out to his family||A 27-year-old man from Assam, who was found abandoned and wounded, was rescued by volunteers of Kaaval Karangal , an initiative of the Greater Chennai Police to rescue abandoned and uncared for people on the road. The mentally challenged man was treated and sheltered at a special home in Manali. He was reunited with his family in the presence of Commissioner of Police Shankar Jiwal on Thursday. In March, the city police launched Kaaval Karangal with the assistance of officers of the Greater Chennai Corporation, the Social Welfare Department and non-governmental organisations to rescue abandoned or homeless persons through helplines. Under this initiative, the Greater Chennai Police helplines were synchronised with NGOs and other government services. Police found the mentally-challenged man lying on Peters Road on May 12, with wounds all over this body. He was not in a position to identify himself. Volunteers of two NGOs Anbil Paavai and Karunai Illam took him to the Government Royapettah Hospital, where he was treated. He was later shifted to a home run by Anbagam in Manali. “We struggled to identify him since he speaks only Assamese with a local accent. On regaining memory, he identified himself as Jaffer Ali alias Mohajar Ali, 27, from a remote area in Assam. We contacted the local police station, where a man missing case was registered by his family members a couple of years ago, and his brother was asked to come here to receive him,” said a senior police officer. Mr. Jiwal said, “Under the Kaaval Karangal initiative, an inspector and six other police personnel have been working in the control room specially for the purpose of coordination and rendering quick assistance. As many as 65 NGOs have also been roped in under the scheme. In the last three months, we have rescued six missing persons.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-help-man-from-assam-reach-out-to-his-family/article34845181.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMDA set to finalise consultant for drafting vision document||The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) is set to finalise an international consultant to be part of the project to draw up a draft long-term vision for desirable urban development of the Chennai Metropolitan Area through a participatory approach. It is expected to formulate the third master plan based on the vision document. A total of 15 applications were received by the CMDA and six international consultants were shortlisted for sending the proposal. The CMDA is expected to identify the consultant in two months. The work on preparation of the document for the third master plan for the period 2026-2046 is expected to begin in September. According to sources in the CMDA, the consultant will focus on public consultation, visioning workshops, meetings with stakeholders, city-wide survey and informal meetings with NGOs, academia, commercial associations and business houses for the preparation of the vision document. “The preparation of the vision document has been delayed because of the pandemic. The gathering of residents for pubic consultation is likely to be a challenge during the pandemic,” said an official. The work will be restricted to the 1,189 sq km of the Chennai Metropolitan Area instead of the expanded region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmda-set-to-finalise-consultant-for-drafting-vision-document/article34845408.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mistranslation of SC, ST to be fixed in school admission forms||The Department of Education in the Greater Chennai Corporation has ordered the removal of the inappropriate Tamil words used for Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST) in application forms for school admissions following objections to their usage. In the application forms for Corporation-run schools, for the question in Tamil asking which community the student belonged to, thazhthapattavar (oppressed) and malai jaathi (hill caste) were used for SCs and STs respectively. Petitions sent At least two petitions were sent citing the negative connotations associated with these words and the possible violation of a 2018 order of the Union Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE), which was issued following a judgment of the Madhya Pradesh High Court. A petition sent by Republican Party of India - Tamil Nadu president R. Anbuvendhan alleged that the usage was in violation of law, and urged the Corporation to use the correct terms. Advocate A.B. Rajasekaran, in his email petition to the Corporation, said the words were demeaning and derogatory and could be in violation of one or more union and State laws/orders. The 2018 order of the MoSJE asked all State governments to use only the Constitutional term ‘Scheduled Caste’ in English and its appropriate translations in other languages. Mr. Rajasekaran told The Hindu that while the appropriate translation for SCs can be Attavanai Pirivinar , in the context of Tamil Nadu, the officially used terms were Pattiyalinathavar or Adi Dravidar. The Department for the welfare of SCs and STs in Tamil Nadu is also called Adi Dravidar Matrum Pazhangudiyinar Nala Thurai. “The government must stick to these official terms and not use other inappropriate translations,” he said. ‘Concerns justified’ A senior official from the Corporation said the concerns raised regarding the negative connotations were justified. “The forms were printed last year. We do not want to stop issuing the forms as it will affect enrolment. We have asked the heads of the schools to manually strike through the words and write the appropriate terms. The new forms will be printed correctly,” the official added.  While the appropriate translation for SCs can be Attavanai Pirivinar , in the context of Tamil Nadu, the officially used terms were Pattiyalinathavar or Adi Dravidar A.B. Rajasekaran Advocate||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mistranslation-of-sc-st-to-be-fixed-in-school-admission-forms/article34845416.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits three-wheeler loan segment||In December 2019, Venkatesan, 48, an autorickshaw driver in Chennai, took a three-wheeler loan from a public sector bank. He paid the first three instalments before his business came to a standstill in March 2020 after the lockdown to control COVID-19 began. “I did not want to go to a financier so I opted for a bank loan, which I got with great difficulty. Since March 2020, business has not been so good and I skipped payment of monthly instalments,” he said. The situation turned a bit better at the start of this year, and “I managed to pay some money back but I’m stuck again with the second lockdown.” Like Mr. Venkatesan, there are several autorickshaw drivers across Tamil Nadu who borrowed from banks to buy vehicles, but are unable to repay the loans. Data from various sources show the maximum outstanding loans are in the regions of Kancheepuram, Thiruvallur and Chennai. They are followed by Coimbatore and Salem. According to the data from CRIF High Mark, a credit information company, outstanding loans in the three-wheeler segment in the State increased marginally to Rs. 5,973 crore at the end of March this year from Rs. 5,859 crore at the end of March 2020. Loans in default for 91-180 days stood at 6.89% as of March 2021, up from 5.47% in the same period last year. The non-performing assets in the three-wheeler category were the highest, compared with other categories such as car and two-wheeler loans. With schools and colleges closed and people who otherwise commute working from home, autorickshaw drivers are getting very few rides after the pandemic started. Not just that, people are using their own vehicles for commuting. “A few autorickshaw drivers ventured into selling vegetables and tea through their vehicles; with the money thus earned, they managed to repay loans. Some drivers took to other jobs to repay the loans,” said Ramesh, who has been driving an autorickshaw in Chennai for over a decade. “But this formula does not work for everyone, so many have defaulted,” he said. While banks are restructuring some loans, not all drivers are aware of the programme as they have not visited the banks for fear of being questioned. A senior official of Indian Bank said non-performing assets had marginally gone up as the borrowers were affected by the economic impact of COVID-19. “Compared with the last financial year, there has been a drop in new sanctions [of loans] owing to the pandemic and the lockdown,” he said. The bank is providing various Government of India-guaranteed credit lines. The moratorium was extended in March 2020 to August 2020 as per the Reserve Bank of India’s guidelines. Indian Overseas Bank said the demand for three-wheeler loans came down drastically after the lockdown started. It sanctioned Rs. 0.5 crore in 2020-21, as against Rs. 0.96 crore in the comparable period last year. Demand had not picked up because of the second wave of the contagion, the bank said. However, it said non-performing assets had not gone up in the segment. Both banks said they were restructuring the loans.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-hits-three-wheeler-loan-segment/article34845424.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK hardening its stance against Sasikala||The AIADMK appears to be reinforcing its confrontationist stand against former interim general secretary of the party, V.K. Sasikala, with several district units adopting resolutions against her in the past two days. On Wednesday and Thursday, at least four district units — Salem (rural), Villupuram (north), north Chennai (southeast) and Puducherry unit (east) — passed motions, condemning Ms. Sasikala for seeking to “take over the party and create confusion among its cadre”. On Monday, party legislators, who met in Chennai to elect office-bearers for the legislature party, passed a motion against her. An office-bearer said so far, 27 district units, of a total 73, had adopted similar resolutions. At the office of the party’s Salem (rural) district unit in Omalur, co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami presided over a meeting, wherein legislators from Salem took part. At the meeting, the party said Ms. Sasikala, who announced that she would stay away from politics during the Assembly election, was “trying to gain political attention after the election, observing public support for the party under the leadership of the party coordinator [O. Panneerselvam] and the co-coordinator.” It criticised her for speaking, during telephonic conversations, “in a manner that would instigate caste emotions.” It also resolved that the AIADMK would establish itself as a people’s movement once again and would “never destroy itself for the aspirations of a family”. On Wednesday, the party’s north Chennai (southeast) district unit met under the leadership of D. Jayakumar and noted that Ms. Sasikala was not “even a primary member” of the party. Former Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam, also the district secretary of Villupuram (north), told reporters on Thursday that the former interim general secretary was only indulging in “wishful thinking” on her claims of returning to active politics, and said neither she nor her family members would be allowed into the party. Asserting that Ms. Sasikala had “no place” in the AIADMK, Mr. Shanmugam said it was “only because of her objectionable machinations” that former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa had to bear all the consequences and face imprisonment. In Puducherry, A. Anbalagan, secretary of the east unit, chaired a meeting attended by former legislators A. Bhaskaran and Vayyapuri Manikantan. Later, he said efforts by Ms. Sasikala would only help the AIADMK’s arch rival, the DMK.  The office of Ms. Sasikala released six audio clips of her conversations with her supporters, including a few from Salem, the home district of Mr. Palaniswami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-hardening-its-stance-against-sasikala/article34845426.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IPS officer posted as OSD to IT Dept.||The Tamil Nadu government has chosen a senior IPS officer as the Officer on Special Duty to expedite the implementation of e-governance at the Secretariat, police sources said on Wednesday. Additional Director-General of Police G. Venkataraman, who is heading the Cyber Crime Wing of the Tamil Nadu police, was given the additional charge as the Officer on Special Duty, Information Technology Department, a newly created post in the rank of ADGP. Mr. Venkataraman, an IPS officer of the 1994 batch, played a key role in the implementation of e-governance in the police headquarters. Then Inspector-General of Police, Administration, he formed a team of police officers who had expertise in information technology applications and brought about paperless file movement in the office of the Director-General of Police. Barring court affidavits or tender finalisation orders wherein the physical signatures of officers is imperative, all other files are paperless in the police headquarters. Mr. Venkataraman and his team extended the e-governance platform to all the city and district police headquarters where paperless administration is in various stages of implementation. Hundreds of ministerial staff dealing with the day-to-day administrative file movement in the police department were trained in the physical to virtual file transformation. Police sources said the officer would play a role in replicating the model at the Secretariat in coordination with the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency, the National Informatics Centre and other agencies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ips-officer-posted-as-osd-to-it-dept/article34845462.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IGP/DIG-rank posts downgraded to SP level||In a major revamp in the organisational structure of the police force, the State government has downgraded a few posts in the rank of Inspector-General of Police and Deputy Inspector-General of Police to the level of Superintendent of Police. More vacancies have been created in the rank of SPs, with additional focus on traffic and road safety, cyber crimes and economic offences. According to police sources, IGP-rank posts that have been downgraded to SP ranks are IGP, Home Guards, Chennai; IGP, Operations, Chennai; and IGP, Economic Offences Wing- II. The three downgraded IGP posts will now be re-designated as SP, Traffic and Road Safety, Chennai; SP, Cyber Arangam, Chennai; and SP, Economic Offences Wing (south zone), Chennai. The post of the Additional Director-General of Police/Chief Vigilance Officer, Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation Ltd (Aavin), Chennai, which was last occupied by a DGP-rank officer, has also been downgraded to the SP/CVO level, to be headquartered in Chennai. SP, Economic Offences Wing, and SP, Commercial Crimes Investigation Wing, CID, have also been redesigned as SP, Economic Offences Wing, north zone, and SP, Economic Offences Wing, central zone. The changes have been made on the basis of a proposal sent by DGP J.K. Tripathy, who said that several vacancies would arise in the rank of IGPs and DIGs in five years, and there would be no source to fill them, considering the non-availability of officers. “In view of the emerging requirements and heavy workload, it is considered essential to downgrade the ex-cadre posts in the rank of ADGP/IGP/DIG to the level of SPs (State services) so that the posts can be filled and utilised in a proper manner,” he said. Justifying the need to have an SP-rank officer to assist the ADGP heading the Traffic and Road Safety Cell, the DGP said the Supreme Court had directed the States to accord top priority to road safety to bring down fatalities. Though the State Traffic Planning Cell, headed by an ADGP-rank officer, was created to achieve road safety objectives, no senior officer had been posted to assist them in the last 15 years. Hence, it was necessary to have an SP to assist the ADGP in the daily monitoring of traffic and road safety aspects, he said. While there is an ADGP-rank officer heading the Cyber Crime Wing in Tamil Nadu, with SPs for four zones, it is essential to have another SP heading the Cyber Arangam, in view of the vast expansion of cyber technology. The officer will also coordinate with the Central government and IT experts, officials of IIT-Madras, bank officers and telecom service providers, among others, for the smooth and effective functioning of the wing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/igpdig-rank-posts-downgraded-to-sp-level/article34845428.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. issues notices for delay in flood mitigation work||The Greater Chennai Corporation has issued show-cause notices to 23 contractors for delay in commencing work on flood mitigation. The work includes restoration of waterbodies, missing links of stormwater drains and integrated stormwater drains in the Kosasthalaiyar basin. Following a review meeting by Corporation Commissioner Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Thursday, the contractors were asked to expedite the work on missing links of stormwater drains in various parts of the city. The Commissioner inspected the work on desilting of the Virugambakkam canal in ward 127 at the junction of Kaliamman Koil Street and Chinmaya Nagar. Virugambakkam canal is one of the 16 canals maintained by the Public Works Department but the Corporation has taken up the work to prevent inundation of residential areas such as Nerkundram, Chinmaya Nagar, Saligramam and market areas such as Koyambedu. He also inspected the stormwater drain work at five locations along Kaliamman Koil Street, which is a major road linking residential areas with the Koyambedu market. The Corporation had developed stormwater drains along Kaliamman Koil Street and linked them with the Virugambakkam canal to prevent flooding. The road had also been widened from 16 m to 27 m. The team inspected stormwater drains along Anna Main Road in ward 131. The drain is designed to take storm water from Arcot Road to M.G.R. Canal. The work on stormwater drains in the area is also expected to reduce waterlogging on Rajamannar Salai. The team inspected River View Colony in Alandur zone. The work on the stormwater drain underneath Manapakkam Main Road would be completed shortly, officials said. Officials also inspected the flood sensor at Nandambakkam. Work on the flood sensor at Smart Pole along Nandambakkam Canal and Mount Poonamallee Road is expected to give an alarm once the water level reaches 2.5 m in the canal. Officials said the Corporation had removed 43,200 tonnes of silt from 30 canals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-issues-notices-for-delay-in-flood-mitigation-work/article34845410.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘State must oppose ONGC’s request for clearance’||The AIADMK co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on Thursday urged the State government to oppose strongly the proposal for clearance sought by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation for hydrocarbon projects proposed by it in Ariyalur district. In a statement, he recalled that the previous AIADMK regime did not give permission for any such project mooted by the ONGC or any firm in the private sector. His statement follows the publication of a news item in The Hindu that the ONGC had sought environmental clearance for drilling exploratory wells at 15 places in Tamil Nadu, including 10 in Ariyalur district and five in Cuddalore district. In a separate statement, Mr. Palaniswami and the party coordinator, O. Panneerselvam, criticised the DMK for, what they called, carrying out violence against members of the AIADMK’s information technology (IT) wing and filing “false cases” against their party volunteers. They asked the DMK leadership to intervene in this regard. The two leaders also announced re-organisation of the Chennai and Coimbatore zones of the IT wing and appointed the party spokesperson, M. Kovai Sathyan, secretary for the Chennai zone, replacing ‘Aspire’ K. Swaminathan, who had been relieved of the membership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/state-must-oppose-ongcs-request-for-clearance/article34845170.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘TNCSC to run mobile DPCs to procure paddy’||The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) on Thursday informed the Madras High Court of its decision to operate mobile Direct Purchase Centres (DPCs) to procure paddy that meets the prescribed minimum quality standards from registered farmers. The submission was made following a suo motu public interest litigation petition taken up by the court to prevent paddy from getting soaked in rain. Appearing before the first Division Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, Advocate General R. Shunmugasundaram said TNCSC Managing Director V. Rajaraman had written to him on June 14, stating that the corporation would make arrangements for operating mobile DPCs so that the harvest does not get soaked before the farmers could transport their produce to the 282 regulated markets in the State. According to the Advocate General, the regulated markets act as a bridge between farmers and traders. They were being managed by 26 market committees constituted under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act of 1987 and the statutory rules framed thereunder in 1991. The produce brought to the regulated markets by the farmers were sold to traders by adopting a closed tender bid method. While the government does not collect any fees from the farmers for using the regulated market, 1% of the value of the produce was collected towards market fee from the traders alone. Further, a licence fee was also collected from traders and the weighmen. Facilities such as storage godowns, transaction sheds, drying yards, traders’ shops and cold storage equipment were made available in those markets, he said. Further, the government provides pledge loan facilities up to Rs. 3 lakh to every farmer to protect them from distress sale during glut seasons. Small and marginal farmers could avail themselves of pledge loan up to 75% of the value of the produce and other farmers could avail themselves of up to 50% of the value of the produce. The farmers could pledge their produce and store them in the godowns for a maximum of six months on payment of 5% of interest for the loan. The TNCSC too had been provided with space at the regulated markets for procuring paddy from the farmers. The procured paddy was stored in 469 godowns, constructed in the regulated markets by Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Department, with a capacity of 3.34 lakh tonnes, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tncsc-to-operate-mobile-dpcs-to-procure-paddy-a-g-tells-hc/article34845168.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shiva Shankar Baba remanded in judicial custody for 14 days||Self-styled ‘godman’ Shiva Shankar Baba, 72, has been remanded in judicial custody till July 1 after he was produced before the Mahila Court in Chengalpattu on Thursday. He was arrested by the Crime Branch CID (CB-CID) police in Delhi on Wednesday on charges of sexually abusing girls of a residential school he founded in the city’s outskirts. The Mamallapuram All-Women police station (AWPS) last week registered three cases against him under various sections of the India Penal Code, the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, following complaints from the school’s alumni, and the Child Welfare Committee also initiated an action. After investigation was taken up by the CB-CID, Baba reportedly went missing. When a team of CB-CID officers reached a hospital in Dehradun, Uttarakhand, where he was undergoing treatment, he disappeared from the place. The police apprehended him in Chittaranjan Park, Delhi. He was brought to the city late on Wednesday. After interrogation, the accused was produced in the Mahila Court, Chengalpattu, where he was remanded in judicial custody for 14 days, after his bail petition was dismissed. Earlier, when he was brought to the court by the police, activists protested, demanding stringent action against him. A scuffle ensued when police arrested the activists. Later, Baba was lodged in the Chengalpattu sub-jail. Meanwhile, the CB-CID said any further complaints could be sent to investigation officer DSP Gunavarman at 98405 58992 and inspector Renugadevi at 98406 69982 or through inspocu2@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shiva-shankar-baba-remanded-in-judicial-custody-for-14-days/article34845412.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reports of micro-plastics in groundwater alarming, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal said it was alarming to see reports that micro-plastics were being detected in groundwater samples taken from wells near the Kodungaiyur and Perungudi dumpyards. The bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member K. Satyagopal said the entire garbage generated and collected from the city and other suburbs were being dumped in these locations. “Even now, these dumpyards lack proper scientific disposal. On the basis of the direction given by this tribunal in some other matter, steps are being taken by the Greater Chennai Corporation to dispose of the dumpyards’ legacy waste,” the bench said. Effective solutions Since the issue was of a grave nature, the bench directed a Joint Committee to inspect the area and come up with suitable recommendations on how to mitigate it in an effective manner. The committee has been directed to take water samples from the nearby wells in and around the Perungudi dumpyard, and also consider the air samples from the available monitoring station near the dumpyard. The committee has also been directed to take samples in the city area to find out whether micro-plastics have seeped into the groundwater as well as in the atmosphere. The committee has been directed to file a report before August 27.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reports-of-micro-plastics-in-groundwater-alarming-says-ngt/article34845413.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC shocked by YouTuber’s language||The Madras High Court was on Thursday shocked to hear the recorded conversations between YouTuber M. Madan Kumar, 29, and his teenage subscribers against whom he reportedly used abusive and vulgar language. When an anticipatory bail petition filed by him was listed for hearing before Justice M. Dhandapani, Government Counsel requested the court to listen to the language used by the petitioner before taking a call on the plea for advance bail. Shocked to hear the recordings, the judge asked petitioner’s counsel to listen to them before appearing again on Friday. In his petition, the applicant claimed that he always maintained decency and decorum, and that a false complaint had been lodged against him by other jealous YouTubers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-shocked-by-youtubers-language/article34845417.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM announces scheme for delta farmers||Chief Minister M.K. Stalin on Thursday announced a scheme to facilitate kuruvai cultivation among farmers in the Cauvery delta. The package is being announced by the State government after a gap of three years. The scheme, to be implemented at a cost of Rs. 61.09 crore, is expected to benefit over 2.07 lakh farmers in the region. It aims to provide input and equipment subsidies to farmers involved in the cultivation of kuruvai in the delta, according to an official release. Effective use of water While an amount of Rs. 50 crore has been earmarked for providing farm equipment on subsidy, another Rs. 11.09 crore will be spent for the effective use of water, such as farm ponds. The scheme will be completely implemented in Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai and Tiruvarur districts, and partly in Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Tiruchi districts. Usually, kuruvai cultivation is undertaken on about 3.2 lakh acres in the delta districts. Instructions have been given to the Agriculture Department to ensure sufficient supply of paddy seeds, artificial and biofertilizers, other inputs and equipment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-announces-scheme-for-delta-farmers/article34845420.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goldsmiths seek nod to resume their business||Goldsmiths want the State government to allow them to open their workshops as they have remained without work for several weeks now. Nearly 500 shops in Edapalayam, a hub for goldsmiths in the city, have remained closed since last month. “Our orders have already dropped steadily due to the pandemic. Most goldsmiths and silversmiths work for a daily salary of Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000. As the workshops have remained closed for 45 days now, many are struggling to make both ends meet,” said D. Jayagopi, president, Park Town Gold, Silver Ornaments Workers Welfare Association. Workshops had little direct interaction with customers. Many artisans had taken to other businesses like selling vegetables and fruits, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goldsmiths-seek-nod-to-resume-their-business/article34845433.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Take steps to prevent COVID-19 third wave’||AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam on Thursday called upon Chief Minister M. K. Stalin to take urgent steps to prevent the third wave of COVID-19 from happening. In a statement, he wanted the intensification of testing of persons, contact tracing and isolation of affected persons, apart from adopting other safety protocols. He suggested that the process of vaccination of uncovered people be expedited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/take-steps-to-prevent-covid-19-third-wave/article34845040.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns cable operators of strict action||Minister for Information Technology Mano Thangaraj warned cable operators with the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation (TACTV) of strict action if they overcharge customers beyond the prescribed subscription rate and those who do not distribute set top boxes (STBs) to customers.  TACTV will take strict action against such cable operators who are causing loss of revenue for the cable corporation and those operators who do not activate STBs provided to them within three months and those who do not return such STBs back to TACTV, the statement said. TACTV services were being provided for Rs. 140 plus GST, and customers can register their complaints on 18004252911.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-warns-cable-operators-of-strict-action/article34845171.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior geriatrician honoured||The Rotary Club of Guindy has conferred the Charaka Award on senior geriatrician and Padma Shri awardee Dr. V.S. Natarajan in recognition of his selfless service to the elderly, spanning over a period of 40 years. The award, presented annually, recognises doctors who exemplify professional excellence, actively involve in research activities and serve the marginalised communities. “I have dedicated a major portion of my life for the welfare of the elderly. Recognising that ‘Preventive Geriatrics’ is the key to quality life in old age, I have been espousing the cause through several methods,” he said in his acceptance speech. He spoke about conducting medical camps and elder welfare seminars as well as promoting vaccination among the elderly. J.B. Kamdar, former district governor, V.R. Sharathkumar, president, R.P. Balachander, secretary, and other office-bearers participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-geriatrician-honoured/article34845179.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Expedite cases against legislators: HC||The Madras High Court on Thursday ordered that the special courts established in the State to hear cases booked against Members of Parliament and the Legislative Assembly must deal with them expeditiously and dispose them of without undue delay. Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said that the special courts must deal with those cases as expeditiously as the business of those courts would permit and ensure that the matters were taken to their logical conclusion without undue delay. Suo motu  writ plea The observations were made while closing a suo motu writ petition taken up by the High Court to fill up vacancies in the special courts and to create necessary infrastructure. The Bench expressed satisfaction over the steps taken in this regard after the suo motu proceedings were initiated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expedite-cases-against-legislators-madras-hc/article34845550.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai man is Illinois Institute of Technology president||Rajagopal Ragavan Echambadi, Dunton Family Dean at the D’Amore-McKim School of Business at Northeastern University, has been appointed 10th president of the Illinois Institute of Technology, U.S. Born and brought up in Chennai, Raj, as he is better known, completed his mechanical engineering degree from the College of Engineering, Guindy, and later did MBA from Anna University. He pursued Ph.D in Business Administration at the University of Houston. His first job through campus placement was in Tractors and Farm Equipment as service engineer. His transition from engineering to MBA happened thanks to TAFE’s then head of the Product Training Centre in Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/city-man-is-illinois-institute-of-technology-president/article34845435.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CMCH starts vaccinating postnatal mothers||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday started administering COVID-19 vaccine to postnatal mothers. CMCH Dean A. Nirmala said that 11 women were given the first dose of a vaccine after their delivery on Thursday. The hospital administration said the inoculation of postnatal mothers after their delivery started based on a direction from the government. According to the administration, CMCH saw an increase in the number of deliveries in the last four months of the second wave of the pandemic. In June alone, the hospital handled more than 400 deliveries till Thursday. Since March this year, CMCH had treated 568 pregnant women out of which 268 had their deliveries at the hospital. Some of them were admitted to Intensive Care Units. While 42 such patients were treated with oxygen support, 36 patients were given Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) therapy, the hospital administration said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cmch-starts-vaccinating-postnatal-mothers/article34845442.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Pilloor reservoir||Rain clouds continued to hover over rural parts of Coimbatore district on Thursday and many places received moderate showers. Pilloor reservoir shutters were opened in the early hours of Thursday after the water level touched the 97-feet mark of the full reservoir level of 100 feet. Sources said that the water flow into the reservoir was 10,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) early on Thursday morning. Around 3 a.m. on Thursday, shutters were raised to release 10,000 cusecs of water into River Bhavani. Revenue and the police issued alerts in the region prior to the release of water. The inflow and release increased to 14,000 cusecs a few hours later. River Noyyal swelled after catchments areas in the Siruvani region received continuous showers. Ukkulam tank at Semmedu, the first tank in the Noyyal river basin, swelled in the impact of the rain. Around 9 a.m. on Thursday, one side of the tank bund broke and water flowed into the adjacent field inundating about 20 acres. “Of the 20 acres, shallots were being raised in four acres. The crop was damaged completely after being inundated by the overflown water. The tank bund was not strengthened enough when the water body was desilted in 2017. The bund breaks during the rainy season every year since then,” said Vijayakumar, a farmer. He said that farmers hired an earthmover to close the breakage. Places such as Valparai, Pollachi, Anamalai, Aliyar, Siruvani and Sirumugai received mild to moderate rain on Thursday. Coimbatore district registered a total rainfall of 453.4 mm and average rainfall of 32.39 mm in the 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Thursday according to the district administration. The rainfall recorded in other places during the 24 hours period were: Valparai PAP 78 mm, Sholayar 92 mm, Valparai taluk 78 mm, Chinnakallar 102 mm, Cinchona 74 mm, Aliyar 10 mm, Pollachi 16 mm, Coimbatore airport 0.9 mm and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 2.5 mm.   With inflow continue to be over 13,500 cusecs, water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam crossed 90 feet here on Thursday afternoon. At 12 noon, water level stood at 90.02 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet while the storage was 21.599 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Discharge was 800 cusecs in Arakankottai and Thadapalli Canals and 200 cusecs in River Bhavani. Public Works Department officials said that rainfall in the catchment areas led to the inflow increasing from 6,276 cusecs at 4 a.m. to 13,501 at noon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-released-from-pilloor-reservoir/article34845044.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industry workers yet to return||Micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) that have resumed at least partial operations following the lockdown relaxations are yet to see labourers of other districts and States returning to work. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said just about 25 % of workers stayed back here when the lockdown was announced last month to control the spread of COVID-19. The others were yet to return to work. The units had less work now and very few workers too. Yet, those in the essential sector who had orders were facing problems because the officials who came for inspection were asking for permission letter from the District Collector. The units were not given any such letter. These units were working with just a handful of workers, he said. President of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (Codissia) MV Ramesh Babu said nearly 70 % of workers, from other districts and States, left Coimbatore before the lockdown was announced. “But, this year, unlike last year, we expect the workers to come back when the industries resume full-fledged operations. Trains are available for the workers to come back. They are asking us when they can return,” he said. Since the COVID-19 cases continued to remain high in the district, the State government was yet to relax the lockdown restrictions here fully. Hence, industrial activity remained low. When the units restarted total operations, the workers were expected to come back, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-workers-yet-to-return/article34845444.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman gang raped, two detained||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Thursday detained two men charges of raping a 21-year-old woman along with another accomplice. The police said that two men, aged 25 and 27 from Palakkad district in Kerala, were taken into custody on Thursday. The police were on the lookout for a 40-year-old man who also hails from Palakkad. According to the police, the three men ran a bakery in a village near Annur and the woman and her husband from Tiruchi joined there as workers in May this year. The trio permitted the couple to stay in a portion of their rented house. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, her husband started going for other works after the bakery was closed due to the lockdown. She accused the trio of raping her when her husband was away for work on June 6. The men threatened her not to disclose the incident to anyone, the complaint said. The woman and husband approached the police on Thursday. The All Women Police Station, Thudiyalur, booked the three men under Sections 376 D (gang rape) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-gang-raped-two-detained/article34845460.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation seals spa, imposes fine||Coimbatore Corporation on Thursday sealed a spa on charges of violating restrictions imposed by the State government for the containment of COVID-19. The action was taken against Green Day Spa on Bharati Park Road, said the civic body in a statement. A fine of Rs. 25,000 was slapped on the spa. R. Sundararajan, Assistant Commissioner for West Zone, said that different teams of the civic body conduct regular inspections to check whether shops and establishments follow the restrictions. The spa was found operating against the restrictions and was sealed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-seals-spa-imposes-fine/article34845443.ece
18 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. has failed in combating COVID-19’||The State government has failed in combating and controlling the spread of COVID-19 virus, said Vellore Ibrahim, National Secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party's Minorities wing. Talking to reporters on Thursday, Mr. Ibrahim said that having failed to effectively control the spread, the DMK which promised prohibition was now keen on opening the Tasmac outlets. Pointing out that the BJP has emerged victorious in four constituencies in the recent Assembly elections, despite predictions by opponents that the party would never win even a single seat. The victory of the BJP will go up further during the next Lok Sak Sabha elections.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-has-failed-in-combating-covid-19/article34845458.ece
18 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Saffron’ Thiruvalluvar portrait removed||The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) in Coimbatore on Thursday removed a portrait of Tamil saint-poet Thiruvalluvar, in which he was depicted donning saffron robes, after media reports sparked a controversy. Officials removed the portrait that was in the university’s library, and replaced it with a portrait of the poet in white attire, which is approved by the State government. Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare M.R.K. Panneerselvam said in a tweet that “as per preliminary investigations”, the saffron-clad portrait was installed in 2017-18. After speaking to university authorities, the official portrait of Thiruvalluvar was installed “in the same spot”, Mr. Panneerselvam tweeted. K. Ramakrishnan, general secretary of the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, who had previously demanded the installation of the approved portrait of Thiruvalluvar in the university’s library, said the saffron-clad image was an attempt by “communal forces to identify Thiruvalluvar with a religion”. An official from TNAU told The Hindu that the previous portrait was installed in the library over four years ago during renovation, and asserted that the act was “not intentional”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/saffron-thiruvalluvar-portrait-removed/article34845422.ece
18 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Initiative for differently abled||Chandran’s Yuva Foundation, an NGO, announced recently that they will provide oxygen concentrators and pulse oximeters to COVID-19 patients who are differently abled free of cost, a press release said. Those interested may contact 86758 22222 and download the application through the following link:http://limitless360.org/ superhero/ superhero_limitless.apk||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/initiative-for-differently-abled/article34845463.ece
18 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medicines donated||Walkaroo International donated medicines worth Rs. 4.82 lakh to COVID-19 patients at ESI Medical College here. A release said, the Coimbatore-based firm made the donations through its CSR arm.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medicines-donated/article34845445.ece
18 June 2021||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on June 18 from 10 a.m. to noon for service connections under Chinniyampalayam feeder of Irugur sub-station. According to a release, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation personnel will take up tree cutting work in these areas.    Due to maintenance work at Elumathur sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 19 at Elumathur, Mangaradu, Sellatham palayam, Pandipalayam, Ellakadai, Kadakinaru, Kulavilakku, Modakkurichi, Kulur, Vadugapatti, 60 Velampalayam, Maniyam palayam, Vellapetham palayam, V. Pudur, Ganapathi palayam, Anandampalayam, Erappampalayam, Minnan kattu Valasu, Veppili, Poondurai Semur and 88 Velampalayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article34845448.ece
18 June 2021||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident near Thoppur||Three persons were killed in a road accident near Thoppur ghat road on Friday. The deceased were identified as N. Eswaran (38), R. Swaminathan (33), and U. Selvaraj (37) from Eruppalli village, near Edappadi, in Salem. According to the police, the deceased along with four others from Salem had travelled to Dharmapuri in four bikes for consuming liquor. The group reportedly after consuming liquor were returning to Salem. They had also purchased liquor bottles, police said. A truck, which was coming in the opposite direction, collided with two motorcycles after the driver lost control of the vehicle. The deceased succumbed to injuries at the accident spot itself. S. Raju, who was riding pillion in one of the bikes, sustained injuries, police said. Truck driver Eswaran and co-driver Jagadeswaran also sustained injuries in the incident. On information, Thoppur police rushed to the spot and recovered the bodies. Police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-killed-in-road-accident-near-thoppur/article34845049.ece
18 June 2021||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Two quacks arrested||The police on Thursday arrested two quacks who were practising allopathy without any proper medical education. Acting on a tip-off, Chief Medical Officer of Natham Government hospital, Thangadurai, along with police team inspected two clinics in Natham. The team found that Sivalingam (58) and Vanitha (42) were treating patients with allopathy medicines and injection at Senthurai and Manakatoor respectively. They were arrested and all drugs and injections were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-quacks-arrested/article34845544.ece
18 June 2021||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination resumes in Erode Corpn. limits||Vaccination resumed at all the 10 Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHCs) in corporation limits while no vaccination was carried out due to inadequate stock in rural areas in the district here on Thursday. A total of 2,300 doses of Covishield and 1,000 doses of Covaxin were allotted to the UPHCs located at Agathiyar Street, Gandhiji Road, Rajajipuram, Karungalpalayam, B.P. Agraharam, Veerappanchatiram, Nethaji Road, Surampatti, Suriyampalayam and Periyasemoor in the corporation limits. One school in each area was selected as a vaccination centre and tokens were issued at 8 a.m. and vaccination began at 9 a.m. A total of 300 tokens were issued for each centre as people waited in queue right from 10 p.m. on Wednesday for the camp. People waited in queue with biscuit packets and water bottles and got vaccinated on Thursday. People who did not receive tokens were sent back by the staff and the police at the centres. As on Wednesday, a total of 2,91,837 persons were vaccinated in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-resumes-in-erode-corpn-limits/article34845450.ece
18 June 2021||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Contributions for establishing more beds||Members of Erode District Small Industries Association (EEDISSIA) have donated a cheque for Rs. 18,09,350 towards creation of additional beds with oxygen support at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Members, P. Thirumoorthy, president, and R. Ramprakash, secretary, handed over the cheque to Minister for Housing and Urban Development S. Muthusamy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contributions-for-establishing-more-beds/article34845446.ece
18 June 2021||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Five arrested for murder||Five, including an elderly woman, was arrested by the police on Thursday allegedly for murdering her son in a dispute a over a property. According to the police, the deceased Sukumar (35), who was living with his family on a 55-cent land was in the name of his mother Gouramma (65). On Wednesday, Gouramma along with her brothers Subramani and Thimarayan went to his house and said that the land belonged to Thimarayan. This led to a scuffle between Sukumar and Gauramma’s brothers and her nephews Raman and Lakshmanan. In a fit of rage, Sukumar was attacked by Subramani and Thimarayan resulting in death. The Baragur police registered a case and arrested all the five persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-arrested-for-murder/article34845048.ece
18 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Paddy transplantation follows water release from Vaigai dam||Following the release of water from Vaigai dam, a section of farmers have started paddy transplantation for the ‘kuruvai’ crop in the double crop region of Madurai district. Collector S. Aneesh Sekhar inspected a field at Karuppayurani where the transplantation of paddy crop was in progress. Water was released from Vaigai dam on June 4 to irrigate 45,041 acres of ayacut in the double crop areas between Peranai in Dindigul district and Kallandhiri in Madurai district. In Madurai district, a majority of the double crop areas fall within Vadipatti, Alanganallur, Madurai East and Madurai West blocks. After many years, water was released for irrigation of the first crop in the double crop region in the first week of June. This will ensure that the farmers can harvest two crops this year. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said that the target was to cultivate 3,300 hectares during the ‘kuruvai’ season in Madurai district. “But we expect around 4,000 hectares of paddy to be raised this season,” he said. Mr. Vivekanandan said that the farmers had been instructed to raise paddy varieties with short gestation of up to 105 days. “This is to ensure that the farmers can harvest the crop before the onset of north-east monsoon,” he said. M. Tirupathi, a farmer from Kulamangalam, said that some farmers who had prepared nurseries long before the release of water from Vaigai dam, are now involved in paddy transplantation. “But paddy transplantation will happen in full swing from next week,” the farmer said. Some farmers have also raised nurseries through the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) method. One such farmer is S. Dharmaraj from Karuppayurani who said that the yield was higher when paddy was cultivated using this technique. Mr. Tirupathi, however, said that farmers were facing issues in obtaining loans from Primary Agricultural Cooperative Banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/paddy-transplantation-follows-water-release-from-vaigai-dam/article34845111.ece
18 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sites for setting up Kalaignar Memorial Library inspected||School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh, Finance Minister P. T. R. P. Thiagarajan and Minister for Commercial Taxes and Registration P. Moorthy inspected several sites in Madurai on Thursday for setting up Kalaignar Memorial Library. The sites shortlisted for setting up the library are: near M.G.R. bus stand; World Tamil Sangam premises; near Sri Meenakshi Government College for Women; Madurai Corporation’s warehouse at Aattu Mandhai in Simmakkal; parking lot near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple; and near office of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board on 70-Feet-Road in Ellis Nagar. Addressing mediapersons after the inspection, the Education Minister said that the library would be established on two lakh square feet at a cost of Rs. 70 crore. It would be highly beneficial to students, research scholars and those who were preparing for competitive examinations. “All the shortlisted sites were inspected. Each site has a set of advantages and disadvantages. All these points will be discussed with the Chief Minister. He will announce the final site which will be selected for setting up the library,” said Mr. Mahesh. School reopening When asked about reopening of schools, the Education Minister said that all District Chief Educational Officers had been instructed to inoculate all teachers against COVID-19. “For the past one week, schools were inspected to check the infrastructure. Almost all teachers have completed their two doses on COVID-19 vaccines,” he said. He said there was a rise in number of students who had transferred from private schools to government schools. Hence, the heads had been instructed to improve the infrastructure so as to retain them. People could contact the government helpline issued by the School Education Department to register any complaints, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sites-for-setting-up-kalaignar-memorial-library-inspected/article34845546.ece
18 June 2021||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Menace of child pornography can be tackled only with moral education, says Madras HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, while granting anticipatory bail to a youth who apprehended arrest for sharing child pornographic content, has observed that the menace of child pornography can be tackled only if all inculcate the right values. Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that Section 43 of the POCSO Act, 2012, says the Central and the State governments must take measures to spread public awareness about the provisions of the statute. However, this alone may not be sufficient. The judge observed, “That the ‘Big Brother’ is watching us may not deter those who are determined to indulge in such acts of perversity. The system also may not be able to prosecute every offender. Therefore, it is only through moral education that there can be a way out. It is only the ‘Bharatiya’ (Indian) culture that can act as a bulwark.” The court was hearing an anticipatory bail petition filed by P.G. Sam Infant Jones of Madurai. The case of the prosecution was that he had browsed, downloaded and shared child pornographic content with his friend. The judge said that viewing pornography privately would not constitute an offence. Offence is an act that is forbidden by law and made punishable. That is the definition found in Section 40 of the IPC. As on date, there is no provision prohibiting such private acts. There are some who even elevate it as falling within one’s right to free expression and privacy. But child pornography falls outside this circle of freedom. Section 67-B of the Information Technology Act, 2000, penalises every kind of act pertaining to child pornography, the judge said. The court took note of the fact that the occurrence took place a year ago and it appeared to be a one-off act. The petitioner had handed over his mobile phone and SIM card to the police. Considering these factors, the judge observed that custodial interrogation of the petitioner was not warranted. Also, considering the COVID-19 situation, the judge said that unless necessary, arrest should be avoided. The court asked him to appear before the police as and when required for interrogation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/child-pornography-menace-can-be-tackled-only-with-moral-education/article34845124.ece
18 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths in Madurai||Madurai recorded 164 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, which increased the total number of positive cases in the district to 70,842. Two fatalities were recorded, with which the district’s death toll rose to 1,050, and 939 persons were discharged from hospitals. Virudhunagar reported 142 fresh cases, the lowest number of new cases since May 3. The district also registered the discharge of 513 persons. Three more patients – all men aged above 50 – succumbed to the viral infection on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-deaths-in-madurai/article34845108.ece
18 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to constitute Village Forest Councils||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday sought response from the State government on a PIL petition that sought a direction for constitution of Village Forest Council in every village to increase green cover. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered the notice on the PIL plea filed by T. Kannan of Pudukkottai district, the son of environmental activist ‘Maram’ Thangasamy. The petitioner said a Government Order was passed in 1997 by the Environment and Forest Department in this regard. The Village Forest Councils would take all steps to plant trees, preserve forests and utilise forest produce. Only five such Councils were in existence now in Pudukkottai district, the petitioner said, adding he had sent a representation to the authorities concerned to take steps to increase the green cover. But, no steps were initiated, he said. The petitioner further said steps must be taken by the authorities to develop Miyawaki forests on the premises of public offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-constitute-village-forest-councils/article34845575.ece
18 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to form Oil Spill Crisis Management Groups||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday sought response from the Centre and the State on a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction for constitution of Oil Spill Crisis Management Groups at State and district levels as per the National Oil Spill Disaster Contingency Plan-2015. A Division Bench of Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and S. Ananthi ordered notice on the plea filed by G. Thirumurugan of Ramanathapuram district, who said the National Oil Spill Disaster Contingency Plan-2015 was adopted in order to ensure an effective system for detection, reporting and effective response to oil spills. The petitioner said the plan assigned task-based responsibilities to government departments and agencies. It provided a framework for coordination of integrated response by the departments and the agencies to protect environment from oil pollution. As per the Plan, the government of every coastal State should constitute a State-level Oil Spill Crisis Management Group. But, despite witnessing many oil spills, Tamil Nadu was yet to constitute the group, he said. The Plan also mandated constitution of district and local-level crisis management groups in order to protect the livelihood of fishermen and marine resources, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-form-oil-spill-crisis-management-groups/article34845109.ece
18 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Masks donated||Ripples of Change Foundation, a non-governmental organisation based in Bengaluru, on Wednesday donated 6,500 N95 masks for Madurai Rural District Police. Representatives of the NGO handed over the masks to Superintendent of Police V. Baskaran.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/masks-donated/article34845549.ece
18 June 2021||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam stood at 132.75 feet (maximum permissible level is 142 feet), with an inflow of 4,239 cusecs and a discharge of 1,400 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 66.17 feet (71 feet), with an inflow of 840 cusecs and a discharge of 969 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 8,191 mcft. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at131.60feet (143 feet), with an inflow of 3,856.78cusecs and a discharge of 1,388.50cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was82.60feet (118 feet), with an inflow of 454 cusecs and a discharge of 600 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article34845113.ece
18 June 2021||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to seek proportionate distribution of vaccine||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma. Subramanian has exuded hope that Tamil Nadu will be able to manufacture vaccines to meet a substantial part of its requirement. Referring to Chief Minister M.K. Stalin’s coming visit to New Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Subramanian said the State would seek to prevail upon the Centre to distribute vaccines in proportion to the population of the State. On the basis of double dosage per individual, there was a need for 10.25 crore more doses to complete the process of vaccination for all above 18 years of age. So far, 1.06 crore doses had been utilised and there was a stock of six lakh doses. Though All India Institute of Medical Sciences did not foresee serious COVID-19 infection in children in the next possible wave of the pandemic, the State government had taken sufficient measures in all districts to treat infected children at exclusive divisions in GHs. The Minister inspected the measures taken in Mayiladuthurai district to prevent spread of the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-to-seek-proportionate-distribution-of-vaccine/article34845574.ece
18 June 2021||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Priority for preventing COVID-19 deaths: Collector||For the first few weeks, priority will be given for preventing COVID-19 deaths and reducing daily caseload, said Shreya P. Singh, newly appointed Collector of Namakkal, who assumed charge on Thursday. Ms. Singh told presspersons that Namakkal is one among the 11 districts where restrictions are still in place and priority for first two-three weeks will be given to reduce COVID-19 deaths and daily cases to nil. She added that the Chief Minister has advised them on seven principles and priority among them was to ensure all facilities to all. She added that all should work safely, wear masks, maintain physical distancing and prevent future waves. Ms. Singh said that COVID-19 had still not been eradicated. Hence, public should remain safe for next two weeks and if all restrictions announced by the government are followed, the district would be able to achieve zero cases, zero deaths in two weeks, she said and appealed to the public to extend cooperation. Ms. Singh later visited the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital and assessed the COVID-19 treatment facilities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/priority-for-preventing-covid-19-deaths-collector/article34845456.ece
18 June 2021||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Test positivity rate falls below 4% in Puducherry||The test positivity rate in the Union Territory dropped below 4% as 326 cases were confirmed from 9,106 tests even as 480 recoveries were recorded on Thursday. The Union Territory recorded eight deaths, taking the toll to 1,710. Puducherry recorded six deaths and Karaikal two. The patients, including two women, were in the 48-80 age group, and two of them had no underlying morbidity. The break-up of the cumulative toll in the region is Puducherry 1,367, Karaikal 210, Yanam 101 and Mahe 32. Puducherry accounted for 280 new cases, followed by Karaikal (30), Yanam (10) and Mahe (six). The test positivity rate was 3.58%, case fatality rate 1.5% and recovery rate 94.7%. The number of active cases stood at 4,333 with 666 patients in hospitals and 3,667 in home isolation. The number of cumulative cases aggregated 1,13,948 against 1,07,905 patients recovered. Of an estimated 11.99 lakh tests conducted so far, over 11.03 lakh samples returned negative. Intense drive Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Thursday that Puducherry could ride the success of the ongoing four-day intensive vaccination campaign for the 18-44 age group to become a fully vaccinated Union Territory. The Lt. Governor, who carried out an inspection of the vaccination drive at the Tiruvandarkoil Government Girls Higher Secondary School, said that 13,000 people had taken the jab on the opening day of the intensive campaign on Wednesday. If this could be sustained over the remaining days of the campaign, Puducherry would be well on its way to become fully inoculated, she said. The Lt. Governor has set a target to get the Union Territory fully vaccinated by Independence Day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/test-positivity-rate-falls-below-4-in-puducherry/article34845437.ece
18 June 2021||PUDUKOTTAI/TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||New Collectors take charge in 3 more districts||Kavitha Ramu, P. Gayathri Krishnan and A. Arun Thamburaj assumed charge as Collectors of Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts on Thursday. Ms. Ramu was previously Director-cum-Mission Director, Integrated Child Development Scheme. She replaces P. Uma Maheswari. In a brief chat with media persons after assuming office, Ms. Ramu said she would strive to ensure that government schemes reached the people. She would also act promptly on people’s needs. Ms. Krishnan served as Joint Commissioner-Commercial Taxes Department, Coimbatore, prior to her posting as Tiruvarur Collector. She replaces V. Santha. She promised to work for development of the district that was largely populated by farmers. Ms. Krishnan said she would accord priority to COVID-19 prevention measures. A. Arun Thamburaj assumed charge as the new Collector of Nagapattinam district.. COVID-19 prevention measures would be accelerated and reach of the benefit of State schemes to targetted sections of the society would be ensured, Dr. Arun said. The Collector said people could have a connect with him through facebook (DistrictCollector Nagapattinam), Instagram (district_collector_nagai) and Twitter (Collector_NGT).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-collectors-take-charge-in-3-more-districts/article34845594.ece
18 June 2021||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Two youths drown in well||Two 18-year-old youths - N. Arivuraj and M. Davamani drowned in a well in Mugavur on Wednesday. Phe police said that the youths, along with five others, had gone to take bath in the well. While four of them returned home, three of them continued to take bath. Late in the evening, the third youth returned home. However, when their family members came searching, they found the dress of the two deceased near the well. After alerting the police on Thursday, Fire and Rescue Services personnel fished out the bodies after a prolonged struggle. Dhalavaipuram police are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-youths-drown-in-well/article34845548.ece
18 June 2021||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Stop Lanka from dropping iron scrap into the sea||Fishermen affiliated to All Mechanised Boat Fishermen Association staged a protest at Rameswaram in the district, appealing to the Centre to stop Sri Lanka from dropping bus scrap in the Palk Strait that would affect marine ecology and damage Indian fishermen’s boats and nets. Association president P. Sesuraja said the Sri Lankan government claimed that it was dropping the scrap in its territorial waters. However, the areas were close to where Indian fishermen were traditionally going for fishing. “The scrap can also be washed into Indian territory by strong currents. The iron scrap can damage costly fishing nets and wooden boats and cause huge a loss to our fishermen,” Mr. Sesuraja said. He said traditionally only wooden logs or artificial coral reef were dropped in the sea to enable breeding of fishes. However, now iron scrap was being dropped in the sea with a motive to cause loss to Tamil fishermen, he alleged. Another demand of the fishermen was to provision of subsidy on diesel price. “The price of diesel in India was the highest in the world. At this cost, the fishermen cannot break even. Every time we venture into the sea, we spend 250 - 600 litres of diesel. The fishermen cannot make up for the increased fuel cost by selling fishes at higher rates,” he said. The fishermen demanded that the Centre should supply diesel without excise duty and road cess to the fishermen to protect their livelihood.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stop-lanka-from-dropping-iron-scrap-into-the-sea/article34845103.ece
18 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||13.3% received vaccination in Salem: Collector||District Collector S. Karmegham said that 13.3% of target population had received COVID-19 vaccination in the district and advised the public to not panic about shortage in vaccine supply. Mr. Karmegham along with Corporation Commissioner T. Christuraj, City Health officer K. Parthibhan and other senior officials inspected a vaccination centre set up at a private school near Periyapudhur here. Mr. Karmegham told presspersons the district had received 32,750 vaccine doses on Wednesday and they had been dispatched to various centres of vaccination. He said additional vaccination centres had been set up in the Corporation limits and the number of centres had been increased from 16 to 30. In Salem district, vaccine was being administered through 122 centres. Mr. Karmegham said that until Tuesday, the district had received 6.01 lakh doses of vaccines and until Monday, 5.61 lakh doses had been administered. He added that 4,60,999 persons aged above 45 years and 1,00,317 persons aged between 18-44 years had received vaccination in the district. The district had been receiving vaccines once in two days and hence the public need not panic about vaccine shortage and there was sufficient stock of vaccines, he added. Mr. Christuraj said that vaccine had been specifically allotted for first and second doses. So, the public need not panic about vaccine shortage or missing second dose within stipulated period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/133-received-vaccination-in-salem-collector/article34845453.ece
18 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No resolution meeting held: AIADMK legislator||AIADMK legislator G. Chitra from Yercaud constituency denied that any meeting on passing resolution against V.K. Sasikala happened at Salem on Thursday. She, however, said that she consented for the resolution through phone. Ms. Chitra told presspersons that a meeting to pass a resolution against V.K.Sasikala never happened at the party office in Omalur (However, the meeting which was presided by Opposition leader Edappadi.K. Palaniswami occurred at the party office in Omalur and resolution was passed.) Responding to a question on the meeting to pass resolution against V.K. Sasikala, aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, Ms. Chitra said, “no meeting happened then how would I take part?” She added that she was informed about the resolution only through phone and she ‘signed’ it. On orders from the party that none from AIADMK should interact with Ms. Sasikala, Ms. Chitra said that she has never contacted Ms. Sasikala and she would act only according to the decision taken by party leadership. When she was asked again whether she visited party office and signed the resolution, Ms. Chitra maintained that the meeting never happened so how would she take part in it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-resolution-meeting-held-aiadmk-legislator/article34845461.ece
18 June 2021||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||ESI introduces relief scheme||The ESI Corporation has proposed to provide financial assistance to dependants of insured persons who die of COVID-19 disease with 90% of last salary or minimum of Rs. 1,800 per month. To benefit under the scheme, the deceased person must have registered under ESI scheme at least three months ahead of COVID-19 and must have contributed for at least 70 days a year, a release said. The period of relief scheme is from March 2020 to March 2022. For details, contact 0427 -2336941.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esi-introduces-relief-scheme/article34845454.ece
18 June 2021||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Collectors take charge in three districts||Collector S. Gopala Sundararaj assumed office here on Thursday following the transfer of his predecessor G.S. Sameeran to Coimbatore. Earlier, he was working as Joint Managing Director and Project Director of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board. He served earlier as Sub-Collector, Thoothukudi, and Deputy Commissioner of Chennai Corporation. J. U. Chandrakala is the new Collector of Ramanathapuram district. She succeeds Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, who has been transferred as Collector of Thanjavur. Hitherto, she was Executive Director, Tamil Nadu Corporation for Development of Women.A 2013-batch of IAS, she had served as Sub-Collector in Vellore and Krishnagiri districts. S. Visakan assumed office as the Collector of Dindigul district. Previously, he served as the Commissioner of Madurai Corporation. He has also served as the District Revenue Officer of Dharmapuri and Executive Director of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation in Chennai. He chaired a meeting with the officials from various departments to discuss the preventive steps taken to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collectors-take-charge-in-three-districts/article34845117.ece
18 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Food Minister inspects private rice mills ahead of paddy procurement||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies R. Sakkarapani on Thursday expressed hope that paddy procurement would surpass the target this year also. He was talking to reporters here after inspecting a private mill. engaged by Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to convert paddy procured from farmers as rice for distribution through the public distribution system, at Vallam on the outskirts of Thanjavur. Mr. Sakkarapani said that during last procurement season 40,000 tonnes more paddy were procured by the Corporation against a target of 32 lakh tonnes. In the current season, the procured quantity had already crossed 34 lakh tonnes against the target of 43 lakh tonnes of paddy. With four months left in the season, the total procurement would surpass the annual target. Stating that Chief Minister M.K. Stalin had instructed officials to ensure distribution of quality rice to family cardholders. Hence, mills engaged for hulling of paddy procured by the Corporation were being inspected. During the inspection, mill owners recounted the problems they faced in hulling, he said and added that the presence of black grains found in PDS rice was primarily due to high moisture content with which the paddy was procured in the past. The previous government had procured paddy from farmers with 20% to 21%t moisture content after getting the consent of the Union government, he pointed out. In order to save and preserve the paddy procured by farmers in delta districts, Cuddalore and Tiruchi districts from getting affected due to natural calamities, it had been proposed to set up silos in the districts, Mr. Sakkarapani said. Instructions had been issued to officials to ensure quick movement of paddy procured at direct purchase centres to godowns or mills by road and through rail or by road to other districts. The Food Minister also said that new ration cards had been issued to 2,11,950 families after formation of the present government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-minister-inspects-private-rice-mills-ahead-of-paddy-procurement/article34845588.ece
18 June 2021||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea for kuruvai cover to all farmers||While welcoming the announcement of kuruvai package, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has said that all farmers who have taken up or likely to take up kuruvai cultivation in delta districts should be covered under the scheme along with enhancement of fund allocation. Pointing out that the AIADMK government did not announce special packages for 2019 and 2020, association secretary Sundara Vimalanathan said the government headed by late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa extended Rs. 54.65 crore as special package in 2016 and increased it to Rs. 56.92 crore in 2017 and to Rs. 115.67 crore in 2018. Since the cost of cultivation had increased, the government should ensure that farmers who had taken up ‘early kuruvai ( munpatta kuruvai ) cultivation also benefited from the present scheme. Thanjavur district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI(M) N. V. Kannan exhorted the government to ensure that the benefits reached every farmer who took up kuruvai cultivation in delta districts. The government must initiate steps for disbursement of crop loans through cooperative banking institutions without any conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-for-kuruvai-cover-to-all-farmers/article34845589.ece
18 June 2021||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Mortal remains of havildar laid to rest||The mortal remains of havildar Prabharkaran, who died in a bike accident, was laid to rest at his native village in Cumbam on Wednesday, with full military honour. On Monday night, Prabhakaran, 33, met with an accident in Delhi. Military officers and bureaucrats laid wreaths on the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mortal-remains-of-havildar-laid-to-rest/article34845104.ece
18 June 2021||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||1,845 bags of sugar seized||Officials attached to the Department of Food Safety seized 1,848 bags of sugar, which had been stocked in Udangudi, for preparing adulterated palm jiggery and palm candy. According to Designated Officer for Food Safety Mariappan, checks were conducted on Thursday at five palm jiggery and palm candy manufacturing units in Udangudi. As 1,340 bags (67 tonnes) of sugar, worth about Rs. 23.25 lakh, had been stocked in these units, it was seized. The seizure orders were handed over to the owners of these units. When the officials raided the sugar supplier’s premises, 505 bags (25 tonnes) of sugar, worth about Rs. 8.50 lakh, was seized. “The supplier has not obtained the mandatory permission from the Department of Food Safety for running the firm and has been selling sugar without proper receipt,” he said. Subsequently, action will be taken against culprits under Food Safety Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1845-bags-of-sugar-seized/article34845547.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rapid slide in COVID-19 cases expected within a week’||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma.Subramanian on Thursday expressed confidence that there will be a rapid slide in COVID-19 cases in the State within a week. “The number of active cases has come down to 1,00,523 today from 3,13,000 on April 28, which is a good augury. There are about 62,000 vacant beds in COVID wards in the State. We hope to move soon towards an infection-free State,” Mr.Subramanian said while speaking to reporters after reviewing the COVID 19 prevention measures in Pudukottai district along with Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan. The Minister asserted that the state was prepared to face a third wave, if there were to be one, as per the instructions of Chief Minister M.K.Stalin. “More than 70,000 oxygenated beds have been readied in the state. Special paediatric wards to treat COVID 19 cases have been set up in all district headquarters government hospitals. Clinics for new born babies were also being readied,” he said. Answering a query on alleged non-payment of wages to some daily wage hospital workers in Pudukottai, Mr.Subramanian said he had received representations from 10-15 persons indicating that the contracted company had not paid salaries to the outsourced workers. The Collector would inquire into the matter and find a solution, he said. To avoid such issues, the government has done away with system of outsourcing staff in government hospitals. “All new recruitments will be direct appointments including the 2,000 doctors, 6000 nurses and 3,700 non-medical field staff being recruited by the respective Collectors and deans of medical colleges,” he said. Mr.Subramanian said that the State has so far got 1.16 doses of COVID 19 vaccines against the requirement of 11.36 crore doses. “We need another 10.20 crore doses. If the Centre allotted two crore doses a month, we can inoculate the entire population within the next four or five months and overcome apprehensions about a third wave,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-slide-in-covid-19-cases-expected-within-a-week/article34845042.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rapid slide in COVID-19 cases expected within a week’||Minister for Medical and Family Welfare Ma.Subramanian on Thursday expressed confidence that there will be a rapid slide in COVID 19 cases in the State within a week. “The number of active cases has come down to 1,00,523 today from 3,13,000 on April 28, which is a good augury. There are about 62,000 vacant beds in COVID wards in the State. We hope to move soon towards an infection-free State,” Mr.Subramanian said while speaking to reporters after reviewing the COVID 19 prevention measures in Pudukottai district along with Health Secretary J.Radhakrishnan. The Minister asserted that the state was prepared to face a third wave, if there were to be one, as per the instructions of Chief Minister M.K.Stalin. “More than 70,000 oxygenated beds have been readied in the state. Special paediatric wards to treat COVID 19 cases have been set up in all district headquarters government hospitals. Clinics for new born babies were also being readied,” he said. Answering a query on alleged non-payment of wages to some daily wage hospital workers in Pudukottai, Mr.Subramanian said he had received representations from 10-15 persons indicating that the contracted company had not paid salaries to the outsourced workers. The Collector would inquire into the matter and find a solution, he said. To avoid such issues, the government has done away with system of outsourcing staff in government hospitals. “All new recruitments will be direct appointments including the 2,000 doctors, 6000 nurses and 3,700 non-medical field staff being recruited by the respective Collectors and deans of medical colleges,” he said. Mr.Subramanian said that the State has so far got 1.16 doses of COVID 19 vaccines against the requirement of 11.36 crore doses. “We need another 10.20 crore doses. If the Centre allotted two crore doses a month, we can inoculate the entire population within the next four or five months and overcome apprehensions about a third wave,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rapid-slide-in-covid-19-cases-expected-within-a-week/article34845584.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special inoculation camps held for differently abled, Gandhi Market vendors in Tiruchi||The district administration on Thursday organised a special COVID-19 vaccination camp for differently abled persons. Nearly 1,000 people were vaccinated during the exercise coordinated by the District Differently Abled Welfare Office. According to senior health officials in the district, 500 doses of Covishield were allotted to the special camp at Kalaiarangam, while 400 doses of Covaxin were given to a special home in Guntur for the differently-abled. Of them, 341 took the jab at Kalaiarangam, 42 people in Guntur, while 425 others were inoculated at various primary healthcare centres across the district, R. Ravichandran, DDWO, said. Meanwhile, addressing presspersons at the inauguration of the special camp, Collector S. Sivarasu said that according to data collected in 2020, there were around 21 lakh people over the age of 18 in Tiruchi, which was the target for COVID-19 inoculation. “The people are now aware of the importance of the vaccine and we are inoculating up to 21,000 people per day,” he said. “If we inoculate everyone, especially those who are at risk, we can protect them during the third wave.” Along with vaccination, personal distancing, mask-wearing, and other COVID-19 protocol were the best preventive ways from falling ill. A special camp was also arranged for vendors at Gandhi Market. Of 2,800 registered vendors at the market, 1,650 had been inoculated and 350 more were vaccinated on Thursday, the Collector said. “When the wholesale market opens on Monday, we will not permit those who have not taken at least one shot of the vaccine to open their shops,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-inoculation-camps-held-for-differently-abled-gandhi-market-vendors-in-tiruchi/article34845579.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Proposal for rope car facility at Rockfort Temple to be revived||The State government will revive a proposal on establishing a rope car at Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple in Tiruchi, according to P.K. Sekar Babu, Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE). Speaking to reporters after climbing the hillock along with School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Wednesday, Mr. Sekar Babu said the proposal was originally mooted during former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi’s regime. However, it did not make headway in the subsequent regime. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin was committed to establishing a rope car facility at the temple as early as possible. A fresh study would be carried out to explore the possibility for installing the facility so as to support elderly people to reach the temple situated atop the hillock. It would also be a boon to the tourism sector. When pointed out that the presence of a number of residences and commercial establishments were said to be major impediments in establishing the project, the Minister said the survey was conducted about 20 years ago. New innovations and modern technologies were available now. The best available technology could be adopted to suit the place. Rope car facility would soon be a reality in Tiruchi. Mr. Sekar Babu said similar projects had been mooted at Lakshmi Narashima Swamy Temple at Sholinghur, Murugan Temples at Thiruttani and Thiruneermalai and Arthanareeswarar Temple at Tiruchengode. A separate study would be conducted for establishing the facilities. They would be submitted to the Chief Minister as early as possible for taking further steps. Answering a question, he said the State government was aware of the demand for opening of places of worship. They would be opened as soon as COVID-19 was brought under control. Later, Mr. Sekar Babu visited Rathinagiriswarar Temple at Ayyarmalai in Karur district and inspected the progress of establishing the rope car facility. HR&CE Commissioner Kumaragurubaran, Collector T. Prabhu Shankar and senior officials accompanied the Minister. Mr. Sekar Babu said a few works were yet to be completed and instructions had been given to officials to expedite them. The facility would be brought to public use shortly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/proposal-for-rope-car-facility-at-rockfort-temple-to-be-revived/article34845586.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Relief material donated||Medical equipment, personal protective equipment and hygiene kits sponsored by Gramalaya and Give2Asia, an independent non-profit organisation, towards COVID-19 relief activity, were handed over to government hospitals and slum dwellers by Minister for School Education Ambil Mahesh Poyyamozhi on Thursday. The Minister joined Tiruchi East MLA Iniko Irudayaraj in distributing the relief material to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, block-level primary health centres and other government hospitals. M. Elangovan, Executive Director, Gramalaya, said the relief material comprised 10 oxygen concentrators, five multi-paramonitors, 30 refrigerators, 30 hot water dispensers, 1,000 pulse oximeters, 1,000 streamers, 1,000 digital thermometers, 1,000 hygiene kit (masks, sanitiser and re-usable menstrual cloth pads), one deep freezer, one lakh medical gloves, 500 safety gloves, and 500 gum boots. They were received by Vanitha, Dean, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital; Lakshmi Joint Director, Medical and Rural Health Services; Ram Ganesh, Deputy Director, Health Services; Amutha Chokkalingam, City Health Officer, Tiruchi Corporation; and members of NGOs. MP donates ambulance Perambalur MP T. R. Paarivendhar on Thursday handed over an ambulance worth Rs. 17 lakh for Thuraiyur GH and two oxygen concentrators worth Rs. 3.20 lakh to Collector S. Sivarasu in the presence of Deputy Director of Health Services S. Ram Ganesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-material-donated/article34845576.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors to hold protests||In the wake of several assault cases reported against doctors, the Indian Medical Association will hold a protest on Friday demanding a central law to protect them. Doctors affiliated with IMA will wear black badges in solidarity, while continuing to provide all medical services at their hospitals. Speaking toThe Hindu, P. Ramakrishnan, State President, IMA-Tamil Nadu branch, said that while the Tamil Nadu government had a government order protecting doctors against violence, several other States were yet to enact such an order. “We are demanding national legislature. It is necessary that such an order be passed to ensure safety, especially in these trying times.” The doctors also sought the government’s intervention in declaring hospitals as protected zones. “People who attempt to harm healthcare providers must be punished as non-bailable offenses,” he added. The doctors said they would continue to put pressure on the government to provide protection, but would not let it affect the treatment of patients. “There are doctors in some parts of the country who have decided to shut their hospitals and clinics for some part of the day. However, we have decided to wear black badges and continue to work, especially in emergencies that need us,” Dr. Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-to-hold-protests/article34845582.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘CBSE Class XII formula will be analysed’||The CBSE Class XII assessment formula will be analysed while fixing the criteria for evaluating students of Tamil Nadu State board schools, School Education Minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi said on Thursday. The mechanism will be to the satisfaction of students, he told journalists here. Chief Minister M.K. Stalin would be consulted before the School Education Department decided on whether or not to conduct the examinations for Class X and XII private candidates, he said. Citing complaints from parents, Mr. Poyyamozhi cautioned private schools against collecting excess fee and warned them of action. The decision on in-person classes would depend on the easing of the lockdown. He said the government would settle the amounts due to private schools that admitted students of backward families under the Right to Education Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cbse-class-xii-formula-will-be-analysed/article34845425.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||1,238 new cases, 39 deaths in delta||The central districts reported 1,238 fresh cases, a sharp dip in the region since April, on Thursday, while 39 patients died of the viral infection. Sixteen patients succumbed to the viral infection in Tiruchi district, while eight deaths were reported in Thanjavur. Tiruvarur reported five, Pudukottai four and Karur three deaths. Two deaths were reported in Perambalur, while one was reported in Nagapattinam. Ariyalur did not report any deaths. Thanjavur reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases with 311 patients reporting positive. However, the district reported a marked dip in the number of fresh cases over the last week. Tiruchi district came a close second with 283 patients testing positive, while Nagapattinam reported a marked dip with 186 fresh cases. Tiruvarur and Karur reported 132 fresh cases each. According to data published in the COVID-19 bulletin released by the Department of Medical and Family Welfare, Nagapattinam district had 21 ICU beds vacant, while Tiruvarur had 25. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts had 157 and 118 ICU beds vacant. Ariyalur reported 85 fresh cases, while Pudukottai recorded 69. Perambalur reported 40 fresh cases. Pudukottai had five vacant ICU beds, while Perambalur had 33. Ariyalur district had 12 vacant beds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1238-new-cases-39-deaths-in-delta/article34845581.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kalakkad will have infrastructure required for banana value-addition||Collector V. Vishnu has assured the banana growers that comprehensive training would be given to them for making value-added products from banana besides creating all infrastructures required for the value addition at Kalakkad. While interacting with the banana growers of Kalakkad, the ‘Banana Basket’ of Tirunelveli district, on Wednesday, the farmers told the Collector that different varieties of banana were being cultivated on 5,500 acres around Kalakkad and the harvested banana were being auctioned in nearby Sirumalanji. Apart from traders from the southern districts, buyers from Kerala were buying banana from the farmers. He inspected the banana fibre-making unit, handicrafts made from banana fibre and the units making banana chips and banana powder. “If a banana auction centre is established at Kalakkad, the farmers will get better price for their produce. Moreover, appropriate training on making value-added products from banana and infrastructure for the value-addition will uplift the farmers’ living conditions,” the growers appealed. Accepting the demands, he assured the farmers that immediate steps would be taken to create all infrastructures required for value-addition of banana. Joint Director of Agriculture Gajendra Pandian, Deputy Director of Agriculture Muruganandam and Assistant Director of Horticulture Dilip accompanied the Collector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kalakkad-will-have-infrastructure-required-for-banana-value-addition/article34845106.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Attack on three triggers tension; houses, vehicles ransacked in counter attack||Tension prevailed at Munneerpallam near here since Wednesday night after three persons, including an ITI student belonging to a Scheduled Caste, were hacked by a gang. The police said the problem started when the student, B. Balamukesh of Marutham Nagar near Keezha Munneerpallam, was attacked by a gang belonging to a different caste while he was taking bath in a channel in the evening. The gang also attacked his friends with stones and sticks. Admitted to hospital Mr. Balamukesh was admitted to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital with injuries. His condition is said to be out of danger. At night, relatives of the victims and members of their caste entered the area where people of the other caste live in large numbers. They ransacked the houses and damaged vehicles and set fire to two paddy-straw bales. A car, an autorickshaw and 10 houses were damaged. The attackers then blocked the road passing through Marutham Nagar, demanding the arrest of those who attacked Mr. Balamukesh. Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Tirunelveli range) Praveen Kumar Abinapu, Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Tirunelveli) M. Rajarajan rushed to the spot and held talks with them. Before giving up their agitation, the protesters told the police officers that the attacks on the Scheduled Caste youths had continued since 2019 when Rajamani of Marutham Nagar was murdered, and hence stern action should be taken against the attackers. In the meantime, members of the other caste blocked traffic on the Tirunelveli-Papanasam Highway, demanding the arrest of those who ransacked their houses and damaged their vehicles. Even as the agitation was going on at Munneerpallam, unidentified persons entered the Sri Lankan refuge camp at Subramaniyapuram and attacked Chinnadurai, 55, and Perumal, 65, with sickles and escaped. The camp inmates blocked the Tirunelveli-Papanasam Highway. During investigation, the police found that those who attacked Mr. Balamukesh had attacked Mr. Chinnadurai and Mr. Perumal too, and that M. Sankaralingam, his brother Arun Pandi and eight others had unleashed the attack. As tension prevailed at Munneerpallam, policemen were deployed in large numbers. Meetings held T.S. Anbu, Inspector-General of Police, south zone, is camping here. As instructed by Collector V. Vishnu, Sub-Collector Sivakrishnamurthy chaired a few meetings on Thursday, in which representatives of both sides participated. While cases have been filed against Sankaralingam, Arun Pandi and eight others in connection with the attack, the police are on the lookout for 40 persons who ransacked the houses and damaged the vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/attack-on-three-triggers-tension-houses-vehicles-ransacked-in-counter-attack/article34845120.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers to get Rs. 11,500 cr. as crop loan’||The Department of Cooperation plans to give crop loans to the tune of Rs. 11,500 crore to farmers this fiscal, besides enrolling new members in Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies, Minister for Cooperation I. Periyasamy has said. Speaking to reporters on Thursday after chairing a meeting to review the operations of the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Banks (PACBs) and the cooperative banks of Tirunelveli, Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, he said the PACBs had been instructed to enrol a greater number of farmers as new members before the disbursal of the crop loans. Apart from giving loans to ‘farmer clusters’, PACBs have been instructed to give loans to individual farmers also. At the same time, giving loans through PACBs to non-farmers would be viewed seriously and due action would follow against the erring officials, he said. On the availability of fertilizers, Mr. Periyasamy said the State government had stocked them in adequate quantities across the State so that farmers could get it at the right time and at right prices for the ensuing crop season. The Minister promised to set up paddy direct procurement centres (DPC) in the places DPCs were required during the ensuing harvest. He said the government would create cold storage facilities and ensure better procurement prices for banana and drumsticks. Ministers Anita R. Radhakrishnan, P. Geetha Jeevan and T. Mano Thangaraj, and Tirunelveli Collec- tor V. Vishnu were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-to-get-rs-11500-cr-as-crop-loan/article34845169.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Sluice work: traffic to be diverted||Traffic diversion will be in force along Kandigaiperi – Ramaiyanpatti – Thatchanallur Road from June 19 to 27 as a new sluice will be constructed at Ilanthaikulam. A press release from Public Works Department said construction of a new sluice at Ilanthaikulam on Kandigaiperi – Thatchanallur Road, which is getting water from Kodagan Channel, will be taken up by Water Resources Organisation of Tamirabharani Basin from June 19 to 27. So, vehicular traffic will be diverted via Saaliyar Street – Gurunathan Vilakku – Thatchanallur during these days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sluice-work-traffic-to-be-diverted/article34845119.ece
18 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||A simple wedding yields bountiful donation||A couple from Tiruppur have recently donated over Rs. 37 lakhs towards COVID-19 relief and other philanthropic activities as the lockdown forced them to cut down on their wedding expenses. According to P. Arul Selvam, chairman of a private manufacturing unit that produces water tanks, his son A. Arul Pranesh got married to G. Anu in a simple ceremony near Kangeyam on June 14 in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol. However, Mr. Selvam, who is a member of Rotary Club of Tiruppur Smart City, suggested that the cash that was made unnecessary could be donated to various projects via Rotary Clubs and also for the COVID-19 treatment expenses of those in need. With the newly-weds and their family agreeing to it, the cash to the tune of Rs. 37.66 lakh was donated to COVID-19 care centres maintained by Rotary Clubs in Tiruppur, Perundurai and Palladam, other Rotary projects, he said. Mr. Pranesh said none of the family members were opposed to the decision to donate the money. “Everybody was happy,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-simple-wedding-yields-bountiful-donation/article34845459.ece
18 June 2021||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vaccination for crematorium workers||Corporation Commissioner Kranti Kumar Pati, who inspected a crematorium where bodies of COVID-19 patients were cremated, said that vaccination drive for crematorium workers was under way. He told mediapersons, around 15 workers participated in the drive held on Thursday. Most of the crematorium workers had received the first dose and this drive was held to administer the second dose and to cover those who had not been vaccinated yet. Mr. Pati inspected the facilities at Tiruppur South Rotary Crematorium on Thursday. Steps would be taken in coordination with the district administration to communicate to the public regarding availability of vaccines in a better manner, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaccination-for-crematorium-workers/article34845440.ece
18 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Captured elephant brought to camp||A 30-year-old injured elephant was brought to an elephant camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Thursday for treatment. The animal will live the rest of his life in captivity. The tusker, known to the forest department as “Silver Monstra,” was captured and restrained using kumki elephants in Gudalur on Wednesday. Due to the unfavorable topography and rains in the region, it was decided to leave the elephant restrained in Gudalur on Wednesday, and on Thursday morning, it was boarded onto a truck and brought to an elephant camp in MTR. Field Director of MTR, K.K.Kaushal, said that it was probably the first time that an elephant was captured without being tranquillised. “After seeing the animal, we estimate that it has a 60-70 % chance of survival. The wounds are quite deep and will need continuous treatment over a period of time,” said Mr. Kaushal. A team of veterinarians including veterinary assistant surgeon, Dr. K. Rajesh Kumar, as well as veterinarians from the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) will treat the animal over the next few weeks and months, said Mr. Kaushal. "The animal is feeding, and is calm. It is also not trying to get out from the ‘kraal’ (elephant shelter) in which it has been kept,” said another official from the forest department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/captured-elephant-brought-to-camp/article34845046.ece
18 June 2021||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 82 lakh given to relief funds||A total of Rs. 82.21 lakh has been given as contributions from residents and private organisations to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) and the Corona Relief Fund in the Nilgiris, a release said. It said that Rs. 68.68 lakh was given as contributions to the CMPRF and Rs. 13.53 lakh to the Corona Relief Fund. The District Collector praised the people who contributed, which included school students, farmers and residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rs-82-lakh-given-to-relief-funds/article34845451.ece
18 June 2021||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in elephant attack||A 37-year-old man was killed after an accidental encounter with an elephant near Kurinji Nagar in Kolapully in Cherambadi Forest Range in Gudalur division on Thursday night. Forest department officials said the deceased S. Balakrishnan had stepped outside his house on late Thursday night and due to heavy rain and mist in the area, he did not realise that there was an elephant near to his house. He was believed to have ventured too close to the animal, resulting in an attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-killed-in-elephant-attack/article34845047.ece
18 June 2021||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Village assistant killed in road accident||G. Sugumar, village assistant, 31, was killed in an accident near Aruppukottai on Wednesday night. He accompanied the driver T. Marudhupandian, 56, to drop Aruppukottai Tahsildar Mariappan at his house in Virudhunagar. While returning to Aruppukottai, Sugumar, who has a valid driving license, was behind the wheel. When the vehicle was proceeding near Palavanatham, a truck that was coming on the opposite direction, suddenly turned towards right to avoid hitting another vehicle and it collided head on with the SUV. Sugumar was rushed to Virudhunagar Medical College Hsopital where he was declared brought dead. Maruthupandian was admitted to the private hospital in Madurai. The police have booked a case against driver, S. Veluchami.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/village-assistant-killed-in-road-accident/article34845122.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,227 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 1,227 new cases of COVID-19. The district had 12,820 active cases of the disease. The Health Department said that 2,787 persons recovered from the disease on Thursday. The district's toll increased to 1,823 after 17 more persons died of COVID-19. Tiruppur district saw further dip in the daily caseload with 542 new cases on Thursday, which was the lowest in around 40 days. This took the overall tally to 77,266. The Health Department reported nine more deaths, which took the overall toll to 665. The active cases came down to 11,039, the lowest since May 23. A total of 877 patients were reported to have recovered in the district on Thursday. Erode district reported 1,041 new cases, taking the tally to 80,927. While 1,239 persons were discharged, 9,709 continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll to 512. The daily caseload came down below the 600-mark as 598 cases were reported in Salem on Thursday. According to health officials, 474 cases were indigenous and 125 were reported in the Corporation limits. As many as 124 patients returned from Chennai, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Namakkal and Erode districts. As per bulletin, 15 deaths were reported in Salem, including six women patients. In Namakkal, 330 cases were reported. As per bulletin, all cases were indigenous. Two deaths were reported in the district. A total of 195 cases were reported in Krishnagiri. Three deaths were reported in the district. In Dharmapuri, 133 indigenous cases were reported. Six deaths were reported including, three women patients. In the Nilgiris, 174 persons tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 26,662. The number of deaths increased from 140 to 141 on Thursday while 2,700 persons are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1227-new-cases-in-coimbatore/article34845439.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM reiterates vaccine unit plea||Mr. Stalin handed over a memorandum containing 25 major demands, including exemption of Tamil Nadu from the NEET-based admission to medical courses and scrapping of the entrance tests for admission to other professional courses. He sought additional allocation of COVID-19 vaccines and drugs; establishment of an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences in Coimbatore; and reservation for the Other Backward Classes in the all-India quota for admission to undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses. The State sought the withdrawal of the income ceiling to identify backward classes, and an amendment to the Constitution to enable the States to allocate reservation for the Most Backward Classes and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes based on their caste composition. The State reiterated its stand against the Mekedatu dam project and sought an increase in the height of the Mullaperiyar dam. It demanded that the pending financial and GST dues be cleared. The State wanted the Godavari-Cauvery and Cauvery-Gundar linkage schemes and the Sethusamudram Shipping Canal Project expedited. Interacting with journalists, Mr. Stalin termed the meeting satisfactory. Asked why the vaccination drive in the State had to be suspended, even when vaccines were being supplied and when a clear picture would emerge, he said: “It will be transparent if they give what we ask for. The Centre has been saying that the issue of vaccine shortage cannot even be spoken about. You can understand from that...”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-reiterates-vaccine-unit-plea/article34845430.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Move to suspend trains draws flak||Rail commuters have condemned Southern Railway’s decision to suspend some of the special trains operated on main line. In a statement, Papanasam Train Passengers Association secretary T. Saravanan wondered how there could be good patronage for skeleton services operated during lockdown. Thus, suspending the special services on the grounds of poor patronage was unacceptable. It was an open secret that the main line had fallen outside the scope of development for a considerable period of time in the past following ‘realisation of the advantages’ in operating long distance trainsthrough chord line,he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/move-to-suspend-trains-draws-flak/article34845577.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||RD National College of Arts and Science: Department of Costume Design and Fashion, webinar on Apparel Machineries, K. Gomathi, Assistant Professor, Kongu Arts and Science College, speaks, 10 a.m.    Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online meeting on communication and leadership skills, 6.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/erode/article34845447.ece
18 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Several bridges come under water in Belagavi district||Heavy rain continued to lash parts of Belagavi district, leading to water flowing over several bridges and roads. As many as seven bridges across the Krishna, the Doodh Ganga, the Veda Ganga and the Ghataprabha came under water by Thursday evening. However, commuters were not inconvenienced as they used alternative roads. Bridges in Jatrat, Akkol, Bhoj, Karadaga, Naganur, Sankeshwar and Bheevshi villages were closed as water was flowing over them. A young boy was electrocuted in Anagol in Belagavi city when he tried to fish for crabs in the Anagol Lake. Vikas Sanju Mogera (14) died on the spot. He came in contact with a live wire that had fallen on the banks of the lake, the police said. Public Works and Police department officers removed a tree that had fallen on the road in Lakshmi Tek in Belagavi. Though rain subsided in Belagavi taluk, it continued to pour in Khanapur, Gokak and other taluks. Maharashtra released water into the Krishna and its tributaries following heavy rain in its coastal districts. Gokak Falls, which had been reduced to a trickle in the summer, regained its glory. Officers closed the walkway bridge over the river for safety reasons. The main gate to the water falls was also closed. Inflow into the Ghataprabha crossed 18,000 cusecs on Thursday. Outflow was only 90 cusecs as the water level in the Raja Lakhamagouda Reservoir at Hidkal was low. The dam with a gross storage capacity of 51 tmcft had only around 9.3 tmcft of water. Officers say that both inflow and outflow are expected to increase in the next two days. Inflow into the Renuka Sagar Dam on the Malaprabha was 877 cusecs and outflow 195 cusecs. The dam with 37.73 tmcft storage has 9.85 tmcft of water, officers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/several-bridges-come-under-water-in-belagavi-district/article34845030.ece
18 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Minister Eshwarappa meets officers and party leaders||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa spent a few hours meeting officers and party leaders in Belagavi on Thursday. However, most of the party MLAs from Belagavi were in Bengaluru, trying to meet BJP general secretary Arun Singh, who is on a visit to the State. Only three MLAs, Ramesh Jarkiholi, Anil Benake and Mahantesh Dodagoudar, were in Belagavi. While Mr. Dodagoudar attended the meeting of officers chaired by Mr. Eshwarappa in the zilla panchayat, Mr. Benake met the Minister at the government guesthouse. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi spent most of the day in Gokak. He distributed food and safety kits to anganwadi workers. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi denied reports that he was trying to meet Mr. Eshwarappa or Mr. Arun Singh. Mr. Eshwarappa had, on Wednesday, met some leaders in Hubballi. He said that media houses had twisted his statements about the defecting MLAs who had joined the BJP. It was reported that he had said that the party was facing problems due to the defectors. He said that he would attend the party executive committee meeting in Bengaluru on Friday. He said that the purpose of his visit was to discuss development issues related to his department and not about politics. He refused to answer further questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/minister-eshwarappa-meets-officers-and-party-leaders/article34845028.ece
18 June 2021||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||We’ll see a new Yediyurappa from now on, says Jarkiholi||“We will see a new (Chief Minister B.S.) Yediyurappa from tomorrow,’’ BJP MLA and former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Gokak on Thursday. “There is no need for a change in leadership in Karnataka. From tomorrow, we will have a new Mr. Yediyurappa. He will not only complete his term but will also lead the party in the next elections,” he said. He said that he had always been a supporter of Mr. Yediyurappa and will remain so. “If any MLA has any grouse, he should discuss it with the Chief Minister and other leaders. All the BJP legislators are like members of a family,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/well-see-a-new-yediyurappa-from-now-on-says-jarkiholi/article34845031.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||I PU assessment proving to be a hurdle for lecturers, students||First year pre-university (PU) students, especially in rural areas, are finding it difficult to access the two end-of-year-assignments that they have to submit for evaluation. Many have informed their lecturers that they will not be able to submit their assignments in time. Earlier this month, the Department of Pre-University Education (DPUE) had asked PU colleges to evaluate students based on these assessments as examinations had been cancelled due to the pandemic. But, it’s not just students who are experiencing problems. Lecturers, too, are unable to get in touch with students as their contact numbers are unreachable. “With no classes on campus, students have returned to their hometowns. Some have relocated to other districts or States with their parents, and we are unable to reach them,” said a lecturer. A student from government PU college in North Bengaluru said she had shifted to her home in Raichur. “We have mobile phone network but don’t have good Internet access. I asked my friends to send me the question paper on WhatsApp, but I’m yet to get it,” she said. Education officials have placed the onus on colleges and lecturers. R. Snehal, director of DPUE, said colleges should devise ways to ensure that students are able to submit assignments. The State government had initially stated that all I PU students would be deemed as pass for the 2020-2021 academic year. It was only later that the department announced that students have to download the question paper from the official website and send it to their teachers via email, WhatsApp or post. While all first PU students will be declared as pass and will be allotted 35% marks, their assignments will be evaluated and the marks will be uploaded on the Student Achievement Tracking System (SATS) portal. Despite a guaranteed pass, many private college managements have made it mandatory for students to complete the assessment failing which they will not be allowed to attend online classes for second PU. “Our lecturers are telling us that if there is a third wave, our assessments will be considered for grading in II PU,” said a I PU student of a private college in R.R. Nagar. Some college principals and lecturers are of the opinion that students are not taking the assessments seriously. B.R. Supreet, principal of Oxford Independent PU College, said only 45% of I PU students in the college had submitted their first assessment. “Students have taken it for granted that they will be promoted and are telling their lecturers that they will be unable to submit assessments as they are busy preparing for II PU and competitive exams,” he said. Students have to submit the assessment and teachers are expected to complete the evaluation by June 25. The second assessment has to be completed by July 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-pu-assessment-proving-to-be-a-hurdle-for-lecturers-students/article34845002.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka govt. looks to help the elderly||If the warning for senior citizens health-wise was very clear during the first wave of COVID-19, the subsequent months and the second wave this year have had a larger bearing, not just physically but also emotionally and financially. And if indications from recent surveys are anything to go by, India’s elderly are feeling left out in the cold. This has prompted the government to think about reaching out to them. Uma Mahadevan, Principal Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, who is also the nodal officer for coordination with NGOs and corporates/private sector during the pandemic, told The Hindu that there were plans to rope in volunteers to check in on the elderly and help them out with issues ranging from pension to active ageing. “We are planning to coordinate with organisations such as Nightingales Medical Trust (NMT) and HelpAge India, as well as the Department for the Empowerment of Differently-abled and Senior Citizens and the Department of Youth Empowerment, to train volunteers to visit senior citizens, say once a week. NSS volunteers will be trained to help them with their pension, health cards, MNREGA job cards, bank work etc., after an orientation programme. With doctors also prescribing active ageing, they can be taken to a library or some kind of activity,” she said. This will be implemented across the State, reaching out to panchayats too so that the elderly in rural areas and villages are not left out, she added. Recently, a HelpAge India six-city survey, ‘The Silent Tormentor: COVID-19 and the Elderly’, with a sample size of 3,526 respondents, shed light on the impact the pandemic has had on the elderly. Covering Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, and Chennai, it revealed how 13.7% of them felt “trapped and frustrated” despite living in close proximity with family members, and how 41.1% were dependent on family members financially. Inhibiting health conditions made it harder for elders to cope during the pandemic. Calls to helpline The elders helpline too has been receiving hundreds of calls a day, with issues ranging from abuse and property disputes. The high number of fatalities in the second wave has also meant the loss of people near and dear. Radha Murthy, managing trustee, NMT, said awareness among the elderly about their rights and support systems at hand had to be enhanced, and redressal efforts such as this one would help reach out to more people. “Forexample, many senior citizens cannot reach the health system because of the high medical costs, but they are not aware of health cards. They don’t go for regular checkups as they are not able to reach the place,” she said. An aspect that has been highlighted before is of active ageing. “We don’t spend enough on preventive care. Physical and cognitive exercise and socialising are important for it. They help in bringing down blood pressure and keeping diabetes in check, as well as tackle risk factors for dementia. We need to look at healthy ageing,” Dr. Murthy added.  Physical and cognitive exercise and socialising are important for active ageing. They help in bringing down blood pressure and keeping diabetes in check, as well as tackle risk factors for dementia Radha Murthy,managing trustee, Nightingales Medical Trust||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-govt-looks-to-help-the-elderly/article34845007.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. PU college at T. Dasarahalli vandalised||A government pre-university (PU) college at T. Dasarahalli was ransacked, furniture destroyed and electrical fittings damaged by a group of vandals who reportedly consumed alcohol on the premises. This is the second incident this month where a college was vandalised in this manner. The incident, which took place on Sunday, was discovered by the principal the next day when she visited the college to collect marks and other data related to II PU students to submit to authorities. The unidentified accused gained entry into the campus from a damaged compound wall at the back of the college. “They ransacked the lecturers’ room and a classroom. They also destroyed the notice board and some flower pots,”said a police officer, adding that the principal’s room was untouched. “Important documents and students’ records are kept there. Fortunately, that room was not vandalised.” The Bagalagunte police registered a case on Tuesday and efforts are on to identify the accused. “Unlike other private colleges , the government PU college did not have CCTVs or a high compound wall,” said the police officer. Last week, a government college in D.J. Halli was also vandalised. “With no classes on campus, government schools and colleges that do not have high-tech security are being used by gangs and anti-social elements. The premises are safe havens for the vandals who drink and smoke there,” said another police officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-pu-college-at-t-dasarahalli-vandalised/article34845003.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MEMU train services to Tumakuru, KIA soon||In a couple of months, South Western Railway (SWR) will run MEMU trains on suburban routes, including the popular Bengaluru-Tumakuru and KSR Bengaluru-Devenahalli lines. It has completed electrification work till Hirehalli on the 56-km Yeshwantpur–Tumakuru line. The remaining 11 km will be completed by the end of June. SWR has set August as the deadline to electrify the Yelahanka–Devenahalli line, which will enable the Bengaluru division to run MEMU trains to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Aneesh Hegde, Chief PRO of SWR, said, “MEMU trains usually operate on a distance of 100 to 150 km in suburban areas. They have many advantages over conventional locomotives, such as higher average speed and lower maintenance cost as well as environmental benefits.” Anywhere between 10,000 and 15,000 people travel every day between Tumakuru and Bengaluru. The journey from Yeshwantpur to Tumakuru takes one hour. Listing another advantage, rail activist Sanjeev Dyammanavar said: “Use of conventional locomotives necessitates engine reversal at terminal points, which is time-consuming, but MEMU trains have no such need.” SWR aims to complete electrification of eight lines totalling 318 km by 2022. The only exception is the Chikkabanavara-Hassan line, which is expected to be electrified by March 2023. SWR proposes to run 60 trains on electric traction by March 2022, which is expected to save Rs. 9.05 crore every month.    20 more services  With restrictions on bus services yet to be eased, SWR is seeing a rise in demand from people wishing to return to Bengaluru not just from neighbouring districts but from other States as well. To cater to the increasing demand, SWR has decided to run more MEMU and DEMU services connecting Bengaluru to neighbouring districts. An official said 20 more services were being operated from Thursday and Friday, including DEMU trains between Yeshwantpur and Tumakuru, and Bengaluru and Mysuru. “Due to non-availability of BMTC and KSRTC buses, there is demand for suburban and inter-district train services. The number of people returning from other States has increased considerably, so a decision has been taken to operate 40 special trains,” said an SWR official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/memu-train-services-to-tumakuru-kia-soon/article34844999.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR against family that assaulted hospital staff||The J.B. Nagar police have registered an FIR against a group of persons who allegedly beat up Manipal Hospitals staff and ransacked the premises after a duty doctor with the emergency unit declared a woman as brought dead last Sunday (June 13). According to the police, a 28-year-old woman had committed suicide. One of the accused in the case, Krishna, accompanied by other relatives brought her to Manipal Hospitals. “But when doctors declared her brought dead, Krishna and others created a ruckus, ransacked the premises and beat up staff who tried to counsel them,” said a police officer. Based on a complaint filed by the chief security officer of Manipal Hospitals on Old Airport Road, the police have registered a case against the family members. The J.B. Nagar police said they have identified the accused and are waiting for them to perform the last rites before arresting them. They have been charged under the Karnataka Prohibition of Violence Against Medicare Service Personnel and Damage to Property in Medicare Service Institutions Act as well as for assault and criminal intimidation. Last week, in the wake of attacks on medical personnel by families of patients especially during the peak of the second wave of COVID-19, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association had called for strict action against offenders. ( Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help. )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fir-against-family-that-assaulted-hospital-staff/article34845005.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Relief package: Give publicity on registration facilities, says HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to give wide publicity in the media that domestic workers can visit the Common Service Centres (CSCs), offices of the labour inspectors and senior labour inspectors, and gram panchayat offices to get help for online registration to avail themselves of Rs. 2,000 relief package announced in view of the lockdown. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj issued the direction while pointing out that the publicity given in newspapers in the from of advertisement had no information that domestic workers, who are unable to access or use the internet, can visit the CSCs, gram panchayat offices, and offices of labour inspectors. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition filed the Domestic Workers’ Rights Union on non-availability of welfare schemes under the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act even 11 years after the law came into force. Observing that the governments perhaps proceeded on the assumption that everyone can access the internet to upload the required identity documents and photos on the Seva Sindhu portal for availing of the relief package.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/relief-package-give-publicity-on-registration-facilities-says-hc/article34845008.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Traders, small businesses have lost Rs. 75,000 crore’||Traders and small-scale establishments in Karnataka incurred losses to the tuneof Rs. 75,000 crore during the second wave of the pandemic, estimated FKCCI. Over 30 lakh people in the State lost jobs during this period, it said. The trade body on Thursday sought a special MSMEs relief package of Rs. 20,000 crore — 10% of the sector’s annual contribution to the exchequer — from the State government. Perikal M. Sundar, president, FKCCI, said the trade body made a submission to the government asking for extending the relief to trade, industry, and business community which have been adversely affected by the lockdown that started on April 27. “We strongly objected to the average increase in power tariff of 30 paise per unit for all consumers and requested the government to give directions to the KERC to withdraw the hike for the next two to three years due to the pandemic situation,” Mr. Sundar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/traders-small-businesses-have-lost-rs-75000-crore/article34845009.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Resident doctors to join protest today||Members of the Karnataka Association of Resident Doctors (KARD) have extended their support for the nationwide protest call given by the Indian MedicalAssociation (IMA) on Friday against assault on doctors, with the slogan of ‘Save the saviours’. In a press release, the KARD said they would organise demonstrations in all colleges by strictly adhering to COVID-19-appropriate behaviour. The IMA has asked all State and local branches across the country to observe the protest by wearing black badges, masks, ribbons, shirts, and running an awareness campaign against violence targeting healthcare professionals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/resident-doctors-to-join-protest-today/article34845010.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 5,983 cases, 138 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday reported 5,983 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 27,90,338. Of these, 1,209 cases are from Bengaluru Urban. With 138 deaths, the toll rose to 33,434. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 10,685 persons were discharged on Thursday. The State now has 1,46,726 active patients. While the positivity rate for the day touched 3.77%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 2.3%. As many as 1,58,442 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 1,15,802 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 3,22,50,755.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-reports-5983-cases-138-deaths/article34844997.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP member arrested for raping woman at gunpoint||The Bannerghatta police on Thursday arrested a gram panchayat member for allegedly raping a 28-year-old woman and mother of two children at gunpoint and blackmailing her with photos earlier this week. The accused, Ahmed Pasha, resident of Shanbhoganahalli and a member of Bilwaradahalli gram panchayat, has been charged with rape, blackmail and also under Sections of the Arms Act. “We have recovered the firearm used in the crime and are verifying whether it is licensed,” said a police officer. Pasha’s driver, Wahid, has also been booked. The accused, posing as a councillor, befriended the woman on social media, where he had put up posts of how he had been helping the poor during the lockdown. He offered the woman a modelling job and invited her to his house for a meeting. “Pasha sent his driver Wahid to bring the woman to his farm house, but she brought her minor children with her. Once they arrived at the farmhouse, he sent Wahid out with the children to buy snacks, and raped the woman at gunpoint. He also took photos and threatened to publish them should she approach the police or tell others,” said a senior official. The victim, who feared for her life and that of her children, did not react and returned home, following which she approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-member-arrested-for-raping-woman-at-gunpoint/article34845004.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘BJP enacting drama of leadership change’||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Eshwar Khandre on Thursday alleged that the ruling BJP was enacting a “drama of leadership change” to divert people’s attention from its government’s failures in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. He told reporters here that BJP national general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh’s meetings with party legislators and Ministers was “an eyewash to distract people who suffered a lot owing to COVID-19”. Terming as insufficient the amounts allocated in two COVID-19 packages by the government, he said no relief had been provided to mango and muskmelon growers. A relief amount of Rs. 25,000 per hectare was provided for growers of horticultural crops last year. But this year, the amount had been reduced to Rs. 10,000 per hectare, the Congress leader said. He also demanded a probe into irregularities in the Water Resources Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bjp-enacting-drama-of-leadership-change/article34845012.ece
18 June 2021||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Malnad continues to receive moderate to heavy rain||Many parts of Malnad region continued to receive moderate to heavy rainfall on Thursday. Rivers are in spate and inflow into reservoirs has been increasing. And, many streams have taken birth on the hill stations. Heavy downpour that lashed parts of Mudigere and Sringeri has left people in fear of landslips, which have affected the lives of many in the last two years. There were reports of power disruption and trees being uprooted due to rain coupled with gusty wind. Heavy rain in Agumbe India Meteorological Department said that there was heavy rain in Agumbe, Thalaguppa and Hunchadakatte in Shivamogga district, Kottigehara, Jayapura and other parts in Chikkamagaluru district. Hosanagar taluk received an average of 320.8 mm of rainfall, the highest in the district in 24 hours ended at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Thirthahalli received an average of 77.20 mm, Sagar 56.60 mm, Sorab 48.20 mm, Bhadravati 9.20 mm and Shivamogga recorded an average 16.4 mm rainfall. In Chikkamagaluru district, Mudigere taluk recorded heavy rainfall of 98 mm, followed by Koppa with 82.3 mm, Sringeri 79.4 mm and N.R.Pura taluk with 44.9 mm rainfall. Chikkamagaluru district received an average rainfall of 38 mm. In Hassan district, Maranahalli in Sakleshpur taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 147.1 mm, followed by Hanubalu with 133.1 mm and Hettur with 100 mm rainfall. In Shivamogga, outflow from the Tunga dam at Gajanur has increased due to a rise in inflow. The outflow into the river course went up to 33,700 cusecs on Thursday afternoon. The dam has been full for the last four days. Inflow at Linganamakki Reservoir on Thursday was 31,676 cusecs, taking live storage to 53.36 tmcft, against the total live storage of 151.64 tmcft.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/malnad-continues-to-receive-moderate-to-heavy-rain/article34845038.ece
18 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Three Centres of Excellence inaugurated in State||Three Centres of Excellence for horticulture crops set up under Indo-Israel collaboration in Bagalkot, Kolar and Dharwad were formally inaugurated during a webinar in New Delhi on Wednesday. In a press release, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi said that during the webinar held in New Delhi, the Centres for Excellence for Mango in Kolar, for Pomegranate in Bagalkot and for Vegetable Crops in Dharwad were formally inaugurated. These centres have been set up at a total cost of Rs. 18 crore. Considering the significance of vegetable crops in the country’s economy and food security, it is vital that vegetable cultivation is developed as an important activity. Considering various aspects, the Centre of Excellence for Vegetable Crops has been set up at Kumbapur Horticulture Field in Dharwad and Israel technology will be used to increase farm income, Mr. Joshi said in the release. The Centre of Excellence for Vegetable Crops in Dharwad has been set up in an area of 20 acres at a cost of Rs. 7.6 crore. While the construction of the main building has been completed, other works are in progress. The centre, which has a capacity of growing 25 lakh saplings per year, will have 1,500 sq ft hi-tech polyhouse and two natural climate polyhouses of 1,200 sq ft each. A 1,000 sq ft anti-pest net and other facilities will be set up at the centre. It will also have a seminar hall and a hostel for trainees. The objective is to supply disease-free high quality saplings to farmers, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-centres-of-excellence-inaugurated-in-state/article34845033.ece
18 June 2021||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad doctor bags sixth rank in AIIMS entrance||Nikhil Tiwari of Dharwad has bagged the sixth place in the All India Medical Entrance Examination for DM/M.Ch and MD (Hospital Administration) courses conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. Dr. Nikhil Tiwari, a resident of Kumreshwar Nagar in Dharwad and son of retired bank officer Narayan Tiwari and Laxmi Tiwari, completed his MBBS from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, and post-graduation in surgery (MS) from Command Hospital in Lucknow. Now, with the sixth place at the all India level, Dr. Nikhil Tiwari has secured a seat for M.Ch course in Surgical Oncology at AIIMS Jodhpur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-doctor-bags-sixth-rank-in-aiims-entrance/article34845035.ece
18 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Electrician electrocuted at Udyavara in Udupi||In a rain-related incident, a 25-year-old youth was electrocuted due to a wet wall in Udyavara, Udupi district, on Wednesday evening, the police said. The police gave the name of the victim as Mokshith Karkera, a resident of Kodavoor. An electrician by profession, Karkera had gone to Udyavara on duty, the police said. Meanwhile, the weather department has alerted fishermen not to venture out for fishing in sea till June 19 as strong wind with speeds of 40 kmph to 50 kmph is likely to hit the coastal areas till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/electrician-electrocuted-at-udyavara-in-udupi/article34845036.ece
18 June 2021||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man held for impersonation||The police on Thursday arrested a man and launched a search for his two accomplices in a case in which they have been charged with impersonating as officials of Mangaluru City Corporation and making an attempt to extort money from a textile shop owner during the lockdown here on Wednesday. Mangaluru City North Police gave the name of the arrested man as Deepak Rajesh Cuvello (45). The police said that Cuvello and his associates tried to make a video and take photographs of the textile shop, Sagar Weddings, which was open on the first floor of a commercial complex on Ganapathi High School Road. When its owner objected to it, they demanded Rs. 50,000 and threatened him that if the payment is not made both the corporation and the police will take action against the owner. In the bargain, the three accused finally asked the shop owner to pay Rs. 10,000 which the owner did not give. Suspecting the credentials of the accused, the shop owner called the police. As the police arrived at the shop, two of his associates escaped while Cuvello was taken into custody. Based on a complaint filed by the shop owner, the police arrested Cuvello on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-held-for-impersonation/article34845037.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||My phone is being tapped: Arvind Bellad||“Immediately I disconnected the call thinking that he should be the controversial Yuvaraj who is in jail,” he said. Mr. Bellad claimed that he received a call again from the same person who said he had been jailed wrongfully. Wondering how a person in prison could have access to a mobile phone, Mr. Bellad suspected that Yuvaraj calling him could be a “plot to fix” him. Yuvraj Swami is accused of cheating government job aspirants by claiming to be an RSS leader. “Though my father was a five-time MLA, he never had a black spot in his career. My political life too is spotless. Some people are trying to fix me through such efforts,” he alleged. Responding sharply to these allegations, Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya, MLA, remarked that Mr. Bellad was resorting to cheap publicity gimmicks through such allegations. Party State general secretary N. Ravikumar too asserted that the party would not accept his allegations. “We have complete confidence in our legislators. There is no question of tracking their movements,” he maintained. Meanwhile, former MLA and Mr. Arvind Bellad’s father, Chandrakanth Bellad, said if the BJP high command so wished, it would be apt for Mr. Yediyurappa to tender his resignation as Chief Minister. On the issue of his son being in the race for the chief ministership, Mr. Chandrakanth Bellad said that it was an issue left to the discretion of the high command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/my-phone-is-being-tapped-arvind-bellad/article34845015.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Don’t declare II PU results till decision is taken on promoting repeaters: HC||Earlier, the government counsel pointed out that 5,92,816 students, who had been studying in various PU colleges, had been registered for II PU exam for 2021 in the category of regular-freshers, and 76,387 candidates had been registered as repeaters. This included those who applied for improving marks even after passing II PU exam last year, and those who failed the earlier exams. And 17,477 students had been registered in the category of private candidates. The government also told the court that it had the data of marks obtained in I PU exam by the regular-fresher students as the Department of PU Education in 2020 had conducted I PU final exam district-wise and evaluation of answer scripts were also done in a considerably fair manner. As the department was considering marks obtained in I PU exam as one of the parameters to promote the students of II PU, the government counsel said it could not promote private candidates applying the same parameters as marks of their I year PU exam would not be available as they could write II PU exam without joining regular I PU course. Also, it was pointed out to the court that some students among the repeaters could be those who failed earlier as private candidates and in their case also there would not be marks of their I PU course. As the petitioner’s counsel gave up the plea on behalf of the private candidates in view of lack of I PU data, the Bench gave time till July 7 to take decision on promoting all categories of II PU students, including repeaters based on the expert committee’s report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-declare-ii-pu-results-till-decision-is-taken-on-promoting-repeaters-hc/article34845014.ece
18 June 2021||Alappuzha,KERALA||954 test positive in Alappuzha||Alappuzha district logged 954 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day stood at 10.26% in the district. Of the fresh cases, 947 people contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of six others remains unknown. One health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 1,079 people undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload fell to 10,343. Meanwhile, the lockdown restrictions were partially eased in most of the local bodies in Alappuzha. Exemptions and restrictions are announced based on the average TPR over seven days between June 10 and 16. Two grama panchayats, Kuthiathode and Veeyapuram, have been included in the 'C' category where the TPR stood at 24.31% and 23.32% respectively.  464 cases in Kottayam As many as 464 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on the day. Of the fresh cases, all contracted the disease through local transmission. The daily TPR of the district reported a further declined to 8.33%. With 51 cases, Kottayam reported the highest number of cases, followed by Changanassery , which recorded 33 cases . As many as 831 people recovered from the disease during the day, bringing down the total active cases to 4,391. Pathanamthitta In Pathanamthitta, 588 people tested positive for the disease during the day. Of this, all but three persons contracted the disease through local transmission. The contact source of two cases were yet to be ascertained. The TPR for the day was 11.8%. The disease, meanwhile, claimed three more lives in the district. With 319 recoveries in the day, Pathanamthitta currently has 5,013 active cases. ( With inputs from Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/954-test-positive-in-alappuzha/article34845570.ece
18 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||UDF teams to visit tree-felling sites||Leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan has sought a judicial investigation or an investigation under the supervision of the Kerala High Court into the felling of rosewood trees in the State. Speaking to the media on Thursday after visiting the sites in Wayanad where trees have been cut in large numbers, Mr. Satheesan said the United Democratic Front (UDF) would oppose any government move to protect those involved in the crime. The former Forest and Revenue Ministers cannot absolve themselves of the crime, Mr. Satheesan said adding that the UDF was planning to launch a State-wide agitation demanding to bring the culprits before the law. “A team led by T.N. Prathapan, MP, will visit the illegal tree-felling sites in Thrissur and Palakkad and another team led by Benny Behanan, MP, that in Ernakulam, Idukki and Pathanamthitta,” Mr. Satheesan said adding that they would lay bare the gravity of the issue before the public. Alleging a conspiracy, he claimed the crime was abetted by the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-teams-to-visit-tree-felling-sites/article34845159.ece
18 June 2021||KALPETTA,KERALA||Case registered against Surendran||The Sulthan Bathery police on Thursday registered cases against BJP leader K. Surendran and chairperson of the Janadhipathya Rashtriya Party (JRP) C.K. Janu on an order of the First Class Judicial Magistrate Court here. The court had on Wednesday ordered an investigation into the allegation that Mr. Surendran had paid Rs. 50 lakh (in two instalments) to Ms. Janu in cash to ensure her allegiance to the National Democratic Alliance. The court made the order on a complaint filed by MSF State president P.K. Navas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/case-registered-against-surendran/article34845160.ece
18 June 2021||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Spirit seized, two arrested||The police arrested two persons and seized 2,100 litres of spirit at Palakkunnu in Bekal here on Thursday. Abdul Rahman, 30, and Syed Mohammed Imran, 25, from Manjeswaram, were arrested when they were attempting to smuggle spirit from Mangaluru to Thrissur. A police team intercepted them near Palakkunnu around 1.45 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spirit-seized-two-arrested/article34845136.ece
18 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Meet to review preparatory work on road widening project||A special meeting of stakeholders will be convened this month-end to review the progress of preparatory works to develop the Thammanam-Pullepady road as a four-lane stretch, Minister for Public Works and Tourism P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. The road would be widened by the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB), while the design wing of the Public Works Department (PWD) is expected to submit its project report in a fortnight. Speaking after a review meeting held here with officials of the Kochi Corporation and other agencies on projects related to the PWD and tourism, he said the city’s development had implications for the entire State. Issues like flooding of the city would be solved through technical improvements in drainage. On the inordinate delay in acquiring land for the Thripunithura bypass, he said it would be taken up with the National Highways Authority of India (which had included a part of the bypass alignment in its Kochi-Theni greenfield NH). All important overbridge projects would be completed as per schedule. The vacant space below the Vyttila flyover would be optimally used to build a public toilet. Referring to projects to augment infrastructure in tourist locales, he said Chinese fishing nets in Fort Kochi would be renovated in a time-bound manner. “A toilet complex of international standards will be built in the locality, while the PWD rest house on the beachfront will be renovated. As for the incomplete renovation of the children’s park, the Kochi Corporation and the Tourism Department will jointly take a call on developing the premises,” he said. Mayor M. Anilkumar highlighted the problems being encountered in desilting drains. The meeting also decided to speed up steps to begin the construction of Atlantis overbridge and to develop Marine Drive. A special meeting will be held with the Kochi Corporation to improve the city’s tourism amenities. MLAs from the district and officials of RBDCK and NHAI too were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meet-to-review-preparatory-work-on-road-widening-project/article34845143.ece
18 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||7,800 students shift to public schools in Ernakulam||About 7,800 students from unaided schools joined public schools under the Department of General Education in Ernakulam district amidst the pandemic situation in the new academic year. These students got enrolled in classes 1 to 10 across various government and aided schools. The admission window remains open for the new academic year. The number is likely to go up, and an updated picture will be available by the end of this month, according to the authorities. The corresponding figure in the previous academic year was 10,335. Pandemic, a factor The financial crisis induced by the pandemic remains a key factor in the continuing migration of children from the unaided sector to the public schools, according to the estimates by the department. Many parents had lost their livelihood after the second wave. Several others were facing salary cuts in their jobs. With the unaided schools insisting on the payment of fees and arrears, the parents had no other option but to enrol their children in the public schools. The quality of the online classes aired through the Victers channel had also impacted the shifting of children from unaided schools to public schools, the authorities said. Transfer simplified The government has simplified the migration process by directing the public schools that submission of transfer certificates was not mandatory. The department had received complaints that some of the unaided school managements had refused to issue the transfer certificate. They had cited non-payment of school fees as a reason for not providing the transfer certificate. The government has stated that students could be admitted on the basis of their age to classes 2 to 9 under the Right to Education Act. The government has directed public schools to ensure continuity in education for classes 1 to 10 in tune with the provisions of the Act. The Director of General Education had issued directions that the UID of children, who failed to receive the transfer certificate, must be transferred to the school where they wish to study.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/7800-students-shift-to-public-schools-in-ernakulam/article34845141.ece
18 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Public spaces will be reclaimed: Riyas||Every effort will be made to reclaim public spaces that have been encroached upon with the support of people who are the vanguards of public property, Minister for Public Works P.A. Mohamed Riyas has said. Addressing mediapersons here on Thursday after a meeting with a team led by Kochi Mayor M Anilkumar, the Minister said steps would be taken based on a report that is expected by Sunday. Public comfort stations will be readied wherever possible at such places. Measures are being taken to remove abandoned vehicles and other materials dumped by the roadside. A new app, PWD 4U, which began a three-month trial on June 7, is a step in that direction. With it, anyone would be able to highlight safety threats on roads in the State once they are digitalised in three months. Similarly, the ambit of the 24x7 control room of the PWD will be expanded and linked with the Minister's office. Complaints by individuals will be treated as common grievances since they affect many, Mr Riyas said. To a query on lax coordination among agencies which often leads to new roads being trenched, he said the existing system will be reviewed. “Two rounds of discussions are over. Similarly, eco-friendly innovations like milling of roads will be tried out to prevent extensive quarrying for resurfacing works,” he said. On flooding caused by improper drains, Mr. Riyas said local bodies maintain almost all drains, including along PWD roads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-spaces-will-be-reclaimed-riyas/article34845150.ece
18 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||Southern Navy chief meets Governor||Vice Admiral Anil K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief of the Southern Naval Command, called on Governor Arif Mohammed Khan at the Raj Bhavan on Thursday. Pandemic challenges He briefed the Governor on the initiative taken by the Navy to overcome the challenges caused by the pandemic and the activities pertaining to the observation of 50 years of the war that led to the liberation of Bangladesh. He informed the Governor of the steps taken by the Southern Naval Command for the protection of environment and the restoration of the ecosystem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/southern-navy-chief-meets-governor/article34845147.ece
18 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held on charge of stealing vehicle||The Central Station Police on Thursday arrested a man accused of stealing and selling a vehicle of which he was hired as a driver. The arrested was identified as Shibu of Thiruvananthapuram. He had taken a load of trolley bags from a shop at Pulleppady to Thiruvananthapuram in February. He had delivered the load and collected the payment of Rs. 1.10 lakh. Later, he sold the vehicle for Rs. 60,000 on the Tamil Nadu border. Held on abuse charge The Central Station Police arrested a law student on the charge of sexually abusing a woman who was his junior in the college. The arrested was identified as Amal Panchu, 24, of Kollam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-held-on-charge-of-stealing-vehicle/article34845144.ece
18 June 2021||KOCHI,KERALA||MLA vows to prove allegations against Kitex||P.T. Thomas, MLA, said on Thursday that he would provide proof for the accusations he had raised against the Kitex Group of companies in Kizhakkambalam. He said that he was studying the materials he had on the company and stood by his earlier stand on the alleged pollution caused by the company. Sabu Jacob, CEO of the Kitex Group, could not be reached for a comment on a reported challenge he had thrown before the MLA. He had reportedly said that Mr. Thomas would be given Rs. 50 crore if he could prove his allegations against the Kitex Group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mla-vows-to-prove-allegations-against-kitex/article34845145.ece
18 June 2021||Kochi,KERALA||1,322 fresh COVID-19 cases in district||As many as 1,322 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Thursday. Nearly 1,200 persons got infected through local contact. The source of infection in 52 cases has not been ascertained. Four health workers have tested positive for the virus. Chittattukara, which had a test positivity rate of over 30%, recorded 62 new cases. Kumbalangi had 59 cases while the corresponding figure in Kalamassery was 51.  The district administration will launch vaccination drive in various colonies in the district from Monday onwards. Hair salons in the district can resume operations from Friday onwards. They can offer services on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1322-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-district/article34845148.ece
18 June 2021||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online dak adalat||The Department of Posts will conduct an online dak adalat for the Kollam postal division from 11 a.m. on June 30. Complaints can be mailed to dokollam.kl@indiapost.gov.in before June 23 with ‘DAK ADALAT QE JUNE 2021’ as the subject. The complainant will receive the user ID and password for attending the adalat through SMS or mail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-dak-adalat/article34845565.ece
18 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||S.B. College in the glow of centenary||The year was 1922 and the occasion a momentous one. V.V. John, former Vice Chancellor of Jodhpur University, had just enrolled in a junior intermediate class of 125 students that functioned from a multistorey building in the vicinity of the Parayil church in Changanassery. Feeling slightly nervous, he proceeded straight to a classroom where a man called Kulandaiswami Pillai was teaching English. “We admit boys till the benches break,” remarked Mr. Pillai, welcoming the youngster to his class. The occasion marked the beginning of the iconic St. Berchmans College, which has lived through a century to emerge as a premier institution of higher education in Central Kerala. Calls for a college by the Catholics in Travancore were growing when Monsignor Charles Lavigne of France, the first resident Bishop (Vicar Apostolic) of the Syrian Catholic diocese of Changanassery, laid its foundation stone in 1895. However, it took 25 years before Bishop Mar Thomas Kurialacherry, the first native bishop of the Syro-Malabar Church, opened the institution on June 19, 1922. Fr. Mathew Purackal, the first postgraduate from the diocese of Changanacherry, was appointed the first principal. Autonomous status Over the years, it has undergone several progressive changes to become the first college in the State to secure autonomous status in 2014. The institution now offers as many as 19 postgraduate courses, 17 undergraduate courses, MPhil in three departments and doctoral programmes in 10 departments. It currently hosts about 3,200 students and 170 teachers across 18 departments, besides 80 non-teaching staff. To date, it has produced two Chief Ministers, Oommen Chandy and P.K. Vasudevan Nair, a number of writers and artists, including Muttathu Varkey, Vishnu Narayanan Namboothiri and Prem Nazir, besides a long list of legal luminaries, bureaucrats and academicians such as jurist Syriac Joseph, C.V. Ananda Bose, Raju Narayana Swami, Jancy James and B. Ekbal. Marking the beginning of the institution's centenary celebrations, Metropolitan Archbishop of Changanassery Mar Joseph Perumthottam will lead a blessing ceremony to be performed at the college chapel on June 19 morning. Higher Education Minister R. Bindu will inaugurate the one-year-long celebrations at a function to be held on the college campus in the afternoon. New department Meanwhile, the college management intends to roll out a slew of programmes in the centenary year, including scholarship for 100 students and adoption of five villages in Changanassery taluk, besides opening an interdisciplinary research department. “The plans also include renovation of the Kavukattu Hall (the heritage auditorium), upgrading classrooms with Idigital technology, building a centenary hostel among others'', said college Principal Fr. Reji P. Kurien.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sb-college-in-the-glow-of-centenary/article34845567.ece
18 June 2021||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Allow places of worship to open: Church||The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church on Thursday urged the State government to permit the opening of places of worship in strict compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. In a statement here on Thursday, Biju Oommen, secretary, Malankara Orthodox Church Association, said the government should consider the reopening of places of worship with due importance as they instil hope among the distressed believers in the wake of the pandemic. “Besides religious ceremonies, the places of worship have set a model for themselves in charity works and pandemic-prevention activities. The demand must be given consideration when even business and entertainment establishments are allowed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/allow-places-of-worship-to-open-church/article34845568.ece
18 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode opens up partially, 968 fresh COVID-19 cases||When Kozhikode district opened up partially from over-a-month-long lockdown induced by COVID-19 on Thursday, 968 fresh cases of infection were reported. Public transport was back after a long time, and many private vehicles too were seen. But bus services were infrequent. Since shops will be allowed to open only on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, there was no rush of passengers. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 951 cases of local transmission of infection, and the source of 14 others was not known. Two persons had returned from abroad and one from another State. Kozhikode Corporation had 267 locally acquired infections. A daily test positivity rate (TPR) of 8.29% was reported from the district when 11,818 samples were tested. As many as 9,47 people recovered, and the active caseload is 11,061.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kozhikode-opens-up-partially-968-fresh-covid-19-cases/article34845132.ece
18 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Devaswom staff raise concern over Minister’s statement||Employees of the Malabar Devaswom Board (MDB) have raised concern over the statement of Devaswom Minister K. Radhakrishnan that the proposed revision in rules for temple employees will cause huge loss to the State exchequer. However, MDB president M.R. Murali clarified that the Minister had discussed reaching a consensus before implementing the rules. “But the government will not have to shoulder any additional financial burden. In fact, a consolidated account for income of temples will benefit the employees,” he told The Hindu on Thursday. He said the government was committed to implementing the Malabar Devaswom Comprehensive Amendment Bill. “The Bill is under the active consideration of the government. However, it has to be vetted by the Law Department. It is in the final stages. There is no confusion over the Minister’s statement,” Mr. Murali said. He added that the temples under the MDB were still being governed in accordance with the Hindu Religious Endowments Act passed by the Madras Presidency. “So, the government will go ahead with the new Bill,” he said. Meanwhile, Kerala State Temple Employees Coordination Committee convener V.V. Sreenivas said successive governments had only passed a few amendments to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act. The employees will benefit only if the Assembly adopts the recommendations of the four-member committee led by Adv. K. Gopalakrishnan. Around 7,000 employees are attached to 1,339 temples and 800-odd minor temples in the five divisions of Kasaragod, Thalassery, Kozhikode, Malappuram, and Palakkad. It was in 1992 that the High Court of Kerala initiated suo motu proceedings based on a report in The Hindu on the plight of employees at temples in the Malabar region. The report had highlighted the state of affairs of temples as well as the poor living conditions of the employees. In its judgment two years later, the High Court ordered to fix reasonable income for temple employees and set up a Malabar Devaswom Management Fund. “Till now, the plight of the employees has not changed despite several wage revisions based on grading temples in various years and the constitution of the Malabar Devaswom Board in 2008,” said Mr. Sreenivas, who had earlier moved a contempt petition against the implementation of the High Court verdict.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/devaswom-staff-raise-concern-over-ministers-statement/article34845130.ece
18 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||Contractors demand cut in construction material price||Expressing solidarity with the State-wide agitations against hike in prices of construction materials, the district committee of the Kerala Government Contractors Federation (KGCF) staged a ‘nilpu samaram’ (standing protest) in front of the Kozhikode Corporation office on Thursday. They said the ineffective price control mechanism was troubling thousands of contractors who were earlier awarded various Public Works Department (PWD) projects. Federation leaders said the prices of construction materials at the time of awarding works and post-lockdown were vastly different. This was apart from the variation between Central Public Works Department (CPWD) and Kerala PWD rates for completion of infrastructure projects, they said. “The Delhi Schedule of Rates [DSR] fixed by the CPWD should be adopted as a model while awarding works in Kerala. It is a reasonable rate adopted by a number of departments and public and private undertakings,” said P.V. Jaleeludheen, a functionary of the federation. He added that the previously sanctioned contract should be revised so as to reflect the latest changes in material cost. Mr. Jaleeludheen said contractors in Kozhikode were worried about the delay in allotting funds for completed projects under the Chief Minister’s Local Road Rebuild project. He also called for simplification of formalities to clear files. Federation members organised similar protests at Elathur, Cheruvannur, and Beypore in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/contractors-demand-cut-in-construction-material-price/article34845134.ece
18 June 2021||Kozhikode,KERALA||NRIs in dilemma over second dose||Hundreds of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) who have reached the State from the Gulf after receiving their first dose of vaccine, mostly the Chinese vaccine Sinopharm or Pfizer BioNTech, are caught in a catch-22 situation as the vaccines are not available in India for their second dose. Most of them returned to the State in April after getting the first dose of the COVID-19 jab, especially from the UAE. But they are unable to fly out following the ban or restrictions on flights. Sources say the expatriates stranded back are required to get their vaccination certificate before returning to the destinations in the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf. At the same time, many have returned on chartered flights or non-scheduled flights amidst the COVID-19 crisis after paying hefty air tariffs. Emergency approval Now the Centre has been urged to approve Pfizer and also the vaccine made by Chinese State-owned company Sinopharm. Last month, the World Health Organization (WHO) granted emergency approval for Sinopharm, which had already been given to Chinese nationals and residents in the UAE. So far, India has approved the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield version of the AstraZeneca vaccine, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, and Russia’s Sputnik V. The Centre is in talks with Pfizer. With the delay in getting vaccinated for NRIs who have taken the first dose and planning the return to Gulf, suggestions have cropped up even on considering mixing different vaccine doses. However, this heterologous immunisation has not been approved though some scientists and doctors believe using different vaccines for the second dose could have the capability to boost the immune response against the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nris-in-dilemma-over-second-dose/article34845129.ece
18 June 2021||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Last date extended||The University of Calicut has extended the last date to apply for various exams, said a release on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/last-date-extended/article34845149.ece
18 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Stir launched for restoring OP wing at Manjeri MCH||The Kerala Muslim Jamat (KMJ) has launched an agitation demanding restoration of outpatient (OP) consultation at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Manjeri. The OP system at the MCH came to a halt when the institution was converted into the main COVID-19 hospital of the district. Inaugurating a ‘stand-up’ protest in front of the MCH on Thursday morning, KMJ district secretary K.P. Jamal said the condition of the hospital in the State’s most populated district was pathetic. He added that Malappuram had lost the existing General Hospital when the MCH was set up. The newly constructed women and children hospital was converted into the MCH academic block. The KMJ said a lot of facilities rightfully due for the people of Malappuram were being denied to them. “The Manjeri Municipality and the State government should look into the matter urgently and find a solution,” said Mr. Jamal. Stir at 100 centres The KMJ said either a portion of the MCH or that of the government school in the adjoining compound should be used for OP facility. It organised similar protests at 100 centres across the district. “The delay in restoration of OP system is equivalent to denial of treatment to people at a time when society is reeling under severe socio-economic constraints,” said KMJ leaders. KMJ district president Abdul Azeez Saqafi Elambra spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stir-launched-for-restoring-op-wing-at-manjeri-mch/article34845137.ece
18 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Walayar case accused denied bail||The First Additional Sessions Court here on Thursday dismissed the bail application of the two accused in the sensational Walayar case. The court denied bail to V. Madhu alias Valiya Madhu and Shibu, who have been in judicial custody for three months. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is reinvestigating the death of two minor sisters in mysterious circumstances in Walayar, opposed granting bail to the accused as it feared that they would escape. The accused sought bail on the grounds that they were being incarcerated for over three months. The third accused, M. Madhu, had secured bail from the High Court. Another accused, Pradeep Kumar, from Alappuzha had allegedly ended his life last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/walayar-case-accused-denied-bail/article34845138.ece
18 June 2021||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Coca-Cola plant turns treatment centre||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated a COVID second-line treatment centre (SLTC) set up at the defunct Coca-Cola factory at Plachimada, Perumatty, on Thursday. Mr. Vijayan said the 550-bed facility would be a great fillip in the district’s fight against COVID. He praised Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages Ltd. for providing the facility in 34 acres by spending the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. The plant was closed down 20 years ago. Of the 550 beds, 100 have oxygen facilities and 20 ventilator facilities. Fifty of the beds are in the ICU. The centre has airconditioned readymade cabins, oxygen cylinder support for all beds, 1 kl oxygen tank which can be expanded to 2 kl, portable x-ray console, and round-the-clock COVID outpatient (OP) wing. Mr. Vijayan said the SLTC was set up in four weeks spending Rs. 1.10 crore. Minister for Power K. Krishnankutty presided over the function. Minister for Health Veena George was the chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/coca-cola-plant-turns-treatment-centre/article34845139.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. council rejects demand for probe||After a couple of hours of stormy debates, the city Corporation council on Thursday rejected a demand for a Vigilance inquiry into the expenditure for the civic body’s cleaning activities as part of Attukal Pongala. The demand was rejected by 54 votes to 33, with the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) getting the support of three Independent councillors. With the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) councillors trooping into the well with placards during voting, only the 33 councillors of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) voted for the demand. The special council meeting was held following the BJP’s demand for a discussion on its allegations of corruption in sanitation activities held as part of Attukal Pongala this year. BJP councillor M.R. Gopan, who opened the debate, said that this was the first time that the expenses for Pongala cleaning, which did not take place, was being brought to the council. Not on roads He said that the decision to not allow Pongala offerings on public roads was taken at a meeting on January 27 chaired by the then Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, in which Mayor Arya Rajendran was present. He questioned the Mayor why prior sanction for hiring trucks to remove waste generated during Pongala was given after such a decision. The Mayor countered the claim saying that the said meeting had decided to limit the number of participants in Pongala to 5,000 using an online booking system. The precautionary arrangements were made for waste removal based on this. It was only in a meeting of the 41-member COVID-19 core committee headed by the Chief Minister on February 19 that the decision to limit the Pongala offering to the temple surroundings was taken. UDF parliamentary party leader Padmakumar questioned the need for anticipatory sanction of expenses. BJP councillor P. Ashokkumar said no tender was called for any of the Pongala-related expenses. The Mayor said the tender for hiring the trucks to remove waste was issued on February 15 in newspapers and on the Corporation website. Three bidders responded and the contract was awarded to the one who made the lowest quote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corpn-council-rejects-demand-for-probe/article34845086.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State opening up cautiously||The State on Thursday took its first baby steps towards normalcy after a draining second COVID-19 lockdown season that lasted 41 days. The spectre of a third wave, driven by new and virulent strains of the mutating coronavirus, loomed large even as the State slowly opened up except for critical containment zones. A large swathe of the State fell in low spread (average test positivity rate [TPR] less than 8%) and moderate spread (TPR between 8% and 20%) zones. The police scaled down their street presence and people moved relatively freely. Travellers did not have to carry the mandatory affidavit stating their purpose of journey. On Friday, hairdressing salons and workshops would open for business. The government has banned street food and indoor dining for now in all zones. However, hotels and restaurants could sell food as takeaways and home-delivered parcels. A visible sign of life returning to the usual pattern was people queuing to buy liquor outside State-run outlets. The lines shortened as more bars opened to sell liquor as takeaways at 11 a.m. Liquor sales Security persons checked the body temperature of buyers before allowing them near the sales counter. The resumption of sale of liquor was a windfall for local auto drivers and lottery sellers laid low by the pandemic. The government discouraged non-essential inter-district travel. The police insisted that those travelling across pandemic zones furnish affidavits stating their journeying purpose. The police strictly enforced stay-at-home orders in local body jurisdictions that fell in the high spread zones (TPR between 20% and 30%). Critical containment zones (TPR above 30%) were under triple lockdown. The State would shut down totally on the weekend. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will review the pandemic regulations on June 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-opening-up-cautiously/article34845155.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||12,469 new cases, 13,614 recoveries, TPR at 10.85%||The State on Thursday reported 12,469 new cases of COVID-19 when 1,14,894 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Test positivity rate (TPR) continues to show a decline at 10.85%. The active case pool has 1,08,560 patients with 13,614 patients reported to have recovered from the disease on the day. Cumulative fatality now stands at 11,743 with 88 deaths which occurred in the past two or three days added to the official list. There was a significant increase in hospital admissions with 2,492 patients getting admitted on Thursday, as against 2,052 on Wednesday. The number of patients being treated for moderate or severe COVID in hospitals has dipped to 28,227. ICU admissions ICU admissions of critically ill patients, in both public and private hospitals, are declining steadily and now, 2,824 patients are occupying ICU beds. The number of patients requiring ventilator support among these patients has come down to 1,099. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the pandemic began now stands at 27,73,943 cases. Break-up for districts Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of new cases at 1,727 cases, followed by Kollam 1,412, Ernakulam 1,322, Malappuram 1,293, Thrissur 1,157, Kozhikode 968, Palakkad 957, Alappuzha 954, Pathanamthitta 588, Kannur 535, Kottayam 464, Idukki 417, Kasaragod 416 and Wayanad 259. New testing guidelines have been framed for increasing COVID testing in local bodies on the basis of the test positivity rate. Testing will be done on the basis of the average TPR over a week. If the TPR is found to be over 30% in any local body, the number of tests done in the region will be increased to 10 times that of the total cases reported there in the last three days. If 100 cases each were reported in the last three days, the number of tests which will be done in the local body daily will be increased to 3,000. As the TPR comes down, testing numbers will also be revised. If the week’s average TPR is between 20 and 30% , the number of tests done daily in the area will be six times that of the total cases reported in the last three days. If the weekly average TPR is between 2 and 20, testing will be increased to three times the total number of cases reported in the last three days. All testing modalities, including rapid antigen and RT-PCR, will be utilised. If the weekly TPR goes below 2%, the tests done will be five times the total number of cases reported in the last three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/12469-new-cases-13614-recoveries-tpr-at-1085/article34845153.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Public transport getting back on track||After 40 days of lockdown induced by the second wave of COVID-19, public transport was restored partially in Kerala on Thursday with the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation, Railways, and the State Water Transport Department (SWTD) commencing nearly full-fledged operations. With the graded ‘unlock’ for weekdays, announced by the government, commencing on Thursday, more citizens were seen on streets and on trains, buses, and ferries across the State. Private vehicles and autorickshaws plied in large numbers in areas where restrictions had been lifted following a fall in the test positivity rate. Auto and taxi stands had ample number of vehicles. With the police avoiding vehicle checks, motorists moved freely on the road. The KSRTC, which had announced that the services woud be demand-based, operated 1,528 schedules on Thursday. Of these, 945 schedules were with ordinary buses and 583 with fast passenger buses and above categories. The KSRTC buses did not stop in local bodies classified as C and D (TPR of 20% and above). In the South zone based in Thiruvananthapuram, the KSRTC ran 712 schedules on Thursday compared to 340 schedules (for restricted categories) on Wednesday. The State Water Transport Department (SWTD) operated 50% of the schedules from stations. The 30 boat services that began at 7 a.m. wound up at 7 p.m. Railways restored 34 special trains temporarily cancelled due to poor patronage in the State. The restored trains include 02075/02076 Kozhikode-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode Janshatabdi Specials, 06305/06036 Ernakulam Junction-Kannur-Ernakulam Junction Daily Specials, and 06301/06302 Shoranur Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shoranur Junction Daily Specials. MEMU services Only passengers with reserved tickets are allowed on trains. Mainline Electric Multiple Units (MEMU) services operating in the Ernakulam section will benefit short-distance travellers. Officials say it will take weeks before patronage of public transport is completely restored.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/public-transport-getting-back-on-track/article34845162.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Woman injured in RCC lift collapse dies||A 22-year-old woman who sustained grievous injuries when a lift at the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) here collapsed last month died at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here around 1 a.m. on Thursday. Nadeera, a resident of Kundayam, Pathanapuram, Kollam, was injured early morning on May 15 when she entered a lift that was under maintenance at the RCC and it collapsed. The lift was allegedly open and there was no sign warning the public about the repairs. Nadeera was at the RCC to take care of her mother Naseema who was admitted there a week earlier for surgery. Nadeera sustained injuries to her head and spine, fractured her femur and lost teeth in the accident and she lay there undetected till a security guard found her after relatives were called by hospital staff asking about the caregiver of Naseema. She was admitted first to casualty at MCH and then to the neuro wing. On May 19, she underwent surgery for the broken thigh bone, and her teeth were set right. As per doctors’ advise to transfer her to a nearby government hospital owing to the COVID-19 situation here, the family had decided to shift her to the Punalur taluk hospital. However, at the time of her transfer on May 22, the condition of Nadeera worsened and she lost consciousness, never to regain it. An MRI showed clots in her head that had not been detected during a CT scan done earlier, her relative said.  A few days ago, she tested positive for COVID-19 and was on ventilator support. The family has now written to the Chief Minister, political party leaders and the State Police Chief seeking compensation for the financially backward family. Nadeera is survived by her ailing husband and a child who is less than one-and-a-half-years-old. Reports sought Kerala Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal has asked for a report from the RCC and demanded that it pay compensation to the family of Nadeera.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-injured-in-rcc-lift-collapse-dies/article34845081.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,727 fresh cases, 1,486 recoveries||The surge in COVID-19 cases appears to be lessening in the capital district with its test positivity rate (TPR) falling to 10.04%, the lowest figure in several months, on Thursday. The district reported 1,727 new cases on the day. While 1,486 people recovered from the disease, the number of active cases stood at 12,713 on Thursday. While most of the fresh cases were attributed to contact transmission, the source of infection was unknown in 122 cases. 32 deaths The COVID-19 death toll in the district grew to 2,489 with 32 more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The case-fatality ratio stood at 0.89, the highest in the State. The district administration placed 3,093 more people in quarantine, taking the total number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 48,659. As many as 3,970 were permitted to conclude quarantine in the past 24 hours. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated legal action against 216 people for violating the pandemic protocol on Thursday. Among them, 52 were charged under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. The police also levied a cumulative fine of Rs. 57,500 from 110 people who failed to wear masks and five others who violated physical-distancing norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1727-fresh-cases-1486-recoveries/article34845084.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Guilty will not be spared: Minister||Denying any lapses by the Revenue Department while issuing the order that permitted logging in assigned land, Revenue Minister K. Rajan has said no official found to have been involved in the illegal felling of protected trees will be spared from action. Speaking to mediapersons during a meet-the-press here on Thursday, Mr. Rajan dismissed reports of the Principal Secretary (Revenue) having found faults in the government order. According to him, the revenue order did not permit cutting scheduled trees including teak, rosewood, sandalwood and ebony that were vested with the government. However, it was found to have been misinterpreted in Muttil South village. The government did not hesitate from suspending the village officer after the illegality had come to light. None of the other 45 villages in Wayanad district had witnessed any foul play, he said. The completion of the digital survey would enable the government to integrate land registration, mutation and preparation of land sketch, which were currently undertaken separately, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/guilty-will-not-be-spared-minister/article34845156.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Moratorium on KFC loan repayment||Finance Minister K.N. Balagopal on Thursday announced a one-year moratorium on loans taken by small entrepreneurs from the Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC). The benefit is for loans for which repayment was prompt till March 31, 2021. The applications for availing oneself of the moratorium can be submitted till September 30. No additional charges or interest will be levied for this. For enterprises which had repaid the loans promptly till March 31, 2020, an additional 20% loan will be provided in addition to the 20% given last year. Loans to those involved in COVID-19 prevention are available to all health-care sectors, including units involved in the manufacture and distribution of oxygen, ventilators, oximeters, gloves and other life-saving equipment, hospitals; and labs. 7% interest Loans up to Rs. 50 lakh will be included in the Chief Minister’s Entrepreneurship Scheme and only 7% interest will be levied. The loan will be for five years. For loans above Rs. 50 lakh, the interest rate will be rating-based. The repayment period is 10 years. Loans up to 90% of the total cost are available.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/moratorium-on-kfc-loan-repayment/article34845152.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SWTD to procure two 75-seater solar boats||The State Water Transport Department (SWTD) will procure two 75-seater solar boats so as to curb pollution caused by its fleet. The boats will be on the lines of Aditya, the country’s first solar-powered ferry, launched in 2017 and operating between Vaikom in Kottayam district and Thavanakkadavu in Alappuzha district in the Vembanad backwaters. Transport Minister Antony Raju said administrative sanction had been given to the SWTD to procure the boats at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. Steps would be taken to launch the new boats in a year-and-a-half. Powerful lithium ion batteries would be used in the two solar boats to enable them to operate at night, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/swtd-to-procure-two-75-seater-solar-boats/article34845571.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||110-bed ICU soon at MCH||A 110-bed intensive care unit (ICU) will soon be ready at Government Medical College Hospital here. Fifty of the beds were ready and the remaining should be made available within 10 days, Minister for Health Veena George told the hospital authorities during a visit on Thursday. She directed that arrangements at the hospital be strengthened in anticipation of the third wave of COVID-19. Ms. George reviewed the arrangements made for oxygen availability and visited the oxygen plant there.  The Health Minister said strict action had been taken in the incident in which a young woman died following injuries sustained in a lift collapse at the Regional Cancer Centre here. One person had been let go and two had been suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/110-bed-icu-soon-at-mch/article34845082.ece
18 June 2021||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stale food seized from restaurants||The city Corporation’s health wing carried out surprise checks at restaurants in the Nanthencode health circle on Thursday following complaints of stale and low-quality food being provided through parcels and online orders. Checks were carried out at restaurants in the Kuravankonam, Muttada and Kesavadasapuram wards. Notice issued Stale beef dishes and chicken fried rice were seized from Chinnu’s hotel at Kesavadasapuram. Stale food was also seized from Garam Masala hotel. Notices were issued to restaurants which were found to be operating in unhygienic conditions. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said strict action would be taken against restaurants that sold low-quality and stale food. Health inspector S.S. Minu led the squad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/stale-food-seized-from-restaurants/article34845087.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CZMP expert panel to be set up soon||The State government will set up an expert committee to look into the concerns and apprehensions over the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) and suggest solutions, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday. Addressing a meeting convened to discuss the issues related to the CZMP, he said a final notification would be issued only after considering the views of experts and stakeholders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/czmp-expert-panel-to-be-set-up-soon/article34845157.ece
18 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Quiz, short-video contests ahead of Statistics Day||The Department of Economics and Statistics, Thrissur centre, will conduct quiz, essay, poster, and short-video competitions in connection with National Statistics Day. While college students can participate in the poster and short video competitions, students, researchers, teachers, and even the general public can participate in quiz and essay writing competitions, a press release said. The essay can be prepared in Malayalam or English on the topic ‘Scope of Statistics in Health Science’. Those who are interested in participating in the poster competition should prepare an e-poster on the topic ‘COVID-19 pandemic and statistics’. Video, which should not exceed three minutes, should be made on the topic ‘Feasibility of statistics in modern times’. Essays, posters and videos, which can be made in Malayalam or English, should be sent tostatdaythrissur@gmail.combefore June 26. Contact: 9446178785, 9072770295.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quiz-short-video-contests-ahead-of-statistics-day/article34845140.ece
18 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||More plaints against make-up artiste||The police have received more complaints against cinema-serial make-up artiste Sajin Kuzhuppilly of Kodakara, who was arrested for sexually abusing a female actor after offering her roles in serials. Blackmail charges The Thrissur medical college police arrested Sajin on a complaint registered by the actor. Sajin is known to get friendly with women, many of whom face marital issues, through social media. He then molests them, records the scenes and blackmails them using the videos, the police said. Pending cases One woman even tried to commit suicide. He has many cases pending against him in various police stations. The police got his telephone messages to many women offering roles in serials. The police seized an air gun, which was used to threaten women, his pen drive with videos and mobile phones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/complaints-against-make-up-artiste/article34845135.ece
18 June 2021||Thrissur,KERALA||Antigen test for writing KUHS exams||The Kerala University of Health Sciences (KUHS) has made antigen test mandatory for students attending examinations being conducted by it. Students holding COVID-19 negative certificates alone will be allowed to enter the examination halls. Those who show symptoms of COVID-19 should undergo RT-PCR test even if they test negative in the antigen test. The university is resuming theory and practical examinations of various courses offered by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/antigen-test-for-writing-kuhs-exams/article34845151.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Toll point||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toll-point/article34845573.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caught in headwinds||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/caught-in-headwinds/article34845542.ece
18 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai outfits help COVID patients||The Andhra Pradesh wing of the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations has extended a helping hand to those hit by the second wave of the pandemic across the State. Ever since the cases began rising suddenly from March, members of the organisation started a host of services including starting 32 community kitchens. The most sought-after, however, were the 38 telemedicine centres with 109 doctors handling calls and about 40 beds were dedicated at different locations for COVID patients for either treatment or as isolation ward. In all, 10 ambulances were dedicated for this purpose, it said. As many as 49 lines were set up for telemedicine and food service. More than 1,000 volunterrs took part in various service activities. As part of the hunger alleviation service 10,215 Amrutha Kalashams (One month’s dry groceries enough for a family) were provided, 2,35,825 food packets distributed during these 90 days. Cooked food was served to 14,860 patients and their families. Baby food was provided to 6,420 infants, in addition to 50,000 packets of fruits and snacks. The livestock was taken care of with 60 of them provided fodder. In addition to these, hospitals were given 43 oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators and oxymeters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-organisations-help-covid-19-patients/article34845598.ece
18 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||V-Cs discuss quality of education||The Vice-Chancellors of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU) in Anantapur, Sri Krishnadevaraya University, and the Central University of Andhra Pradesh met on Thursday to discuss the modalities to be adopted for improving the quality of education by catching up with the recent trends in higher education and to plug the gaps to ensure qualitative support to the universities and other higher educational institutions. The State government had grouped the three universities into the Anantapur Cluster and formed the Andhra Pradesh Higher Education Planning Board (APHEPB) with all the Vice-Chancellors / Directors of State universities and Central institutions. JNTU-A Vice-Chancellor G. Ranga Janardhana said that the APHEPB envisages promoting inter-institutional research projects and a move to strengthen the inter-institutional relations particularly between State and Central universities. G. Ranga Janardhana, Vice-Chancellor, JNTUA; SKU Vice-Chancellor M. Ramakrishna Reddy, A.P. Central University Vice-Chancellor S.A. Kori took part in the discussion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/v-cs-discuss-quality-of-education/article34845599.ece
18 June 2021||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RDT Hospital gets oxygen generator||An oxygen generator was inaugurated on the RDT COVID-19 Hospital premises by Collector Nagalakshmi Selvarajan on Thursday. The generator has a capacity to produce 500 litres of oxygen per minute. The hospital acquired the oxygen generator from the donation collected as part of its ‘Mission Oxygen’. “The oxygen generator is not only of relevance for the hospital but for the entire region,” said Ms. Nagalakshmi, and thanked the efforts of the hospital to contain the spread of the virus. RDT Executive Director Anne Ferrer and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rdt-hospital-gets-oxygen-generator/article34845600.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||NBSA reprimands three TV channels||The News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA), acting on complaints filed by the Bengaluru-based Campaign Against Hate Speech (CAHS), has reprimanded three television channels — Times Now, TV18 Kannada, and Suvarna News — over reports that “targeted Tablighi Jamaat members” during the pandemic in 2020. The CAHS had taken objection to two programmes aired by TV18 Kannada on April 1, 2020, on Tablighi Jamaat. In his order, Justice A.K. Sikri (retired), chairperson of the NBSA, noted, “... the manner in which the programmes were presented was highly objectionable. The news report was based on pure conjecture. The tone, tenor and language was crass, prejudiced and disrespectful ...” Imposes fine The NBSA has imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh on the broadcaster payable to the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) and directed it to run an apology on air on June 23 for violating the Code of Ethics and Broadcasting Standards. The authority has also asked the broadcaster to take down videos of the two programmes from all web portals. Acting on a complaint against seven programmes aired by Suvarna News between May 31 and April 4, 2020, the NBSA noted in its order, “The entire blame/cause of the spread of the coronavirus was linked to the Tablighi Jamaat and, in turn, to a particular community. The titles of the programmes had an insidious effect which would incite communal violence ... .” It also noted that “there was certainly a lack of balance, objectivity and impartiality in the programmes” and they “were overtly prejudiced against a particular religion.” The NBSA has imposed a fine of Rs. 50,000 on the broadcaster, payable to the NBA, and asked it to take down the videos from public forums. Over a complaint against a panel discussion “Is Tablighi Jamaat wilfully sabotaging India?,” aired on April 2, 2020, the NBSA has issued a censure to Times Now “for telecasting such a programme on a sensitive issue which could create communal dissension amongst communities”. Justice A.K. Sikri, in his order, stated, “The anchor of the programme made certain statements relating to the Tablighi Jamaat which were violative of the fundamental principles mentioned above [accuracy, impartiality, neutrality, and objectivity].”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nbsa-reprimands-three-tv-channels/article34844933.ece
18 June 2021||BENGALURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dissidence in Karnataka BJP to the fore||Dissidence in the BJP State unit came out in public again, even as party national general secretary Arun Singh was holding consultations with MLAs on Thursday, with MLC A.H. Vishwanath demanding that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa be replaced considering his age and alleged interference by his son. Soon after, those in the Chief Minister’s camp launched a counter-attack on Mr. Vishwanath, while party State general secretary N. Ravikumar said action was sought against him and others indulging in indiscipline. After his meeting with Mr. Singh, Mr. Vishwanath said, “Mr. Yediyurappa is a tall leader who is credited with building the BJP. But now he is not in a position to carry off the leadership role because of his age.” He also suggested that Mr. Yediyurappa, who hails from Lingayat community, should now play the role of a mentor and allow a leader from Veerashaiva Panchamasali community to become the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister’s family, particularly his son B.Y. Vijayendra, was interfering in administration of all the departments, he alleged. “Recently, they have floated tenders for works to the tune of Rs. 20,000 crore in the Irrigation Department without the concurrence of the Finance Department,” he said. Mr. Vishwanath said he had briefed Mr. Singh about all these issues. Counter-attack Soon after, the Chief Minister’s camp launched a counter-attack on Mr. Vishwanath. Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya said choosing the Chief Minister was not a matter that concerns Mr. Vishwanath. He said Mr. Vishwanath was known to attack the party bosses right from the days when he was in the Congress and the JD(S). BDA chairman and Chief Minister’s close aide S.R. Vishwanath also endorsed Mr. Renukacharya. Mr. Ravikumar, meanwhile, said the party would not endorse the views and allegations of Mr. Vishwanath. “In fact, we have brought it to the notice of Mr. Singh and sought action against Mr. Vishwanath,” he said. He said the BJP was keeping a close watch on those indulging in indiscipline by issuing statements that would embarrass the party. Meeting with MLAs Meanwhile, Mr. Singh held consultations with over 50 MLAs from both the Chief Minister’s and his rival camp. Rebels, including C.P. Yogeshwar, were among those who met him. However, it is learnt that Mr. Singh did not meet another rebel MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. Mr. Singh will complete his consultation exercise on Friday by holding a meeting with State core committee members before winding up his visit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dissidence-in-karnataka-bjp-to-the-fore/article34844936.ece
18 June 2021||BENGALURU/HUBBALLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||My phone is being tapped: Arvind Bellad||In another twist to the factional fight in the State BJP over the demand for a leadership change, Arvind Bellad, MLA, identified with the camp disgruntled with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Thursday alleged that his phone was being tapped. Mr. Bellad has filed a complaint with Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, besides the police, seeking an inquiry. “The Assembly Speaker and the Home Minister are the two authorities who have to look into such issues and help me in carrying out my responsibilities as MLA,” he told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday. While the complaint was filed on June 14, he made it public when party national general secretary Arun Singh was holding a troubleshooting exercise in the State. The MLA also alleged that a few persons were monitoring his movements.  Mr. Bellad alleged that there was a conspiracy to “fix” him. He said that when he recently called a number from which he received missed a call, it was answered by a man who claimed to be Yuvaraj Swami. “Immediately I disconnected the call thinking that he should be the controversial Yuvaraj who is in jail,” he said. Mr. Bellad claimed that he received a call again from the same person who said he had been jailed wrongfully. Wondering how a person in prison could have access to a mobile phone, Mr. Bellad suspected that Yuvaraj calling him could be a “plot to fix” him. Yuvraj Swami is accused of cheating government job aspirants by claiming to be an RSS leader. “Though my father was a five-time MLA, he never had a black spot in his career. My political life too is spotless. Some people are trying to fix me through such efforts,” he alleged. Responding sharply to these allegations, Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya, MLA, remarked that Mr. Bellad was resorting to cheap publicity gimmicks through such allegations. Party State general secretary N. Ravikumar too asserted that the party would not accept his allegations. “We have complete confidence in our legislators. There is no question of tracking their movements,” he maintained. Meanwhile, former MLA and Mr. Arvind Bellad’s father, Chandrakanth Bellad, said if the BJP high command so wished, it would be apt for Mr. Yediyurappa to tender his resignation as Chief Minister. On the issue of his son being in the race for the chief ministership, Mr. Chandrakanth Bellad said that it was an issue left to the discretion of the high command.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/my-phone-is-being-tapped-arvind-bellad/article34844934.ece
18 June 2021||CHEBROLE (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||960 kg of ganja seized||In a huge haul, the police seized 960 kg of ganja estimated to be worth about Rs. 60 lakh, allegedly being smuggled in a lorry. The contraband was being transported from Sileru forests to Telangana, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. On a tip-off, a police team intercepted a lorry on the National Highway on Thursday, and found the ganja bags concealed in separate chambers. Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) O. Dileep Kiran said police arrested two persons, Subodhapa Das and Rasanandapa Das, natives of Odisha. The accused allegedly procured the ganja stocks with the help of a mediator in the Agency area and were transporting it to Telangana, the DSP said. “The accused created a separate chamber in the driver’s cabin to smuggle the ganja stocks,” said Mr. Kiran, adding that efforts were on to trace the receivers in Hyderabad and other accused in the racket.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/960-kg-of-ganja-seized/article34844980.ece
18 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja, liquor, tobacco products worth Rs. 52 lakh seized, 10 held||The Chittoor police on Thursday seized a huge quantities of ganja, and Karnataka-made liquor and banned chewing tobacco products, all worth about Rs. 52 lakh, and arrested 10 persons during raids in three different locations in Tavanampalle mandal. Three vans, a luggage autorickshaw and two motocycles were also confiscated. Deputy Superintendent of Police (law and order) N. Sudhakar Reddy told the media that in view of the spurt in the smuggling activities involving ganja, liquor and prohibited tobacco products across the Chittoor-Karnataka border, special parties were formed , and surveillance was increased on the suspect transit points. During the last 24 hours, the special parties conducted raids at Patrapalle Cross, Gajulapalle village, and LN Puram in Tavanampalle mandal and seized the contraband the accused were trying to transport through the rural roads after taking diversion from the Bengaluru national highway at Bangarupalem. “We have information that three gangs are operating in Chittoor district. They allegedly would procure ganja, liquor bottles and tobacco products from Karnataka and smuggle those into Chittoor. A thorough investigation is under way, and the remaining members of the gangs would be arrested soon,” the DSP said.  Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar had formed special teams to curb the growing menace of youth getting addicted to ganja. “Apart from counseling the youth , we will intensify vigil against the gangs involved in such illegal activities ,” he said. All the accused, hailing from Bangarupalem, Tavanampalle, GD Nellore and Tirupati urban mandals, were remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ganja-liquor-tobacco-products-worth-rs-52-lakh-seized-10-held/article34844937.ece
18 June 2021||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to prepare action plan in a week to check elephant menace||With the wile elephant menace continuing unabated in the district, the forest officials have mooted an action plan to tackle the man-animal conflict in the tri-State junction areas that includes the Koundinya Wildlife Sanctuary in Kuppam, Palamaner, Punganur and Chittoor West ranges, flanked by Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Chittoor Collector M. Hari Narayanan, during a meeting here on Thursday, asked the forest officials to prepare an action plan to address the perennial problems caused by wild elephants in the region which include the casualties among villagers and pachyderms, apart from huge crop losses. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar informed the Collector that the elephant population in the Koundinya elephant project zone in the western mandals which was only eight in 2012 had gone up to 90, registering more than ten-fold increase. The official said since 2013, 10 people have died in incidents of man-animal conflict, apart from 13 pachyderms. “Fencing and trenches have been arranged in close to 4,500 hectares in the Palamaner range. However, wild elephants get separated from their herds frequently and venture into human habitations, attacking people and raiding crops in the forest fringe areas, despite sufficient water and fodder available inside forests,” said the DFO. The incidents of animals moving closer to human habitations have increased owing to reduced movement of vehicles in view of the restrictions imposed to check the spread of coronavirus pandemic. DFO (East Wildlife) G. G. Narentheran observed that the close proximity of tri-State junction to the elephant corridor spreading over the forests of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka resulted in the free movement of pachyderms. Ex gratia for victims As the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary and S.V. National Park in the Seshachalam hill ranges are closely connected to each other, the elephants are crossing the highways frequently and raiding crop fields. Farmers desperate to protect their crops are losing their lives in their attempts to shoo away the animals. The Collector asked the DFOs to submit within a week the proposals, along with an action plan on strengthening the trenches and issues pertaining to payment of ex gratia to the kin of those died in elephant attacks, and compensation for crop loss.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-told-to-prepare-action-plan-in-a-week-to-check-elephant-menace/article34845603.ece
18 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waste-to-energy plant nearing completion||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has said that effective solid waste management is the key to achieve the target of becoming a ‘Clean Andhra Pradesh’. The Minister, along with Special Chief Secretary Y. Srilakshmi, Director of Municipal Administration M. Mallikarjuna Naik, District Collector Vivek Yadav and MD of Swachh Andhra Corporation Sampath Kumar inspected the works at the 15 MW Jindal Waste to Energy Plant at Obulunaiduvaripalem near Guntur on Thursday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to virtually inaugurate the plant soon. The plant is the biggest of its kind in the State where 12 ULBs, including Guntur and Vijayawada Municipal Corporations, have signed an MoU with Jindal Ecropolis to process the solid waste and convert it to energy by using incineration technology. The firm has already signed an agreement with APSPDCL to provide power at Rs. 6.20 per unit. The Guntur Municipal Corporation had allotted 15.50 acres near the dumping yard and proposed to supply treated water from the STP. M.M. Chary, project manager, said that works related to plant and machinery had been completed and the plant would be operationalised within 20 days after integration of sub-stations and interlinking of water supply lines. “I would also like to remind the ULBs of the importance of solid waste segregation at source which is not happening. Unless the solid waste is segregated into dry and wet waste, the plant cannot become operational fully,’’ said the Minister. The Government of A.P. signed an MoU with Jindal in February 2016 but the works have been in limbo for the past two years. The Swachh Andhra Corporation has arranged 720 vehicles for transportation of garbage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waste-to-energy-plant-nearing-completion/article34844976.ece
18 June 2021||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala refutes Naidu’s charges||Rubbishing the letter of TDP national President N. Chandrababu Naidu over pending arrears to farmers, Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said it was filled with false allegations against the government. He told reporters here on Thursday that the TDP leaders had no moral right to speak on farmers’ issues, as they had left a debt of Rs. 960 crore towards crop procurement. “The letter written by Mr. Naidu about the arrears is a false propaganda by the TDP leaders. It was Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who took the initiative of clearing all the pending arrears left by Mr. Naidu, who should be ashamed for writing a letter saying that the farmers were paid within 48 hours of procuring the crops during the TDP rule,” said Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy. Hardly 18 lakh tonnes were procured during 2014-15 by the then TDP government. He said that the main concern behind bringing the Minimum Support Price (MSP) was to safeguard farmers from losses due to a non-profitable price.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sajjala-refutes-naidus-charges/article34845613.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||More slots for U.S. student visa seekers in July||The US Embassy tweeted on Thursday assuring the visa seekers that additional appointments would be added in month of July given the huge rush. The Embassy also asked the students not to submit requests for emergency appointments as they cannot accommodate the volume of requests. The tweet while assuring that more appointments would be open for the visa seekers also asked the students not to despair. The Embassy had to tweet apparently with the students disappointed at not getting an appointment were resorting to using the emergency requests. Sources said the Embassy and the consulates were not functioning to the full capacity given the COVID-19 protocols. As of now just 25% of the regular daily appointments are met with but this may be increased to 40% soon. So it means students will have more slots available to book. The Embassy had earlier said thousands of students secured visa appointments for July and August since the windows were opened on June 14 exclusively for the student community. The embassy portal had to deal with technical glitches with thousands of students trying to get some space on it since the first day. Students who have secured visas will be allowed to enter the United States just 30 days before the classes beginning in their respective campuses. However, parents will not be allowed to travel with the students even if they have visas. “This is because there is a travel ban on Indians to the US till further orders. However, some sections will be allowed including the students,” said Nishi Borra, an education consultant in Hyderabad. Earlier, Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs Don Heflin had clarified in a Facebook chat with prospective visa seekers that the US government would not stress on the COVID-19 vaccination confirmation report from the students. The choice is left to the universities on whether vaccination was needed or if needed which one. However, students need to show a negative report of the COVID-19 test taken within 72 hours prior to their departure. After entering the US students also have to take the RTPCR test within three to five days. The universities concerned have the liberty to ask students to quarantine for a few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/more-slots-for-us-student-visa-seekers-in-july/article34845523.ece
18 June 2021||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two injured as wild elephant attacks auto||Two persons travelling on an autorickshaw suffered injuries when a wild elephant attacked their vehicle at Vellancherry on the Panavally-Kattikulam road on Thursday morning. Suresh Komath, 36, the driver of the vehicle, and Shyamala, 60, have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital at Mananthavady. They were going to Mananthavady when they came under attack from the elephant around 6 a.m., Forest Department sources said. The animal pushed the autorickshaw with its trunk and moved on as the vehicle turned over. Each year, at the advent of monsoon, the area, under the North Wayanad Forest Division, witnesses a spurt in cases of human-wildlife conflict, villagers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-injured-as-wild-elephant-attacks-auto/article34844943.ece
18 June 2021||KHAMMAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive by Railways to curb monkey menace||Railway authorities have launched intensive efforts to check the monkey menace in railway stations on the Kazipet-Vijayawada section of the Secunderabad railway division by deploying teams of monkey catchers to trap and release the simians in the wild.The special drive was launched following a string of representations made by several aggrieved commuters to authorities to control the monkey menace in Dornakal, Bonakal, and some other railway stations of the South Central Railways (SCR), sources said. Several commuters represented the problem on various forums, seeking urgent intervention of the authorities to provide them respite from the antics of monkeys on the platforms. The unrestricted movement of monkeys around the overhead electric lines running along the railway tracks has also become a cause of concern, considering the potential danger of electrocution of the simians and electrical disruption. Over a fortnight ago, monkey-catchers were deployed in Dornakal, Chintakani and Bonakal railway stations. Sources said the special drive yielded positive results with monkey catchers trapping more than 200 simians in special cages filled with fruits and other food items. The trapped monkeys were being released into the forest. Sources said Rs. 700 was charged for trapping each monkey and releasing it into the forest. The authorities drew up plans to implement the special drive in Khammam and Kothagudem (Bhadrachalam road) railway stations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-drive-by-railways-to-curb-monkey-menace/article34844948.ece
18 June 2021||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea against development rules dismissed||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed a writ petition challenging the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, which proposes to develop towns on inhabited Lakshadweep islands. The petition was filed by K.P. Noushad Ali, secretary of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee. According to him, the draft regulation grants the Administrator the power to “declare any area to be a planning area” for the purpose of development. Dismissing the petition, the Bench comprising Justices S.V. Bhatti and Murali Purushothaman observed that examination of the legality of the draft regulation, which was under the active consideration of the administration, was completely premature. The draft stipulation could not be challenged through a public interest litigation (PIL) petition. The court noted that it was well settled that championing the cause concerning service matters by way of a PIL was impermissible on the ground that the petitioner lacked the locus standi to question the legality of the decision. Besides, the petitioner had not convinced the court about his standing vis-à-vis the affairs of Lakshadweep to entertain the PIL.  Response sought The court sought the response of the Lakshadweep administration to pleas by Hibi Eden and T.N. Prathapan, Congress MPs, for a directive to the administration to grant them permission to visit the islands. When the petition came up for hearing before Justice V.G. Arun, counsel for the administration S. Manu sought time to respond to the pleas of the petitioners. The MPs contended that denying entry permits was arbitrary. The petitioners said they wanted to visit the island to interact with the islanders and better understand the issues faced by the islanders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plea-against-development-rules-dismissed/article34844946.ece
18 June 2021||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aisha Sultana gets interim anticipatory bail||The Kerala High Court on Thursday granted interim anticipatory bail to Aisha Sultana, a filmmaker, in a sedition case registered against her. Justice Ashok Menon ordered that she be granted interim anticipatory bail if she is arrested when she appears before the Kavaratti police on June 20 for interrogation in connection with the sedition case. She has been charged with offences under Sections 124 A and 153 B of the IPC for her alleged remark on a TV channel that the Union government had used a bio-weapon against the islanders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/aisha-sultana-gets-interim-anticipatory-bail/article34844938.ece
18 June 2021||MALAPPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||21-year-old killed ‘for rejecting proposal’||A 21-year-old man stabbed a woman to death and injured her sister in an apparent reprisal for rejecting his romantic advances at Elamkulam, near Perinthalmanna, on Thursday, the police said. Vineesh Vinod entered the 21-year-old woman Drisya’s house and allegedly attacked her in her room on the second floor. Her younger sister Devasree, 13, was also injured in the attack. Police arrested Vineesh within hours of the incident. They said Drisya’s family had rejected Vineesh’s marriage proposal. A shop run by the woman’s father at Perinthalmanna was gutted on Wednesday night. Vineesh’s hand is suspected in the incident. The State Youth Commission registered a suo motu case and said the maximum punishment should be given to the culprit to prevent the recurrence of such crimes. The commission would launch a campaign to create awareness among youth, its chairperson Chintha Jerome said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/21-year-old-killed-for-rejecting-proposal/article34844947.ece
18 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 COVID patients recover in South Coastal A.P. in a day||The COVID-19 situation improved further in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as more than 1,500 patients recovered from the infection during the last 24 hours ending on Thursday morning. However, the region reported more than 800 infections during the period. Ten more patients including seven in Prakasam district succumbed to the virus, taking the total number of fatalities to 1,765 in the region. Nellore district has reported 883 deaths and Prakasam district 882 fatalities so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. The cumulative tally went up to 2.41 lakh as 274 persons in Prakasam district and 554 in Nellore district tested positive during the period. The active cases steadily declined from the peak of 40,000 plus during the middle of May. The infection count came down by 716 to 10,783 as 1,030 patients in Prakasam district and 504 patients in Nellore district recuperated during the period. With this, the recovery rate improved to 94.79%. So far, more than 2.28 lakh patients have won the battle against the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1500-covid-patients-recover-in-south-coastal-ap-in-a-day/article34845604.ece
18 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA members urge govt. to check attack on doctors||The members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday urged the Union and State governments to take measures to check the increasing number of incidents of attack on doctors and hospital staff by relatives of the patients on the pretext of negligence during treatment. “It is high time a stringent legislation was brought in to ensure stringent punishment to the perpetrators of such attacks,” said doctors led by IMA city unit president Veeraiah Chowdhary. Launching the ‘Save the saviour campaign’, IMA Andhra Pradesh unit former president R. Jayasekhar said demeaning of modern medicine by self-styled godman Baba Ramdev and others should be condemned by one and all. Doctors should not be held responsible for the deaths during treatment due to reasons beyond their control. “The civil society should rally behind the health professionals who are risking their lives to provide the best possible treatment to COVID-19 patients,” he said while announcing a day-long protest on Friday. Health professionals wearing black badges would attend to their duties, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ima-members-urge-govt-to-check-attack-on-doctors/article34845606.ece
18 June 2021||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Siblings suffering from rare genetic disorder look for help||Seven-year-old Lashith Venkata Naga Ayyan yearns to walk, run and race motorbikes and cars like his father. So does his five-year-old brother Mokshith. This will remain just a dream without a cure for a rare genetic disorder, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), which they have been suffering from. Without losing hope, they cheerfully sang a couple of songs as they are sure that their father D. Vinay Kumar, a realtor, and mother Vedavathi, a homemaker, who take care of them 24x7 in turns, will some how arrange for treatment. “When Lashith missed a couple of milestones, including walking on completion of one year, we did not take it seriously as he was hefty, and according to my mother I had started walking only after turning three,” Mr. Vinay Kumar tells The Hindu . Their second son was walking till two years or so and developed SMA only thereafter. “Every day is a big struggle for us,” he explains along with his wife. Both have been diagnosed by doctors as suffering from SMA2 that affects the nerve cells that control motor neurons. “Even while they are asleep, we keep a close watch,” says Ms. Vedavathi. All is not lost for the family now that the medicine, though costly, is available within the country. Yet, it will be a daunting task for the parents to meet the treatment cost running into crores of rupees. Mr. Vinay Kumar, after exhausting all sources of funds, has now turned to crowdfunding platform ImpactGuru. It is still a long way to go as they have been able to raise only about Rs. 8 lakh now with more than 300 people chipping in with their contributions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/siblings-suffering-from-rare-genetic-disorder-look-for-help/article34845608.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official connivance enabled rosewood felling, claims SIT||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the illegal felling of endangered trees on revenue land in Kerala has reportedly inferred that connivance at multiple levels of the administration had enabled the environmental crime. Officials said on Thursday that the illegal felling of centuries-old rosewood trees at South Muttil village in Wayanad was just the tip of the iceberg. It appeared the crime was old and widespread in Kerala. The SIT has started collating information about illegal tree felling cases, including complaints, registered by various agencies, including the Revenue Department, in Kerala in the past years. Officials said the data, when collated, would give investigators a clearer picture of the scale of the offence in the State. On June 15, the Crime Branch (CB) registered an FIR in connection with the Muttil case. However, it has not named any individual as accused. Investigators said the offenders had used a misinterpreted Revenue Department order to give the timber theft some semblance of legal cover.  Farmer interest cited They recruited loggers from the tribal community in Wayanad to cut down rosewood on assigned land. The accused used the order to persuade COVID-19-hit farmers to sell the expensive trees for a pittance. A set of forest, revenue and check-post officials enabled the crime. Some, including local politicians, turned a blind eye citing farmer interest. As a result, a few higher-ups profited from the racket. In Wayanad, a forest team led by Divisional Forest Officer P. Dhanesh Kumar had impounded the entire loot. However, the same was not the case in other Revenue and Forest Department jurisdictions. Several timber depots, furniture marts and perhaps interior designers might come under the ambit of the probe. The agency would also have to probe the suspicion that rosewood from Kerala had ended in foreign shores, particularly ports in South East Asia. Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, S. Sreejith, is heading the SIT.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/official-connivance-enabled-rosewood-felling-claims-sit/article34844940.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala reopens districts with low positivity rate||After 60 days, Tamil Nadu’s daily COVID-19 case count dropped below 10,000 on Thursday. The State recorded 9,118 cases and 210 deaths, taking its tally to 23,97,864 and toll to 30,548. In the second wave, the State’s daily count surpassed the 10,000-mark on April 18 (10,723). Of the fresh cases, Coimbatore and Erode reported over 1,000 each, though infections continued to dip gradually. While 1,227 people tested positive in Coimbatore, there were 1,041 cases in Erode. Salem recorded 598 cases, while Chennai’s count dipped to 559. There were 542 cases in Tiruppur. Eight districts clocked in fewer than 100 cases each — Ariyalur (85), Dindigul (92), Perambalur (40), Pudukottai (69), Ramanathapuram (65), Sivaganga (84), Tenkasi (93) and Tirunelveli (87). The State’s active caseload reduced to 1,00,523. Of these, there were 12,820 patients in Coimbatore, 11,039 in Tiruppur and 9,709 in Erode. Chennai’s active cases dropped below 5,000 — 4,683 patients are presently under treatment. Fatalities in State Of the 210 deceased, 109 died in private hospitals and 101 in government facilities. Chennai recorded the most number of deaths at 33. There were 17 deaths in Coimbatore, 16 in Tiruchi and 15 in Salem. A teenager was among the 44 deceased who did not have co-morbidities. The 19-year-old was from Chennai. As many as 22,720 people were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 22,66,793. In the last 24 hours, 1,75,010 samples were tested. Another 2,54,378 people received COVID-19 vaccines across the State, taking the overall coverage to 1,12,88,648. Of these, 1,54,410 people were in the 18-44 age group. The State received 60,000 doses of Covaxin as a part of the State government’s order on Thursday. Kerala reported 12,469 new cases on Thursday when 1,14,894 samples were tested. Andhra Pradesh reported 58 new deaths and 6,151 new infections on Thursday. The daily TPR of 1,02,715 tests was 5.99%. There were 69,831 active cases. Chittoor had the highest toll of 12 deaths. East Godavari reported the highest daily tally of 1,244 infections. In Karnataka Karnataka on Thursday reported 5,983 new cases, of which 1,209 were from Bengaluru Urban. With 138 deaths, the toll rose to 33,434. This is apart from 21 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons.As many as 10,685 persons were discharged on Thursday, taking the total recoveries to 26,10,157.The State had 1,46,726 active cases and the TPR touched 3.77%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) 2.30%.  In Telangana Telangana recorded 1,492 cases and 13 deaths on Thursday. There were 166 cases from Greater Hyderabad, 129 from Khammam, and 115 from Nalgonda. While 92 cases were recorded in Rangareddy, 83 people tested positive in Medchal Malkajgiri. The two are among the four urban districts in the State. Usually, number of cases in the two districts are more than rural districts. This has changed from the past a few weeks. The lowest of one case was detected in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. followed by three in Adilabad, six in Kamareddy, seven in Nirmal, nine in Narayanept. From March 2-2020 to June 17 of this year, a total of 17,190,350 samples were put to test and 6,09,417 turned positive. There are 19,521 active cases, 5,86,362 have recovered, and 3,534 people have died.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Hyderabad bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-reopens-districts-with-low-positivity-rate/article34844951.ece
18 June 2021||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD takes up improvement works on Alipiri footpath at a cost of Rs. 11 cr.||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved to undertake balance improvement works along the Alipiri footpath at a cost of Rs. 11 crore. The old footpath, generally preferred by pilgrims to reach the temple town, is 7.6 km long and has around 3,550 steps. More than 20,000 pilgrims take the footpath on an average daily and the number goes up to 40,000 on auspicious occasions. The TTD has entrusted the works pertaining to the roof and footpath to the Reliance Industries which are in progress. The cost of the entire project has been put at Rs. 25 crore and the latter has offer to bear the entire cost.  Project details With the Reliance confining to the works related to the concrete ceiling of the roof, the TTD has decided to undertake the works such as dismantling the damaged structures, removal of debris, strengthening of the parapets with granite topping, improvements of the toilet blocks and construction of new blocks at identified locations, apart from the works relating to electrical, radio and broadcasting, shifting of CCTV/ OFC cables among others for a better aesthetic look, besides fixing the steel railings along the footpath. All these works would incur an additional cost of Rs. 11 crore. The TTD has resolved to meet the expenses from its budget for the 2021-22 financial year. While the dismantling of the damaged structures have been completed, the works relating to the construction of new shelter are in progress. It is likely to be completed by the end of September. Elakkayala mandapam Meanwhile, the TTD has also decided to re-construct the Elakkayala mandapam along the trekking route and renovate the existing stone mandapams from Garudadri Nagar Cottages (GNC) to Central Reception Office (CRO) at Tirumala, after taking the strength and age of the structures into consideration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-takes-up-improvement-works-on-alipiri-footpath-at-a-cost-of-rs-11-cr/article34844978.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition leaders condemn move to increase property tax amid pandemic||The opposition parties on Thursday lashed out at the State government, saying that ‘indiscriminate increase in property tax’ was causing anguish among the people who were already neck-deep in troubles owing to COVID-19 pandemic. Mahila Congress State president K. Prameelamma took exception to the manner in which the government was going ahead with its ‘unilateral decision’ to increase the property tax, water tax and sewerage charges. Congress plans protest “We are planning a protest demonstration. The Centre and State governments have increased the prices of petroleum products, causing the prices of essential commodities going through the roof. How can the State government resort to such an unwarranted step amid the pandemic?” she asked. Rayalaseema Porata Samithi convener P. Naveen Kumar Reddy called the move unfortunate. He also flayed the bureaucrats for having recommended an increase in the tax based on the capital value, instead of on the revenue generated from the buildings. he demanded tax relief for a year, saying that it would provide the much-needed succour to the people who were enduring the loss of their livelihood. BJP State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy accused the State government of doing nothing for good governance. “Though the government is using high-sounding words such as self-sufficiency, reforms and rationalistation of taxes, its aim is to impose heavy taxes on the common man,” he said. Recalling the Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana’s assurance earlier to the public that the hike would not be more than 15%, he wondered how the government could go back on its word after winning the civic body polls.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-leaders-condemn-move-to-increase-property-tax-amid-pandemic/article34845609.ece
18 June 2021||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Judge released on bail||The High Court has approved the bail plea of judge S. Ramakrishna, now under suspension, as a result of which he was formally released from the Piler Sub-Jail on Wednesday. Though the bail was granted on Wednesday, the formalities including submission of the bail copy at the Piler sub-jail were processed on Thursday, after which he was released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/judge-released-on-bail/article34845614.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State responds positively to TS plea for support to school infra project||The Telangana government has sought the support of Andhra Pradesh for implementing a school infrastructure development project on the lines of A.P’s flagship scheme ‘Nadu - Nedu’. On learning that the A.P. government has developed an end-to-end encrypted software with the help of the Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) for its school revamp project, Telangana Education Department Secretary Sandeep Kumar Sultania has written a letter to A.P. Principal Secretary (Education) B. Rajasekhar seeking a no-objection certificate for utilising the software as it is designed and customised to meet the needs of A.P. According to an official release, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has responded to it positively and instructed the officials concerned to do the needful. Mana Badi review Meanwhile, in a review meeting on Mana Badi - Nadu Nedu, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to prepare an action plan for implementation of the new education policy while assuring that neither a single employee would be laid off from schools nor would it result in the closure of anganwadi centres. He said there should be two types of schools, of which one consisting of Pre-Primary (PP)-1, PP-2, preparatory class and Classes 1 and 2 should be within one km distance to the students and the other having Classes 3 to 10 within three-km reach. He stated that the purpose of the new policy was to keep the teacher - student ratio at a rational level. The aim was to provide quality education, quality teaching and quality infrastructure as per the National Education Plan, he told the officials. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government was looking forward to English medium teaching and it was striving to provide quality education. Foundation schools The Chief Minister ordered that the infrastructure works in anganwadi centres under Nadu-Nedu should be completed in two years, and pointed out that the concept of foundation schools was introduced by the Central government and it was to be followed by all the States. He stressed the need to improve the facilities in laboratories and libraries in schools and provide better Internet facilities. The officials told the Chief Minister that the second phase of the Nadu-Nedu programme would begin on July 1. Ministers A. Suresh (education) and T. Vanitha (women and child welfare) and Principal Secretaries B. Rajashekar (school education) and A.R. Anuradha (women and child welfare) were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-responds-positively-to-ts-plea-for-support-to-school-infra-project/article34845620.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||We’ll convey our views to the apex court: Minister||“We will convey our views to the court. Our stand has been very clear from the beginning that we would want to conduct the exams keeping in view the academic future of our students, but not at the cost of their health. We are waiting for the pandemic to subside as the students’ health and safety are our prime concern,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh said on Thursday. Responding to the Supreme Court’s notice issued to the States that have not yet cancelled the 12th Board exams, on Thursday, the Minister told The Hindu that the government would explain its stand to the apex court. “We have never said regardless of the pandemic situation, we will go ahead with the exams. The 10th Class grading is very important for students’ academic future. We are waiting for the situation to improve,” he said, pointing to the fact that there was no uniformity among States as far as cancellation of exams was concerned. The apex court, while hearing a plea filed for the assessment of Class 12 students on their evaluation methodology, issued notices to the governments of Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Assam and Tripura, which are yet to decide on conduct of the Intermediate exams. The top court also issued notice to the Kerala government for not cancelling Intermediate first year exams. The notices came after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and 18 State Boards cancelled Class 12 examination 2021 owing to the prevailing pandemic. When asked if the Intermediate exams stand cancelled in the wake of the Supreme Court notice, the Minister reiterated that the State would convey its stand. “And if the court still wants us to cancel the exams, we will follow the orders.” Tentative schedule The government had kept ready a tentative schedule for Intermediate exams from July 7 to 25 and for SSC exams from July 26 to August 2. “We have put everything in place and if and when the situation permits, we would go ahead,” said the Minister.  We have never said we will go ahead with the exams regardless of the pandemic situation. If the court wants us to cancel them, we will follow the orders. A. Suresh Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/well-convey-our-views-to-the-apex-court-minister/article34845615.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||58 more people succumb to COVID-19 in State||The State reported 58 new COVID deaths and 6,151 new infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning taking the toll to 12,167 and tally to 18,32,902.   The daily positivity rate of the 1,02,715 samples tested in the past day was 5.99% and the overall positivity rate of 2.08 crore samples tested remain at 8.80%. The daily positivity rate was below six per cent for the third time in the past week. Meanwhile, 7,728 patients have recovered in the past day and the number of recoveries increased to 17,50,904 while the recovery rate remains at 95.53%. There were 69,831 active cases. The tests per million ratio at 3.90 lakh was inching closer to the four-lakh mark. Chittoor has again reported the highest toll of 12 deaths in a day. It was followed by Prakasam which reported seven deaths and Guntur which reported six deaths. East Godavari reported five deaths while Anantapur, Krishna and West Godavari reported four deaths each. Similarly, Kadapa, Nellore, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam reported three new deaths each and Kurnool and Vizianagaram reported two deaths each. East Godavari reported the highest daily tally of 1,244 infections in the past day. It was followed by Chittoor (937), West Godavari (647), Prakasam (554), Kadapa (478), Krishna (424), Anantapur (359), Guntur (331), Nellore (274), Srikakulam (264), Visakhapatnam (237), Kurnool (203) and Vizianagaram (199). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (2,51,938), Chittoor (2,11,525), Guntur (1,58,640), West Godavari (1,54,366), Anantapur (1,51,005), Visakhapatnam (1,46,165), Nellore (1,24,416), Kurnool (1,20,253), Prakasam (1,16,828), Srikakulam (1,15,794), Kadapa (1,03,209), Krishna (97,147) and Vizianagaram (78,721).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/58-more-people-succumb-to-covid-19-in-state/article34845611.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu condemns Kurnool killings||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday condemned the killing of two party activists at Pesaravai of Gadivemula mandal in Kurnool district. In a statement, Mr. Naidu said that former sarpanch Vaddi Nageswara Reddy and former president of Kurnool District Cooperative Society Vaddi Pratapa Reddy were done to death when they were returning home after attending the funeral rites of a relative. He suspected the role of YSRCP MLA Katasani Rambhupal Reddy in the incident. Stating that law and order had deteriorated in the State under YSRCP rule, Mr. Naidu said 30 TDP activists had been killed in the last two years. Mr. Naidu further alleged that about 1,500 TDP leaders were targeted and their properties attacked, but the police had done nothing to check the trend. Mr. Naidu conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members of slain party activists. ‘Mitigate farmers’ woes’ Mr. Naidu also took up the issues pertaining to farmers with the Chief Minister. In a letter addressed to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, he sought steps to mitigate the farmers’ woes. He said that payment of Rs. 4,000-crore dues to the farmers was pending in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and East and West Godavari districts. He alleged that MSP was being denied to the farmers. During the TDP term, the amount pertaining to procurement of the produce used to be deposited in the farmers’ accounts within 48 hours, Mr. Naidu claimed. Farmers were unable to pay interest on loan, he said, and accused the government of pushing them into a debt trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/naidu-condemns-kurnool-killings/article34844942.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre urged to foot VGF bill or exempt it totally||As part of its bid for the establishment of a petrochemical complex in Kakinada, the Andhra Pradesh government has requested the Union government to consider downsizing the viability gap funding (VGF) from an estimated Rs. 5,615 crore to Rs. 1,200 crore and funding the same, or giving an exemption from it altogether. The State government has also sought a reduction in the corporate tax to 25% to help the State overcome the financial burden at least to some extent. Besides, the State government has committed itself to providing power and water subsidies amounting to nearly Rs. 630 crore per annum for an operating period of 30 years, according to official sources here. In his presentation to the Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas on Wednesday, Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy had cited a global reduction in interest rates as a positive factor that should make the project viable to a large extent, and that the State government was willing to extend support by other means. Tax revenue Mr. Goutham Reddy had pegged the potential tax revenue from the project to the State at Rs. 350 crore per year and the net tax revenue to the Government of India at Rs. 1,750 crore per year. Projected investment The project is expected to attract an investment of Rs. 1,00,000 crore through the development of downstream and ancillary industries. It is going to be a 1 MMTPA ethane-based petrochemical complex costing about Rs. 32,900 crore and the product portfolio comprises monoethylene glycol, linear low density polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride and propylene derivatives. Construction period The targeted construction period is four years. The petrochemical complex project has been envisaged in the A.P. Reorganisation Act of 2014, and will be a constituent of the Visakhapatnam - Kakinada Petroleum, Chemical and Petrochemical Investment Region (PCPIR).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/centre-urged-to-foot-vgf-bill-or-exempt-it-totally/article34845618.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village-level COVID-19 surveillance panels set up in Krishna district||Krishna District Collector J. Nivas has said that the administration has prioritised COVID management in rural areas and set up special village-level surveillance and COVID-19 management committees as more infections were being reported in rural areas of late. In a review meeting with higher officials of the Health Department on Thursday, Mr. Nivas said that in the first week of May, 55% of the infections were reported in urban areas and 45% in rural areas of the district. However, in the third week of June 77% of the infections were reported in rural areas while 23% were reported in urban areas. Mr. Nivas said the positivity rate in the mandals of Penamaluru, Vijayawada Rural, Kakinapdu, Kanchikacherla, Thotlavalluru and Jaggaiapeta was more than 15% and in Vijayawada urban mandal it was 14.39%. He said the village level surveillance teams and committees would oversee all COVID response activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/village-level-covid-19-surveillance-panels-set-up-in-krishna-district/article34844983.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete housing project in time’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the Joint Collectors (Housing) to complete the construction of houses under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ scheme in the stipulated time-frame. “It is a massive housing project that has no parallels in the country. About 28 lakh houses are being constructed in 17,000 layouts, some of which are of the size of municipalities,” he said while addressing a meeting at his camp office on Thursday. Mr. Jagan said the officials should focus on providing house sites to all the eligible within 90 days of applying for the same, on a saturation basis. The colonies must be equipped with good infrastructure, on which we were spending Rs. 34,000 crore, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-housing-project-in-time/article34845617.ece
18 June 2021||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT-AP to set up centre of excellence in law||The VIT-AP School of Law (VSL) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Alpha Partners, NCR of Delhi. The university Vice-Chancellor S.V. Kota Reddy said as part of the collaboration, a Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security and Law and a few more centres of excellence would be created to encourage research and practical application of law by the future legal professionals. He said the collaboration would help students hone their skills. Founder and managing partner of Alpha Partners Akshat Pandey said the partnership would promote academic research, capacity-building and academic collaborative activities besides facilitating internships and placements for students. Senior consultant, Alpha Partners Arvind Moorchung, VIT-AP registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar, dean, VIT-AP School of Law Benerji Chakka, faculty and students were present at the event conducted in virtual mode.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vit-ap-to-set-up-centre-of-excellence-in-law/article34844979.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Works worth Rs. 450-cr. to be finished soon’||Agriculture Minister and district in-charge Kurasala Kannababu said that developmental works in the city worth Rs. 3,000 crore will be readied for inauguration by March 2022. An action plan has been prepared to ensure that works worth Rs. 450 crore will be completed in two to three months, he said. Mr. Kannababu, along with Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy conducted a review meeting to take stock of various developmental works being undertaken in the city by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) in the city on Thursday. Addressing reporters, Mr Kannababu said that after coming to power, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has initiated a number of developmental works in the city. Except for the beach corridor project, which has run into technical problems, all other development works are going on at a brisk pace, he said. The Minister said that all parks in the city will be developed in a phased manner. “It was already decided to renovate Mudasarlova park into a world-class park with all amenities, for which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will be sanctioning Rs. 100 crore based on a request from Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy. Officials have been told to come up with proposals soon,” he said. The Minister added that the city will have exclusive theme parks — a butterfly park and a freedom fighter park, which will be completed by next year. “It has also been decided to build convention centres for every zone in the city. Designs have been prepared for the centres, which will have all the required facilities. Land identification will begin soon,” he said. The GVMC has developed two heritage buildings — Town Hall and Old Municipal office. “Based on the suggestion from Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy, the heritage buildings will be converted into museums,” he said. ‘Will protect open spaces’ “During the review meeting, we saw that there are around 1,100 open spaces in the city, out of which many are unprotected. The government will protect the spaces and ensure they are not encroached. The GVMC will also take up beautification of ponds in the city. Works related to flyovers at some places were reviewed. Issues related to BRTS road works were also discussed,” Mr Kannababu said. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said that the State government would ensure all the poor are provided with houses, with the goal being to transform Vizag into a slum-free city. He added that Vizag will be made the executive capital very soon. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana gave a presentation on the status of the works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/works-worth-rs-450-cr-to-be-finished-soon/article34845624.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowments Minister lashes out at Ashok||Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas lashed out at TDP leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju here on Thursday, alleging that the former Union Minister was not interested in finding a solution to the ‘panchagramalu’ land issue. Mr. Srinivas was speaking to reporters after visiting the temple of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy at Simhachalam, along with his family. The Minister said that at a time when the public, archakas and temple staff were seeking a solution to the land row, hereditary trustee Mr. Ashok alone was indulging in double standards on the issue. He sought to know whether or not Mr. Ashok was interested in finding a solution to the problem. Alleging that Mr. Ashok was acting at the behest of TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu, the Minister said a solution to the land issue would not only benefit all aggrieved parties but also earn revenue for the temple. Refuting the allegations of Mr. Ashok, he said that the Jagan Mohan Reddy government has not taken a single rupee from the Endowments Department and the former Union Minister should have known that it was not possible to divert funds from the department to the ‘Vahana Mitra’ scheme. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Mr. Ashok was unable to come to terms with the appointment of his elder brother Anand Gajapathi Raju’s daughter Sanchaita Gajapathi as the chairperson of the Simhachalam temple trust board and was politicising the issue. Mr. Ashok was reinstated by the High Court as chairperson of the Simhachalam Trust Board a couple of days ago. Earlier, the Minister was received by Executive Officer M.V. Suryakala, officials and members of the trust board. After darshan of the deity, he visited the ‘Kalyana mandap’ which was spruced up as part of recent renovation works.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/endowments-minister-lashes-out-at-ashok/article34845626.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palla condemns remarks against Ashok||TDP Parliamentary district president Palla Srinivasa Rao has condemned the ‘cheap remarks’ made by Rajya Sabha Member and YSR Congress Party general secretary V. Vijaya Sai Reddy against TDP leader and former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who was reinstated by the AP High Court as Chairman of MANSAS Trust. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that Mr. Reddy lacks the stature to talk about Mr. Ashok, who enjoys tremendous respect from the people of north Andhra region. He explained that Mr. Reddy, who has no knowledge of the region, came here only for politics. He alleged that the YSRCP leader was trying to bring faction politics to the region. ‘Good work defeated’ Mr. Reddy had devoted a major part of his speech on lands under the control of the Samsthanam and Simhachalam temple, which was an indication of his interest in the lands, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said, demanding an apology from the YSRCP leader for his remarks on Mr. Ashok. The TDP leader alleged that the good work done by former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu to attract IT companies to Vizag were defeated as investors were shying away due to the ‘lopsided’ policies and actions of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. Highly qualified youths, who could have secured IT jobs, have settled as ‘volunteers’ conducting door-to-door surveys, he said. The TDP leader recalled that Mr. Naidu had brought the CEO of Franklin Templeton to Vizag in 2018 and the latter had promised 2,500 IT jobs for the city. The YSRCP government, after assuming power, levelled allegations on the allotment of land and the company backed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/palla-condemns-remarks-against-ashok/article34845629.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Holding exams will endanger students’||Telugu Mahila State president V. Anita has described the insistence of Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh and the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) government on holding SSC and Intermediate examinations as a ‘foolish measure’ that can endanger the lives of students. Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, Ms. Anita sought to know whether the YSRCP government could guarantee that there was no risk to the lives of students or at least give an assurance on payment of ex gratia to their families, if anything happened to them. She recalled that 200 students were affected by COVID-19 last year at a private college in Rajamahendravaram and some students were also affected at Andhra University. Explaining that several government employees, teachers and parents had died due to COVID, she wondered whether any of them were paid compensation by the government. She alleged that the government was bent on going ahead with the examinations in order to rebuff the suggestion made by TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh to cancel them in view of the situation. “Around 13 lakh students are expected take the SSC and Intermediate exams. The exam process has to begin at least two to three months in advance. The announcement by the State government that the examinations would be held towards the end of July with results being declared in September will delay the academic calendar and disrupt the next academic year,” she said. Scientists are warning of an impending third wave and it is not yet known if vaccines can be given to children, Ms. Anita said, alleging that the State government, which had failed to control the COVID outbreak in the State, was trying to portray that everything was normal by holding exams. She said that the Chief Minister himself was not moving out of his residence and holding video-conferences and remote launches of development works fearing the virus, but the government wants children to risk their lives by travelling in buses and auto-rickshaws and gather in large numbers at exam centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/holding-exams-will-endanger-students/article34845623.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan mortgaging State for funding Navaratnalu: Maoists||Secretary of the Andhra Odisha Border Special Zonal Committee (AOBSZC) of the banned CPI (Maoist) Ganesh released a letter on Thursday, a day after the exchange of fire at Theegalametta of Koyyuru mandal in which six Maoists were killed. Surprisingly, the letter did not mention anything about the incident, which indicated that it might have been released earlier. In the letter, the CPI (Maoist) accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of not initiating any development activity in the last two years. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has mortgaged the State for funding the Navaratnalu schemes,” the letter alleged. The Maoists further alleged that the State was being pushed into a debt trap. They also said that the government was trying to bail itself out by levying heavy taxes on the people. The letter also said that the welfare schemes were making people “lazy and unproductive.” The Maoists also accused the Chief Minister of trying to “please the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister to wriggle himself out of the CBI cases against him.” The Maoist letter also accused Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy of “playing a double game on the privatisation of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant.” Bauxite mining Asking the Chief Minister to come clear on bauxite mining in the Visakha Agency area, the letter alleged that on the one hand the government had revoked G.O. 97 and on the other it was trying to facilitate mining through G.O. 89. The Chief Minister should come clear on why the MoU with Anrak had not been cancelled, the letter demanded. The AOBSZC secretary also accused the Chief Minister of trying to divert attention of people with the three capitals proposal and creating discord between people of various regions in State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-mortgaging-state-for-funding-navaratnalu-maoists/article34845621.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of slain Maoists reach Narsipatnam area hospital||The bodies of the six Maoists who were killed in an exchange of fire at Theegalametta in the interior area of the Visakhapatnam Agency on Wednesday reached the Narsipatnam area hospital for a post- mortem examination late on Thursday night. Ranadev alias Arjun (DCM), Sande Gangaiah alias Ashok (DCM), Santu Nachika (ACM), Lalitha, Anju and Paike were killed in a gun battle with the Greyhounds, an anti-Naxal force. OSD (Narsipatnam) Sateesh Kumar said that post-mortem would be conducted on Friday, after which the bodies would be handed over to the claimants. On reports that a couple of Maoists were injured, Mr. Kumar said there was no such communication from the Maoists’ side. “We have already asked them to surrender, or approach us if there are any such cases, and we will get them treated,” he said. The exchange of fire is a big setback to the Left Wing Extremists, especially when the movement is at its lowest ebb in the Agency and in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region. The killing of Ranadev, who is said to be a fierce fighter and an influential leader, is considered a big setback. Big blow The loss of Sande Gangaiah alias Dr. Ashok is also being termed as a big blow, as he was the only doctor for the Maoists in the region. Reportedly trained by some RMPs, he was handling medical emergencies of the Naxalites. Gangaiah, who hails from Peddapalli in Telangana, is the younger brother of Rajamouli alias Prasad, who was the mastermind behind the Alipiri claymore mine blast, in which former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was injured in 2003 when he was on his way to Tirumala. Rajamouli, who was a central committee member of the CPI (Maoist), was killed in an encounter in Anantapur in 2007. Sande Rajaiah, a cousin of Rajamouli, had also been killed in an encounter in 1996. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said that Ranadev hailed from Malkangiri of Odisha, Santu Nachika from Koraput, Anju and Paike from Chhattisgarh, and Lalitha from G.K. Veedhi in Visakhapatnam district. Sources said that Anju and Santu were personal bodyguards of Gajarla Ravi alias Uday, secretary of the AOBSZC, which confirms his presence at the encounter site. The monsoon season is generally considered the only period when both the security forces and the Maoists take liberty in letting their guard down as traversing the terrain during the period is difficult. But the encounter dispelled the myth and put the residual Maoist force on the back foot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-slain-maoists-reach-narsipatnam-area-hospital/article34845622.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grocery kits distributed to ECoR Sahayaks||Grocery kits were distributed to Sahayaks and housekeeping assistants by the Women’s Welfare Organisation of Waltair Division (ECoRWWO) in association with Sri Sai Enterprises (catering unit), to extend a helping hand to them in view of the pandemic situation, at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Wednesday. The Sahayaks (licensed porters) and housekeeping assistants have been facing hardships during the second wave of COVID-19 infection. They, however, did an excellent job and delivered their full efforts in ensuring that the station and unit offices were in a safe and hygienic condition. Hassle-free services were ensured for train operations. Under the supervision of Station Director A. Rajgopal, the team arranged distribution of ration kits for the sahayaks and housekeeping assistants. ECoRWWO president Shalini Shrivastava, vice-president Madhulika Saxena, secretary Madhuri Kasipathi, and executive members of ECoRWWO distributed the grocery kits to the needy. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appreciated the team for extending support to the needy in this pandemic time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/grocery-kits-distributed-to-ecor-sahayaks/article34845625.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Microsoft offers business solution for SMBs||Microsoft Dynamics 365 Business Central, a comprehensive business management solution, is enabling small and medium businesses (SMBs) in Visakhapatnam to improve their operational and business efficiency. This cloud platform ensures continuity by connecting sales, service, finance, and operations teams to help SMBs provide faster and deliver better results. Customised for India, the solution comes with in-built features that address local regulatory and market requirements for ease of business. It comprises over 500 pre-configured use cases and business scenarios for GST, Tax Deducted at Source (TDS), and Tax Collected at Source (TCS). Built on Microsoft Azure, the solution aims to address these with new modular applications and expanded analytics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/microsoft-offers-business-solution-for-smbs/article34845627.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll rises to 999; active cases decline to 4,846||The district has reported 237 new COVID-19 infections from various parts, while 238 persons undergoing treatment for the virus have recovered in the last 24 hours, ending Thursday morning. The new cases take the COVID-19 cumulative tally to 1,46,677. The death toll rose to 999 after three more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases have declined to 4,846. Simultaneously, the number of discharges/recoveries have increased to 1,40,832.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/toll-rises-to-999-active-cases-decline-to-4846/article34845633.ece
18 June 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII AP gesture for COVID warriors||CII AP, as part of COVID-related initiatives, donated high-end face shields to government hospitals including Railway Hospital and Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital on Thursday. Former chairman of CII-AP Siva Kumar Gunturu helped in securing the face shields from Maskson.org, USA through Sanjay Vakil and Latha Mangipudi, State Representative from Nashua, New Hampshire, USA. Dr. P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, AMC, and Dr. M.K. Ramakrishna, Chief Medical Superintendent, Divisional Railway Hospital were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-ap-gesture-for-covid-warriors/article34845630.ece
18 June 2021||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Dog-eaten body found||In a gruesome incident, the decomposed body of an unidentified man was found half-eaten by stray dogs on the banks of the Godavari in the temple town of Bhadrachalam on Thursday. The incident came to light after a group of sanitation workers of the major gram panchayat spotted a pack of stray dogs feeding on the decomposed corpse of a man that was washed ashore at a garbage dump along the river bank on Thursday morning, sources said. The workers shooed away the dogs and alerted the local police about the incident. The mutilated body was shifted to the mortuary at the Government Area hospital in the town for identification. Police suspect it to be a case of accidental drowning. The incident brought into focus the growing menace of stray dogs and pollution due to the indiscriminate dumping of garbage on the shores of the river.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dog-eaten-body-found/article34845540.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant workers find it tough to sustain families||Prem is a 45-year-old mason who has sent off his family to Kolkata before the second lockdown was imposed in Hyderabad. Two months later, he is finding it difficult to send money to his wife and two children. “If I get work on one day, I am not getting work for eight days. It has become difficult to reach this labour adda from Urumgadda and go back without earning a rupee,” says the man in broken Hindi. The labour adda is among the dozens of informal job markets in Hyderabad where workers congregate in the morning hoping to get hired for a day. Carrying their small steel tiffin boxes filled with food and their tools of trade, the workers can be seen bright eyed and chatty in the morning. From skilled masons to brick layers to painters to sewer-line cleaners to plumbers and carpenters and workers; the addas are a hunting ground for talent. “Sometimes I wait till 3 p.m. before I decide to go home. I can no longer afford shared autorickshaws. I walk home and reach by evening,” says Prem. Evictions The disruption and loss of work has meant many of the workers are being threatened with evictions by their house-owners. “I owe Rs. 7,000 as I have not been able to pay rent for the past two months. The house-owner is threatening to throw out our belongings. I don’t know what to do,” says Anwar, who used earn Rs. 1,000 per day for the painting work he does. “I have the tools but people don’t want to get work done at their homes,” he says. Muhammad Taj, a bricklayer who gets Rs. 800 per day if gets work, has a different problem. “I am from Narayanpet. I am living here in the hope I get work and earn some money. But there is no work. If I go to my hometown, I can get rations but I don’t know how I will return,” says Mr. Taj about his dilemma. “The shutdown has affected money circulation which is key to social life among daily-wage earners. Once mobility is affected, everything gets affected,” says Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Labs who tracks social mobility. “The government should do an emergency cash transfer to help people. What’s economic stimulus if it does not help the poor people during the worst crisis we can remember,” says Mr. Maringanti.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrant-workers-find-it-tough-to-sustain-families/article34845514.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||More water to fringe areas within ORR||Villages, municipalities and municipal corporations located within the Outer Ring Road have some good news to celebrate. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has decided to increase water supply to these city peripheral areas by 50 %. An additional 50 million litres of water per day (MLD) will be supplied to these localities, in order to mainstream the supply uniformly. Areas to benefit from this measure include Bandlaguda, Boduppal, Nagaram, Dammaiguda, Meerpet, Badangpet, Jalpally, Thukkuguda, Shamshabad, Bahadurguda, Rasheedguda, Chinna Golkonda, Hamidullah Nagar, Qutbullahpur, Pedda Amberpet, Turkayamjal, Thumkunta, Jawaharnagar, Gundla Pochampally, Nizampet, Ameenpur, and Tellapur. Managing Director of the Water Board M. Dana Kishore has announced the decision during a review meeting on Thursday, with Operation & Maintenance and Transmission higher officials He said more than 56,000 families residing in these villages, municipalities and corporations will benefit from the increased supply. He asked officials concerned to take measures to start the additional supply from Friday. Construction of new pipelines and feeder mains has been taken up in these areas to improve the supply, he informed. Already, the Board has assumed the responsibility of water supply to these areas and laid pipelines for the same. As of now, more than 100 MLD of water is being supplied to the localities by the Water Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/more-water-to-fringe-areas-within-orr/article34845176.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown curbs may be eased||As the deadline for expiry of the ongoing restrictions on movement of people and operation of shops and establishments is approaching fast, all eyes are on whether the government will prefer extending the restrictions to completely rein in the COVID-19 pandemic or ease the restrictions further. The State government had opted for lockdown from May 12 to 30 allowing activities between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. The relaxations were eased subsequently allowing activities till 1 p.m. till June 9 and till 5 p.m. till June 19 with a grace period of one hour, facilitating people reaching their destinations. Steps were taken to implement the lockdown restrictions strictly between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. with movement of only essential services allowed during the restricted hours. Lockdown restrictions from 6 p.m. to 10 a.m. are still continuing in some constituencies including Nalgonda, Nagarjunasagar, Sattupalli, Munugode, Devarakonda and Madhira, where the number of cases was still on the higher side. The number of active cases in the State came down to below 20,000 and case fatality rate and recovery rate are pegged at 0.57% and 96.21% respectively, much better than the national average (1.3% and 95.89%) according to the latest information released by the Health department. Given the significant improvement in the recovery rate and low rate of hospitalisation cases, the government is understood to be seriously examining the prospects of lifting the restrictions completely or to give some more relaxations till the cases fall further. Senior officials are of the view that the government should opt for removing the restrictions to the maximum extent possible so that life returns to normal. Substantiating the view was the recent assertion of Minister K. T. Rama Rao who said during a meeting that normalcy was set to return as things were falling into place after the measures taken by the government to check the spread of the virus had yielded successful results. Health department officials too echoed similar views when they had said in the past couple of press conferences that lockdown was likely to be lifted “very soon”, without however specifying the time line. Accordingly, officials of the Health department are anticipating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will convene a meeting with senior officials of the departments concerned along with Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar and Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy in a day or two for taking a call on the way forward after the expiry of the restrictions. The meeting is expected to take stock of the prevailing situation, effectiveness of the lockdown restrictions, impact of restrictions on the economic activities and the vaccination drive that would be launched afresh on June 21 before taking a decision on either lifting the lockdown restrictions fully or easing the restrictions further. There is a general view that the lockdown restrictions would be lifted till 9/10 p.m. and night curfew would be in place from then as a precaution. Shops and business establishments are likely to be allowed to function normally while there is no clarity on whether bars, gyms and other avenues would be opened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-curbs-may-be-eased/article34845534.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||In COVID times, ‘Annapurna’ provides succour||A few dozen people stand outside the Annapurna Centre near Pillar No 140 of PVNR Expressway and tuck into the simple food being distributed free by the civic organisation. Two workers going on a two-wheeler with a UPVC window stop and and pick up a plate of food and join the others. If the Annapurna Centres are considered the bellwether of economic and social distress, Hyderabad is faring way better than the earlier lockdown. “About 75,000 to 80,000 people are having food at the 245 Annapurna Centres across the city that includes lunch and dinner. The food is being distributed free from May 18,” said an official involved with the free food scheme that has become a lifeline for thousands in the city during economic distress. The number of people having free food is less than half of what it was in 2020 when the queues outside the Annapurna Centres stretched across many building blocks in the city. “In April-May of 2020, there were days when 1,60,000 people had lunch and dinner at the free food centres. We had 300 meal counters during that period,” says the person. The number of people waiting to have free food distributed by good samaritans near KBR Park too has shown a decline in comparison to the first lockdown. “I stay in Chowk area. We didn’t get the free rations promised by the government. I have not paid the rent for the past two months that totals Rs. 6,000. I have five children. How do I feed them?” asks Akhil Ahmed who is part of a painters’ guild. At the ration shops where the quota of free rice has been increased to 15 kg for families holding food security ration card holders, there are queues through the day. “Due to COVID-19 most of our cab drivers have no source of income and they have to pay EMIs and rent. The drivers don’t get free rations as they show ownership of a four-wheeler. There is an acute distress among the drivers and their families,” says Shaik Salauddin, general secretary of Telangana Gig and Platform Workers Union. Rural areas have fared much worse due to the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. When a priest in Vikarabad developed symptoms, he was brought to Hyderabad for treatment. His wife borrowed up to Rs. 5 lakh to pay for the treatment but he passed away. “Now, the lenders are harassing the woman who has two small children. When I called, she was crying for the duration of the call. While groceries were arranged by a local representative last month. They didn’t get this month,” says Sai Charan, who is co-ordinating COVID-19 relief using social media as a platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/in-covid-times-annapurna-provides-succour/article34845512.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Record 1.39 cr. tonnes of paddy procured in State||A record extent of nearly 1.39 crore tonnes of paddy has been procured in Telangana with minimum support price during the 2020-21 kharif and rabi marketing seasons including 90.01 lakh tonnes in the rabi season so far. Chairman of Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation M. Srinivas Reddy stated here on Thursday that the paddy procurement during 2020-21 so far was 573% compared to 24.27 lakh tonnes procured in 2014-15, the year of State formation. This rabi season, 90.01 lakh tonnes paddy has been procured from about 14.21 lakh farmers through 6,967 purchase centres and the value of commodity procured is about Rs. 16,878 crore. Of the procurement value, Rs. 13,753 crore was already credited to the bank accounts of farmers, including Rs. 2,000 crore on June 17 itself. He attributed the higher output this year to increased production in the range of 63% to 114% compared to last rabi season in Suryapet, Mahabubnagar, Sangareddy, Narayanpet, Vikarabad and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts. The procurement exercise was already nearing completion in 25 district with only about 1 lakh tonnes more expected to arrive at the purchase centres. Of the 32 districts cultivating paddy, procurement was over 100% of the target in 21 districts this season. Besides the procurement by the Civil Supplies Corporation, rice millers and traders had purchased about 20 lakh tonnes directly from farmers this season, Mr. Srinivas Reddy said. Mr. Srinivas Reddy said the production of paddy during 2020-21 in the State was about a whopping 3 crore tonnes. The highest procurement this season was done, overcoming the problem of hamalis, drivers and lorry shortage, milling capacity and the lockdown conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/record-139-cr-tonnes-of-paddy-procured-in-state/article34845528.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monsoon brings back focus on dengue, malaria||Along with joy and much needed respite from summers, monsoons also means increased menace of mosquitoes - which breed in stagnant water. This poses a threat of increase in spread of vector-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. To avoid it, staff of Telangana Health Department were directed to identify high-risk area where high number of the vector-borne diseases were reported last year. Preventive measures will be taken based on that. Local bodies such as panchayats and municipalities too will be alerted to take part in the preventive measures. A few of the high-risk areas are in Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu, Jayashankar Bhupalapally and Kumaram Bheem Asifabad. Some of the preventive measures include indoor residual spray, release of Gambusia fish in stagnant water bodies, urging people to ensure water does not stagnate in empty or broken vessels, in tyres lying around home, or any other container. The stagnant water works as breeding ground for mosquitoes. Since summers gave way to monsoons, people discontinue usage of air coolers. People were urged to clear remaining water from the coolers. Additional Director at National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (Telangana), Dr G Amar Singh Naik said that active and passive surveillance of malaria is being taken up. The staff would visit high-risk areas. Medical camps would be conducted there for early detection and treatment of the vector-borne diseases. He said that private hospitals were directed to send samples to sentinel site hospitals to cross check dengue status of patients. “NS1 ELISA test will be performed if it has been within five days from onset of fever. And MAC ELISA test will be performed if it has been more than five days,” Dr Amar Singh said. This holds significance since earlier a few private hospitals started to administer treatment after declaring that a person had dengue. However, the person was found not to have the disease when cross checked. Besides, directions were issued to ensure blood smear test is used in detection of malaria, which is considered as gold standard for diagnosis of the diseases. Rapid detection tests are to be used at Primary Health Centres only in emergency situations. Vector-borne diseases The number of dengue and malaria cases have dropped in 2020 when the COVID-19 pandemic started to ravage lives of people. While 13,361 dengue and 1,709 malaria cases were recorded respectively in 2019, the numbers dropped to 2,173 dengue and 872 malaria cases in 2020. From January to June 10 of 2021, 265 dengue and 240 malaria cases were recorded. Since people have become conscious about personal and immediate environment hygiene in the wake of COVID, it is hoped that load of the cases will be less this year too. ‘Target 2025’ There could be increased focus on the diseases as the State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said on Monday that elimination of malaria by 2025 is a target. The senior official also said that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao recently held a meeting with District Collectors and others on seasonal diseases. Apart from the vector-borne diseases, air borne diseases too is under focus. As the State is already burdened with COVID-19 cases, officials are taking steps to avoid people getting infected with other diseases. Dr Srinivasa said that precautionary steps such as wearing masks, physical distancing, hand hygiene, followed to avoid COVID-19 also helps in avoiding other air-borne diseases such as tuberculosis. Other officials in the Health Department said that the measures were one of the reasons for less number of swine flu cases from 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/monsoon-brings-back-focus-on-dengue-malaria/article34845504.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub rolls out next batch of accelerator for startups||Tech startup incubator T-Hub is inviting applications from startups for the second batch of acceleration programme -- T-Angel. Around 15-20 tech startups are to be shortlisted for the 45-day programme that will commence in July. They will be shortlisted after an extensive screening process by a committee of investors and mentors. Startups from across India can apply. Applications will close on June 30. The acceleration programme will focus on understanding and resolving two key constraints or pain points of a startup’s business operations hindering their prospects of raising capital. T-Angel will be supported by angel investors who will collectively invest up to Rs. 50 lakh, in three tranches, in each of the qualified startups, a release from T-Hub said. CEO of T-Hub Ravi Narayan said with only a small percentage of startups successful in raising funding it has become important to make the entrepreneurs aware of what angel investors are looking for. “T-Angel's existence has been smartly tailored to solve this issue. T-Hub believes there are plenty of technology startups that are investment-ready provided they learn the fundamentals from an investor perspective,” he said. T-Hub will undertake an in-depth assessment of the startup’s business plan and based on that a customised work plan will be developed for each of the startups, with specific interventions. Thereafter, the shortlisted startups will undergo intensive training by subject matter experts/consultants to help make them investment ready. The programme is for early-stage startups with a Market Viable Product or a prototype. The company should be incorporated, operating in India and into development of software/hardware or employs technology to change the way a traditional business or set of business operations is carried out, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-rolls-out-next-batch-of-accelerator-for-startups/article34845510.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,492 COVID-19 cases recorded in State||Telangana recorded 1,492 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the total to 6,09,417. While 1,19,464 samples were put to test, results of 1,346 were awaited. Meanwhile, 13 patients have died. The new 1,492 cases includes 166 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 129 from Khammam, and 115 from Nalgonda. While 92 cases were recorded in Rangareddy, 83 people tested positive in Medchal-Malkajgiri. The two are among the four urban districts in the State. Usually, the number of cases in the two districts are more than rural districts. This has changed from the past few weeks. The lowest of one case was detected in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district, followed by three in Adilabad, six in Kamareddy, seven in Nirmal, nine in Narayanept. From March 2, 2020 to June 17 of this year, a total of 1,71,90,350 samples were put to test and 6,09,417 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 19,521 were active cases, 5,86,362 have recovered, and 3,534 people have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1492-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-state/article34845509.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eatala’s Huzurabad visit creates tension||Tension prevailed at Katrapalli in Huzurabad when the supporters of former Minister Eatala Rajender and MLA Palla Rajeshwar Reddy raised high-decibel slogans in support of their leaders as the vehicles carrying the two leaders came face to face on Thursday. Mr. Rajender was on his maiden visit to Huzurabad after resigning from the Assembly and the TRS party and joining the BJP. Mr. Reddy was also touring the constituency at the same time. As their vehicles came face to face at Katrapalli, their supporters raised loud slogans creating some tense moments. The sloganeering continued for sometime even as police tried to move the two leaders away fearing tempers may rise in the sloganeering leading to violence. However, it ended peacefully. The Former Minister got a rousing reception on his way to Huzurabad and also in the town with hundreds of his followers and BJP activists turning up. He was accompanied by Raghunandan Rao, MLA and former MP, Vivek Venkataswamy. He will stay in Huzurabad for four days where he is expected to visit some villages and also interact with his followers and the BJP cadre. The former Minister resigned from the TRS and also as MLA after the government filed cases against him alleging illegal acquisition of assignment lands.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/eatalas-huzurabad-visit-creates-tension/article34845524.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Plumber inhales fumes at RGIA, dies||A plumber died after inhaling toxic gases from the drainage pipeline in the arrivals area of Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, on Thursday. At around 8 p.m. the victim, 42-year-old Narasimha Reddy of Faber Sindoori Facility Management Services, along with two others, was checking for drainage leakage and climbed the ceiling using a ladder, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shamshabad) N. Prakash Reddy said. “They had poured acid into the drainage pipes to clear the blockage. Reddy and others inhaled the fumes and fell unconscious,” he said. They were soon rushed to the medical facility available at the airport where Reddy died while undergoing treatment. The health condition of the other two is stable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plumber-inhales-fumes-at-rgia-dies/article34845518.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 100 sheep run over by train in Nizamabad||At least 100 sheep were knocked down by the Tirupati-Adilabad Krishna Express near Fakirabad in Nizamabad district in the wee hours of Thursday. South Central Railway officials said that the shepherd, along with the woollies, was crossing the railway track between Navipet and Basara when the incident took place. The sheep were being taken for grazing before they were sold in the market. “This practice of grazing the sheep in the wee hours before taking them to the wholesale market would add additional weight,” the officer said. Initially, the Railway Protection Force officials assumed that 60-70 sheep were killed, later they came to know that the number was more than 100. “No compensation will be announced as they were trespassing the railway property,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/over-100-sheep-run-over-by-train-in-nizamabad/article34845519.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Support promised to ADR Centre||The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry on Thursday said Chief Justice of India N. V. Ramana has promised support and guidance in making the NALSAR-FTCCI Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Centre, to be set up on the federation premises here, successful in its endeavour. The ADR Centre will be of great support to the trade and industry not just in Telangana but also in neighbouring states, said a release from the federation on the meeting the FTCCI team led by its president Ramakanth Inani had with the CJI at Raj Bhavan here on Thursday. The team apprised the CJI of setting up of ADR Centre at the Federation House. The ADR Centre will undertake skill development programmes pertaining to mediation and arbitration to creating awareness of ADR for effective dispute resolution. Assuring guidance, Justice Ramana said he envisioned an International Alternative Dispute Resolution Centre in India on the lines of those in Singapore, London and UAE. Mr. Inani sought a review of working of commercial courts in Telangana and solution to cheque bounce cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/support-promised-to-adr-centre/article34845529.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Secretariat abuzz with activity||The State Secretariat was abuzz with activity on Thursday. Cabinet sub-committees constituted on revenue mobilisation, health and school education infrastructure conducted separate meetings with senior officials on the way forward. The meetings were conducted amid reports of steep decline in the number of Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic cases and reduction in the case positivity as well as fatality rates. The Cabinet panel on Health headed by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao held discussions with officials on the present facilities in the government health sector. It discussed the steps to be taken to improve the general and specialised medical services that were available and those that would be required to provide effective medicare, especially to the poor. At another meeting on revenue mobilisation, the Cabinet sub-committee headed by Mr. Harish Rao accompanied by senior officials led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar saw a detailed presentation on the modes of revenue mobilisation. The members discussed the proposals put forth by the officials and it was decided to submit a preliminary report to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on these aspects after holding consultations with stakeholders. The Cabinet sub-committee on school education headed by Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy discussed availability of infrastructure in government schools and equipping them with infrastructure on a par with private institutions. The meeting decided to submit its recommendations to the Chief Minister for further instructions in this direction.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/secretariat-abuzz-with-activity/article34845532.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two officials suspended for open manhole||Suspension orders were issued to an assistant engineer and a work inspector of the GHMC on Thursday, and penalty was imposed on the private agency responsible for road maintenance, holding them responsible for an open manhole in the Secunderabad Zone. The orders were issued following directions from Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, after a picture of the manhole on the Padmarao Nagar main road was published in a newspaper. An inquiry ordered by Mr. Arvind Kumar held assistant engineer M. Rajashekhar and work inspector Mohammed Yousuf responsible for the lapse. Apart from their suspension, memos seeking explanation were issued by GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar to Executive Engineer (Begumpet) R.Shivanand and Deputy Executive Engineer T.S.R.Anjaneyulu. Penalty of Rs. 1 lakh was imposed on the private agency assigned the maintenance — K.N.R.Constructions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-officials-suspended-for-open-manhole/article34845175.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Covaxin moves a step closer to WHO nod||India’s vaccine against COVID-19 Covaxin is set to get closer to World Health Organization (WHO) approval with a pre-submission meeting for its emergency use listing scheduled for June 23 by the organisation. The meeting on the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech is planned for June 23, a WHO document on the status of COVID-19 vaccines within EUL/PQ evaluation process and last updated on Thursday said. Bharat Biotech, which in association with Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has developed the whole-virion inactivated vaccine, last month said the WHO approval was expected in the July-September quarter. The WHO had then said the application was submitted in April 19 and more information was needed. A pre-submission meeting was scheduled in May-June, the U.N. agency had said. A WHO approval will come as a big boost for Covaxin and expected to pave the way for all those inoculated with it to travel to many countries. The vaccine had received emergency use authorisations in 13 countries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covaxin-moves-a-step-closer-to-who-nod/article34845517.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Case booked in brawl over biryani||Three ‘biryani lovers’ attacked the staff of Mehfil Hotel at Mailardevpally alleging that the mutton biryani they ‘ordered and ate’ was not cooked properly. The trio picked up an argument with the staff at the cash counter while paying the bill which further resulted in a brawl. The incident took place around 5 p.m. when the hotel staff was in a hurry to shutter down due to lockdown. “The trio showered blows on the cashier, as a result other staff tried to stop them and later manhandled,” Mailardevpally police said, adding that they booked two cases under the City Police Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/case-booked-in-brawl-over-biryani/article34845520.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four transgenders booked for creating nuisance at Neredmet police station||Four transgender persons were booked by the Neredmet police of Rachakonda Commissionerate for creating nuisance at the police station on Wednesday evening. Police said that a group of transgenders came to the police station to lodge a complaint against the family members of a newly married couple for not fulfilling their demand to give Rs. 50,000. “They demanded Rs. 50,000 from the marriage party and as they refused to give such a huge amount, the transgenders created ruckus near their house and came to our PS to lodge a complaint. They were forcing us to register a case against the family members,” an officer said. When the police refused to book a case citing various reasons, the group undressed themselves and allegedly created a nuisance inside the police station, the officer said. Based on the complaint lodged by the family members of the newly married, a case was registered and a probe is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-transgenders-booked-for-creating-nuisance-at-neredmet-police-station/article34845521.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four police constables suspended||Four constables, including two women officers, posted at Bichkunda police station in Kamareddy district were placed under suspension for demanding and collecting money from illegally run lorries transporting sand. The officers are B Santosh, B Parandamulu, Ch. Bhavitha and Maiskala. According to officials, the constable demanded and accepted money from the sand lorries at the check post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-police-constables-suspended/article34845522.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Navodaya student bags 7th rank in AIIMS exam||A post-graduate from the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Manda Goveen, 29, secured all India seventh rank in Doctor of Medicine (DM) Neurology course at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi. A native of Babanagar village, Bheemgal, Nizamabad, he pursued schooling at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in the district. Dr. Goveen completed MBBS from Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, and PG in General Medicine from NIMS. He gave the AIIMS super speciality test in April of this year and the results were announced on June 15. The PG General Medicine student who was in the core of COVID-19 services throughout first and second wave has used the skills gained in treating the patients in his native village, Babanagar, which is very backward. Dr. Goveen attended COVID-19 patients in his village through video consultation. Since there were delays in getting tested, he offered treatment based on the symptoms reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/navodaya-student-bags-7th-rank-in-aiims-exam/article34845506.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IMA-TS to join nation-wide protest||As part of nation-wide protest on June 18, the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Telangana chapter members said that they too will protest the violence against doctors. Legal recourse The State chapter’s president Dr D Lavakumar Reddy and others said that doctors will wear black badges to push ‘Save the saviour’ appeal and demand a definite legal recourse for the violence against doctors. They have also condemned ‘unauthorised people’ criticising government sponsored programmes such as vaccination, COVID management, and demeaned modern medicine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ima-ts-to-join-nation-wide-protest/article34845507.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MRUH offers 70 new courses||Malla Reddy University Hyderabad (MRUH) will offer 70 new courses from this year covering a wide variety of industry domains and some novel courses like Public Policy in governance at both graduate and post graduate level. MRUH Chancellor D.N. Reddy said at a press conference here that applications are open now for the courses. the university has also decided to offer free education to students who lose their parents due to COVID-19 in the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mruh-offers-70-new-courses/article34845174.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre urged to tweak rules to help MSMEs||Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao has underscored the need for the Centre to review its Aatmanirbhar relief package for the benefit of micro, small and medium enteprises as they have been impacted the most in the pandemic. “It is time we do a sincere reappraisal of the Aatmanirbhar relief package and make it work more realistically and humanly for the most affected constituents, of which MSMEs occupy a top priority,” he said in a letter to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. Guidelines of the Corpus Fund scheme meant for innovative MSMEs have not been released so far, he said. He suggested changes in the Centre’s PLI scheme so that MSMEs are also benefitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-urged-to-tweak-rules-to-help-msmes/article34845515.ece
18 June 2021||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jagtial SI in ACB net||A sub-inspector posted at Jagtial town police station was arrested by Anti Corruption Bureau officials on Thursday for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 30,000 from an accused in a domestic violence case. The accused officer, Sangamuri Shiva Krishna, demanded Rs. 30,000 from Bejjarapu Rajesh of Metpally to grant station bail to the latter and his family members in the case. The bribe amount was accepted by Kadapa Ravi, a private driver, on behalf of the SI. “Ravi accepted the bribe from the complainant in the accompanying witness’ car in front of Jagtial town police station and was caught red-handed,” ACB officials said. Shiva Krishna, along with Ravi, was arrested and will be produced before the Special Judge for SPE and ACB cases, Karimnagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jagtial-si-in-acb-net/article34845531.ece
18 June 2021||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Transport Minister launches check dam on Munneru||A check dam, constructed at a cost of Rs. 7.45 crore, across the Munneru river at Prakashnagar in the town, with a storage capacity of six million cubic feet (mcft) of excess water, was inaugurated by Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar here on Thursday. Besides conserving about two lakh cusecs of surplus water that usually flows downstream every monsoon, the water harvesting structure is expected to accrue multiple benefits such as storing a substantial quantity of floodwaters for catering to drinking water and irrigation needs besides recharging the groundwater table. The Munneru, a tributary of Krishna River, flows across the district spanning a length of 40 km before entering into Krishna district of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Speaking after inaugurating the check dam along with Collector R. V. Karnan here on Thursday, Mr. Ajay Kumar said another check dam has been sanctioned across the Munneru river at Dhamsalapuram with an estimated outlay of Rs. 7 crore to save and store surplus water to augment drinking water supply and irrigation. The Minister asked the officials to prepare estimates for construction of flood banks on either side of the check dam in 500 metres radius under the Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits to ensure a comprehensive flood protection mechanism and develop the site into a tourist spot. Khammam Mayor P. Neeraja, Municipal Commissioner Anuraag Jayanti, officials of the Khammam Irrigation circle, among others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/transport-minister-launches-check-dam-on-munneru/article34845539.ece
18 June 2021||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||On their way to slipping into history||It was the statue of Mahatma Gandhi, father of the nation, standing high on a pedestal with white clothes and a stick in the right hand. It will be almost in the middle of the road and a few metres away adjacent to a wall is temple bout five feet high in which sits village goddess Mysamma. This was witnessed at Vemulaghat village in Toguta mandal till a few days ago. These two are mute witnesses to development of the village, its transformation into agri- centric village with paddy cultivation and three crops every year. Now all this has become history, almost. The statue of Mahatma Gandhi was removed in the village about a month ago, on May 24. Similarly, the high school building, which made many students of the village and in its neighbourhood, was also demolished with bulldozers and heavy machinery. Houses and other structures of those who were paid compensation were being demolished in addition to the property that belongs to the government. Almost all villages got vacated except some from Etigaddakishtapur and Vemulaghat, where about 60 persons approached the High Court seeking compensation under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act -2013). It was informed that some people were still there at Pallepahad, with those who continued to stay claiming that they are yet to receive compensation. “The houses and other structures have to be demolished only after the entire village gets vacated and the oustees are accommodated properly at the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) Colony at Mutrajpally near Gajwel. Instead, they are putting holes to houses of those who had sold them over to the government and demolishing government structures. This is nothing but bringing more psychological pressure on oustees who are already stressed,” S. Ashok of Etigaddakishtapur told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-their-way-to-slipping-into-history/article34845536.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Not joining BJP: BB Patil||TRS leader and Lok Sabha member B.B. Patil has stated that he is not joining as rumoured on social media platforms. “There is not even an iota of truth in what is being trolled in social media that I am joining BJP. I have become Lok Sabha member twice with the blessings of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. I am not having any differences with MLAs in my constituency limits,” said Mr. Patil after inaugurating jowar procurement centre at Narayanakhed on Thursday. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao is from a farmer’s family and he knows their problems. That is why Rytu Bandhu and Rytu Beema were introduced. Paddy and jowar procurement was taken to help farmers,” said the Lok Sabha member adding that action would be initiated against those responsible for spreading rumours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/not-joining-bjp-bb-patil/article34845537.ece
18 June 2021||GURUGRAM,||Man ‘burnt to death’ near Tikri border; one arrested||A man was burnt to death allegedly by a group of farmers protesting against the farm laws near Tikri border in Haryana’s Bahadurgarh on Wednesday. One of the accused, Krishan, has been arrested. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Bahadurgarh) Pawan Kumar said two accused, including Krishan, were identified. Both belonged to Jind and were part of the ongoing farmers’ protest. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) said that it was an attempt to defame the farmers’ movement. According to the FIR, the incident took place around 5 p.m. when Mukesh, a resident of Kasar village, went for a stroll and reached the farmers’ agitation site. A little later, Mukesh’s brother Madan Lal received a call on his phone saying that the farmers at the protest site had doused Mukesh with an inflammable liquid and set him afire with an intention to kill him, said the FIR registered at Sector-6 Bahadurgarh Police Station. Madan Lal, the complaint, said he informed village sarpanch who took Mukesh to Civil Hospital for treatment. Mukesh identified one of the assailants as Krishan, according the FIR. Mukesh was later referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak where he died during treatment. Krishan and his fellow accomplices were having drinks with Mukesh when an altercation broke out between them and they set him afire, said Inspector Jai Bhagwan, Sation House Office, Sector 6 Bahadurgarh police station. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, in a press statement, claimed that as per the facts known to it, the man doused himself with petrol to end life due to conflict in his family, and the Kisan Morcha volunteers rushed in to douse the fire and save his life. The SKM said an “unfortunate case of suicide” was being used by the “Bharatiya Janta Party and Jannayak Janata Party government, its political agents and their troll army to somehow implicate the farmers’ movement”.  An “unfortunate case of suicide” was being used by the “BJP and JJP govt., its political agents and their troll army to implicate the farmers’ movement Samyukt Kisan Morcha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-burnt-to-death-near-tikri-border-one-arrested/article34845481.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Friends, family shed tears of joy as they welcome JNU students||“I can’t wait to hold her and feed her favourite food when she gets home,” said JNU student Devangana Kalita’s husband Andre Ling, who welcomed her at Tihar Prison Complex on Thursday evening after completing court formalities. Wearing a blue mekhela chador – a traditional attire of Assamese women, gifted by mother – Devangana stepped out of Tihar Prison gate number 3 along with Natasha Narwal a little after 7 p.m. on Thursday evening and hugged her husband with a wide smile “It’s been a long and difficult year of waiting with so many twists and turns. I am finally relieved,” he said. Around 6 p.m., JNU students started gathering outside Tihar for the three to be released by 7 p.m. The crowd grew bigger with their close friends and family joining. Praise for judiciary Ms. Narwal’s paternal uncle Virender Singh Malik, criticised Delhi Police for the two-day delay and praised the judiciary. “This order has raised hopes among other detainees on such charges. Justice delayed, though not denied but in one sense, it was denied as Dr. Narwala (Natasha’s father) is not with us. He just kept waiting for her release,” he said. Shortly after 7 p.m., a friend peeped through the hole in the gate and started raising slogans, bringing cheer among the crowd. The pitch of the slogans increased and minutes later, Devangana and Natasha stepped out amid the roaring. “ Saare  pinjre  todenge … itihas  ki  dhara  modenge ” the two joined the crowd. A friend’s eyes welled up with tears of joy. Asif’s friends welcomed him outside gate number 4 without the crowd. Though his family was away, his friends made sure his mother saw him speak outside the jail through a video call from Jharkhand. “I am very proud of him,” she said, teary-eyed. Standing at a distance, Devangana laughed and said: “I can’t quite believe I am out of jail. I think I’ll continue to feel that someone will come and arrest me from home tomorrow”. The trio then came together for a picture with their fists held high.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/friends-family-shed-tears-of-joy-as-they-welcome-jnu-students/article34845485.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Amount spent on land purchase for Ram temple shows graft: AAP MP||AAP MP Sanjay Singh on Thursday alleged that for Ram temple 12,080 square meter of land was bought for Rs. 18.50 crore, while 10,370 square meter of land next to it was bought for only Rs. 8 crore, which clearly shows that there has been corruption. “Even if the rate of 10,370 square meter of land for Rs. 8 crore is considered correct, then about 26,000 square meter of land could be bought for Rs. 18.50 crore, whereas only 12,080 square meter of land was bought for Rs. 18.50 crore,” he said. IT information He said that in Uttar Pradesh, if any purchase of more than Rs. 50 lakh is done in the registry department, information is given to the Income Tax Department. “In such a situation why was the information not given in this case of purchase of land worth Rs. 18.50 crore, Rs. 8 crore and Rs. 2 crore?” he asked. The AAP leader claimed that Ram temple is not being built because “scam and corruption” are being done. “The people of BJP and Ram Janmabhoomi Trust have eaten the money of Prabhu Shri Ram Mandir. The poor had back on their expenses and donated for the temple of Lord Shri Ram, every rupee of that donation money should be put to good use,” Mr. Singh said.     Why was the information not given in this case of purchase of land worth Rs. 18.50 crore, Rs. 8 crore and Rs. 2 crore   Sanjay Singh AAP MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/amount-spent-on-land-purchase-for-ram-temple-shows-graft-aap-mp/article34845489.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||DMRC to build ‘halt platform’ to link two corridors||In a bid to improve interconnectivity between Green and Pink Lines, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday said a special “halt platform” was being constructed at Punjabi Bagh West metro station to connect the two corridors. The DMRC said: “There will not be any ticketing facility on the interchange platforms but boarding and deboarding facilities will be available.” 230m-long FOB Officials said the platforms will be connected by a 230-m-long foot overbridge (FOB), which will connect the platforms with the Punjabi Bagh West metro station of the Pink Line. While the Pink Line connects Majlis Park and Shiv Vihar, the Green Line runs between Inderlok and Bahadurgarh. “The platforms will be 155m in length and shall be connected with the FOB by two extra-large lifts [each platform] with a capacity of 26 passengers each and staircases. The total height from the platform level of the new platforms to the concourse of the Punjabi Bagh West station is 16.75m. Therefore, the passage has been planned at two levels,” officials explained. Currently, there is no interconnectivity between the two corridors. “This facility will be of great benefit to passengers traveling to and from the satellite city of Bahadurgarh and other outer Delhi areas such as Mundka and Nagloi,” DMRC officials said. Due to the construction work, services on the Green Line are set to be regulated from late night on Friday to September 30, the DMRC said. “To undertake the construction of this halt platform, the first and last train services between Brigadier Hoshiar Singh [Bahadurgar] to Inderlok/Kirti Nagar will be regulated from the intervening night of June 18 and 19 to September 30,” the DMRC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dmrc-to-build-halt-platform-to-link-two-corridors/article34845494.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Need to develop criteria for assessing board students next year, says Sisodia||Welcoming the evaluation criteria of CBSE and ICSE that takes into account the performance of students over three years, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said there was a need to develop criteria for assessing board students next year. “We cannot think that normal conditions will prevail anytime soon. To avoid another situation next year where we have to rush and take decisions with regard to administering board exams, we should already start developing a plan taking into account online exams and the modalities to conduct assessments and projects if schools have to open partially,” Mr. Sisodia, also the Education Minister, said. He added that there was a need to accept the reality of the pandemic and understand that it might linger for a longer period of time. “What has happened this year is not feasible every year, we have to take well-thought decisions for the best interest of our students,” Mr. Sisodia said. He added that cancelling board examinations should have been considered a long time back, instead of waiting for Supreme Court to intervene in the matter “It is unfortunate that Supreme Court and State governments had to intervene and protest for cancelling board exams...,”Mr. Sisodia said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/need-to-develop-criteria-for-assessing-board-students-next-year-says-sisodia/article34845487.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Man and his mother held for staging robbery||A 30-year-old man and his mother have been arrested for allegedly staging a robbery and flee with Rs. 6 lakh in north Delhi, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Chetan Saini and his 52-year-old mother Madhu Saini — both residents of Kanhiya Nagar, Ganesh Pura, they said. The case came to the fore when complainant Kamal Gupta, proprietor of Kamal Auto Industries in Anand Parbat Industrial Area, approached the police on Tuesday. He told them that he had given Rs. 6.33 lakh to his employee Chetan to deposit in the bank but could not contact him, a senior officer said. His phone was switched off, Mr. Gupta said. The police then found Chetan admitted to a hospital with a hand injury. He told the police that when he was going deposit the money, he was robbed of the cash, one scooter, one bill, cheque, his mobile phone and purse. “During investigation, the police found Chetan’s statements to be suspicious. He was interrogated at a length when he said he had staged the robbery along with his mother and cousin brother,” said DCP (North) Anto Alphonse. On Wednesday, the police raided his house and recovered the money. The scooter was also recovered on his instance, the DCP said. Chetan has been working in Kamal Auto Industries for the last 14 months. He used to take cash from the factory for delivery purposes and bank depositions. This time, he told the police that it was a large sum of money and he decided to siphon it off, the police said. On Tuesday, Chetan staged a robbery near Shastri Nagar. Madhu assisted him in the commission of the crime, an officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-and-his-mother-held-for-staging-robbery/article34845491.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Member of gang involved in looting mobile shops nabbed||A member of an inter-State gang, which is allegedly involved in burglaries in over 50 mobile showrooms in Delhi, has been arrested, the police said on Thursday. On May 17 night, a man complained to the police that someone broke into his JIO mobile showroom near Delhi Cantt police stations and fled off with all the mobile phones. An FIR was lodged. During probe, the police received inputs that members of Mewati Gang are involved in such cases. A tip-off was received by the police that on June 15, a member of Mewati gang, Tarif, would come on a stolen two-wheeler in Vasant Vihar to recce a mobile showroom. “A trap was laid and the accused, Tarif from Haryana was held. We recovered one countrymade pistol along with two live cartridges from him,” said the officer. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said they have identified other members of the gang as well and arrests will soon be made.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/member-of-gang-involved-in-looting-mobile-shops-nabbed/article34845492.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Complaint against actor, Twitter MD in Loni case||The Delhi Police received a complaint against Swara Bhaskar, Manish Maheshwari, Twitter MD and others in connection with Loni incident where a man from a minority community was attacked, officials said on Thursday. “We have received a complaint against Swara Bhaskar, Manish Maheshwari, Twitter MD and others at Tilak Marg police station. It is under inquiry,” a senior officer said. In a video on social media, an elderly Muslim man had accused four men of beating him up, chopping his beard and asking him to chant “Jai Shri Ram” in Ghaziabad’s Loni. Meanwhile, a police team, which is probing the ‘Covid Toolkit’ matter, was sent to Bengaluru where they questioned Twitter India MD Manish Maheshwari. The police, however, did not divulge further details of the questioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/complaint-against-actor-twitter-md-in-loni-case/article34845490.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Vindication of Constitution’s libertarian promise’||The Delhi High Court order regarding the release of student-activists — Devengana Kalita, Natasha Narwal and Asif Tanha — is a resounding vindication of the Constitution of India’s libertarian promise, said former Law Minister Ashwani Kumar on Thursday. He said the subsequent steps by the government to delay their release “mock the conscience of the Constitution and the memory of our Freedom Fighters”. “Protagonists of a muscular State seem to have forgotten the inescapable lesson of history that the cry for freedom is irrepressible. The State ill serves its purpose by oppressing its constituents...,” he said, adding that the attempt to label dissenters as “anti-nationals” must be fought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/vindication-of-constitutions-libertarian-promise/article34845482.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||R-Day violence: chargesheet filed against Sidhu, others||The Delhi Police on Thursday filed a supplementary chargesheet against actor-activist Deep Sidhu and others in the Republic Day violence case. CMM Gajendra Singh Nagar will pass the order on the point of cognisance of the fresh chargesheet on June 19 at 2 p.m. “The IOpointed out the names of the witnesses who were severely injured or from whom the weapon was snatched,” the court noted. On January 26, protesting farmers clashed with the police during the tractor rally against farm laws and stormed into the Red Fort, injuring scores of policemen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/r-day-violence-chargesheet-filed-against-sidhu-others/article34845483.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||Jolt to BJP: Vidarbha leader to join Cong. on Rahul’s birthday||In what could be termed a blow to the BJP in Vidarbha, senior party leader and former Minister Sunil Deshmukh is set to join the Congress on June 19. Mr. Deshmukh’s re-entry into the Congress has been cleared by the party high command. Former State Youth Congress president, Mr. Deshmukh, had switched to the BJP in 2014 after the party repeatedly neglected him over former President Pratibha Patil’s son Raosaheb Shekhawat. Mr. Deshmukh was Minister of State (Finance) in the 2004 Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) government. Despite that he was denied ticket from the Amravati Assembly seat. The Congress gave the ticket to Mr. Shekhawat. Mr. Deshmukh then contested as an Independent and lost the election. Prominent face In 2014, he joined the BJP and defeated Mr. Shekhawat and since then he was the party’s prominent face in Vidarbha. In 2019, he lost to the Congress candidate, Sulbha Khodke, and later he was sidelined in the BJP. Mr. Deshmukh’s re-entry to the Congress comes days after party State president Nana Patole announced that the party was ready to contest the polls independently. The move is seen as the party’s plan of expansion and regaining the lost space. A week ago, Mr. Patole toured Amravati district where the final talks with Mr. Deshmukh seem to have held. According to a senior party leader, Mr. Deshmukh will join the party on June 19, the birthday of Rahul Gandhi, in the presence of senior leaders and party in-charge H.K. Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/jolt-to-bjp-vidarbha-leader-to-join-cong-on-rahuls-birthday/article34845076.ece
18 June 2021||Mumbai,||Will publish weekly COVID-19 vaccination plan, govt. tells HC||The Maharashtra government has told the Bombay High Court that it will start publishing and notifying people about weekly vaccination schedules in Mumbai and some other districts in the State whenever it has adequate stock of anti-COVID-19 vaccines. In an affidavit filed in the HC earlier this week, the State government said it was also working on a system of allotting citizens predetermined time slots for vaccination to avoid unnecessary rush at inoculation centres. The affidavit was taken on record on Thursday by a Bench of Justices S.P. Deshmukh and G.S. Kulkarni.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/will-publish-weekly-covid-19-vaccination-plan-govt-tells-hc/article34845074.ece
18 June 2021||Navi Mumbai,||Pet dog fights a battle with the bulge||In what could be a first-of-its-kind surgery, a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy was performed recently on an eight-year-old dog weighing 50 kg. Deepika, an Indie cross breed, was adopted by Yasmin Daruwalla, a resident of Pune. “Initially, she was quite active. Would run around the house, play with me, and go for walks. Gradually, she lost interest in all activities, would just sit on the couch, salivating and panting severely,” she said. Deepika’s food intake and medication also increased. Ms. Daruwalla said, “I came across Dr. Narendra Pardeshi of Small Animal Clinic, Pune, on the internet. We tried to reduce her weight based on his prescribed diets for obesity, cardiac food, and joint foods.” When none of these worked, Dr. Pardeshi suggested a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy surgery for which Ms. Daruwalla consulted Dr. Shashank Shah, a bariatric surgeon at Laparo Obeso Centre, Pune. “Like humans, obesity is a silent killer in animals too. There are many obese pets in the country that need to undergo surgery. Indian dogs who are fed more on carbohydrate-rich food can become obese, as was the case here,” said Dr. Shah. “The normal lifespan of dogs is 12-15 years which can reduce by six years if they are obese,” Dr. Pardeshi said, adding, “Deepika weighed 50 kg against an ideal weight of 18-20 kg and we met with no success after prescribing her dog foods, exercise, and thyroid medication.” The surgery was done on June 6. “After surgery, we advised restricted movement and exercise for 15 days. Now the dog’s weight is about 45 kg,” Dr Pardeshi added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pet-dog-fights-a-battle-with-the-bulge/article34845073.ece
18 June 2021||Pune,||Pilot project to check for deafness in newborns to kick off in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said an experimental project will use mobile units to check the hearing of newborn children in the State. The project will be started in Pune, Gadchiroli and Jalna districts, he added. This initiative comes in the backdrop of the National Deafness Prevention Programme, which is being implemented in 16 places in the State. The pilot project was conceived by Baramati MP and senior Nationalist Congress Party leader Supriya Sule and was presented by Abhijit Raut, State organiser, Disability Rights Development Forum, at Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan in Mumbai. Otoacoustic emission Mr. Tope had a detailed discussion with senior Health officials on the implementation of the otoacoustic emission method in newborns following the presentation. “Early hearing problems in children can be diagnosed and treated with the necessary treatment. Therefore, it is important to implement this programme for the overall development of children,” the Health Minister said. There were around 92,000 hearing and language-impaired persons at present in the State, of whom 51% were in rural areas and the rest in urban pockets, he added. “Deafness can be prevented if this test is done at an early stage. Therefore, this programme should be planned according to the method of early diagnosis and treatment. Mobile units can be used to go to primary health centres and check the newborns. Hearing tests can also be done during a child’s immunisation session,” Mr. Tope said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pilot-project-to-check-for-deafness-in-newborns-to-kick-off-in-maharashtra/article34845078.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Hong Kong police arrest newspaper editors||Hong Kong police on Thursday arrested five senior figures at the Apple Daily , a tabloid newspaper that had taken a strong stand supporting pro-democracy protests, under a new national security law. The five, including publisher Cheung Kim-hung and Editor-in-Chief Ryan Law, have been accused of “collusion with a foreign country or with external elements to endanger national security,” the South China Morning Post quoted a police statement as saying. Thursday’s search of the paper’s offices by more than 200 police officers was the second major move following last year’s new national security law targeting a newspaper that had angered the pro-Beijing camp in Hong Kong for its coverage of the 2019 protests and calls for democracy. Hong Kong’s national security police, the Post reported, cited “more than 30 Apple Daily articles calling for sanctions against the city and mainland China”, saying the articles were “evidence of a conspiracy to collude with foreign forces in violation of the national security law.” Prior to the passing of the law, the media in Hong Kong had broadly functioned with freedom that newspapers on the mainland are denied, under the “one country, two systems” model that guaranteed a range of rights following the 1997 handover. ‘Attack on press freedom’ The ambiguity of the national security law and how it defines collusion has been criticised by journalist associations in Hong Kong. “The operation proves that the national security law has been weaponised to target certain media outlets,” Hong Kong Journalism Association chairman Chris Yeung Kin-hing told the Post . “Members of the public will refrain from sending tips to journalists on issues of public interest, as media outlets may not be able to guarantee the security of journalistic materials,” he said. Sophie Richardson, China director at Human Rights Watch, said Thursday’s raid was “a new low in a bottomless assault on press freedom”. “This has nothing to do with enforcing the law,” she said, “and everything to do with politicised retribution.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/hong-kong-police-arrest-newspaper-editors/article34844880.ece
18 June 2021||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka reports cases of delta variant amid a daunting third wave||Sri Lanka on Thursday detected the highly transmittable Delta or B.1.617.2 variant of COVID-19 in five patients, amid a stubborn third wave persisting through a near-month-long lockdown in the country. Spotting an unusual outbreak in a Colombo neighbourhood last week, the Allergy, Immunity and Cell Biology Unit at the Sri Jayewardenepura University conducted genetic sequencing, studying 13 recent samples, and spotted the Delta variant. Speaking to The Hindu, Dr. Chandima Jeewandara, director of the unit, said: “The Delta variant comes with three main factors — it is highly transmittable, it causes severe disease, and it evades single dose vaccine,” he said. Thursday’s finding points to the presence of the Delta variant in the community, a week after it was found in one patient in a quarantine facility. “It is the worst we could have imaged at such a time,” Dr. Jeewandara said, pointing to the current case load — about 62,000 active cases — and low vaccine coverage. “We are already dealing with a spike in cases with the Alpha variant. Delta poses a greater risk because our vaccine coverage is low, and among those who are vaccinated a majority have got only one dose,” he said. According to data published by the Epidemiology Unit of the Ministry of Health, more than 30 lakh people, or just over 16% of the Sri Lanka’s adult population, have got at least one dose of vaccine — Covishield, Sinopharm and Sputnik — as of June 16. Of those, only some 7 lakh, or less than 5% of the adult population, have got both doses. Slow drive Meanwhile, nearly 6 lakh persons are awaiting their second dose of Covishield, delayed after India stopped exporting vaccines in the wake of its own devastating second wave. The Sri Lankan government is trying to tap other sources, while the country witnesses a steady surge in infections in the past fortnight, with daily cases spiking to over 3,000 on some days, despite a continuing lockdown allowing only essential services and select travel. For a week now, less than 20,000 PCR tests were carried out a day, data from the Health Promotion Bureau showed, although medical professionals are calling for more testing. Further, Colombo-based Institute for Health Policy, an independent research institution, found an average test positivity rate of 13.8% during the last week, based on official data. A high positivity rate and daily deaths — an average of 67 in the past week, coupled with a slow vaccination drive, concentrated in the capital, only heightens the threat posed by the Delta variant, experts have cautioned. The source of the Delta variant now detected in the community is yet to be established. The Sri Lankan Civil Aviation Authority’s ban on travellers from India from disembarking, imposed early May, is in place, but visitors from select countries are allowed to enter. Observing it was “likely imported”, Dr. Jeewandara said: “Remember, the Delta variant has been detected not just in India, but in many other countries, including the U.K. and the U.S. It could have come from anywhere, we do not know yet.” Economic distress While health authorities grapple with the prevailing spike, and prepare to tackle the Delta variant, people across the country, especially daily wage earners, are reeling under the economic blow of the lockdown. Scores of garment sector workers, domestic workers, and youth employed in small shops and restaurants have lost their jobs since the pandemic struck. The country witnessed an increase in unemployment to 5.8% last year, the highest since 2009, after the civil war ended. Those engaged in rural livelihoods have also suffered huge losses, with limited or no access to the market, and falling prices for their produce. “Women engaged in small-scale farming and fisheries in our district are desperate for some respite. Most traders don’t buy their produce any more. And in the event of a trader coming to their village to buy their produce, the women don’t get to fix the price, but are forced to sell it for whatever the trader dictates,” says Arunachalam Elangeswari, of the Suriya Women’s Development Centre in the Batticloa district, in the Eastern Province. “With the entire family at home now, that too with much less income, some women are eating only if there is something left after the rest of the family has had a meal,” said the community activist. “The women are unable to buy sanitary pads, and we are hearing of many more cases of domestic violence in these past weeks.” The situation among people without homes or personal toilets is miserable, especially when they contract Covid-19, like some families in Ratnapura district, in the Sabaragamuwa Province. “We work with the people in villages where rubber estate workers reside. They are mostly Malaiyaha [hill country] Tamils from very poor homes. They have no access to health care. And most of them are not covered in the 5,000-rupee allowance,” said catholic priest Fr. Jeewantha Peiris, referring to the government’s Covid assistance scheme for low-income households. While families already registered for the government’s poverty alleviation Samurdhi programme have received it, many poor families who are not part of the programme have been left out of the pandemic allowance, according to him. “They get excluded at every level.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sri-lanka-reports-cases-of-delta-variant-amid-a-daunting-third-wave/article34844884.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Chinese astronauts dock with new space station||The first group of Chinese astronauts on Thursday entered the country’s under-construction space station, a major step in China’s plans to have a fully functioning station by next year. On Thursday afternoon, the Shenzhou-12 spaceship, carrying the three astronauts, completed an “automated rendezvous and docking” with the Tianhe module, the China Manned Space Agency (CMSA) said, adding this "signified that for the first time the Chinese have entered their own space station”. Shenzhou-12 was launched on Thursday morning from the Jiuquan launch centre in the Gobi desert, and the astronauts entered Tianhe around six and a half hours later, the agency said. The three-man crew will be in orbit for three months. This is the first of two manned space missions planned for this year, part of an intense schedule of launches aimed at completing the space station in 2022. The official Xinhua news agency said the mission will "help test technologies related to long-term astronaut stays and health care, the recycling and life support system, the supply of space materials, extravehicular activities and operations, and in-orbit maintenance.” The Shenzhou-12 mission follows a busy few weeks for China’s space programme, coming after last month’s launch fo the Tianzhou-2 cargo spacecraft, which carried vital supplies for the space station. At least five more missions are planned for the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-astronauts-dock-with-new-space-station/article34844878.ece
18 June 2021||Moscow,||Russia is ready for further dialogue if U.S. is willing: Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday that Moscow is ready to continue dialogue with Washington after his summit meeting with President Joe Biden, provided the U.S. was also willing to do so. The two leaders held their first face-to-face meeting in Geneva on Wednesday to ease soaring tensions between Moscow and Washington, with relations at their lowest since the end of the Cold War. “We are ready to continue this dialogue to the same extent as the American side is,” Mr. Putin said in televised remarks. He added that the atmosphere of the meeting was “quite friendly” and two leaders “were able to understand each other on key issues”. When asked to describe Mr. Biden, Mr. Putin said the U.S. President’s portrayal in the press has “nothing to do with reality”. “Biden is a professional, you have to be very attentive when working with him so as not to miss something,” Mr. Putin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/russia-is-ready-for-further-dialogue-if-us-is-willing-putin/article34844888.ece
18 June 2021||Belfast,||Brexit hardliner becomes First Minister of N. Ireland||Brexit hardliner Paul Givan was installed as Northern Ireland’s new First Minister on Thursday, as Britain’s split from the European Union continues to cause friction in the bitterly divided province. Mr. Givan, 39, from the pro-U.K. Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), replaced Arlene Foster after she was ousted by colleagues for appearing too soft in her opposition to a controversial post-Brexit “protocol” go verning Northern Irish trade. Michelle O’Neill, from the pro-Ireland Sinn Fein party, was reconfirmed as Deputy First Minister after the British government intervened to help ease issues and avert a snap election. In his maiden speech, Mr. Givan failed to mention the protocol, which has riled resentment among unionists for effectively keeping Northern Ireland inside the EU customs union and single market for goods since the start of the year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/brexit-hardliner-becomes-first-minister-of-n-ireland/article34844885.ece
18 June 2021||Washington,||U.S. to make Juneteenth a federal holiday||The U.S. will soon have a new federal holiday commemorating the end of slavery. The House voted 415-14 on Wednesday to make Juneteenth, or June 19th, the 12th federal holiday, and President Joe Biden is scheduled to sign the Bill into law on Thursday. Juneteenth commemorates June 19, 1865, when Union soldiers brought the news of freedom to enslaved Black people in Galveston, Texas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-to-make-juneteenth-a-federal-holiday/article34844881.ece
18 June 2021||Tehran,||Iran goes to polls today||Iranian voters are set to elect a new President on Friday, with the ultraconservative Ebrahim Raisi expected to replace the moderate Hassan Rouhani after a host of candidates were disqualified. The vote comes at a time when the recession-hit country is in talks with world powers to revive the nuclear deal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/iran-goes-to-polls-today/article34844882.ece
18 June 2021||JERUSALEM,||ML--Israel-Palestinians||The Palestinian Health Ministry said on Thursday that Palestinian teenager Ahmad Shamsa, who was shot by Israeli troops in the West Bank a day earlier, has died of his injuries. The Israeli military said that a soldier saw a group of Palestinians approaching, and that one “hurled a suspicious object at him, which exploded adjacent to the soldier”. The Army said the soldier fired in the air and then shot the man.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ml-israel-palestinians/article34844887.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Should India accept Islamic State returnees?||In 2016-18, four women from Kerala accompanied their husbands to join the Islamic State (IS) in Afghanistan's Khorasan Province. Their husbands were killed in different attacks and the women are now lodged in an Afghanistan prison. Authorities in Afghanistan want to return the women to India, but the Indian government has not indicated what it proposes to do in this matter. Sources say security agencies have advised against taking them back. What do international laws say about foreign fighters returning to their countries? K.P. Fabian and Kabir Taneja discuss the question in a conversation moderated by Suhasini Haidar . Edited excerpts: Ambassador Fabian, you have argued that no matter the crime, the Indian government must take back Sonia Sebastian alias Ayisha, Reﬀeala, Merrin Jacob alias Mariyam, and Nimisha alias Fathima Isa along with their children. Tell us why? K.P. Fabian:A couple of reasons, actually. One, under the Indian Penal Code, Section 3, any citizen of India can be tried in India for any offence committed in India, abroad, or even in outer space. Two, we hear from media reports, not yet contradicted by the government, that Afghanistan wants to deport them and India has refused. Reports also say that they may be a grave threat to India’s security and can’t return. That is rubbish because these four women, if they are coming back to India, will be in the custody of our security forces. They can be taken to court and held in custody till the court gives a verdict. While in custody, they cannot be of any threat to the security of India. Finally, they have their families here. In this particular case, Nimisha’s mother has said that there is a granddaughter who is four years old. What crime has she committed? It is necessary for that child to be with the grandparents, if the parents are not able to look after her. So, there is no reason for India to stand in the way of their return when Afghanistan has asked for it. The question some are asking is that if these women left India of their own volition and joined what they believed was an Islamic Caliphate, and pledged allegiance to this separate Caliphate, don’t they lose their right to an Indian citizenship by acquiring this other notional citizenship? KPF:No, there are international treaties which say that you cannot strip anyone’s citizenship if it makes that person stateless. Let me draw your attention to Shamima Begum, a U.K. citizen who left the U.K. at the age of 15 to join the IS. After the IS fell, the U.K. government said she cannot return and stripped her of citizenship. The Court of Appeal in the U.K. said the government was in the wrong. The government then went to the Supreme Court and said there are national security reasons for the decision not to let her in. The Supreme Court said she can contest the decision taken to strip her of citizenship, but when she is in a position to do so. The Indian passport enables you to go out. You also need a visa or an agreement that there is no need for visa. The same passport permits you to come back without a visa. Kabir Taneja:I believe that they should be allowed to come back and be tried as Indian citizens by an Indian court because if they have joined an organisation such as the IS, which is banned in India, they can be tried in court. Arif Majeed (an IS recruit who returned from Iraq in 2014) went through the trial and is now out on bail because the court said it’s very difficult for the prosecution to come up with concrete evidence as all the acts committed were outside India’s geography. So, after serving six to seven years as an undertrial, he was given bail. Now, you can argue whether that case was a successful case of trying someone who had joined a banned organisation or whether it fell apart. Due to the fact that India does not have a cohesive policy towards foreign fighters, and also because it does not have that many such cases, it’s easy for the state to approach them on an ad hoc basis and tell these women in Afghanistan, ‘you did it by choice and we are not responsible for you anymore’. Is there a national security risk from bringing back people who have been radicalised and have been associated with a terror group, possibly involved in terror attacks in other countries? Should there be a different standard in their treatment? KT:The problem here is how do you estimate a person’s radicalisation? We’ve seen this argument play out not just in India; Europe, the U.S., Canada and others are experiencing this phenomenon of IS foreign fighters. Many states are saying it was these people’s choice to join a terror organisation and they are not the state’s responsibility anymore. As far as the national security question is concerned, there is no easy answer to it. It ultimately comes down to what a state’s policy towards foreign fighters in general is. And if it is ad hoc, if it is on a case-by-case basis, it gives a lot of leverage to the state to decide what kind of action it would like to take towards that particular case. In the case of Arif Majeed, the government allowed him to return, but in the case of these women in Afghanistan, the government is not doing so. KPF:Even if these particular young women were brainwashed and radicalised, and remain radicalised, we as a state have a duty to get them back and de-radicalise them. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights says everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights says no one shall be arbitrarily deprived of the right to enter his own country. The pictures that we saw coming out of the IS shook the world. People were being drowned alive and burnt alive, there was sexual slavery of Yazidi women, people were killed indiscriminately in Raqqa. When it comes to a threat like the one that the IS poses at the height of its brutality, is there a case for a different approach to returnees? KPF:No, this must be decided according to legality and morality. I do not accept the argument that India cannot handle the threat posed by these four women. And what happens to that four-year-old girl, especially in Afghanistan, where there is every likelihood of the Taliban coming back? The state has a responsibility to its citizens and it can’t wash its hands of that responsibility. KT:In reality, states have had very different approaches to IS returnees than in the past, for example, when foreign fighters joined the Mujahideen to fight the Soviet Union in Afghanistan in the 1990s. In the case of the IS, a lot of European IS returnees have been kept in the al-Hol camp in northern Syria. Apart from the legal questions, there is also the political push back against allowing these fighters to come back to their original countries. In addition, when foreign fighters would sign up for the IS, they would destroy their own passports and have no papers to prove their claims. Now, the camp poses a different kind of problem — if these fighters are not moved out, IS ideology will fester in these camps and pose a fresh threat. So, there is a need for a broad-based global agreement on what to do with them. India has seen far smaller numbers joining the IS. According to estimates, the total number of people influenced by the IS is only between 100 and 300. Does that imply de-radicalisation programmes may be more successful here if these recruits are able to return? KT:It is hard to tell, and different States in India have different blueprints for de-radicalisation. In the U.K., we have seen people come out of these programmes and still commit acts of terror. With these returnees from Afghanistan, we are still not sure how they were radicalised. Who helped them go to Afghanistan? Until these questions are answered, it may not be possible for the state to be comfortable about allowing them to return. KPF:Regardless of what India’s experience is, all countries must respect international law. It is absolutely clear that Afghanistan has every right under international law to deport these recruits. Now, if Afghanistan has the right to deport them, where does it deport them to? These people have Indian passports. So, if you respect Afghanistan’s right to deport them, it follows that you have to say that India has an obligation to accept them. Eventually then, is this is a question of which laws could apply: international laws on the right to repatriate citizens or national security laws in India? And would the nature of the crimes be a factor in differentiating between one returnee and the other? KPF:In the case of Shamima Begum, it is my view that such a decision would not have been made if she were not originally from Bangladesh or another country of that nature. If she were born to [Caucasian British] parents, for example, it would not have happened. Second, even under British law, you cannot strip a person of their citizenship if, as a consequence of that action, that person becomes stateless. The U.K. tried to maintain that she could have Bangladeshi citizenship, but Bangladesh declared that there is no question of her getting Bangladeshi citizenship because she was born in the U.K. I think it is necessary to look at these matters not only in terms of the law, which is always evolving, but also in terms of humanity. If we cannot look at young people who made a big mistake, and if we want to condemn them forever, well, I do not think we are behaving humanely. KT:I think there should be differentiation on the basis of the crime committed. And of course, there should be differentiation on where the crime was committed. When it comes to foreign fighters, it’s not just about the law that comes into play. Security concerns come into play, the legality comes into play, and politics comes into play, both foreign policy and domestic politics. Thousands of people like Shamima Begum are still stuck in various camps across West Asia. The problem is formulations on what states should do were not made earlier, despite the problem seen with the Mujahideen in Afghanistan-Pakistan and then with al-Qaeda. This was also the first time where there was such an influx, specifically from Europe, into the IS. And there has been such chaos and confusion — from the security point of view, political point of view and legal point of view — about how these countries should treat people, who would want to come back and say they made a mistake. I think the answers will take time. The problem is the people who are currently stuck in this rut are facing the brunt of both the legal point of view and security point of view. I still believe that a lot of these recruits who have made the decision of joining these kinds of groups are going to face a lot of pushback from the various states that they originally came from.  Even if these young women were radicalised, and remain radicalised, we as a state have a duty to get them back and de-radicalise them. K.P. FABIAN||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/should-india-accept-islamic-state-returnees/article34844875.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A judicial pushback to a draconian legal regime||The judgment of the Delhi High Court granting bail to activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, and Asif Iqbal Tanha — they have been in jail for over a year (without trial) for their alleged role in the 2020 Delhi riots — is significant for many reasons. Most importantly, it brings to a close many months of jail time for three people who are yet to be proven guilty of any crime, something that should be anathema to any civilised justice system. What is also significant, however, is that the judgment represents an important judicial pushback to the authoritarian legal regime under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (“UAPA”). The root of the issue Ostensibly designed to check and address terrorism, the UAPA is perhaps one of the most abused laws in India today. The root of the problem lies in Section 43(D)(5) of this Act, which prevents the release of any accused person on bail if, on a perusal of the case diary, or the report made under Section 173 of the Code Of Criminal Procedure, the court is of the opinion that “there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against such person is prima facie true”. It is important to break this down. Broadly speaking, India follows the adversarial system of criminal justice, where two sides to a dispute attempt to persuade the court that their version of events is true. At the heart of the adversarial system of justice is the testing of evidence through cross-examination. Each side is afforded the opportunity to scrutinise, challenge, and question the evidence produced by its opponent; and the best way for a judge to unearth the truth — or the closest approximation of it — is to consider which side’s evidence is left standing, and appears more persuasive, after the rigours of cross-examination. Production of evidence, and cross-examination, involves witnesses, recoveries of incriminating objects, tests of handwriting or voice samples, and many other elements. It constitutes the bulk of a criminal trial. In India, with our overburdened courts and creaking justice system, criminal trials take years. In high-profile cases such as the Delhi riots case, where the record is bulky, and the witnesses number in their hundreds, trials can take many years — even a decade or more. Importance of bail For this reason, bail becomes of utmost importance. If an individual is not able to secure bail from the courts, they will languish as under-trials in prison, for the duration of the case, no matter how many years it takes (in recent memory, there are cases of people being found innocent in terrorism cases after 14 and even 23  years in prison). Bail, thus, becomes the only safeguard and guarantee of the constitutional right to liberty In ordinary circumstances, when considering the question of bail, a court is meant to take into account a range of factors. These include whether the accused is a flight risk, whether he or she might tamper with the evidence or attempt to influence witnesses, and the gravity of the offence. But it is here that Section 43(D)(5) of the UAPA plays such a damaging role. As we have just seen, under the classical vision of criminal justice, truth — about innocence or guilt — can only be determined after the evidence of both the prosecution and the defence has been subjected to the rigours of cross-examination. However, as lawyers and scholars such as Abhinav Sekhri and Anjana Prakash have also pointed out, Section 43(D)(5) short-circuits that core assumption. For the grant of bail, it only looks at the plausibility of one side’s evidence — that is, the Prosecution’s. It binds the court to look at only the case diary or the police report, which has not been challenged by cross-examination, and requires that bail be denied as long as the unchallenged prosecution case appears to be prima facie true. One-sided The perversity of Section 43(D)(5), thus, is that it forces the court to make an effective determination of guilt or innocence based on one side’s unchallenged story, and on that basis to deprive individuals of their freedom for years on end. In a democratic polity, which is committed to the rule of law, this is a deeply troubling state of affairs. The effect of Section 43(D)(5), as one can see, is that once the police elect to charge sheet an individual under the UAPA, it becomes extremely difficult for bail to be granted. Even outlandish or trumped-up cases can sound convincing until people have a chance to interrogate and challenge them. In short, unless the police prepare an extremely shoddy case — that is riddled with internal contradictions, for example — a case diary or a report will invariably make out a “ prima facie ” case against an individual. Finer points of the judgment It is here that the Delhi High Court’s judgment becomes important. The Bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambani correctly note that even though Section 43(D)(5) departs from many basic principles of criminal justice, there are other fundamental principles that remain of cardinal significance. These include, for example, that the initial burden of demonstrating guilt must always lie upon the prosecution; and also, that criminal offences must be specific in their terms, and read narrowly, to avoid bringing the innocent within their net. On this basis, the court’s judgment notes that as the UAPA is meant to deal with terrorist offences, its application must be limited to acts that can reasonably fall within a plausible understanding of “terrorism”. “Terrorism” is a term of art, and not a word that can be thrown around loosely. Thus, to attract the provisions of the UAPA — the judgment holds — the charge sheet must reveal factual, individualised, and particular allegations linking the accused to a terrorist act. The judgment then finds that even if the police’s claims are taken to be true, no such allegations exist. At the highest, the accusations against the activists involve calls for protests and chakka jams (road blockages). There is no act, overt or covert, attributed to the activists that could constitute a terrorist offence. And, importantly, inferences or hypotheticals drawn by the police do not count at the stage of granting bail. Coupled with the significance of the right to protest and to dissent under our constitutional scheme, the judgment therefore holds that even prima facie , a case under the UAPA has not been made out, and therefore, there is no question of the application of Section 43(D)(5). The Delhi High Court’s judgment indicates a pathway forward in the quest for finding a balance between citizens’ civil rights and the imperatives of anti-terrorism legislation such as the UAPA. A position under which citizens can be jailed for years on end just on the basis of police reports and case diaries, with courts precluded from granting them bail, is completely inconsistent with democracy, and redolent of authoritarian or tyrannical states. However, the court’s analysis shows how even within — and consistent with — the terms of the UAPA, there is an important role for a conscientious judiciary to play. By scrutinising the police case on its own terms, and according a strict interpretation to draconian legislation such as the UAPA, courts can ensure that civil rights are not left entirely at the mercy of the state. At the time of writing, the High Court’s judgment has been appealed by the Delhi Police to the Supreme Court of India. It now remains to be seen whether the highest court will also endorse this crucial ruling, which restates the responsibility of an independent judiciary in checking executive impunity. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-judicial-pushback-to-a-draconian-legal-regime/article34844867.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A place for disruptive technology in India’s health sector||As frontline warriors fighting COVID-19, the medical community has been selfless, but also losing a number of staff in the process. Nurses and attendants, on full-time duty, donning mainly masks and gloves as the only protective gear have been exposed to great risk. It is in such a situation that the relevance of disruptive technology and its applications comes into focus, potentially helping to reduce the chances of hospital staff contracting the infection. There are reports in the global media of established innovative field hospitals using robots to care for COVID-19 affected patients. There are hospitals, in China, that use 5G-powered temperature measurement devices at the entrance to flag patients who have fever/fever-like symptoms. Other robots measure heart rates and blood oxygen levels through smart bracelets and rings that patients wear; they even sanitise wards. Last year, in India, the Sawai Man Singh government hospital in Jaipur held trials with a humanoid robot to deliver medicines and food to COVID-19 patients admitted there (https://bit.ly/3wLxtSQ).  The critical aspect is how new technologies can improve the welfare of societies and reduce the impact of communicable diseases, spotlighting the importance of technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI), autonomous systems, blockchain, cloud and quantum computing, data analytics, 5G. Blockchain technology can help in addressing the interoperability challenges that health information and technology systems face. The health blockchain would contain a complete indexed history of all medical data, including formal medical records and health data from mobile applications and wearable sensors. This can also be stored in a secure network and authenticated, besides helping in seamless medical attention. Big data analytics can help improve patient-based services tremendously such as early disease detection. Even hospital health-care facilities can be improved to a great extent. AI and the Internet of Medical Things, or IoMT (which is defined as a connected infrastructure of medical devices, software applications, and health systems and services) are shaping health-care applications. Medical autonomous systems can also improve health delivery to a great extent and their applications are focused on supporting medical care delivery in dispersed and complex environments with the help of futuristic technologies. This system may also include autonomous critical care system, autonomous intubation, autonomous cricothyrotomy and other autonomous interventional procedures. Cloud computing is another application facilitating collaboration and data exchanges between doctors, departments, and even institutions and medical providers to enable best treatment. Furthering UHC According to the World Health Organization (https://bit.ly/3gtHBtT), “Universal health coverage (UHC) is the single most powerful concept that public health has to offer. It is a powerful social equalizer and the ultimate expression of fairness.” The question is about how UHC can be achieved through the application of digital technologies, led by a robust strategy integrating human, financial, organisational and technological resources. Studies by WHO show that weakly-coordinated steps may lead to stand-alone information and communication technology solutions, leading to a fragmentation of information and resulting in poor delivery of care. India needs to own its digital health strategy that works and leads towards universal health coverage and person-centred care. Such a strategy should emphasise the ethical appropriateness of digital technologies, cross the digital divide, and ensure inclusion across the economy. ‘Ayushman Bharat’ and tools such as Information and Communication Technology could be be fine-tuned with this strategy to promote ways to protect populations. Online consultation through video conferencing should be a key part of such a strategy, especially in times when there is transmission of communicable diseases. Using local knowledge In addition to effective national policies and robust health systems, an effective national response must also draw upon local knowledge. Community nurses, doctors, and health workers in developing countries do act as frontline sentinels. An example is the Ebola virus outbreak in Africa, where communities proactively helped curtail the spread much before government health teams arrived. Another example is from Indonesia, where the experience of backyard poultry farmers was used to tackle bird flu. Primary health centres in India could examine local/traditional knowledge and experience and then use it along with modern technology. Possible challenges In the developing world, and this includes India, initial efforts in this direction should involve synchronisation and integration, developing a template for sharing data, and reengineering many of the institutional and structural arrangements in the medical sector. Big data applications in the health sector should help hospitals provide the best facilities and at less cost, provide a level playing field for all sectors, and foster competition. The possible constraints in this effort are a standardisation of health data, organisational silos, data security and data privacy, and also high investments. However, there is no doubt that disruptive technology can play an important role in improving the health sector in general. Surjith Karthikeyan is an Indian Economic Service Officer, serving as Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Finance. Gowtham Daas Rajendran is a post graduate in public policy from the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy. The views expressed are personal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-place-for-disruptive-technology-in-indias-health-sector/article34844868.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Reverse migration||Leaders switching parties and parties recruiting turncoats are not unheard of in Indian politics. A shrinking party would lose leaders while an expanding party would gain them. The talent acquisition strategy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) goes far beyond such familiar opportunism. In the recent years of its growth, it has built entire electoral strategies around leaders who crossed over from other parties. In Assam, its two consecutive Chief Ministers were in other parties not long ago; the current incumbent, Himanta Biswa Sarma, was not just any other Congress leader but a decision maker in the 15-year-long tenure of the party until 2016. Perhaps encouraged by the success in Assam, the party launched a similar strategy in West Bengal. It recruited dozens of leaders from other parties, particularly the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Not surprisingly, a good number of the leaders who crossed over to the BJP due to its lure or fear of the central agencies investigating scams and irregularities, are now flocking back to the TMC. Even as it continued to induct defectors from the Congress and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi this week, Mukul Roy left the BJP to return to the comfort of his old party, the TMC. Several others may follow suit. The TMC itself is a haven of defectors — dozens of leaders from the Congress and the Left Front have joined it since it won power in 2011. The political flux is unlikely to end soon. The BJP has achieved significant growth in West Bengal in a short span of time. Had it relied more on leaders who had organically grown with it, the BJP would not have been in such an embarrassing position. Its hurry to be in power even in places where it has not established itself as a viable party is harming it. It is also coarsening the political debate and harming democracy itself, simultaneously. If the reverse migration of TMC leaders is rattling the BJP in West Bengal, in Kerala, another State where it tried to punch far above its weight, it is caught in a vortex of corruption allegations. Allegations range from bringing money from Karnataka for the campaign in Kerala through hawala routes and bribing an ally. The leaders that the BJP recruited from other parties in Kerala have added up to nothing. All this should point the BJP towards the virtue of patience, which is not unfamiliar to it. Replacing grassroots activism with large-scale defections from other parties can only win short-term rewards, if at all. In the long run, such trends undermine the parties, the persons involved and the democratic processes. The BJP must learn to be more modest in victory and gracious in defeat. Tactics too focused on the short term can only harm the larger interest over the longer term.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/reverse-migration/article34844862.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Old and slow||Ever since Australia and England played the first ever Test at Melbourne in March 1877, cricket’s longest format has constantly evolved. Timeless Tests were dispensed with and rest days within a game were discarded while faster siblings One Day Internationals and Twenty20s emerged. As the abridged variants attracted fans and commerce, Tests of recent vintage also embraced the day-and-night spectacle. Through these changes, nations have tested themselves in bilateral series with the Ashes and India-Pakistan clashes having stronger brand equity. Yet, there was a demand for context, a yearning that these languid affairs with breaks for lunch and tea over five days coalesce into something more significant. Limited-overs’ cricket had World Cups but in Tests, it was all about annual rankings. The International Cricket Council (ICC) stepped in to plug this gap with the World Test Championship (WTC) and the inaugural final will feature India and New Zealand, the leading two teams based on points garnered since 2019. The summit clash commencing at Southampton’s Ageas Bowl on Friday, presents an opportunity for both India and New Zealand to gain some ICC silverware that is missing in their trophy cabinets. The respective countries have suffered a title drought with New Zealand winning the ICC Knockout tournament, as the Champions Trophy was known then, back in 2000 while India claimed the ICC Champions Trophy in 2013. Previously, Virat Kohli’s and Kane Williamson’s men had riveting jousts though it was the New Zealanders who mostly emerged on top. India lost the 2019 World Cup semi-final at Manchester and last year in New Zealand, won the T20Is and then succumbed in the ODIs and Tests. A neutral venue can negate home-advantage but New Zealand may feel more comfortable while taking into account the playing surface and the prevailing weather. However, India has the confidence gleaned from winning in Australia while also getting the better of England when Joe Root’s men came visiting. Meanwhile, true to its giant-slayer tag, New Zealand edged past England with a 1-0 verdict in the two-Test series over the last fortnight. Williamson and company have been in cricket’s birthplace for a longer time with additional matches under their belt while India has the solace of intra-squad warm-up games. The simplistic trope would be Indian batting against opposition bowling but times have changed and Kohli has an incisive pace arsenal led by Jasprit Bumrah besides solid back-up in spin. The teams seem equal and the provision for an extra sixth day should come in handy as rains are forecast. If there is a draw or a tie, the championship will be shared which is ideal as in their unique ways, India and New Zealand have repeatedly proved their mettle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/old-and-slow/article34844863.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Recovery takes more than reforms||The most recent growth estimates of the National Statistical Office show that after a steep contraction in the first quarter of last year, growth accelerated steadily afterwards. This would have assured a recovery had we not experienced the second wave of the pandemic that came with the current financial year. Overlapping State-level lockdowns that started in April have now lasted for almost as long the nationwide lockdown of 2020, and there is no gainsaying their impact on the economy. Output may well have contracted in the beginning of this year. So, though recovery will eventually come, it could be W-shaped rather than V-shaped. Meaning of reforms When the issue of economic recovery was raised in public, a minister asserted that the economy will recover due to the reforms planned or already implemented by the government. We do not know what the government has in mind but we should be sceptical of the claim that reforms can make a difference at this stage. Since 1991, the term ‘reforms’ has been used to mean both policy changes that remove restrictions on private sector activity in certain areas and those that increase profits in existing lines of production. Recent examples of these are allowing greater private sector participation in defence as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan launched in 2020 and the significant lowering of corporate tax in 2019, respectively. However, more reforms may be ineffective in spurring recovery. Presently for the private sector, entry into a new area or undertaking investment in an existing activity may not appear profitable given their expectation of the state of the economy in the near future, upon which their revenue will depend. We may assume that the private sector is fully aware of the following history. In February, believing that the peak of the epidemic had been crossed, the government reverted to its principal macroeconomic pre-occupation, namely fiscal consolidation or the paring down of the fiscal deficit. Accordingly, it raised its budgeted expenditure by less than 1% in the last Budget. The onset of the second wave of COVID-19 in April has thrown the economic policy calculations of the government out of gear. Back in February it was already known that the economy had contracted in 2020-21. To keep public expenditure virtually unchanged under such circumstances had been heroic enough then, but now, with a possible further contraction of the economy, to continue with the frigid fiscal stance would be disastrous. Though we do not know how output has fared so far this financial year, data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy show that unemployment has risen in May, indicating slack demand for output. With this knowledge, the private sector is unlikely to respond with alacrity to liberalising reforms. Public spending is the key Right now, raising public spending is the only game in town left to the policymaker serious about bringing on a recovery. If we are to have it, though, we should accept a higher than budgeted deficit. A debate involving economists and central bankers has been set off on whether the government should now ‘print money’. This is the wrong way to approach the problem. It puts the cart before the horse. It is also alarmist. The objective is to revive the economy, public spending is the instrument and the funding must be found. It need not involve money creation. India’s public debt is low by comparison with the OECD countries, and debt financing remains an option. Even if money financing is adopted, it need not cause accelerating inflation as some predict. Experience in India suggests otherwise. However, studies do show that any economic expansion would be inflationary if the production of food does not respond adequately. How the expansion is financed is less relevant for inflation at least in the near term. In any serious attempt at economic recovery, the focus must be on the food supply and not the money supply. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat, Haryana||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recovery-takes-more-than-reforms/article34844876.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Court-hopping at the click of a mouse||A few years ago, an elderly reporter of inexhaustible zest and curiosity began his daily work of covering the Supreme Court from his usual spot — right under the judges’ noses. One of the judges, noticing the physical proximity of the man to the dais, turned to him frowning. “Who are you,” he asked as the reporter continued to jot down the court’s observations, including this question, oblivious that the entire courtroom was now focused on him. The veteran scribe collected his nerves admirably, bowed to the Bench, ever respectfully, and introduced himself and his employer. The judge asked him to keep his distance from the podium, probably move to the rear end of the courtroom. The reporter bowed and dutifully retreated, only to doggedly move forward within the next few minutes to catch a juicy remark falling from the Bench during the hearing. COVID-19 changed it all last year. Reporters stopped being physically present at Supreme Court hearings. The first few days were a jumble. The court experimented with allowing only three reporters entry into a courtroom. The rest had to wait outside or try to sneak in. This reporter, of rather bulky proportions, could not tiptoe past the ever-vigilant Delhi Police personnel stationed outside the courtroom. Over the next few days, the virus flexed its muscles. The Supreme Court shed its physical operations and turned to virtual mode. While judges and lawyers functioned from homes, reporters were invited to watch the proceedings online on desktop monitors arranged at a nearby annexe building. On the bright side, we could gawk at the lovely homes of senior lawyers displayed on the screens and overhear their chit-chat. We spotted a couple of shirtless male lawyers too. Though we missed the hurly-burly of the court and scampering from one courtroom to another, changing courtrooms on the screen with a click of a mouse saved sweat and time. At times, though, poor connectivity irked the judges. Echoes, the background noise of dogs barking, vendors and, once, even a mother scolding a child to finish his breakfast encroached into the hearings. Things changed again before the second wave hit. The court opened a new press lounge inside the complex. Here, reporters could watch the proceedings on personal laptops instead of a common monitor. But by then the virus had caught up with us in earnest. Some of us fell sick along with the world around us. The court went through a harrowing time. Many lost their colleagues and close friends. Then a new Chief Justice was sworn in. A former journalist himself, Chief Justice N.V. Ramana understood that, like judges and lawyers, reporters need to be safe while doing their job. In early May, the court, steered by its e-Commmittee headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, launched a software that allowed reporters to stay at home and watch Supreme Court proceedings on their mobile phones. Technology had brought the apex court’s hearings into our homes. But I still think about the elderly reporter. It has been quite a long time since I heard his breathless voice over the phone in the evenings after a ‘physical’ day in court, asking “Hey, what happened in *** case? I was in the other courtroom and couldn’t make it here in time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/court-hopping-at-the-click-of-a-mouse/article34844871.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Education in India (From an Editorial)||At a time when many of the Western countries are engaged in solving the problem of educational reform it was naturally expected that the Educational Commissioner with the Government of India would discuss, in his report, the several educational questions in India and convey to the public what was intended to be done by the Government to secure satisfactory solutions for them. In the absence of any such illumination, his report on Indian Education for the year 1919-20 is rendered a vapid record of facts and figures relating to the educational activities in the country during the period under review. It takes a bird’s-eye view of the educational progress in the country and does not attempt to do more than give a brief summary of important events recorded by the Directors of Public Instruction in several provinces and one looks into it in vain to find out what the future educational policy of the Government is and what lines of action are to be taken to make education in the country free from the charge of its being merely literary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/education-in-india-from-an-editorial/article34844869.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||U.S. not willing to put pressure on Pak.||Washington, June 17: The External Affairs Minister, Mr. Swaran Singh, had a 45-minute meeting with President Nixon here yesterday, during which the former is understood to have pointed out that only a political approach could restore normalcy in East Bengal and that the U.S. and the international community should do their utmost to see that the real representatives of the people there were restored to power. Mr. Swaran Singh stressed that the refugees were only a mere symptom — at the root of it lay the political problem which could not be solved either by the Pakistani Army or a civilian junta handpicked by the military overlords of Pakistan. Earlier in the day, the External Affairs Minister had a working lunch and a meeting with the U.S. Secretary of State, Mr. William Rogers, when he made the same points. At both meetings Mr. Swaran Singh emphasised that the refugee relief work for which the U.S. and other countries had made some contributions, was only a palliative and not a cure for the underlying problem. At any rate he had not undertaken his present tour of world capitals to raise donations for this purpose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/us-not-willing-to-put-pressure-on-pak/article34844870.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||CII urges Rs. 3-lakh crore stimulus||Mooting ‘urgent’ fiscal support to shore up the economy, industry body CII on Thursday said the government has room to provide a Rs. 3-lakh crore stimulus and advocated a reduction in fuel taxes and enhancement in cash transfers to households to revive demand. Stressing that livelihoods had taken a severe hit due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) president T.V. Narendran called for employment generation to be the central focus of policy measures and an expansion of the central bank’s balance sheet to accommodate a fiscal push of 1.3% of GDP. “The ongoing second wave has had a significant impact on economic activity in this quarter and a large part of the labour force faced health issues, either themselves or in their families,” Mr. Narendran said, stressing that health exigencies and job losses had squeezed spending ability. Terming the demand shock as a big area of concern for India’s consumption-led economy, the CII president said the cumulative impact of two waves on incomes, livelihoods and consumer sentiment, coupled with increase in household medical expenses, are likely to impact consumer demand for some time. “There is always a temptation to raise resources through higher taxation to fund higher spending. But we believe it’s not a good idea at the time when the economy is in recession, and instead some tax reductions could incentivise spending,” he said, calling for a reduction in excise duties on fuel, some temporary GST rate cuts and inclusion of Aviation Turbine Fuel (ATF) under the GST regime. High fuel prices are impacting businesses as well, he said, especially in sectors such as aviation where ATF costs are 60% of total costs. “We will recommend that the Centre takes a balanced view on the need to manage inflation and push growth, and the way they deal with oil prices is one part of the puzzle that needs to be fixed,” said Mr. Narendran, who is the global chief executive officer and managing director of Tata Steel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/cii-urges-rs-3-lakh-crore-stimulus/article34844840.ece
18 June 2021||CHENNAI,||Tube Investments Q4 profit surges 74% as sales improve||Tube Investments of India Ltd.’s (TII) reported standalone net profit for the fourth quarter ended March rose 74% to Rs. 129 crore on account of higher sales revenue. Total revenue from operations rose by 58% to Rs. 1,480 crore. Engineering segment reported a revenue of Rs. 854 crore (Rs. 545 crore), metal-formed products Rs. 401 crore (Rs. 301 crore) and cycles and accessories Rs. 301 crore (Rs. 129 crore) respectively, it said. The company also implemented a voluntary retirement scheme incurring Rs. 13.33 crore. Profit before tax (after exceptional items) stood at Rs. 162 crore. “TII has closed the year with a healthy performance post revival of the economy from the first wave of the COVID-19 pandemic,” said M.A.M. Arunachalam, chairman. “The results are encouraging considering that the company had lost almost one full quarter of operations,” he said. “We are hopeful that with governments’ constant endeavour to control the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts towards maintaining the momentum in economic activity, the impetus in our operations is likely to continue,” he said. The board recommended a final dividend of Rs. 1.50 per share and also approved fresh long-term borrowing of Rs. 200 crore for FY22 through the issue of privately-placed secured non-convertible debentures. TII said it acquired controlling stake of CG Power and Industrial Solutions Ltd. as on November 30, 2020 and hence, the consolidated results include revenue for the period December 2020 to March 2021 of Rs. 1,393 crore and profit before tax (before exceptions) of Rs. 67 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tube-investments-q4-profit-surges-74-as-sales-improve/article34844850.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Indian IT on track to hit revenue goal: Nasscom||The Indian IT industry is on track to meet its vision of $300-350 billion in revenue by 2025, given strong deal pipelines and a bright business outlook, industry association Nasscom said on Thursday. The industry was a net hirer of skilled talent, adding 1.38 lakh people in FY21, and had ‘robust’ hiring plans for FY22 with top players TCS, Infosys, Wipro, HCL Tech and Tech Mahindra planning to add more than 96,000 employees, it said. Responding to media reports about automation leading to job losses, the association said the industry would continue to be a net creator of jobs. “Nasscom would like to clarify... around hiring and job creation,” it said. “With the evolution of technology and increasing automation, the nature of traditional IT jobs and roles will evolve, overall leading to the creation of newer jobs.” The IT and BPM sectors together had headcount of more than 4.5 million as of March 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-it-on-track-to-hit-revenue-goal-nasscom/article34844842.ece
18 June 2021||COIMBATORE,||Sugar season likely to end with lesser stocks||The closing balance of sugar stocks in the country during the current season ending September is expected to be 20-25 lakh tonnes lesser than the previous season, according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA). The closing stock last season (October 2019-September 2020) stood at 107 lakh tonnes, ISMA said. Mills have produced 306.65 lakh tonnes between October last year and June 15 this year. This is 35.54 lakh tonnes higher than last season’s production for the corresponding period. According to the sugar mills and ISMA’s estimates, total sugar sales by mills in May stood at 22.35 lakh tonnes against the domestic sales quota of 22 lakh tonnes. “Sugar sales by mills in March stood at 22.34 lakh tonnes, 23.13 lakh tonnes in April and 22.35 lakh tonnes in May,” ISMA said. The total sugar sales during the current year (October 2020-September 2021) may cross the estimate of 260 lakh tonnes, which will be 8-10 lakh tonnes higher than last season. Further, sugar exports this year are likely to be about 70 lakh tonnes, the association said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/sugar-season-likely-to-end-with-lesser-stocks/article34844846.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 17,777 crore returned in 6 shut schemes||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund (MF) on Thursday said it had returned Rs. 17,777 crore to unit holders of six shuttered debt schemes till June 15. This amounts to 71% of assets under management (AUM) as on April 23, 2020, when the fund house shut its six debt mutual fund schemes citing redemption pressures and lack of liquidity in the bond market. Further, cash to the tune of Rs. 580 crore was available for distribution as on June 15, the fund house said. In the latest disbursement during the week of June 5, investors were paid Rs. 3,205 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rs-17777-crore-returned-in-6-shut-schemes/article34844851.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Wipro IT to issue $750-mn dollar notes||Wipro said its step-down subsidiary, Wipro IT Services, will issue U.S. dollar-denominated notes worth $750 million on June 23. The net proceeds of the notes, which are proposed to be listed on Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Ltd., are intended for refinancing existing debt and general corporate purposes.    A filing said the fixed rate, senior, unsecured notes will entail coupon rate at 1.5% per annum, payable semi-annually on June 23 and December 23 each year, starting December 23, 2021. The notes will be guaranteed by Wipro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/wipro-it-to-issue-750-mn-dollar-notes/article34844852.ece
18 June 2021||NEW YORK,||Nadella is Microsoft chairman||Microsoft’s India-born CEO Satya Nadella has been appointed as the technology giant’s new chairman, an additional role in which he will “lead the work to set the agenda for the board.” Microsoft Corp. on Wednesday announced that the board’s independent directors unanimously elected Mr. Nadella to the role of board chair. “In this role, Mr. Nadella will lead the work to set the agenda for the board,” the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nadella-is-microsoft-chairman/article34844855.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||‘Online casual gaming to grow at 29%’||India’s online casual gaming sub-segment, a Rs. 6,000-crore industry in FY21, is projected to reach Rs. 16,900 crore in FY25, growing at a CAGR of 29%, KPMG said in a study. The sub-segment accounted for 44% of India’s total online gaming industry in FY21 and its share is likely to touch 58% by FY25, showed the study titled ‘Beyond the tipping point – A primer on casual gaming in India.’ In terms of users, as per the report, at 420 million gamers in FY21, it accounted for 97% of the total gamers in India. However, the sub-segment was significantly under-indexed on monetisation with lower ARPUs as compared with other gaming markets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/online-casual-gaming-to-grow-at-29/article34844843.ece
18 June 2021||MUMBAI,||Mercedes unveils S-Class car at Rs. 2.17 cr.||Mercedes-Benz has introduced the seventh-generation S-Class car in India with prices starting at Rs. 2.17 crore for S400d 4MATIC and Rs. 2.19 crore for S450 4MATIC, ex-showroom. “The S-Class has been one of the much anticipated luxury cars in the market with unparalleled customer trust and loyalty,” said Martin Schwenk, MD & CEO, Mercedes-Benz India. Cumulatively, more than 8,000 S-Class cars have been sold in India. “We are seeing demand for all our products. In the first six months, we have seen 50% sales growth over the same period last year. We will keep introducing new products to revive the market,” added Mr. Schwenk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mercedes-unveils-s-class-car-at-rs-217-cr/article34844844.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,||Natco net declines 43% on lower revenue||Natco Pharma reported a 43% decline in consolidated net profit for Q4 to Rs. 53 crore on the back of lower revenue in the base business. Total income dropped 25% to Rs. 359.7 crore. For FY21, the net profit slid 3.4% to Rs. 442.4 crore. Natco Pharma said it was able to sustain revenue during the year despite significant negative impact of the pandemic on the base business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/natco-net-declines-43-on-lower-revenue/article34844838.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,||TVS unveils electric scooter TVS iQube in Chennai||TVS Motor Company unveiled its electric scooter ‘TVS iQube’ here. The EV is already available in New Delhi and Bengaluru. TVS iQube is an urban scooter powered by an advanced electric drivetrain and next-generation SmartXonnect platform. Priced at Rs. 1,15,218, it is available for online booking and contactless delivery, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tvs-unveils-electric-scooter-tvs-iqube-in-chennai/article34844848.ece
18 June 2021||Southampton,||History beckons as India and New Zealand battle for supremacy||Virat Kohli carries the expectations of a billion while cricket romantics will pin their hopes on Kane Williamson when India and New Zealand engage in a battle to create a lasting legacy in pristine whites in the inaugural World Test Championship final starting here on Friday. For the connoisseurs of the glorious game, Test cricket is the ultimate format and despite its aura, the 144-year-old history needed a facelift along with a context which the World Test Championship provided despite various bottlenecks, including the COVID-19 pandemic. For Kohli, India’s most successful Test captain, a trophy-less cabinet doesn’t do justice to the champion performer that he has been for a decade. He needs a global triumph. Every captain needs it but perhaps the Indian captain wants it more. Williamson stands in his way with a bunch of fine cricketers in international cricket. If Williamson happens to stand with the ICC Test Mace on the Hampshire Bowl balcony, one might just smile and think that perhaps “Nice guys don’t always finish last”. But, after two years and half a dozen series later, a battle-hardened Indian team will give its all in a match, from which the winning team will also walk away with a $1.6 million windfall. Cheteshwar Pujara would be ready to take more bruises on his body if Neil Wagner starts bowling short. Ajinkya Rahane has grown in stature. R. Ashwin wouldn’t mind one bit if he can fool Williamson, Ross Taylor or the dogged Henry Nicholls with a carrom ball or a slider. Ishant Sharma has grown 14 years older since that epic WACA spell to Ricky Ponting and India’s senior-most player deserves to win a World Championship as much as anyone else. Man to man, there is very little to choose between the two teams even though playing New Zealand in conditions that aid seam and swing isn’t easy.  The teams:   India (final XI): Virat Kohli (Capt.), Rohit Sharma, Shubman Gill, Cheteshwar Pujara, Ajinkya Rahane, Rishabh Pant, Ravindra Jadeja, R. Ashwin, Jasprit Bumrah, Ishant Sharma and Mohammed Shami.   New Zealand (from): Kane Williamson (Capt.), Tom Blundell, Trent Boult, Devon Conway, Colin de Grandhomme, Matt Henry, Kyle Jamieson, Tom Latham, Henry Nicholls, Ajaz Patel, Tim Southee, Ross Taylor, Neil Wagner, B-J. Watling and Will Young.   Umpires: Richard Illingworth and Michael Gough; Match referee: Chris Broad.   Match starts at 3 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/history-beckons-as-india-and-new-zealand-battle-for-supremacy/article34844962.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||India names tried-and-tested squad||The Indian women’s hockey team for the Tokyo Olympics was announced on Thursday with coach Sjoerd Marijne sticking to a largely tried-and-tested mix of youth and experience. The 16-member Rani Rampal-led side has a core group that has been together for more than three years now. While eight of the players were part of India’s previous outing in 2016 at Rio Olympics, 12 of them participated at the 2018 World Cup, where India reached the last-eight and the Asian Games, finishing runner-up. Besides Rani, others from the Rio squad include Savita Punia, Deep Grace Ekka, Sushila Chanu Pukhrambam, Monika, Nikki Pradhan, Navjot Kaur and Vandana Katariya, with a total of 1,492 caps between them. “This team has worked very hard over the last few years and has made progress consistently. There’s a good mix of experienced players and new talent, which is excellent,” ,” chief coach Marijne said. “We look forward to taking on the best in the world in Tokyo. This is a team with a lot of potential and drive which we hope to channelise to our best performance yet,” he added. This will only be the ninth-ranked team’s third Olympic appearance and second consecutive one.  The squad: Goalkeeper: Savita; Defenders: Deep Grace Ekka, Nikki Pradhan, Gurjit Kaur, Udita; Midfielders: Nisha, Neha Goyal, Sushila Chanu, Monika, Navjot Kaur, Salima Tete; Forwards: Rani Rampal, Navneet Kaur, Lalremsiami, Vandana Katariya, Sharmila Devi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-names-tried-and-tested-squad-for-tokyo/article34844992.ece
18 June 2021||copenhagen,||Belgium breaks Danish hearts||Substitute Kevin de Bruyne set up one goal and scored the winner himself to give Belgium a 2-1 victory over Denmark in a European Championship game marked by an emotional tribute to Christian Eriksen in the first half. De Bruyne came on after halftime for his first appearance since sustaining a facial fracture in the Champions League final and squared the ball for Thorgan Hazard to equalise in the 55th minute. He then scored in the 71st with a low shot from outside the area. The win put Belgium into the round of 16 at Euro 2020. It was Denmark’s first game since Eriksen’s collapse and the host team started at a furious pace at a raucous Parken Stadium. Yussuf Poulsen scored with a low shot inside the far post in only the second minute. Players from both teams halted play after 10 minutes as the 25,000 fans at the stadium rose for a minute of thunderous applause in tribute to Eriksen.   The result: Group B: Denmark 1 (Poulsen 2) lost to Belgium 2 (T. Hazard 55, De Bruyne 70).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/belgium-breaks-danish-hearts/article34844861.ece
18 June 2021||BRISTOL,||Shafali and Smriti give a bright start before India loses its way||Shafali Verma hit a brilliant 96 on debut and Smriti Mandhana made 78 before five quick wickets derailed India as the visitors slumped to 187 for five in the first innings in reply to England's 396 for nine declared at stumps on the second day of the one-off Test here on Thursday. Shafali, who smashed 13 fours and two sixes, and Smriti, who hit 14 fours, were involved in a superb 167-run stand off 48.5 overs for the opening wicket before both departed in quick time, triggering a collapse. Nightwatchman Shikha Pandey, skipper Mithali Raj and Punam Raut got out in quick succession as India lost five wickets for 16 runs to give England the upperhand. At close of play, Harmanpreet Kaur was batting on four with Deepti Sharma for company. India trails England by 209 runs. Dunkley shines Earlier, resuming at 269 for six, England lost Katherine Brunt (8) and Sophie Ecclestone (17) in the morning session but debutant Sophia Dunkley continued to frustrate the visitors and remained unbeaten on 74 as the hosts added 127 to their overnight score. Dunkley forged a 56-run partnership with Ecclestone for the eighth wicket and 70 for the ninth with Anya Shrubsole (47). It was Shrubsole’s career-best score. Debutant off-spinner Sneh Rana finished with figures of four for 131. Deepti Sharma (three for 65) too impressed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shafali-and-smriti-give-a-bright-start-before-india-loses-its-way/article34844952.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A showcase of the immortals||Southampton’s present is about a city with its nippy air marinated in sea salts and a nostalgia that includes the Titanic which set sail in 1912, never to return. It was also the county — Hampshire — that had the West Indian great, the late Malcolm Marshall, firing his thunderbolts. In this setting of quaint homes, undulating roads and giggling waves, the willow game’s oldest format will finally have a summit clash to formally coronate the champion. Since 1877, Test cricket has adhered to its unique rhythms but there never was a singular match that anointed one unit as the numero uno ! Eventually with the International Cricket Council (ICC) conceptualising the World Test Championship, its endeavour will find fruition when India and New Zealand walk out at the Ageas Bowl for that one ‘final’ Test commencing on Friday. England’s whimsical summer also lures in the rains and it is anybody’s guess about who will have the last laugh — Virat Kohli’s men, Kane Williamson’s dogged troops or the weather gods with their penchant of irony. The last time the outfits clashed in England, it was the 2019 World Cup semifinal at Manchester. The slow-burn encounter stretched across two days due to the weather’s quirks and it gifted delirium to New Zealand and heartbreak to India. Since then, much has changed irrevocably in a pandemic-ravaged world while Kohli and Williamson have shepherded their men towards success and stability. Equally their vice-captains delivered be it Ajinkya Rahane in Australia or Tom Latham in Old Blighty. New Zealand steps in fresh from its series triumph over England while for India the WTC final is also a starting block as the five-match Test series against Joe Root’s men will start on August 4. India may have missed its best personnel at different points during the Australian tour and yet it found new heroes. This common thread of resilience has also been the spine that binds New Zealand and even way back in the 1980s, it could hold its own at home against Clive Lloyd’s indomitable West Indians. Kohli’s fire against Williamson’s ice, Rohit Sharma’s belligerence against Trent Boult’s swing or the pragmatic textures that a Cheteshwar Pujara or a Ross Taylor offer are part of the multiple threads that serve as a splendid base for a match with its reserve sixth day just incase the skies oscillate between the deep blue and the dark grey!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/a-showcase-of-the-immortals/article34844954.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘We’ve been waiting for this’||India’s route to the World Test Championship (WTC) final has been anything but smooth. From being on top of the table before COVID-19 struck, the team found itself in danger of missing the cut when the International Cricket Council (ICC) changed the ranking points system. India had to turn it around by winning the two remaining series of the Test cycle — against Australia away and England at home — to book a spot in the summit clash. Skipper Virat Kohli believes that the challenges faced along the way only served as motivation to perform. “It wasn’t supposed to be a topsy-turvy ride (to the WTC final). When you’re sitting at home and the rules change suddenly, you get confused. We didn’t choose to miss any matches in this WTC cycle. In our minds, we had already qualified way before things got complicated. Looking back, whatever happened was for the best. If we had qualified earlier, maybe we would have relaxed a little bit. The situation we faced made us more hungry and determined. We used it as fuel and motivation to move forward,” Kohli said on the eve of the WTC final clash against New Zealand. Kohli is not keen on the ‘nice guys’ tag earned by the Kiwis. “I don’t understand this term (‘nice guys’). I don’t think any other team has bad guys in it. For us, New Zealand is a team with quality players. It’s serious stuff out there. It’s not fun and games. This is a huge Test match. We’ve been waiting for this opportunity,” he said. Business on-field Kohli may share a great bond with his opposite number Kane Williamson, but come match day, it’s all business. “Kane and I have become friends over the last few years, having played against each other quite a bit. We stay in touch, and there is a good vibe when we meet. But when you step into the field, you want to get him and everyone else in the New Zealand team out as early as possible. They would want to do the same to us. The camaraderie, understanding and bonding happens off the field,” Kohli said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/weve-been-waiting-for-this/article34844958.ece
18 June 2021||Los Angeles,||Stunning wins for Hawks, Clippers||Top-seeded Philadelphia 76ers and Utah Jazz were on the brink of elimination from the NBA playoffs on Wednesday after Atlanta Hawks and Los Angeles Clippers notched up against-the-odds victories on the road. In Philadelphia, Trae Young scored 39 points as the Hawks overturned a 26-point second-half deficit to post a 109-106 defeat of the Sixers in their Eastern Conference semifinal clash.  The Clippers then toppled Utah Jazz in Salt Lake City 119-111 to seize a 3-2 lead in their best-of-seven Western Conference series. The results left the Sixers and Jazz one defeat away from elimination as they prepare to travel to Atlanta and Los Angeles for their respective sixth games. Encouraged by a raucous home crowd, the Sixers raced into a big lead in the second half. But a magnificent offensive performance led by Young saw the Hawks hit back. In Salt Lake City, Paul George was Clippers’ hero with 37 points after the team began with the news that Kawhi Leonard faces missing the remainder of the series — and possibly the postseason — after suffering a knee injury in game four.  The results: EC: Philadelphia 76ers 106 lost to Atlanta Hawks 10 (Hawks lead series 3-2).   WC: Utah Jazz 111 lost to LA Clippers 119 (Clippers lead series 3-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/stunning-wins-for-hawks-clippers/article34844987.ece
18 June 2021||Sao Paulo,||Argentina, Uruguay riddled with doubts||Argentina and Uruguay go into Friday’s Copa America encounter with neither team having won in three games since November. The two sides seem unsure about which players to select for the Group A game in Brasilia. The winner could ultimately go on to top the group and avoid an early knockout-stage meeting with defending champion Brazil, which is in Group B. Argentina coach Lionel Scaloni has received criticism since his team’s opening 1-1 draw against Chile on Monday, a game that came a few days after a 2-2 draw with Colombia in World Cup qualifying. Scaloni appears unsure whether to use three or four defenders against Uruguay. He could also bring back Cristian Romero in the centre of his rearguard in place of Lucas Martinez Quarta. If he opts for a line of three defenders, left-back Nicolas Tagliafico may miss out. Scaloni is also undecided who should accompany Lionel Messi up front. Lautaro Martinez has been short of goals for Argentina while new Barcelona signing Sergio Aguero is eager to start. Uruguay will have Luis Suarez and Edison Cavani in attack for its first game in the group, but coach Oscar Tabarez has not yet decided who will play in midfield between Giovanni Gonzalez, who normally plays as a defender for Penarol, Lucas Torreira, Rodrigo Bentancur, Nicolas de la Cruz, Federico Valverde, Matias Vecino, Facundo Torres and Jonathan Rodríguez. If Gonzalez plays, it could mean that Tabarez wants extra protection against the brilliant Messi. Suarez said: “They are very strong up front but I can also make use of the frailties that every team has.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/argentina-uruguay-riddled-with-doubts/article34845024.ece
18 June 2021||Rome,||Italy motors ahead like a supercar into pre-quarters||The wingers sprint forward like Ferraris. The midfielders are just as capable at scoring as the forwards. And the reserves look like starters. A new-look Italy is impressing with its offensive flair at the European Championship. Midfielder Manuel Locatelli scored two goals Wednesday and the Azzurri beat Switzerland 3-0 to become the first team to reach the last 16 at Euro 2020, and they did it with a game to spare. They also did it with their 10th consecutive victory. “I’m fortunate to have great players who enjoy playing soccer, like to have fun and take some risks — which is the essence of soccer,” Italy coach Roberto Mancini said. As usual — and perhaps the only characteristic carried on from Italy teams of the past — the defence was impenetrable.  Italy leads Group A with a six points, Wales has four, Switzerland one and Turkey zero. In Group C, Ukraine edged out North Macedonia 2-1 in Bucharest on Thursday to give its hopes of reaching the last 16 a boost.   The results: Group A: Italy 3 (Locatelli 26, 52, Immobile 89) bt Switzerland 0.   Group C: Ukraine 2 (Yarmolenko 29, Yaremchuk 34) bt North Macedonia 1 (Alioski 57).    By The Numbers   1 - Italy became the first to qualify for this edition’s knockouts with a game to spare  10 - This is Italy’s 10th consecutive victory in all competitions  29 - Italy’s unbeaten streak, one shy of the team record||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/italy-motors-ahead-like-a-supercar-into-pre-quarters/article34844858.ece
18 June 2021||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Abdullah triumphs||Abdullah M. Nishtar (Kollam) won the third leg of the Chess Kerala Covid Vaccine Challenge Grand Prix tournament.   Abdullah, who won the first leg of the series, tallied eight points in the nine round tournament to come first. Vishnu Menon (Thiruvananthapuram) and Jinan Joemon (Wyanad) — both with eight points — came second and third respectively.  The final placings: 1. Abdullah M. Nisthar (Klm, 8), 2. Vishnu Menon (Tvm, 8), 3. Jinan Joemon (Wyd, 8), 4. Adinath Harilal (Ekm, 7.5), 5. Vivek Nambiar (Ekm, 7), 6. Adithya Pradeep (Pkd, 7), 7. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz, 7), 8. K. Pran Kumar (Klm, 7), 9. Shanid (Ksg, 7), 10. M.S. Ebel (Wyd, 7) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abdullah-triumphs/article34845126.ece
18 June 2021||KOCHI,||Vukomanovic takes charge of Blasters||After trying English, Dutch, Portuguese and Spanish coaches in earlier Indian Super League seasons, Kerala Blasters FC has brought in Serbian flavour this time with the signing of Ivan Vukomanovic as head coach.  Tenth coach The 43-year-old, the Blasters' 10th coach since the start of the ISL in 2014, has coached top division clubs in Belgium, Slovakia and Cyprus.  He began as assistant coach at Belgium's Standard Liege in 2013 and later managed SK Slovan Bratislava in the Slovak Super Liga, helping the side win the Slovakia National Cup. His last assignment was with Apollon Limassol in Cyprus' First Division. Prior to taking up coaching, Vukomanovic was a professional footballer for 15 years. A defender, he had stints with French club FC Bordeaux, Germany's FC Koln, Belgium's Royal Antwerp, Russia's Dynamo Moscow and Serbia's Red Star Belgrade. “From my first contact with the club’s directors, the feeling was positive. After seeing the army of fans and the support KBFC has, I didn’t hesitate a second,” said Vukomanovic. The right fit “I think Ivan is the right fit for this big challenge and responsibility, someone who can handle the pressure here,” said Karolis Skinkys, the Blasters' sporting director. Vukomanovic's coaching team will include Belgian assistant coach Patrik van Kets, who comes with 18 years experience as a pro coach. The Blasters took the 10th spot in the 11-team ISL last season in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/vukomanovic-takes-charge-of-blasters/article34845128.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘The challenge is strong against this Indian side’||After missing the second Test against England due to an elbow niggle, New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson confirmed he has since improved ahead of the WTC final that starts on Friday. “My elbow has improved with the help of an injection a few days back. I am still managing but it has shown signs of improvement,” said Williamson on the eve of the match. When asked if it will be a case of India’s batting against the New Zealand bowlers, Williamson said, “I think there are a number of areas of competition. We know how strong the Indian seam bowling attack is, the quality of their spin and clearly their batting is world-class, so they are a very good side and we are aware of that. For us there are some similar strengths as well,” he added. To a query about whether his side goes into the contest as favourites considering they are the No. 1-ranked side, the 30-year-old said, “We are much more concerned with the cricket that we want to play and also very realistic that India are an incredibly strong side all around the world, and rightly so recognised as the best team. You have these rankings, they take slightly different shapes everyday. But, we know that the challenge is very very strong against this Indian side.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/the-challenge-is-strong-against-this-indian-side/article34844956.ece
18 June 2021||MADRID,||Nadal pulls out of Wimbledon, Olympics||Rafael Nadal pulled out of Wimbledon and the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday, saying he took the decision after consultations with his team in a bid to prolong his career. The 35-year-old Spaniard said the two-week gap between the French Open and Wimbledon — which starts on June 28 — was not enough time for him to recuperate after a demanding claycourt season where he played in five tournaments. “I have decided not to participate at this year’s Championships at Wimbledon and the Olympic Games in Tokyo,” Nadal tweeted. Nadal has won two gold medals at the Olympics — singles in 2008 at Beijing and a doubles gold at Rio 2016. “It’s never an easy decision to take but after listening to my body and discussing it with my team I understand that it is the right decision.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nadal-pulls-out-of-wimbledon-olympics/article34844961.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Manish found cheating, stripped of Natl. u-18 title||Five days after the completion of the National under-18 online rapid chess championship, the All India Chess Federation (AICF) on Thursday took away the title from Odisha’s Manish Kumar and named Bengal’s Aronyak Ghosh champion. The development followed the ruling of the Fairplay panel that found conclusive evidence against Manish of using unfair means on his way to the third place in the National under-16 event on Tuesday. “The members of the Fairplay panel had doubts over Manish’s play even in the under-18, but there was no conclusive evidence. But during the under-16 championship, Manish was found cheating. The committee unanimously decided to nullify all his results,” confirmed AICF secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan. As a result, Aronyak and Ayush Sharma, who tied with Manish for the title, were elevated as winner and runner-up respectively. Sankalp Gupta took the third spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/manish-found-cheating-stripped-of-natl-u-18-title/article34844984.ece
18 June 2021||Gros-Islet (St. Lucia),||WI recalls Bravo, Gabriel||West Indies selectors responded to the embarrassment of a dismal innings defeat in the first Test by recalling fast bowler Shannon Gabriel and left-handed batsman Darren Bravo for the second Test against South Africa which starts at the Daren Sammy Cricket Ground on Friday. Neither featured in the opener in St. Lucia which South Africa won by an innings and 63 runs. Nkrumah Bonner was unavailable for selection due to concussion protocol. He was substituted during the first Test after being struck on the helmet by Kagiso Rabada. “Shannon Gabriel has been declared fully fit and as someone who was the spearhead of the attack before, he has returned to the 13-man squad,” said lead selector Roger Harper when announcing the line-up on Thursday. “With Bravo, we have someone who is an experienced batsman.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wi-recalls-bravo-gabriel/article34845020.ece
18 June 2021||Bengaluru,||Former Ranji star Vijayakrishna passes away||Former Karnataka all-rounder B. Vijayakrishna passed away here on Thursday following a cardiac arrest, the Karnataka State Cricket Association stated. He was 71. A left-arm spinner and southpaw batsman, Vijayakrishna played 80 First Class and two List-A matches. In First Class cricket he scored 2,297 runs (average 25.8) and took 194 wickets. Vijayakrishna was part of the Karnataka team that won three Ranji Trophy titles — 1973-74, 1977-78 and 1982-83. Vijayakrishna represented Karnataka with distinction in a 15-year domestic career. Despite his considerable talent, Vijayakrishna could not break into the Indian team, which included stalwarts like B.S. Chandrasekhar, E.A.S. Prasanna and Bishan Singh Bedi. Vijayakrishna grabbed the spotlight in the 1975-76 season, when he slammed the fastest century of the season with a whirlwind 102 against Maharashtra. He scored one more century two years later, against Bihar. Cricket fans in the city remember Vijayakrishna for his heroics in a Ranji Trophy outing at Central College grounds here in 1971. He sustained a severe ankle injury when batting against Rajasthan, but played through the pain to make an entertaining half-century. The brave knock impressed even the Rajasthan players, who carried a limping Vijayakrishna off the field. Wonderful person Former India and Karnataka pacer Dodda Ganesh, who played alongside Vijayakrishna for Syndicate Bank, paid tribute to his mentor. “When I played for Syndicate Bank, our team was like the Indian team. We had (B.S.) Chandrasekhar, Venkatesh Prasad, Sunil Joshi, Sadanand Vishwanath, Sudhakar Rao, A.V. Jayaprakash, Vijayakrishna, etc. We had a great rivalry with State Bank, which had Syed Kirmani and Roger Binny among others. “Vijayakrishna was a mentor to us. We learnt a lot, and we matured under seniors like him. I am what I am now only because of the likes of him,” Ganesh said. “He was a great human being; a sincere person. Cricket was his passion. He backed all of us, and ensured that all meritorious cricketers got opportunities. His demise is a big loss for Karnataka cricket,” Ganesh said. Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa condoled Vijayakrishna’s demise. “We have lost a great cricketer. May his soul rest in peace. I pray to the Almighty to give strength to his family members and fans,” the CM said in a statement. Former India players Anil Kumble, W.V. Raman, Vinay Kumar and Sunil Joshi paid their respects to Vijayakrishna on Twitter.  (With inputs from N. Sudarshan)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/former-karnataka-ranji-star-vijayakrishna-passes-away/article34844989.ece
18 June 2021||Madrid,||Ramos departs Real after 16 years||An emotional Sergio Ramos said goodbye to Real Madrid on Thursday, saying he wanted to stay but the club preferred not to renew his contract. Ramos said he initially wanted a two-year extension instead of the one year offered by the club, but eventually he accepted the one-year deal plus a salary reduction that was already planned. He said he and his representatives were surprised when the club said its offer had expired. “Maybe I misunderstood, but no one had told me that the offer had an expiration date,” the former Madrid captain said. “In the last conversations we had, I said that I accepted the offer, but then they told me that there was no more offer.” Ramos acknowledged he told the club to plan its future without him but only because he felt no one should be considered greater than the club in a negotiation, not because he wanted to leave. “I never wanted to leave Real Madrid but many things happened,” Ramos said. “To me, Real Madrid and Sergio Ramos was the perfect marriage, but things change in life and we have to accept it.” The 35-year-old defender, who leaves as a free agent, said he is excited about his future but did not say where he will be playing next. The player’s family, including his wife and four children, attended the farewell event along with club president Florentino Pérez . A video was shown of Ramos playing and lifting trophies with Madrid. Ramos had been with the club since arriving from Sevilla in 2005 when he was 19. He helped the Spanish powerhouse win 22 titles, including four Champions Leagues and five Spanish leagues. Ramos scored 101 goals in 671 matches with Madrid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ramos-departs-real-after-16-years/article34845025.ece
18 June 2021||Chennai,||Nivethan to play for Tasmania||A Tamil Nadu-born cricketer, Nivethan Radhakrishnan, was handed a contract by Australian First Class side Tasmania for the 2021-22 season on Wednesday. The 18-year-old Nivethan is ambidextrous who can bowl off-spin and left-arm orthodox. He is also a handy left-handed batsman at the top of the order.  He is currently based out of Sydney and played for Sydney University in the NSW Premier Cricket. He has already played for the Australian U-16 side as well. A former student of Sri Sankara School in Chennai, the 18-year-old moved to Australia in 2013 and has played for Swaraj CC in the TNCA first division as well. The teenager has also been part of the Tamil Nadu Premier League for two seasons. Though he did not play a match in the TNPL, he has been part of the squad with Karaikudi Kaalai and Dindigul Dragons. He was also one of the net bowlers for the Delhi Capitals side during the Indian Premier League earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nivethan-to-play-for-tasmania/article34845407.ece
18 June 2021||Hyderabad,||‘No one can suspend me’||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin said that he was in control of the association and alleged that the members of the Apex Council, who issued a show-cause notice and suspended him pending enquiry, are all tainted. “This Council has no right to take any action against me. I am the constitutional head of the association, elected by the General Body. No one can suspend me,” Azhar told the media, responding to the show-cause notice served to him on Tuesday. “These members are facing corruption charges in the ACB case and are indulging in illegal activities. On moral grounds, they should resign. On the other hand, no one can question my integrity in any aspect of administration,” Azhar said. Violating rules “Most of these council members are owners of multiple clubs and are violating the rules and guidelines of the HCA,” he said. “I will not be cowed down by the blackmailing tactics of these council members. And, if things are not set right now, it will never happen in the HCA. I am not boasting about myself, but only highlighting the grim scenario now,” he said. “There is no way I am going to have any compromise with this group,” he added.  “Yes, if needed, I am ready to fight the elections if warranted, but the issue now is ensuring clean administration in the association for the good of the game,” Azhar said. Azhar said that he did instruct Canara Bank (where HCA has an account) to stop financial transactions but only to ensure misuse of funds. He also said that there was nothing wrong with him being associated with the Dubai T10 tournament. “There is no conflict of interest issue in this. If the BCCI has any objections, then I will respond accordingly,” he said. “Well, the next move will be decided by HCA Ombudsman Justice (retd.) Deepak Verma. I am no one to take a call,” he said. “If they (members of Apex Council) don’t respect the Ombudsman, it is their headache,” he said. “Definitely, I will take up with the BCCI top brass our issues very soon,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/no-one-can-suspend-me/article34845499.ece
18 June 2021||Copenhagen,||Eriksen to be fitted with cardiac device||Christian Eriksen will be fitted with an implantable device to monitor his heart rhythm, the Danish soccer federation said on Thursday. Eriksen is recovering in a Copenhagen hospital after suffering cardiac arrest during Denmark’s game against Finland at the European Championship. The Danish federation said doctors have determined that Eriksen needs to have an ICD — implantable cardioverter defibrillator. “This device is necessary after a cardiac attack due to rhythm disturbances,” the federation said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/eriksen-to-be-fitted-with-cardiac-device/article34844859.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Harika in last eight||D. Harika beat former World champion Alexandra Kosteniuk of Russia to move into the quarterfinals of the Women’s Speed Chess championship on Wednesday night. In a closely fought encounter that went into the four-game tie-breakers, the Indian won 14.5-12.5. Harika’s fine victory came after India’s campaign got off to a disappointing start with Koneru Humpy going down to Kazakhstan’s Bibisara Assaubayeva on the opening day last Saturday. The other Indian in the fray, R. Vaishali will meet China’s Lei Tingjie on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/harika-in-last-eight/article34844985.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Three share lead; title-race wide open||A.R. Ilamparthy (Tamil Nadu), Sandip Nagare (Maharashtra) and Veny Akkarakaran (Kerala) shared the lead with 6.5 points after seven rounds of the National under-14 online rapid chess tournament on Thursday. With 22 players following the leaders at six points, and four rounds to go, the title-race is wide open. After Ilamparthy and Akkarakaran drew their seventh-round game on the top board, Nagare defeated Alekhya Mukhopadhyay to emerge as the only winner from the first seven boards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/three-share-lead-title-race-wide-open/article34845018.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||IOA signs MPL as principal sponsor for Olympics||The Indian Olympic Association on Thursday announced an Rs. 8 crore sponsorship deal with MPL Sports Foundation till the end of 2022 and covering major events in the period. The deal will see MPL coming on board as the principal sponsor for the Indian contingents at the Tokyo Olympics and the 2022 Asian Games & Commonwealth Games. In addition, it will also supply the official sports kit for the contingents at the Asian and Commonwealth Games, the IOA said in a statement. Meanwhile, Amul has signed a Rs. 1 crore deal till December 31 this year specifically covering the Tokyo Olympics.     Top-seeded Philadelphia 76ers and Utah Jazz were on the brink of elimination from the NBA playoffs on Wednesday after Atlanta Hawks and Los Angeles Clippers notched up against-the-odds victories on the road and took 3-2 leads.  The results: EC: Philadelphia 76ers 106 lost to Atlanta Hawks 10 (Hawks lead series 3-2). WC: Utah Jazz 111 lost to LA Clippers 119 (Clippers lead series 3-2) .    Rohan Bopanna and Diivj Sharan were beaten 6-3, 7-6(3) by Sander Gille and Joran Vleigen of Belgium in the quarterfinals of the €1,455,925 Halle Open on Thursday. The Indian pair collected 90 ATP points and €14,340.   Andy Murray’s grasscourt return was cut short in brutal fashion at Queen’s Club as Italian top seed Matteo Berrettini dished out a 6-3, 6-3 defeat to the five-time winner on Thursday.   A.R. Ilamparthy (TN), Sandip Nagare (Maha) and Veny Akkarakaran (Ker) shared the lead with 6.5 points after seven rounds of the National under-14 online rapid chess tournament on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ioa-signs-mpl-as-principal-sponsor-for-olympics/article34845089.ece
18 June 2021||HALLE,||Bopanna and Divij lose||Rohan Bopanna and Diivj Sharan were beaten 6-3, 7-6(3) by Sander Gille and Joran Vleigen of Belgium in the quarterfinals of the €1,455,925 Halle Open on Thursday. The Indian pair collected 90 ATP points and €14,340. In the ITF men’s event in Tunisia, Siddhant Banthia and USA’s Alexander Kotzen made the doubles semifinals.  Other results: €1,455,925 Halle Open: Doubles (quarterfinals): Sander Gille & Joran Vliegen (Bel) bt Rohan Bopanna & Diivj Sharan 6-3, 7-6(3).   €132,280 Challenger, Nottingham: Pre-quarterfinals: Kamil Majchrzak (Pol) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Monastir, Tunisia: Doubles (quarterfinals): Alexander Kotzen (USA) & Siddhant Banthia bt Nicolas Bruna (Chi) & Imanol Lopez Morillo (Esp) 7-6(5), 6-4 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bopanna-and-divij-lose/article34845095.ece
18 June 2021||HYDERABAD,||Land allocated for Sindhu’s academy||The Government of Andhra Pradesh has formally allocated two acres of land to P.V. Sindhu for setting up the P. Venkata Sindhu Badminton Academy and Sports School. The government issued orders on Thursday saying the site at Chinagadili (Visakhapatnam Rural) was allocated after the shuttler informed that she is in the process of registring a Trust for the purpose and it will be done soon. The secretary of youth advancement, tourism and culture reported that Sindhu’s report had been verified and that construction will be in two phases with an expenditure of Rs. 5 crore in each phase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/land-allocated-for-sindhus-academy/article34845597.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||KAA names team for inter-state championship||Karnataka Athletics Association (KAA), on Thursday, named a 12-member team for the 60th National Senior inter-state athletics championship to be held in Patiala from June 25 to 29. Earlier this month, the State body had refrained from conducting any selection trials because of the COVID-19 pandemic and had instead asked district associations to nominate athletes based on their performances in the last two years. The final list, according to Athletics Federation of India entry standards was made public yesterday.  The team: Men: B. Chetan (high jump), D.P. Manu (javelin), Belliappa (10,000m), Jesse Sandesh (high jump, triple jump), B.K. Kumaraswamy (800m), S. Lokesh (long jump). Women: M.R. Poovamma (400m, 800m), Priya H. Mohan (200m, 400m), A.T. Daneshwari (100m), H.R. Navami (100m), Jyothi (400m), Karishma S. Sanil (javelin) .    The Sports School, Bengaluru (with technical partner Badminton Gurukul) announced a national badminton scholarship programme under the mentorship of P. Gopi Chand, on Thursday. The goal was to provide the "best training methods to students to groom their willingness to play the sport and turn it into a full-fledged profession", a press release said. In the first year, five students will be given 100% scholarship and five more ranging from 25% to 75% to cover academic and sports fees. Those interested can visit www.thesportsschool.com or call +91 8587878668    The Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association, in collaboration with health and fitness experts Peak Performance, will conduct a webinar on June 18 at 5 p.m., focussing on tennis injury prevention and performance improvement. The webinar will be helmed by Yash Pandey, who heads Peak Performance, and has worked with the likes of Mahesh Bhupathi, Rohan Bopanna, Daniel Nestor, Rajeev Ram and Vasek Pospisil and is the official physio of the Indian Davis Cup team. Those interested are requested to register (tinyurl.com/4kaw2fv7) or send a request to events@kslta.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kaa-names-team-for-inter-state-championship/article34844986.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Gujrathi returns to Champions Tour||The return of Vidit Gujrathi will see four Indian Grandmasters in the 16-player $100,000 Goldmoney Asian Rapid online chess championship, which is part of the Champions Tour, beginning on June 26.  The players: Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Ding Liren (Chn), Levon Aronian (Arm), Anish Giri (Ned), Wesley So (USA), Alireza Firouzja (FIDE), Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol), Vidit Gujrathi, Daniil Dubov (Rus), Peter Svidler (Rus), Vladislav Artemiev (Rus), Salem Saleh (UAE), B. Adhiban, Hou Yifan (Chn), D. Gukesh, and Arjun Erigaisi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gujrathi-returns-to-champions-tour/article34845017.ece
18 June 2021||Rio de Janeiro,||Superstar Neymar to miss Olympics||Neymar will not play for Brazil at the Tokyo Olympics, but veteran Daniel Alves did make the squad announced on Thursday. Neymar’s PSG teammate Marquinhos, who also landed a gold medal in Rio five years ago, is another name not on coach Andre Jardine's list.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/superstar-neymar-to-miss-olympics/article34845093.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 08:45 IST,||Sudoku — June 18, 2021||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-june-18-2021/article34845722.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let me tell a kutti story||Priya Vasanth, a homemaker in Chennai, has just finished her household chores for the day. She does not reach for the remote to switch on a TV serial. Nor does she chat with her neighbours, the way she did before the pandemic. She plugs in her headphones. Eyes closed, keenly listening to the narration, Priya imagines the world created by Kalki Krishnamurthy’s classic Ponniyin Selvan . This is among the 45 Tamil literary works that she devoured through the lockdown in the form of audiobooks. Among the many voices that adorn such audiobooks is Kirtana Ragade’s that brings a charming energy to the stories she tells. A voice artiste for films, serials and OTT programmes for the past five years, Kirtana says that audiobooks have given her a new lease of life and alternate income. “Audiobooks are a huge opportunity to keep your voice busy and earn an income during these times when other industry work such as film and TV serials is on the wane,” affirms Kirtana, who has worked on a dozen titles, including Indira Soundararajan’s Ragasiyamaga Oru Ragasiyam , Rajesh Kumar’s Sivappu Iravu and Balakumaran’s Pachai Vayal Manadhu . As the pandemic drags on, weary of long hours of screen time, people are increasingly turning to audio-only platforms this year. While rooms in Clubhouse and Twitter Spaces bustle loudly with conversation, opinions and music, audiobooks are seeing a quieter, but steady, upsurge. Amid this worldwide trend, India is seeing the rise of a vibrant new industry, as vernacular audiobooks find creative ways to engage a young and growing audience. Tamil listeners are increasingly diving into both classic as well as contemporary Tamil works spread across several genres including historical, mystery and romance. Tales of succour Audiobook and ebook streaming service Storytel has seen a 73% jump in subscriptions of Tamil audiobooks in the last year; it already has more than 900 titles for listeners to choose from. The most popular among them are Ponniyin Selvan , Mogamul and Kadal Pura . While YouTube has a few amateur audiobook attempts, audio streaming service Spotify too has a Tamil audio library mostly consisting of user-generated content, with titles such as Thee Vizha , Sirai and Grahanam featuring among its most recent uploads. “The audiobook market is booming in recent times, especially in vernacular content,” says Deepika Arun, language manager at Storytel, “With lockdown and work-from-home routine for many people, screen fatigue is a real problem. For them, audiobooks are seen as an alternate option for entertainment. Also, with a lot of depressing news hitting them, listening to stories before bedtime is a calming exercise.” Deepika is a narrator herself; her popular 2019 podcast, Kadhai Osai , featured copyright-free stories. “Pronunciation and modulation are the most important aspects for any narrator. As audiobooks are usually a secondary activity, sustaining interest in the listener is completely in the hands of the narrator.” Connection with language Narrating for such books has played a key role in actor Lakshmipriyaa Chandramouli’s life recently. “As an actor, it has been greatly beneficial. Experimenting with different characters and emotions through my voice has added a different dimension to my skill set,” says Lakshmipriyaa, who has voiced for books like Thanneer and Kalvananin Kadhali , among others. Her biggest challenge was reading out Peruvali by Sukumaran, a book that features a character from the transgender community. “The author wanted me to intentionally read it slowly in a couple of places. Also, every chapter in that is narrated by different characters. To make sure I get the voices right was a challenge,” she says. Like Lakshmipriyaa, actor Raaghav Ranganathan has energetically dived into this new challenge; he has contributed to books like Perumal Murugan’s Koolamathari and Sundara Ramaswamy’s Prasadam , among others. “When the film industry took a hiatus, this gave me a great opportunity to keep myself occupied. It helped me connect with Tamil, a language I dearly love,” says Raaghav. He has invested in a small audio set-up at his residence and has also been doing light voice-training exercises to ensure he is in prime form. “Narrating for audiobooks helps my voice get tuned and running,” he says. Dubbing artist Kirtana explains that there are differences between her approach to audiobooks and films, she adds. “For the film industry, my job is limited to conveying the mood of the artiste in the visual and ensuring lip-sync. With audiobooks, there are no restrictions for my imagination or performance. I decide if I should communicate a certain aspect in an aggressive or a subtle manner through my voice. For readers who have already read the book, it is my job to enhance their perception of the characters.” If narration is a key element in an audiobook’s success, so is the content. For many Tamil authors, the distribution of physical copies of their works was a challenge during the lockdowns. These writers see the burgeoning demand for ebooks and audiobooks as a new platform for their works to reach newer audiences. “There are many young people today who can speak Tamil very well but cannot read it fluently. These audiobooks have been a boon for them,” says popular writer Pattukottai Prabakar, whose many titles, including Indhiya Neram 2AM , Oru Poi Podhum and Operation Venus , have been adapted recently to the audio format. Prabakar has been getting a lot of calls in recent times from firms to give them rights to the audio format of his work. “This trend looks all poised to grow,” he adds.  There are many young people today who can speak Tamil well but cannot read it fluently. Audiobooks are a boon for them Pattukottai Prabakar,Author   Top picks  Ponniyin Selvan  Mogamul  Kadal Pura  Parthiban Kanavu  Vandhargal Vendraargal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/let-me-tell-a-kutti-story/article34845050.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Historic first||Jemimah Rodrigues, who made her début in Test cricket two days ago when the Indian women’s team took on England, is one of the most-talk-about batters in the world in the shorter version of the game and is excited about finally getting a taste of the longer format. “I remember when the women’s Ashes would go on, we would watch it on television and often wonder, ‘ apna time kab aayega ?’ (when will our time come?). There is something special about those jerseys and we cannot wait to lay our hands on the whites and play Test cricket for India. Yes, there will be ODIs and T20Is, but Test cricket will always be different. I am looking forward to it,” says the 20 year old. The one-off Test match, India’s first since the team played the same opponent — England in 2014 — was announced in March this year, much to the surprise of players and fans alike. “We have been playing a lot of white ball cricket over the last few years, especially since the time I made my début. I have played more T20Is than ODIs because there were two T20 World Cups before the ODI World Cup,” she said. Given the long English summer ahead, keeping a clear head is most important. This also means staying from social media and criticism. “It’s not easy as youngsters to stay away from social media, but it’s all about how you take it. You need to be disciplined and it is better if you are away from it. It helps in staying away from the random comments, because at the end of the day, I am not here to please people; I am here to play the game for my country.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/historic-first/article34845245.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Gold mint in the sky||The sky was blue and the summer sun hot on my back, as I glided along, enjoying the hills and valleys below. That’s when I got philosophical. It’s the sun that does all this — provides energy and light, reduces stress, maintains strong bones, strengthens our immune system... not to mention the benefits to the flora and fauna. Don’t you think we should celebrate it? I scoured the net and discovered Inti Raymi in Cusco, Peru, on June 24. As luck would have it, there were tours being organised too. In truth, I don’t need to register with these tours, as I can wing it (get it?). But the benefit of going with a group is a detailed explanation about everything you see and hear. Of course, this tour had all COVID-19 protocols in place. Hail the sun The minute the tour began, the guide was on a roll. The Incas, he said, celebrate the sun. Originally, the 15-day festival was celebrated on June 21, to coincide with the winter solstice in the southern hemisphere. It is also the beginning of the Andean New Year: Inti Raymi. Inti means Sun, considered the creator — along with Pachamama or Mother Earth — of the universe. It was a luxurious and colourful celebration with dances and performances dedicated to the Inca ruler, who was considered a demigod. The Sun is worshipped and sacrifices are offered to ensure that he does not leave the Earth. Sadly, the last celebration was held in 1535, in the presence of the Inca emperor. The Spanish invasion of 1536 put paid to further celebrations. But tradition is tradition, right? So, today, Inti Raymi is a theatrical performance and thousands of people from Cusco and all over the world come together not only to uphold their tradition but also to remind every Peruvian that Inca blood flows through their veins and of the need to remember their history. I found myself a seat at the Main Square, also known as the Esplanade of Sacsayhuamn, which gave me a 360° view of the proceedings. I watched as a group of acllas (chosen women) sprinkled flowers accompanied by Pichaq men, so called as they were responsible for scaring away evil spirits with their straw brooms. Then came the hunchback or kumillo carrying an umbrella ( achiwa ) made of coloured feathers. There were more processions and dances and the whole thing was impressive and actually brought a tear to my eye, thinking of all the history and ancient knowledge that had been destroyed.  The Sun is worshipped and sacrifices are offered to ensure that he does not leave the Earth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/gold-mint-in-the-sky/article34845235.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||‘I am hungry. Therefore I am.’||Name: Garfield. My creator Jim Davis named me after his grandfather, James Garfield Davis.  Birthday: June 19, 1978  Personality: People call me lazy, cynical, selfish and messy. I like to call myself relaxed, clever, self-loving and organisationally challenged.  Physical attribute: I’m not overweight. I’m what you’d call under-tall.     Friends: Odie the dog, and my owner, Jon Arbuckle. But, really, it is my teddy bear Pooky.  Enemies: Binky the clown, Herman Post the postman, the weighing scale and Mondays.  Pastime: Making fun of Odie (His I.Q. is so low you can’t test it. You have to dig for it.) And sleeping — that goes without saying.  Passion: Food. Lasagna is love.  Achievement: I hold the world record for the most syndicated comic strip.  Alternate career: Call me professor. I am the face of professorgarfield.org, an edutainment site that provides kids struggling with dyslexia and their teachers fun learning aids.  Words to the wise: If you are patient…and wait long enough…Nothing will happen!  Quotable quotes: “Love me, feed me, never leave me.” “I hate Mondays.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/i-am-hungry-therefore-i-am/article34845264.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A continent in miniature||Cameroon is located strategically at the crossroads between West and Central Africa. Triangular in shape, it shares its borders with six countries (and its coastline lies on the Atlantic Ocean. The capital is Yaoundé and its currency is the Central African CFA Franc. Mountains, deserts, rainforest, savannah grasslands — Cameroon has all the major geographic features of Africa. A tropical country, the climate is hot throughout the year. It also has one of the wettest places and some of the most fertile land in the world.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/a-continent-in-miniature/article34845208.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Hidden strengths||After what seemed ages, our online classes were going to end. We were all geared up for our first classroom project: preferably about something that had influenced us greatly during the pandemic. After a few days of watching me search for something to do, Amma suggested, “Why don’t you accompany me to the event today?” The event, conducted by an NGO, had all COVID-19 norms in place. I listened intently to the host’s narration about the three guests to be honoured. Each was differently abled but had made a difference to others through their extraordinary efforts in these times. Hearing about the one with speech impairment struck a chord. It reminded me of someone special taking me back to the days when the pandemic was unknown. ***  Friendless days Back then, we had just moved to a new locality and I had spent several friendless days. One day, someone new arrived but... “How does someone who cannot speak get along with anyone?” I asked Amma. “They don’t want our sympathy.” “Well….yes,” Amma said referring to the new boy Rahul. “But he would be happy to be befriended.” Rahul had a warm disposition. A few days later, he joined a group of boys who turned up for various games in the nearby playground. Gradually, I too joined the group, though I had not yet become Rahul’s friend. Deep down, I knew that I was the one who was unable to break the ice but, one day, something happened that changed things altogether. Trouble It was past sunset when Rahul, Vicky and I were in the midst of an interesting game. The area would usually seem deserted when dark. Suddenly, we spotted two men hastily entering the playground. They hid something behind the shrubs, threatened us to keep quiet, and hid themselves in another clump a little further away. Soon, two policemen came looking for them. While Vicky and I ran away and hid nearby to avoid being questioned, Rahul preferred to stay and nonchalantly conversed with the policemen in sign language. A lesson When the policemen left, the two men tackled Rahul to ask what he had told them. But the matter ended once they were convinced that, due to his speech impairment, he couldn’t give away their secret. Amma was right. Rahul, who became my best friend and remains so till date, taught me that believing in ourselves was what we needed. *** On our way back, I chattered about the event. “You seem to have enjoyed it. Hopefully, it has offered you something for your project,” Amma chimed in. “Super idea!” I yelled, and started to plan how I could do that.  “How does someone who cannot speak get along with anyone?” I asked Amma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/hidden-strengths/article34845230.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Hope and trust||Movie:Raya and the Last Dragon (2021) Genre:Animation, Adventure Kumandra, a re-imagined Earth, is inhabited by an ancient civilisation. Five hundred years ago, they co-existed with dragons, who gifted them with life and water. When they were attacked by powerful creatures called the Druuns, who would turn anything they touched into stone, the dragons sacrificed their lives for the people. The last one, a water-dragon named Sisu, created a magical jewel to get rid of the Druuns. All the human beings came back to life, but the dragons did not. Today, Kumandra is divided into five zones — Talon, Fangs, Heart, Spine and Tail. Water connects the five lands of Kumandra and shields the living from the deadly plague that has turned most of its world into a wasteland. Benja, the chief of Heart, believes that the unification of all five zones named after the dragon will help them bring back the dragons. However, his attempts are foiled as the magical orb is stolen. History repeats itself, as almost everyone is again turned into a stone. His daughter, the warrior Raya, along with her pet hedgehog is determined to find the last dragon. Six years later, her efforts pay off and she meets Sisu asleep deep in a river. Sisu decides to help Raya in her quest for the remaining shards of the Gem but Raya is also turned into stone. Who will bring back the dragons and restore Kumandra?  Scoring High  The fighting styles in the movie are inspired by six Southeast Asian martial arts forms. The scene with the most elements is an underwater scene with 23,836 animated fish. The film boasts an all-female technical leadership team. All the Clans of Kumandra are named after the parts of a dragon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/hope-and-trust/article34845253.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The Castle in the House Reality strikes||Story so far: On Shalu’s birthday she gets ‘The Castle of Your Dreams’, a build-it-yourself castle. But how will she build it on her own?  “Wow!” Samit said. “What fun you will have, Shalu!” Pulling out his phone, he walked away. Had he forgotten that they had both dreamt of building this castle? Or that it had been Samit’s idea that she should ask for it for her birthday? “But it will be our castle!” he had grinned. Now their dream had come true. But between asking for the castle and getting it, Samit had turned a year older and been gifted a phone. Everything had changed from that moment. Changing priorities In the beginning, Shalu had asked to play on his phone. But soon she saw how he snatched it away within minutes. She had known then that the days of easily sharing things were gone. But what really hurt was how distant Samit had become. He was always hunched over his phone and always too busy to play. “I hope,” Amma said, “you are going to share your castle with Samit!” “Of course!” Shalu said. “And we are going to start working on it immediately. Right, Samit?” Samit didn’t look terribly excited at the thought. When Shalu bounced into his room after dinner, she found him with his phone. The glow of its screen lit up his face, turning him into an alien creature. “Coming?” Shalu asked. “Where?” Samit asked irritably. “To build the castle!” Shalu said. “I can’t!” Samit announced. “I have homework!” When Shalu pointed out that he wasn’t doing his homework, Samit only said, “Hmm” and continued tapping on his phone. When he did look up, it was to say, “I can’t help you” with an air of finality. Then he bent over the phone again, Shalu and all the plans they had made together, forgotten. Shalu walked sadly down the stairs. It should have been the happiest day of her life but never had she felt so lonely. She stared at the big box for a long time. Did she need Samit to build the castle? Surely, she could build it herself. There were bound to be instructions. “I can follow instructions,” she thought. Excited, she dragged the box to the little room under the stairs. Amma found her there and asked, “Are you sure you can manage on your own?” Shalu looked up from the instruction booklet to grin, “Oh, yes. I’ll soon have the castle ready!” “I am glad,” Amma laughed. In bed that night, sleep was a long time coming. Shalu tossed restlessly and the wrapping papers under her mattress rustled and crinkled with every movement. Why, oh why, had she lied to Amma? But, Shalu argued with herself, what else could she have done? How could she tell her parents the truth — that, without Samit, the castle would never be built! To be continued||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/the-castle-in-the-house-reality-strikes/article34845200.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Name Search||MithaliRaj HarmanpreetKaur TaniyaBhatia EktaBisht JhulanGoswami SmritiMandhana ShikhaPandey PriyaPunia JemimahRodrigues ArundhatiReddy||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/name-search/article34845247.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Fantastic Beasts||Across  1 Bilbo Baggins is one, so is Frodo (6) 3 The colour of The Smurfs (4) 5 Giant eagle, vehicle of Lord Vishnu (6) 8 Vehicle of Lord Ganesha (3) 10 Child with wings, holding a bow and arrow (5) 11 Zombies are neither ____ nor alive (4) 13 ____simha, half-man, half-lion (4) 15 Count _____, Vampire (7) 17 The golden creature that Goddess Sita desires (4) 18 Giant squid monster (6)  Down  1 ____hound: a demon in the shape of a dog (4) 2 ___foot, also known as Sasquatch (3) 3 Jambavan is a ____ (4) 4 Legolas is one, so is Dobby (3) 6 Rakshasa (5) 7 Horse with a horn on its forehead (7) 9 A dwarf's weapon of choice (3) 12 Giant fire-breathing reptile-like creature (6) 13 White bull belonging to Lord Shiva (5) 14 Hugin is a bird of this kind (5) 16 ____-hai, warrior Orcs of Middle-Earth (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/fantastic-beasts/article34845211.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On your shelf?||In this second instalment of the Gopi Diaries , Gopi is stronger, larger, and more confident than the little pup he was in the first book. But, he is also cheekier and more mischievous. He faces new situations, challenges, and even dog companions with boundless energy. What’s more, a big surprise awaits him. What could it be? Written in Sudha Murty’s inimitable style, this tale, narrated from a dog’s perspective shows us just why pets are so precious.   Join Basavaand Sivakka, two ordinary children growing up in Hampi, Karnataka. When the former finds a hammer-and-chisel set and starts using them, the magical instruments transport them to 16th century Hampi ruled by emperor Krishnadeva Raya. What happens when Basava becomes an apprentice sculptor, and is commissioned by the legendary Tenali Rama himself, to create something in stone that will make him laugh?   Get readyto go on a journey from Mumbai, Indore, Varanasi to Quilon, Xeldom, Zunheboto and several other cities through 26 beautifully illustrated pictorial maps. Discover local traditions and festivals, uncover myths and legends, spot iconic monuments and people, and get a taste of local crafts and cuisine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/on-your-shelf/article34845240.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why do we blink our eyes constantly?  If we do notblink, our eyes will dry out. Blinking helps in secreting and spreading certain oils and mucous that prevent the drying process. Blinking is also helpful when it comes to protecting your eyes from foreign substances like dust and other threatening bodies and from harsh bright light. How do flamingosbalance on one leg? This questionis open for debate, as there are multiple theories about this. The first is that birds tend to lose body heat quickly through their legs and feet, and even more so when standing in water. So, by standing on one leg, they may be able to form some kind of thermoregulation, which means maintenance of body temperature. The second reason is that it could be muscle fatigue. By standing on one leg, they prevent the muscles off both legs from stiffening and tiring out together. If a predator came along, the flamingo will be able to get away faster. Finally, there is the theory that flamingo joints have a "locked" resting position. This secures them in place, as long as they're standing on one leg.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/let-the-world-know-how-curious-you-are/article34845196.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/garfield/article34845192.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-youngworld/sudoku/article34845226.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The missing notes||One of the most infuriating things about reading a new book is the gradual realisation that its editors are convinced of the imbecility of their readership. This is especially true of a book that promises insights into the life and work of as important a historical figure as Begum Akhtar. Akhtari , compiled by Yatindra Mishra, does begin well. Its first essay by Salim Kidwai, historian and close associate of Begum Akhtar, is an excellent example of what most of this book is not — rigorous but accessible scholarship, written with clarity and insight, by a scholar who knows how to use language well. The second piece by Sheila Dhar keeps one hopeful. Dhar’s unassuming writing is sure to put readers unfamiliar with Akhtar’s world at ease. But the book is mostly downhill from there. One is forced to read repeated accounts of Akhtar’s relationship with her husband, Barrister Abbasi, who is said to have caused her to give up her music after their marriage, only to have ‘allowed’ her to start singing again later. Dhar and Kidwai both dispel this simplistic portrayal of Akhtar as victim and Abbasi as perpetrator; yet in the rest of the book, essay after insipid essay includes voyeuristic gossip about this relationship that undoes Dhar and Kidwai’s work. Interesting trivia Tedium and repetition are the hallmarks of this book. We learn, again and again, how various famous people were moved to tears by Akhtar’s singing and how the crack in her voice regularly pierced the hearts of connoisseurs. The book certainly contains interesting trivia and reminiscences, but these have to be excavated. Most of the content of these single-page blurbs could easily have been woven into one or two representative essays. What you have instead is a banal assortment of hagiography.  Akhtari consists largely of essays translated from the original Hindi with complete disregard for linguistic form and semantic context. These essays would have been rewarding if read in Hindi, such as the delightful conversation with Akhtar’s disciple Shanti Hiranand that gives us a revealing glimpse into the quotidian Begum Akhtar. What is completely absurd, though, is the incompetence with which entire ghazals, written by no less than Ghalib, are translated. In an age in which sophisticated scholarship on every syllable written by the likes of Ghalib is freely accessible, the translators deem it sufficient to insert arbitrarily picked synonyms from online dictionaries into hurried translations of some of his most iconic ghazals, with the comfortable assumption that they contain no wordplay, nuance or metaphor worth accounting for. Absurdity becomes hilarity when the translations deal with musical terms. It is thus that the famous catch in Begum Akhtar’s voice becomes a ‘yodel’, shattering the already fading dream of Akhtar’s pathos. ‘ Aalaap ’ becomes ‘undersong’ and even the term ‘ghazal’ is inexplicably translated as ‘aria’! One wonders why the conventional practice of using the original Indic musical terms and providing a glossary was rejected.  Akhtari also provides remarkably little by way of musicological insight. The only exception is Shubha Mudgal’s rigorous attempt to address technical questions about Akhtar’s singing, which is certain to help listeners who may find her vocal aesthetic alien to their contemporary sensibilities. One wishes, though, that Mudgal as well as other musicologists had been given more space to discuss Akhtar’s musical life in detail, for there is so much more to be said. There exists among scholars an alternative perspective on the trajectory of Begum Akhtar’s music. From this point of view, Akhtar’s earlier voice — metaphorically as much as literally — was richer and more unique than her later voice. In her second coming, Akhtar’s audience changed into one dominated by bourgeoisie sensibilities and her music adapted itself to meet its expectations — not only in terms of the timbre and expressiveness of her voice, but also in terms of the melodic content of her songs. The book does not adequately remind us that the ‘songs’ Akhtar sang were tunes that were, in comparison with the film song, rather loosely defined. Akhtar’s ‘singing’ of them implies a creative act of improvisation, in which the structure of the song is continually modified through a process of spontaneous composition. Inevitably, such improvisation is profoundly affected by the ethos in which the performance occurs. Thus, Akhtari Bai Faizabadi’s harkat- driven ghazals and Begum Akhtar’s more somnolent thumris can be seen as two entirely different animals. Instead of this fascinating perspective, we have essay after uncritical essay restating the convenient truism that Akhtar’s music matured as she grew older as, apparently, the music of all respectable traditional musicians must. There is no scholarly discussion of why Begum Akhtar’s music stood out from among the many thumri and ghazal singers who were her predecessors and contemporaries; or of the contributions of Akhtar’s supporting musicians, whose accompaniment continues to be a subject of study for today’s tabla players. Neither is there any mention of the music director Khayyam, who composed the tunes for some of Akhtar’s most iconic ghazals. The book could also have included, for instance, curated listening with expert commentary on select tracks; links to resources such as the IGNCA’s website documenting her life and work; an introduction to the prosody of the ghazal as a literary form that is an inseparable part of the Begum Akhtar experience — the mind reels at the thought of what might have been. One fears that in its attempt to present an easily digestible volume on Begum Akhtar, this book will end up making her music seem all the more archaic and irrelevant to today’s readers. By choosing hagiography over scholarship, Akhtari has lost the opportunity to address the complexity of a fascinating and rich life. The writer is a scholar and Hindustani musician.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-missing-notes/article34844814.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Musical sadhana guided by an app||Tabla exponent and music composer Bickram Ghosh recently stirred up a hornet’s nest with a Facebook post that said, “There was a time when how you performed determined how you did in your career. Now it’s about views... I’d rather spend my time striving for perfection. But then you can’t be in denial; you have to adhere to the times you’re living in too.” His post drew vociferous responses from musicians and music lovers. most of them agreeing with his point of view. Since the pandemic started last year, artistes have realised they cannot remain immune to the virtual world and the need to use technology to stay connected. Even the somewhat reclusive Bombay Jayashri has enhanced her social media presence considerably in the last 16 months and says, “I have never been much of a technology person; in fact am still learning. I always felt its usage takes up too much time. But I realise now that it’s good to know what technology offers. Sitting at home one can record, teach and connect with other musicians online.” Almost every practitioner, Carnatic or Hindustani, echoes Jayashri’s sentiment. Since hybrid training and concerts seem to be the way forward, the performing arts-digital medium bond is here to stay. The younger generation is better equipped to deal with this; and most of their music is inextricably intertwined with technology. In fact, a mutual interest in technology resulted in violinist Nandini Shankar and music arranger Mahesh Raghavan deciding to get married recently. Very apt Mewati gharana vocalist and software engineer Sandeep Ranade has gone a step further and created an app, NaadSadhana, that won the Apple Design Award (ADA) in the Innovation Category at the Worldwide Developer Conference, 2021. The app also features a Smart Swarmandal (an instrument with 40 strings) that understands more than 100 ragas with each phrase that it plays being distinct. What’s more, there’s also an AI-driven tabla player that recreates a classical performance ambience to enhance your riyaaz . “For Apple to acknowledge my app is equivalent to receiving an Oscar. This has put Indian classical music on the international stage from the tech point of view for the first time,” says Sandeep, excitement palpable in his voice. Last year, Sandeep received the Universal Design Award from the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People for an app that can be used by those with vision and hearing impairments. Sandeep’s app has multiple uses — it helps learners remain in sur, by acting as tuner, (as his guru Pt. Jasraj used to tell him, “sur chipakna chahiye”, which essentially means being totally shruti-aligned. While there were several tuning apps for instruments, Sandeep found none for the voice. The app also offers studio-level recording quality with multi-track sessions. It helps vocalists share their music online with AI generated accompaniment, and helps teachers with online classes. “Existing tabla apps that offered only simple theka bols actually confuse a practitioner when he performs with an actual accompanist, who improvises between beats. Instead of adding to the musical experience through interaction with another musician’s inputs, the youngster is distracted and intimidated. The tabla component in my app has been fed with simulated sounds, pauses, different weight pressures of the hand, to intelligently accompany the singer,” explains Sandeep. Apparently, renowned tabla player Pt. Suresh Talwalkar acknowledged Sandeep’s experiments in rhythm accompaniment. Initially released by Apple in March 2018, Sandeep has been constantly adding features to update the application. Could be subtler According to well-known sitar artiste Purbayan Chatterjee, “NaadSadhana has a lot of potential; it’s very useful since the dynamics of the tabla and tanpura are very real. I would hope for a little more subtle approach for the accompaniment, especially the tabla. But I guess it’s a work in progress.” Describing the purpose behind creating the app, Sandeep says that young musicians cannot devote 8-10 hours a day to learn music in a gurukul system, which impacts their quality of music. This spurred him to use technology to help them focus on the essentials, sur and laya, and additionally use the app to reach out to online audiences. Every day a few thousand use his app, and Sandeep hopes the usage will grow.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/musical-sadhana-guided-by-an-app/article34844837.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Waxing lyrical over verse||Rhythm and rhyme are innate in Kavalam Sreekumar’s music. The classical musician and playback singer has been busy during the lockdown, keeping his creativity fine-tuned and staying in touch with his listeners. In addition to a complete recitation of the Ramayana , he has rendered more than 60 Malayalam poems, by legends and newcomers alike, uploading many on his YouTube channel. Certain poems have relevance to current events or people. As a homage to veteran politician K.R. Gouri Amma, who passed away last month, Sreekumar gave an evocative rendering of ‘Gouri’, written by poet Balachandran Chullikkad many years ago to celebrate her life. Each word in the poem conveys the person she was, the vicissitudes in her political life, and her courage in the face of all odds. Another was ‘Ninakku Nalkaan Oru Bhoopatam Maathram’, written by Chirayinkeezhu Radhakrishnan on CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan. It was uploaded as Vijayan took charge as Chief Minister of Kerala for a second consecutive term, a historic feat in the State. Six or seven of the works are about the pandemic, the lockdown and even the virus, including ‘Thiricharivu’ (V.P. Sreekanth Nair), ‘Grihasthasramam’ and ‘Karuthal’ (Sunil Cherukadavu) and ‘Virus’ (V.P. Joy). Other famous works include ‘Mokshamu’ (Attoor Ravi Varma), ‘Ente Bhasha’ (Vallathol), ‘Kaadinu Kaadinte Bhangi’ (Ayyappa Paniker)  The greatest reward “I have enjoyed working with poets since my time at All India Radio (AIR). Doordarshan had a programme when select poems of eminent poets such as the late O.N.V. Kurup, Sugathakumari, and Vishnu Narayanan Namboodiri were recited in their presence. I still cherish the joy on their faces as their lines were recited. That is my greatest reward. I remember the indescribable expression on Sugathakumari teacher’s face when I recited her famous work ‘Rathrimazha’,” recalls Sreekumar. He has also rendered her ‘Krishna Neeyenne Ariyilla’ and ‘Radhayevide’ in this collection. Once he retired from AIR, Sreekumar became busy with concerts in India and abroad. Poetry has always struck a chord in him, but his hectic schedule prevented him from connecting with it as much as he would have liked, until the lockdown. Finding new poets Son of the renowned playwright, poet and lyricist Kavalam Narayana Panicker, Sreekumar was deeply involved in his father’s theatre troupe, Sopanam. He has also sung many of his father’s poems and folk songs including, as part of the lockdown oeuvre, ‘African Paayal’, ‘Pottan’ and ‘Podikkalakkandangaali.’ He recalls seeing his father lost in his work while writing a poem. “That is the kind of concentration poets have while capturing on paper transient emotions, imagery and sentiments. Every poem has a bit of the poet’s soul. Perhaps that is why poetry evokes strong sentiments in the reader and the listener, especially when the poet recites it. For instance, when an eminent poet like V. Madhusoodanan Nair recites his verses, no other person can capture that feeling,” he says. Sreekumar turned to Facebook poetry groups to discover new poets in Malayalam. “I have to feel an empathy for the verse and theme of the poem. If there are too many prose-like lines, I may not be able to render it in tune with the music. Many poets have been sending me their works but I can’t take up just any poem. It has to resonate with me,” he says. He is happy to have discovered poets such as Sangeetha Jaya, Geethusree, Kuwait-based Meenakshi and Sreekanth Nair. “When I sat before the microphone and sang the lines, there was a kind of music in the lines themselves. I surrendered to that music, rendering the lines in a rhythm that I felt best suited the lines. The background music, sruti and everything else was added later,” he says. He attributes his love for verse and metre to his Ramayana recitation in the Malayalam month of Karkatakam (July-August), when the epic is read in many Hindu households in Kerala. Over the years, Sreekumar’s annual reading of the epic on television channels and his YouTube channel has had a dedicated following. “Working with my father and the reading of the Ramayana have helped me with the correct enunciation of words, which is important while reading poetry aloud,” says Sreekumar. The singer believes that film music may have played a role in people’s diminishing interest in poetry. He argues that instead of blindly imitating a song that has already been popularised by an experienced playback singer, newcomers must try to bring their own musical identity to songs. “Otherwise, it becomes a perfect imitation, that is all. The attraction of poetry is that the rendering changes each time you recite it, depending on the ambience and the mood of the reader. It may also keep changing for the listener. The depth of the words, the imagery, and the poet’s perspective make it fresh each time I read it.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/waxing-lyrical-over-verse/article34844816.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The poet of similes||Subburathinam, a young poet from Pondicherry, chose as his nom de plume Bharatidasan (Bharati’s disciple), but would have scarce imagined that a young poet would go on to adopt his name. T. Rajagopal, born a century ago in Pazhaiyanur, in present-day Tiruvarur district, called himself Subbu-Rathina-Dasan — in short, Suradha. It was 1938 and Pondicherry was still a French enclave when Bharatidasan’s first collection of poems appeared. A landmark book, it was arranged in terms of narrative poems, poems on nature, language, women’s rights, love, etc., a template that proved inspirational. Suradha was 20 when he decided he wanted to meet his hero but with no money to travel, he spent a week whitewashing the walls of the famous Keevalur temple, the dripping limewash blistering his forearms. He earned a rupee and a half for his efforts and immediately jumped on a train to Pondicherry. Meeting Bharatidasan and working as his assistant proved a turning point. In 1947, the literary journal Ponni lined up 47 young poets belonging to the Bharatidasan paramparai or poetic dynasty, and Suradha topped the list. Over the years, as many others slipped by the wayside, he continued to stand tall. Thaenmazhai (‘A Shower of Honey’) published in 1965 confirmed Suradha’s status as a poet of note. Writing for films The decade following the first anti-Hindi agitation (1937-39) and the rise of the Dravidian movement were heady days for aspiring writers. The lure of celluloid was irresistible. As early as 1944, the star singer-actor P.U. Chinnappa chose Suradha to script Mangaiyarkarasi . M.K. Thyagaraja Bhagavathar commissioned Suradha to write lyrics for his Amarakavi . In 1953, it was MGR’s turn: Suradha wrote the dialogues for Genoa (1953) and a few lyrics (‘Kannil vanthu minnal pol’) for the blockbuster Nadodi Mannan (1958). Never fully entering cinema, Suradha penned lyrics off and on over the next two decades. Some of them became classics — ‘Amudhum thenum edharkku’ ( Thai Piranthal Vazhi Pirakkum , 1958), ‘Vasantha kalam varumo’ ( Marakka Mudiyuma , 1966) and ‘Aadi adangum vazhkaiyada’ (‘ Neerkumizhi ’, 1964). Suradha, whose death anniversary falls tomorrow, did not believe in prolificacy. Convinced that poetry was ‘like mathematics’, he crafted it rather than reeling off verses. Similes were his speciality, and it won him the moniker, uvamai kavignar , the poet of similes. The crescent moon was an elephant’s tusk. A twirled moustache was a supine question mark. A mountain range was as long as Chandilyan’s historical romances. Suradha was also famous for coining innovative phrases. Once he described the funeral bier as ‘a legless bedstead’. He had a knack for compiling data, making lists and turning them into poetry. For instance, a poem on Subramania Bharati listed, in rhythmic metre, earlier poets carrying the name ‘Bharati’. ‘Vinnukku meladai, paruva mazhai megam’ in K. Balachander’s Naanal is an excellent example of this style. Sometimes Suradha tried too hard, and the results were contrived. He was also obsessed with literary minutiae and would glean choice titbits to weave into his poems. Literary stalwarts of the late 19th century fascinated him, and he wrote poems in praise of the unsung Pinnathur Narayanaswamy Iyer, Pamban Swamigal and Gnaniyar Adigal. The erotic and the bawdy held a special fascination, and apart from the thread of eroticism in much of his poetry, he published a book of erotic essays in the aptly titled Echil Eravu (‘Saliva Night’). Suradha’s interest in films and his enthusiasm for offbeat themes led him, in 1971, to write a series of long poems in Ananda Vikatan based on trivialities about film actresses. Literary readers were aghast, but Suradha cared little. To make it worse, he put these together into a book, Suvarum Sunnambum . Suradha was steeped in medieval Tamil literature and relished the most unlikely texts. Kalladam , a 13th-century Tamil classic with 100 long poems on Shiva was a special favourite; he even named his only son Kalladan. He was also besotted with Annamalai Reddiar’s Kavadi Chindus . Charmed by the verbal acrobatics and phrasal jugglery of pre-colonial poetry, he used some of these techniques in his work. In a manner of speaking, Suradha filled new wine in old bottles. Even though he wrote only in traditional metres and shunned free verse, the new generation of pudukavithai writers of the 1970s, especially of the Vandambadi tradition, claimed him as their precursor. Poets’ poet Thus, in some ways, Suradha was a poets’ poet. There is a long Tamil tradition of senior scholars penning forewords in verse (the ‘sirappu payiram’) to endorse a book. Suradha wrote innumerable such prefatory poems. He charged a fee for it but the queue was long. I recall painter-poet Amudhone waiting months for a foreword to his Manmada Ragam . Travelling across Tamil Nadu and addressing literary meetings, Suradha made his livelihood by charging a speaking fee and selling his self-published books. Suradha was an antiquarian, bibliophile and anthologist, and despite his meagre means, amassed a huge collection — a part of it was sadly lost when his K.K. Nagar home in Chennai was flooded; another part, luckily, is housed in the Roja Muthiah Research Library. Unable to exhaust his research in poetry, Suradha compiled several interesting anthologies: Sonnargal (a book of quotations); Sirandha Sorpozhivugal (an anthology of speeches); Vetta Velicham and Munnum Pinnum (both compilations of literary titbits). My favourite is the slim Nenjil Niruthungal that puts together an interesting set of cultural documents of the late 19th and early 20th century. When Stephen Spender, on his first meeting with T.S. Eliot, said he wanted to be a poet, Eliot is said to have objected, ‘I can understand you wanting to write poems, but I don’t quite know what you mean by “being a poet”?’ Suradha didn’t just write poems — he was a poet. An eccentric man, he had a sharp tongue, which could both delight and offend. To be in Suradha’s company and listen to his rambling conversation with occasional flashes of brilliance was quite an experience. Living in the same neighbourhood as Suradha, I often saw him walk on the streets at all times of the day, dressed in his regulation white vetti , jibba and coloured stole. As a 15-year-old, I was part of the welcoming committee for his 60th birthday celebrations, held in 1982 at Rajaji Hall by the Dravidian politician, S.D. Somasundaram, his boyhood friend. Four decades later, it is gratifying to pay tribute to the poet on his centenary.  The writer is a historian      and Tamil author.    Suradha didn’t just write poems — he was a poet. An eccentric man, he had a sharp tongue, which could both delight and offend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-poet-of-similes/article34844820.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||The arangetram conundrum||An arangetram is the moment that every young classical dancer looks forward to. It’s supposed to be the first time they perform on stage and showcase their talent and years of intense training. It is as much personal fulfilment as it is about being recognised as a professional artiste and getting the stamp of approval from eminent gurus and rasikas who form a large part of the audience. But the pandemic has put a pause on the arangetram plans of many a young dancer, and the wait for it to end seems endless. Hence, some gurus and disciples have decided to go digital even for this momentous occasion. Bharatanatyam dancer and teacher Smitha Madhav recently conducted the arangetram of her student, V. Ramya Hasini, online. Says Smitha, “We decided on a virtual show since the arangetram has been on hold since last August, when it was first scheduled to be held live. Hasini and her family have been eagerly looking forward to it, and I felt there was no point delaying it further.” Last year, Bharatanatyam gurus V.P Dhananjayan and Shantha Dhananjayan set the precedent by conducting the first online arangetram. Smitha too decided that going virtual seemed the most responsible thing to do in this situation. The dance floor at Smitha’s Varna Arts Academy, Hyderabad, was transformed into a stage to give Ramya an auditorium-like experience. Smitha used pre-recorded music to train Ramya online, with a few practice sessions held at the academy. The preparation for an arangetram usually begins when a learner decides that she wants to pursue the art seriously and opts to undergo rigorous training, which includes mastering the margam. Setting a trend For the Dhananjayans, the decision was taken when the family of one of his dance students had to leave for the U.K. The couple thought it best to organise the arangetram at their Chennai dance school, Bharata Kalanjali, and stream it live. With the help of his son C.P. Satyajit, dancer, instrumentalist and an expert in visual communication, Dhananjayan planned and presented a digital arangetram experience for his student and the family. “The 1990s saw a boom in arangetrams with affluent NRI parents coming down to India to organise their children’s maiden performance, which often would turn into a social gathering. At our institute, we prefer to keep it simple, since we view it as an occasion for the students to showcase their skill to the learned,” says Dhananjayan. “To the parents, who tend to spend lavishly on the event, I’d advise them to instead invest in their child’s all-round learning and exposure to various arts ,” he adds. He suggests it would be best if one can wait for normalcy to return to stage an arangetram. “After all, it’s a moment cherished by dancers all their life.” Seize an opportunity Bharatanatyam dancer, choreographer and guru Urmila Satyanarayanan says, “When life offers an opportunity, make the most of it.” Since its inception, 140 students from her dance school Natya Sankalpaa have had their arangetrams. Barring the lockdown period, Urmila did not stop conducting arangetrams, although she maintained COVID-19 protocols and ensured a limited physical audience. Cautious steps Not wanting to take a chance, senior Bharatanatyam dancer and founder of Sruthilaya Kendra Natarajalaya, Rajeswari Sainath feels that arangetrams can wait for now. “Seven of my students, some from abroad, are waiting for their debut performance. I am hoping the situation will improve in the next few months and we will be able to conduct live shows for a limited audience. A live experience is necessary, especially for arangetrams. It’s worth the wait,” she says. Bharatanatyam dancer and guru Ananda Shankar Jayant is totally against conducting arangetrams now — physical or virtual. “Online training can get dreary and cannot replace personal coaching. It’s not fair to have them go through the rigours of arangetram in this condition. I’d like to wait,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/the-arangetram-conundrum/article34844828.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||On Pancha bhootha sthalam||Rasika, Portland, will stream Carnatic vocalist Saketharaman’s concert titled ‘Pancha Bhootha Sthala kritis’ today at 7 a.m. on its Facebook page. Sai Rakshith, N.C. Bharadwaj and Sunil Kumar will accompany the singer. Chidambaram (sky), Arunachalam (fire), Jambukeswaram (water), Kalahasthi (air), and Kanchipuram (earth) are the Pancha Bhootha sthalams, the five main abodes of Lord Shiva representing the five elements of nature. There are many kritis in Sanskrit, Tamil and Telugu on these five elements. Muthuswamy Dikshitar’s ‘Pancha Bhuta Linga Kshetra kritis’, set to five different ragas, the Nayanmar’s Thevaram verses, Veena Kuppaiyer’s ‘Kalahasthi Pancharatnam’, and Arunagirinathar’s Thiruppugazh are some of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/on-pancha-bhootha-sthalam/article34844822.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||A music and dance offering||Shradhanjali is a music and dance offering to artistes, gurus, art critics, technicians and art lovers who have died during the pandemic. It will be held from June 19 to 23 (7 p.m. onwards). The festival features 50 performances by well-known artistes from the U.K., Europe, the U.S., Australia and Asia. The participating artistes include Pt. Rajeev Taranath (sarod), Sharon Lowen (Odissi), Sujata Mohapatra (Odissi), Padmaja Suresh (Bharatanatyam), Shangita Namasivayam and dance group, Mridul Nath (piano), Ravindra Katoti (harmonium), and Brigitta Hegedues (Mohiniyattam). Watch it on Shradhanjali’s YouTube and Facebook page.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-music-and-dance-offering/article34844831.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Contest for students||The Department of Natya, Dr. MGR Janaki College of Arts and Science, will conduct music, dance and quiz competitions for students in classes 10, 11 and 12, on June 19, 10 a.m. For dance contest, the participants need to present either classical or traditional numbers. For the music competition, contestants need to sing Carnatic or folk songs, and for the quiz competition, the topic will be based on dance. For details, call 78452 38073/ 98842 51560.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/contest-for-students/article34844832.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Showcasing the richness of music||Royal Opera House, Mumbai, and Avid Learning, in association with Furtados, present ‘Lights Camera Music’, a documentary film festival, from June 18 to July 16. To be screened virtually, on Fridays at 9 a.m., the festival will showcase four films that capture the essence of music through powerful storytelling. These films celebrate the art of many musicians, known and unknown, and shed light on their gharanas, practices and the sacrifices they made to master and preserve the art. The stories also focus on highlighting the similarities between Indian classical and Western classical music; on exploring the rich past of Indian music, and the rapidly evolving music scene today. Premièring today, the filmCall of the Maestroby Lou Hamilton, unravels how a 3,000-year-old tradition of Indian classical music is surviving in the modern world. The film will be available for viewing until June 25 on the Royal Opera House’s YouTube channel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/showcasing-the-richness-of-music/article34844834.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||NCPA workshop and training sessions||For aspiring designers and art enthusiasts, NCPA will host a two-day workshop ‘Reimagining dance costumes’, by Sandhya Raman, on June 18 and 25, 6 p.m. Those in the age group of 15 and above can enrol. Participants will get to learn costume designing for live stage performances in the first session. In the second, through an interactive discussion, participants will gain an understanding of the costume design process, from developing an idea to arriving at the final design. For registration, call 88791 14939/ 98190 02515. For more details, visit NCPA’s website. Also, NCPA's Symphony Orchestra of India has come up with an introductory music training programme titled ‘Prelude - Your First Note’. Designed for children in the age group of five to seven , the programme intends to build a strong foundational knowledge of music through theory, understanding history, and learning to play an instrument. Participants can register for this 10-week online programme, with 30-minute sessions conducted three times a week onwww.soimumbai.com/prelude. The teachers of the programme are professional musicians and members of the Symphony Orchestra of India. Batches start on July 5 and registrations end on June 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/ncpa-workshop-and-training-sessions/article34844824.ece
18 June 2021||June 18 2021 00:00 IST,||Been there, done that||In The Tomorrow War , an upcoming military science fiction film, Chris Pratt plays Dan Forester, a Former Delta Force Operator going to the future, 2051, to fight deadly aliens and save the planet for his daughter, Muri (Ryan Kiera Armstrong). The film directed by Chris McKay, has some hair-raising action sequences. Talking of the biggest adrenalin rush at a virtual press conference, the Jurassic World actor said, “There was so much to choose from. Off the top of my head, there is a great sequence when we make the jump to 2051. There is this transition where we fall from the sky in Miami to land in a pool. There was some serious water work. We got to jump off of this high dive that we built out of a fork lift into the water. The camera followed us down and there were stunt people jumping down and landing on top of you forcing you under water. That sequence probably took two or three days. You are trying to get smashed into the ground, come up and struggle into a close up underwater. It was a lot of fun.” Unlike the real world, in The Tomorrow War , it is the older people who are sent to fight the aliens. “Everyone who goes forward into the future is over 30 and everyone who comes back to train us is under 30 because you can’t live in both timelines at the same time. They are drafting a crop of people who are going to be dead in 2051. You are dealing with people who are making life decisions based not on the life that they could lead, but rather the world that they are leaving for their children.” The Tomorrow War premieres on July 2, 2021 on Amazon Prime Video.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/been-there-done-that/article34845052.ece
18 June 2021||JAIPUR,||‘Centre’s relief package for children defective’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the Centre’s relief package for children who lost their parents to the COVID-19 infection was “defective”, as it stipulated the payment of a monthly stipend to them only after they attain 18 years of age. The package for orphans should be revised with a provision for immediate relief, he said. Addressing a video-conference meeting on COVID-19 vaccination here, Mr. Gehlot said he would speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the Centre’s scheme and point out the “shortcomings and confusion” to him about the financial help to be extended to orphans. “Who knows where a child will be after 18 years? A package should provide an instant help,” he said. Mr. Gehlot said the Centre had not announced any measures to render help to women whose husband died of COVID-19 during the pandemic. In Rajasthan, the Congress government has announced a relief package comprising an ex-gratia of Rs. 1 lakh each to widows and orphans, followed by a financial assistance every month.  CM’s scheme As part of the Chief Minister’s Corona Baal Kalyan Yojana, the children who lost their parents will get Rs. 2,500 a month till they attain 18 years of age. The orphans will be provided an assistance of Rs. 5 lakh on the completion of 18 years as well as free senior secondary education and other benefits under the scheme. Referring to the ongoing vaccination, Mr. Gehlot said the vaccine wastage in the State had reduced to just 0.8%. It was about 2% as against the national average of 6% recently, when the Centre had written to the State government seeking a probe into the “misleading reports” about the vials of vaccines found in the dustbins at some inoculation centres, said Mr. Gehlot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/centres-relief-package-for-children-defective/article34845475.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt.’s expenditure increased in April, May’||Finance Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that a memorandum has been released to rationalise the Delhi government’s expenditure during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Sisodia said that the expenditure of the Delhi government has increased around 80% during the first two months of the current financial year compared to the corresponding period during the previous financial year. He stated that revenue receipts of Delhi have been Rs. 5,273.26 crore during the first two months of the current financial year, while its expenditure has reached Rs. 8,511.09 crore. “Delhi has incurred Rs. 3,237.83 crore more than its receipts which were met from last year’s savings. Historically, during the first two months, the expenditure used to be Rs. 4,705.14 crore in FY-2019-20 and Rs. 4,965.58 crore in FY-2020-21. However, due to unprecedented COVID surge, the expenditure during the first two months has jumped to Rs. 8,511.09 crore in current financial year,” he said. Tax collection declines Mr. Sisodia said that the tax collection has declined due to second wave of COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. “The order has been issued to curtail the expenditure of the government, beyond the expenditure for essential and day-to-day functions. Further, the various welfare schemes being run for the Delhi residents will remain unchanged,” an official statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-govts-expenditure-increased-in-april-may/article34845070.ece
18 June 2021||NEW DELHI,||Ration scheme: CM’s fresh bid to get L-G nod||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday resent the file of the home delivery scheme of ration to the Lieutenant-Governor for approval. He also responded to the objections raised saying that the scheme was in accordance with the law and was being implemented to follow the orders of the Central government. ‘Wrong to halt scheme’ Mr. Kejriwal said that it is wrong to halt this scheme during the COVID-19 pandemic as with its implementation, crowding at ration shops could be avoided and added that the L-G was informed about the Cabinet’s decision regarding the doorstep delivery scheme of ration four times in the last three years. hHwever, he never opposed it. He questioned why the scheme was suddenly being stopped when the plan had already been approved. Mr. Kejriwal said that the request of the L-G to send the matter to the Central government for approval does not seem right as the approval of the Central government is neither mandatory nor necessary. “The Delhi government has only implemented the orders of the Central government. In addition, the Delhi government has been, from time to time, informing and seeking assistance from the Centre regarding the implementation of the doorstep delivery scheme through several letters,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the only objection received from the Central government was to remove the name of ‘Chief Minister’ from this scheme which the Delhi government immediately accepted. In reference to a petition filed in the Delhi High Court by an association of ration shopkeepers seeking a stay on the scheme, the Chief Minister said that the matter has already been heard five times and the High Court has refused to grant a stay on the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ration-scheme-cms-fresh-bid-to-get-l-g-nod/article34845067.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||Adequate vaccine stock available in Capital, says AAP leader Atishi||AAP leader Atishi on Thursday said that adequate vaccine stock is available in Delhi for people above 45 years of age and 18-44 age group too. “Stock of 2.34 lakh vaccines available for 18-44 and 7.44 lakh vaccines for 45+. So far, 62,58,937 people have been vaccinated in Delhi, out of which more than 15 lakh people have received both the doses,” Ms. Atishi said. “Ever since the revaccination of youth has started in Delhi, youngsters are coming to get the vaccine in large numbers by registering on the CoWIN app. We hope that people of 45 years and above, who have not got themselves vaccinated yet, will also come forward and get inoculated soon,” she added. Meanwhile, the downward trend in COVID-19 cases continued with 158 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 14,31,868, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday Also, 10 deaths were reported and the total number of deaths stood at 24,886. A total of 77,542 tests were done in a day, the bulletin said. Of the total cases, 14,04,428 people have recovered and there are 2,554 active cases. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 0.20%, which means that about one person out of 500 people taking COVID-19 tests are now positive for the virus.  Stock of 2.34 lakh vaccines available for 18-44 and 7.44 lakh vaccines for 45+ age group   Atishi AAP leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/adequate-vaccine-stock-available-in-capital-says-aap-leader-atishi/article34845068.ece
18 June 2021||CHANDIGARH,||Farm laws will benefit farmers: Lal||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal on Thursday reiterated that the new farm laws were in the interest of farming community and farmers should not oppose their implementation. “Farmers should understand that the farm laws are in their interest. Let the laws be implement, if after implementation, these laws prove to be non-beneficial the government would be ready to work on the legislations,” he said here. Mr. Lal was addressing a press meet on completion of 600 days of the second tenure of his government. He said that amid the adverse impact of COVID-19 pandemic on the economy, the State government has decided to give economic relief packages. “In view of the financial constraints faced by the labourers working in the unorganised sector a relief package of Rs. 600 crore would be given to 12 lakh such families in the State. Under this, a financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 will be given to all such families. To ensure that the labourers of the unorganised sector have easy access to the scheme a portal has been designed and the registrations on the portal will start from June 18,” he said. “Besides this, we are announcing a relief package of Rs. 150 crore for small shopkeepers. Also, a discount of 25% would be provided to 600 farmers, who would purchase e-tractors,” said Mr. Lal.  Aid for Corona warriors The Chief Minsiter said a financial aid of Rs. 5,000 per family of Corona warriors such as ASHA workers and employees of NHM would also be given. He said that the State government has borne the entire cost of the Covid affected patients of below poverty line families. Mr. Lal said that it has been decided to waive off the entire property tax for the first quarter of the year 2021-22.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/farm-laws-will-benefit-farmers-lal/article34845479.ece
18 June 2021||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha govt. announces package for the poor||As the COVID-19 pandemic triggered massive job loss and pushed millions into crisis, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday announced an assistance of Rs. 1,690.46 crore for economically and socially weaker sections of society. The package would primarily benefit landless farmers, construction workers, urban poor, particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs), beneficiaries of State Food Security Scheme (SFSS) and Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act and physically- challenged students. According to the Chief Minister’s Office, 17.89 lakh landless farmers will get special monetary assistance of Rs. 1,000 under Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) for which Rs. 178.911 crore has been earmarked. The government has placed Rs. 260 crore under Mukhyamantri Karma Tatpara Abhiyan or Mukta Yojana (MUKTA), a scheme of urban wage employment. It has been decided to provide additional Rs. 50 to MGNREGA workers over their usual wage received between April and June. During this time, 6 crore man-days have been created which means the government would spend Rs. 300 crore. Each registered construction workers will get special COVID-19 assistance of Rs. 1,500 for which Rs. 360 crore would be spent. Similarly, the government will provide 5 kg of free rice to SFSS beneficiaries from the month of July to November for which Rs. 92.86 crore has been earmarked. The CM also announced Rs. 5,000 for 66,214 members of PVTGs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/odisha-govt-announces-package-for-the-poor/article34845478.ece
18 June 2021||New Delhi,||COVID-19 third wave unlikely to affect children: study||It is unlikely that a possible third wave of COVID-19, due to the prevailing variant of the virus, would disproportionately affect children, according to the interim result of a multicentre study by researchers at AIIMS, Delhi and other hospitals. The study is yet to be peer reviewed and has appeared in pre-print on an online platform. “SARS-CoV-2 seropositivity rate among children was high and were comparable to the adult population. Hence, it is unlikely that any future third wave by the prevailing COVID-19 variant would disproportionately affect children two years or older,” the report read. The report has published interim data of serological prevalence (% of people with antibodies) among children aged between 2 to 17 years along with a comparison with people of 18 year of age and above. “The data collection period was from March 15, 2021 to June 10, 2021. Total available data was of 4,509 participants of which <18 years were 700 and ≥18 years was 3,809. The seroprevalence was 55.7% in the <18 years age group and 63.5% in the ≥ 18 year age group,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-third-wave-unlikely-to-affect-children-study/article34845064.ece
18 June 2021||GUWAHATI,||Assam seeks realignment of tracks through wetland||The Assam government has proposed the realignment of a broad gauge railway line through the Deepor Beel, an ‘Important Bird Area’ designated under the Ramsar Convention of Wetlands. Several elephants have been run over on the railway track between the elevated Rani Reserve Forest and the sanctuary. The elephants use four corridors crossing the track to often bathe and feed on the aquatic plants in the wetland. The wetland is about 10 km southwest of Guwahati. “We have sent a proposal to the Centre for the realignment of the railway line running through the wetland, which creates noise pollution and disturbs the migratory birds. Clearance from the National Green Tribunal [NGT] is expected once the eco-sensitive zone is declared by the authorities concerned,” State Environment and Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya said at a meeting on the beautification of the wetland on Thursday.  Garbage dump The meeting was held with Guwahati Development Department Minister Ashok Singhal, who sought steps to check the pollution of the wetland, under stress from a dumping site nearby and channels that carry untreated sewage from the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/assam-seeks-realignment-of-tracks-through-wetland/article34845477.ece
18 June 2021||Guwahati,||17 children die of COVID-19 in Meghalaya||COVID-19 has claimed the lives of 17 children in Meghalaya, according to local media reports, which cited official data. The COVID-19 dashboard of the State’s Health Department revealed 5,101 minors aged up to 14 years testing positive since the outbreak of the pandemic in Meghalaya in 2020. Of these, 4,344 recovered till June 15, while 17 died of the disease.  Cause of concern What has worried government and healthcare specialists is that 13 children died over the past 30 days. “We are concerned by the positivity rate among children. We are in the process of constructing three prefabricated paediatric hospitals to deal with the situation,” State Health Minister Alexander Laloo Hek said. State capital Shillong, Tura and Jowai towns would have a prefabricated hospital each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/17-children-die-of-covid-19-in-meghalaya/article34845476.ece
18 June 2021||Unnao,||12 policemen injured in U.P. protest||Twelve police personnel were injured when people protesting over the death of two motorcycle riders in an accident pelted stones at them near a village here, officials said on Thursday. Forty-three people have been arrested, and a case has been registered against 100 named and 250 unknown persons in connection with the violence that took place on Wednesday, the police said. Devikheda village residents Rajesh and Vipin died as their motorcycle was hit by a car in the City Kotwali police station area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/12-policemen-injured-in-up-protest/article34845480.ece
